19 December 2021||Lucknow,||SP cries foul at I-T raids on its leaders||The Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party alleged foul play as the Income Tax Department conducted searches at the residences of party national secretary Rajeev Rai and two other persons linked to its leadership in several districts of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. The State goes to the polls early next year. Income Tax officials conducted searches at the residences of Mr. Rai in Mau; Jainendra Yadav, who is reportedly close to party president Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow; and Manoj Yadav, a businessman in Mainpuri. The Department did not reveal any details of the raids. Mr. Rai is also a SP spokesperson. Addressing supporters outside his residence, Mr. Rai said he neither had a criminal background nor black money. “The BJP does not like me helping people,” he said, asking his supporters not to take any hasty steps as it would only lead to more FIRs. “Let them [I-T officials] complete the procedure,” he added. Mr. Akhilesh Yadav, who was in Rae Bareli leading his election rath yatra , said the I-T Department had arrived in the State to contest the 2022 Assembly election, in a dig at the BJP-led Union government. As the BJP sensed defeat in the election, not only the I-T Department but also the ED and the CBI would arrive in Uttar Pradesh, apart from the conspiracies and rumours that would be spread, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sp-cries-foul-at-i-t-raids-on-its-leaders/article37988771.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||No funds or support, future tense for Afghan embassy||Four months after the collapse of the government in Afghanistan to Taliban forces, its embassy in Delhi faces a bleak future, with no financial assistance and an unclear formal status. The embassy, headed by Ambassador Farid Mamundzay who was only posted to India earlier this year, now comprises a small staff of 20 Afghan diplomats, while the local Indian staff have had to be cut back, given the budgetary constraints. While Mr. Mamundzay declined to speak on discussions with the Government of India for support, he admitted that the embassy was disappointed by the small number of visas granted to Afghans in need by India, and hoped that more food and medical aid would be forthcoming after the first batch was sent by air last week. “Running an embassy requires policy, administrative and financial support. At present, none of the 70 Afghan missions worldwide, with the possible exception of Beijing and Islamabad are receiving any support from Kabul,” Mr. Mamundzay told The Hindu , sitting at his office in Delhi’s diplomatic enclave, where ousted President Ashraf Ghani’s photo- graph still adorns the wall above his desk. When asked why, Mr. Mamundzay said it was unclear whose photograph should replace it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-funds-or-support-future-tense-for-afghan-embassy/article37988767.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS reports 12 more Omicron cases||Twelve more Omicron positive cases were added to the tally on Saturday compared to eight previous day, taking the total to 21 so far in Telangana, which included a boy who left for Kolkata immediately on landing at the airport here. Of the 12 positive cases on Saturday, nine were foreign origin and three Indian persons. They came from Kenya (6), Somalia (2), the UAE (2), Ghana and Tanzania one each. Reports of another three samples were awaited. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Health, a total of 315 passengers arrived at the RGI Airport from “at risk” countries and of them 3 were found COVID positive. In the genome sequencing test, two were found positive for Omicron variant. Similarly, another 10 samples collected on random basis from passengers from other than “at risk” countries were also found positive for Omicron out of a total of 13 samples tested positive for COVID. As of Saturday, the number of Omicron cases among passengers arriving from other than “at risk” countries has gone up to 17 and that of “at risk” countries to 4. Meanwhile, a total of 185 persons were found positive for COVID during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Saturday .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-reports-12-more-omicron-cases/article37989338.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Four more Omicron cases in State||Four more cases of COVID-19 caused by the virus variant Omicron have been confirmed in the State, taking the total number of Omicron cases to 11. Omicron cases were confirmed on Saturday in travellers from the U.K. (17 years) and Tunisia (44 years), both reached Thiruvananthapuram; Tanzania (37 years), who reached Malappuram; and Kenya (49 years), who reached Thrissur. The 17-year-old who tested positive for Omicron in the capital had arrived with his parents and sister on December 9. All these persons, including the elderly grandmother, at home are on the primary contact list. It was one of the random samples sent for genomic sequencing which identified the traveller from Tunisia as Omicron positive. The case in Malappuram is a native of Karnataka who had flown to Kozhikode on December 13 and he was hospitalised on testing positive. The Thrissur native flew from Kenya on December 11 to Sharjah and reached Kochi on December 12. A test done on December 13 found her to be Omicron-positive. Her mother has now tested positive for COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-more-omicron-cases-in-state/article37989403.ece
19 December 2021||Guntur,||Liquor to be cheaper as govt. regulates prices||Liquor in the State is set to become cheaper as the Government of Andhra Pradesh has decided to rationalise the rates of special margin on liquor, following the rationalisation (reduction) of Value Added Tax, additional excise duty and additional countervailing duty on Indian Made Foreign Liquor, beer, wine and other varieties. According to G.O. Ms No. 363 issued by the Excise Department, the secretary Rajat Bhargava said that in spite of rationalisation of Additional Retail Excise Tax, there is a need for further rationalisation of MRPs of liquor. Hence a decision to rationalise VAT, special margin, additional excise duty has been taken. According to the revised rates, 50% of VAT has been rationalised, 36% of AED and ACD and 90% of special margin on IMFL below Rs. 400 per case, 10% of rationalised VAT, 10% of additional AED/ACD for IMFL liquor ranging from Rs. 400 to Rs. 1,029, 10% of VAT, 31% of AED/ACD for above Rs. 5,000. On foreign liquor, 60% of rationalised rates of VAT and 10% of rationalised AAF is being levied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/liquor-to-be-cheaper-as-govt-regulates-prices/article37988768.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. launches emergency care scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday launched “Innuyir Kaapoom - Nammai Kaakkum 48” initiative through which the State government would bear the expenses of emergency care for accident victims for the first 48 hours. As many as 609 hospitals across the State were empanelled under the scheme. Rolling out the scheme at Chengalpattu, the Chief Minister of TN said that the State government was paying special attention on reducing road accidents, preventing fatalities and improving road safety. It was with the aim of reducing deaths due to road accidents that the scheme was designed, he said. A total of 609 hospitals - 201 government hospitals and 408 private hospitals - were linked to the scheme. All persons injured in road accidents - whether they are covered or not under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Heath Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS), or even those who belong to other States or countries - that occur in Tamil Nadu limits would receive treatment for the first 48 hours without being charged. As many as 81 treatment packages were identified for accident victims in the hospitals where they were admitted for the first 48 hours with a ceiling limit of Rs. 1 lakh per individual, according to a press release. If the victims were unstable or required continuous treatment after 48 hours, three guidelines were drafted. - coverage under CMCHIS if they are a beneficiary and if the treatment was covered under the scheme, if not, they would be stabilised and shifted to a government hospital to continue treatment. If the victim prefers to get treated under private insurance coverage or pay for treatment, the patient can be stabilised and treated. Noting that time played a crucial role in saving lives, Mr. Stalin said road accident victims can be saved if admitted to hospitals immediately, while delay resulted in deaths. This was why doctors stressed that golden hour was important, he added. He urged those travelling in cars to wear seat belts and avoid over speeding. He emphasised the need to obey traffic rules, and said that adherence showed an individual’s discipline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-launches-emergency-care-scheme/article37988801.ece
19 December 2021||Lucknow,||Hindutvavadi bathes alone in Ganga: Rahul||A Hindutvavadi bathes alone in the Ganga but a Hindu bathes in it with crores of others, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Saturday, taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent display of religious symbolism in Varanasi. “For the first time, I saw a person bathing in the Ganga alone. This has never happened in history. Yogi ji was removed, Rajnath Singh was sidelined,” Mr. Gandhi stated in Amethi, referring to Mr. Modi’s dip and rituals in the Ganga before inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor recently. Mr. Gandhi observed that a Hindu represented truth, love, non-violence and was best personified by Mahatma Gandhi and on the other hand, Hindutvavadi meant lies, hate, violence and was represented by Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse. Mr. Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reaffirmed their connection with Amethi, the Congress bastion that fell to the BJP in 2019. “The relationship was not political but one of family bond,” said Mr. Gandhi who, along with his Ms. Vadra took out a padayatra in Amethi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hindutvavadi-bathes-alone-in-ganga-rahul/article37989457.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Metro services from 5 a.m. from tomorrow||With more people commuting to work and growing demand for longer operating hours,BMRCL has decided that from Monday, onwards, BMRCL will operate Namma Metro services from 5 a.m. till 11 p.m. At present, the first trains depart stations at 6 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-services-from-5-am-from-tomorrow/article37989134.ece
19 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||New Gurugram’s mosque struggles to stand tall||Anjuman Jama Masjid, located in a posh area in New Gurugr- am, is an unfinished structure stuck in a legal tangle since 2004 after a few real estate agents moved court against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-gurugrams-mosque-struggles-to-stand-tall/article37989233.ece
19 December 2021||Kolkata,||Civic issues take a back seat in KMC polls||Elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation are scheduled for Sunday. What is surprising about the civic polls is that there is not much discussion about civic issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/civic-issues-take-a-back-seat-in-kmc-polls/article37989458.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Defeated Cong. leaders keen to contest polls||Many Congress leaders, who were defeated in the previous Lok Sabha elections, are keen to contest the State Legislative Assembly elections in 2023. This has been spurred by the upbeat mood in the party after victories in the byelection in Hangal and in the 11 Council seats recently, even while being in the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/defeated-cong-leaders-keen-to-contest-polls/article37989311.ece
19 December 2021||London,||U.K. Omicron cases rise by 10,000 in 24 hours||Britain reported a surge in cases of the Omicron variant on Saturday, with the Mayor of London declaring a “major incident” to help the capital’s hospitals following a sharp rise in COVID-19 admissions. The total number of Omicron cases recorded across the country hit almost 25,000 on Friday, up by more than 10,000 cases from 24 hours earlier. Seven people believed to infected with Omi- cron have died so far.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uk-omicron-cases-rise-by-10000-in-24-hours/article37989136.ece
19 December 2021||Chennai,||613 test positive for COVID-19 in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 613 new COVID-19 cases and nine deaths on Saturday. Chennai reported 125 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/613-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn/article37988803.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Songs of harvest||The Hill Tiwas, one of the major tribes inhabiting the foothills of Karbi Anglong district in Assam, come together during paddy cultivation and harvest. They work the land and live almost entirely on its bounties. When COVID-19 was at its peak, they had fenced themselves off from the rest of world, but now with the restrictions loosening, the community nature of cultivation has rebounded. Rice is their staple food, and they also rear animals and poultry for meat and eggs. Fowl and pork are considered delicacies. And the tribe enjoys drinking locally brewed rice beer daily. Hill Tiwas do not store harvested paddy in granaries. They have a unique method of preserving and storing grain. First, they prepare a round frame from one single piece of tree bark called Khitri . Dry straw is put inside the Khitri before putting the paddy. They preserve the grains inside bundles of straw called Maiphur , which is tightly secured by bamboo strips. Harvested paddy is put inside these baskets and kept for future use. Each basket can hold abpout 20 kg. Men and women carry the Maiphurs back to their homes singing songs. Cooperative and collective endeavours are a strongly developed feature of the economic activities of the Hill Tiwas. The community harvesting is always associated with dance and merry-making. There is a mutual dependence among the people, who assist their fellow village men and women in preserving the grains for future consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/songs-of-harvest/article37988766.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The liberation of Bangladesh, 50 years ago||In the evening of April 10, 1971, the Kolkata station of the Radio Free Bangladesh, an offshoot of Akashvani, announced that an important news would be broadcast after 10 pm. Word spread like wildfire and people across India and Pakistan rushed to the nearest radio-owning neighbours, hoping to catch the announcement. Late evening, the dramatic voice of Debdulal Bandyopadhyay announced that the government of independent Bangladesh had been formed under the presidency of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Syed Nazrul Islam would be the Vice President. “We will build a new Bangladesh on the ruins of the old East Pakistan,” said Tajuddin Ahmad, the Prime Minister, in a speech that electrified India and East Pakistan. It was an unprecedented moment in Indian history when the head of a Government-in-exile addressed the people of his country from the Indian government's radio network. Sharmeen Ahmad, currently an Awami League MP in Dhaka, wrote about that momentous speech in her book on her father, Tajuddin Ahmad: Neta o Pita . The speech was the the beginning of a massive public relation and psychological campaign that India would unleash over the next few months that would create a global public opinion to favour a free Bangladesh. Fifty years later, India-Bangladesh relations, despite internal tensions and geopolitical challenges, are still on a strong wicket. Last week, when Bangladesh celebrated 50 years of its liberation from Pakistan, President Ram Nath Kovind was in Dhaka. In March, when Dhaka marked the outbreak of the conflict in 1971, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the guest of honour. Speaking at the celebratory event on December 16, President Kovind said the 1971 war “altered the ideological map of South Asia”. The beginning Two crises gripped India and Pakistan by the end of 1970. Indira Gandhi was dependent on the Left parties and was under constant attack from the conservative Swatantra Party. A mid-term election could work in her favour if she could secure absolute majority. On December 27, Gandhi went to President V.V. Giri and asked him to dissolve the Cabinet and call for election in February 1971. In November 1970, East Pakistan was hit by a monstrous cyclone — Bhola. It took a few days before the devastation caused by the cyclone became known to the world. Lakhs were swept away into the sea and all properties in the path of the storm destroyed. The cyclone exposed the prejudice in the heart of the Pakistani government located in the western wing of the country. Bengalis of East Pakistan suffered without much help from Islamabad. Hurt by neglect, they voted in the December election to form a government of their choice. The Awami League (AL) won a majority of seats in the National Assembly, but President Yahya Khan and leader of the Pakistan People’s Party Zulfikar Ali Bhutto refused to allow the AL to form the government. With each passing day, the situation in East Pakistan became tense as protests and violence continued. Finally, in the late evening of March 25, news came: the Pakistan Army had begun to disarm East Pakistan Rifles, which was mainly manned by Bengalis. Soon thereafter, Dhaka’s skies were lit up with flares and targeted killings began against those who supported the AL. That was also the evening when Mujib was arrested and flown later to Rawalpindi. On being alerted in advance by workers of the Awami League, Tajuddin Ahmad, carrying a rifle and a pistol, left for India, telling his family: “You have to look after yourself. I have to leave.” The Government of India had been watching the developments in Bangladesh for months. As Indira returned to power with the mandate to remove poverty, her agenda was shaped by the developments in neighbouring East Pakistan. Starting with the movement of the leaders of the Awami League, millions of people began to pour into West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura. Schools, colleges, offices, railway platforms, godowns were filled up with people. Unable to contain the human flow, the Government began to set up big hollow pipes where they could stay while the Government went around distributing food and medicines. Indira Gandhi travelled to all the bordering States and spoke in Parliament on May 24. She wanted a quick action but that could not be carried out without an adequate public relations exercise as Pakistan was supported by U.S. President Richard Nixon. She entrusted Sardar Swaran Singh, P.N. Haksar, R.N. Kao, and T.N. Kaul with various aspects of India’s approach, including secret diplomacy in the West and espionage operations. The refugees who poured in provided the foot soldiers for the Mukti Bahini that Kao, chief of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), raised. Indira Gandhi and Swaran Singh travelled to major world capitals. Members of the western bloc, including Australia, West Germany and France, turned against Pakistan, moving away from the official American line. Gandhi visited Washington, where her meetings with President Nixon and National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger were disastrous, but she gave a series of interviews that added to the anti-Pakistan public opinion. Ronen Sen, India’s former Ambassador to the U.S., recollecting the developments, says the military and diplomatic moves of the Indira Gandhi government were equally supported by the public relations blitzkrieg that India launched. Military solution Indira Gandhi had placed Durga Prasad Dhar, a former politician from Kashmir, as India's Ambassador to Moscow. Assisted by young diplomats like Ronen Sen, A.K. Damodaran and Romesh Bhandari, Dhar carried out a series of negotiations with Soviet leaders for establishing military cooperation, which led to the Indo-Soviet Friendship Treaty aimed at securing emergency military supplies. Just as the Pakistan military continued its campaign, Dhar and his team negotiated the Indo-Soviet treaty. During the monsoon and autumn, the Mukti Bahini was used to soften targets in East Pakistan. Armed with Second World War-era rifles and wearing blue and black lungis and white vests, the soldiers of Mukti Bahini merged among the sympathetic local farmers tending fields and carried out attacks that surprised the Pakistan military. After the Durga Puja of 1971, Indira Gandhi focused on finding a military solution. On December 3, she came to address a rally in Kolkata. After the rally, she sat down for a cup of tea with the city’s filmmakers and writers. Her biographer Pupul Jayakar wrote the PM went missing for two hours because of the meeting. In the meanwhile, a momentous development had happened and her office finally tracked her down in the meeting and handed over a piece of paper. Gandhi read the paper and then continued to chat calmly and finished the meeting and left for the airport. The paper informed her that the Pakistan Air Force had carried out a bombing raid in the western sector. Gandhi had ordered India’s military to be ready for war but wanted Pakistan to make the first move so that Yahya Khan could be projected as the aggressor. For the next two hours, the PM’s aircraft flew over northern India while Pakistani bombers remained airborne . Gandhi rushed to the map room and ordered retaliation, starting an all out tri-service war — India’s first. Ambassador Sen recollects that the war was won because Dhar had established a solid channel with the Soviets, who set up an air-bridge between Moscow and Delhi, flying in critical equipment for the Indian Army, led by Gen. Sam Maneckshaw. Top Soviet officials were stationed in Delhi to ensure India could carry out the military operation in a swift manner. Mr. Sen says the Soviets were concerned about pushing the Americans too far as that could trigger a chain reaction. On December 16, exactly 50 years ago, the war came to an end with the surrender of the Pakistan military under the command of Gen A.A.K. Niazi, before the joint India-Pakistan forces. A free Bangladesh was born.  In Focus As refugees poured into India from East Pakistan, India started a public relations blitzkrieg mobilising international opinion against Pakistan. At home, the RAW raised Mukti Bahini from among the refugees India also sought a stronger military cooperation with the Soviet Union, which led to the signing of the 1971 Friendship Treaty On December 3, when Indira Gandhi was in Kolkata, Pakistan started air strikes. India retaliated, starting an all-out tri-service war — its first    Armed with Second World War era rifles, Mukti Bahini soldiers merged with the sympathetic local farmers and carried out attacks that surprised the Pakistani military||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-liberation-of-bangladesh-50-years-ago/article37988725.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||France has agreed to jointly build aircraft engine: Rajnath||France has agreed to build an aircraft engine in collaboration with India, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. The Government, he asserted, was committed to increasing the budget outlay for defence procurement from Indian industry. He believed that the Indian defence and aerospace manufacturing market, which was Rs. 85,000 crore now, would increase to Rs. 1 lakh crore in 2022 and Rs. 5 lakh crore by 2047. “Yesterday [Saturday], French Defence Minister agreed to build the engine with us, so far not made in India. A major French company will come to India and make the engine in strategic partnership with an Indian company,” Mr. Singh said at the 94th Annual General Body Meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. However, he did not give details of the proposed engine development. ‘Talks on with Safran’ A defence official observed that discussions have been on with Safran of France to develop the engine for the Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft (AMCA) and this was the same engine. The Government recently informed Parliament that it has proposed to develop indigenous engines for powering aircraft such as the LCA variants and the AMCA in association with an International Engine House. The Defence Research and Development Organisation had been in talks with leading engine manufacturers. On efforts to boost domestic defence industry, he clarified that in this decade, they would increase the items under the Positive list for Indigenisation from current 209 to over 1000. Inviting global companies to invest in the Indian defence and aerospace sectors, he said, “Come Make in India, come make for India, come make for the world.” Highlighting the initiatives taken to increase the private sector participation and global companies, he remarked, “The Indian defence industry has realised that the opportune time has come for its take-off to higher trajectories. The corporatisation of the OFB is probably the biggest reform in defence production sector since Independence.” Due to India’s ‘stature’ and its geographical location as well as the kind of security challenges it faces, “we cannot depend on other countries for our defence technologies”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/france-has-agreed-to-jointly-build-aircraft-engine-rajnath/article37988684.ece
19 December 2021||Lucknow,||In U.P., PM clubs heritage, development||Carrying forward his dual theme of virasat (heritage) and vikas (development), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday accused the Opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh of undermining both. Days after he inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor in Varanasi in a grand ceremony high on religious symbolism, Mr. Modi once again projected his government as the custodian of the Hindu religious heritage of the country. The Opposition parties had a problem with virasat because they were more worried about their “vote bank”, the Prime Minister said, in a veiled reference to the charge of Muslim appeasement that the BJP often makes against other parties. The Opposition parties had a problem with vikas because the poor and ordinary citizens of the country were not depending on them any more, Mr. Modi said in Shahjahanpur where he laid the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway. Mr. Modi said that these parties had a problem with the Kashi Vishwanath corridor in Varanasi, the under-construction Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and the cleaning of the Ganga and that they also questioned India’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine as well as the Army action against terror. Unlike previous governments, when only some regions of the State got proper electricity supply, under the BJP government, every district was provided more electricity than before, he said. “There is no bhed-bhav (discrimination) in U.P. Everyone is getting their due,” said the PM, deftly touching the issues of caste and regional appeasement charge the BJP levels against the main Opposition Samajwadi Party. Targeting the previous government, Mr. Modi said that earlier criminals with kattas (country-made pistols) would come out once the sun went down; women were unsafe, land grabs and riots were common and people were forced to migrate out of their villages. Chief Minister Adityanath had toiled to bring the situation under control, he said. The 594-km six-lane Ganga Expressway will be built at a cost of over Rs. 36,200 crore. Starting near Bijauli village in Meerut, the expressway will extend till Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj, passing through Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-up-modi-raises-virasat-and-vikas/article37988700.ece
19 December 2021||Pune,||Shah pushes for strong cooperative movement||Remarking that District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCs) were once considered ideal institutions across Maharashtra, Union Cooperation Minister Amit Shah on Saturday rued the fact that a string of multi-crore corruption scams had tainted the cooperation sector in the State. He said there was need to bring greater transparency to the sector. Speaking in Ahmednagar district on Saturday, Mr. Shah said the Narendra Modi government would leave no stone unturned to strengthen the cooperative movement in Maharashtra and the country. “At one time, in every district in Maharashtra, DCCs were considered an ideal institution. Today, only three remain properly functional. While I don’t want to make any political statements here, how was it possible that DCCs were ruined by corruption scams of thousands of crores of rupees? The Reserve Bank certainly was not responsible for this state of affairs,” Mr. Shah said. He was addressing a massive sugar conclave at Pravaranagar in Ahmednagar. Mr. Shah said that the cooperation sector, which today found itself in financial distress, was in need of modernisation and had to be made more competitive. “We shall have to get more transparency in the sector, make it more efficient in order to give jobs to and attract more professionals… only then can this sector thrive for a further 50 or 100 years,” he said. “While I agree that the cooperative sector is in distress, that is why the Centre set up the Cooperation Ministry... Prime Minister Modi is aware that this sector is relevant even today,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-pushes-for-strong-cooperative-movement/article37988709.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Asia dialogue from today||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will host the India-Central Asia Dialogue on Sunday, with five Foreign Ministers from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan arriving in Delhi ahead of the one-day conference. The conference, which marks the third edition of the dialogue, is expected to focus on trade and connectivity to the region as well as developments in Afghan- istan. Of particular interest will be plans to intensify discussions on the Chabahar port route between India and Central Asia, which has not been actualised yet. Ahead of the dialogue, Mr. Jaishankar met his Tajik counterpart Sirajuddin Muhridin, who is on a bilateral visit to Delhi as well. Tajikistan has taken the toughest line on the Taliban regime and hosts members of the “National Resistance Force” headed by Ahmed Massoud and former Vice-President Amarullah Saleh. Level of cooperation The Tajik government also helped India keep its transport aircraft in the Dushanbe airport during the evacuation of Indians from Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover in August, when the IAF had airlifted 565 Indians and Afghan minorities from Kabul. Significantly, the Dialogue on Sunday coincides with Pakistan hosting a special donor meeting on Afghanistan in Islamabad, which will include representatives of the 57-nation Foreign Ministers of the Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC) and the nominees from the U.S., Russia, China and the European Union and Taliban Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi. All five Central Asian nations are OIC members but their Foreign Ministers have chosen to attend the meeting in New Delhi instead, indicating a level of cooperation with India on Afghanistan that was highlighted during the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue of central Asian countries, Russia and Iran hosted by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval in Delhi in November. The Central Asian Ministers are expected pay a joint courtesy call on Prime Minister before they leave on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-asia-dialogue-from-today/article37988706.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A passage of faith||Rising from the banks of the Ganga, the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, the first phase of which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13, will give pilgrims a smooth 400-metre walk, with escalators and ramps for accessibility, from the ghat to the centuries-old temple dedicated to Shiva, once completed. Instead of the narrow bylanes that greeted pilgrims arriving on the riverbank, the corridor around the temple is now spread over 5 lakh square feet, up from the earlier 3,000 sq.ft, including a civic square in front of the temple, amenities and offices for the trust that runs the temple. While the corridor and its gates were decked up for the inauguration, not much had changed outside the main entrance to the temple from the street. Pilgrims lined up over 1 km along the already-congested lane, with electric cables hanging overhead. The facades of the buildings along the entrance wore a fresh coat of paint applied in time for the dignitaries to arrive. Officials associated with the project said it would be another two months before the steps leading up from the river would be finished. A sewage pumping station on the riverbank would also be shifted out soon, they said. Several officials, on condition of anonymity, admitted the inauguration of the incomplete corridor was timed to beat the announcement of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election and the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct in the coming weeks. A cultural symbol Started in 2019, the project in the Prime Minister’s constituency has cost around Rs. 800 crore, with half that amount going towards buying the land. Around 1,000 families, many of which had lived in the area for generations, moved out after selling their homes and businesses. In their reasoning for the project, government officials have cited Mahatma Gandhi, who, after visiting the temple in 1916, lamented the condition of the streets leading to it. While laying the foundation stone for the project in March 2019, Mr. Modi said it had long been a dream of his to improve the conditions for pilgrims at the temple. At the inauguration on December 13, Mr. Modi, speaking to a crowd of 3,000, including religious and political figures, said the Kashi Vishwanath corridor was not just a building, but a “symbol of the Sanatan culture of India”. According to the architects of the project, Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, the rectangular campus around the temple was built in Chunar stone from Mirzapur, without any steel and concrete, so it can last as long as the temple itself. The civic space or temple chowk has traditional arches, while the gateway to the space is inspired by the Ramnagar Fort’s gateway, they said. Constructing the corridor was a challenge as the only way to bring materials in was through a 40-ft road or on barges on the river, they said in a written note. The temple also remained open to worshippers, ranging from tens of thousands to lakhs on festivals, throughout the construction. The temple corridor and its modern amenities stand next to the cordoned-off Gyanvapi Mosque, which has been at the centre of a legal dispute, with Hindu groups claiming it was built on the ruins of a temple. Speaking during the inauguration event, Mr. Modi said Varanasi had witnessed invaders who had tried to destroy it and the “atrocities” of Aurangzeb. But, he added, if an Aurangzeb rose, then so did a Shivaji. The temple was rebuilt by Maratha queen Ahilyabai Holkar in the 18th century and much work is being done now, he said. For local people, the project has brought hopes of increased business in the form of more pilgrims, after nearly two years of hardship due to the pandemic. Traders in the area say their business has already seen an uptick during the construction of the project. However, some of those whose houses were demolished to make way for the corridor say their means of employment have been taken away, from small sari workshops to shops selling religious articles for worshippers. While the governments at the Centre and the State have claimed that 40 “ancient temples” were discovered while demolishing the buildings and restored, some locals have alleged that smaller temples in what is now the Kashi Vishwanath temple complex were demolished to make way for the corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-passage-of-faith/article37988727.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The face of Chile’s new Left||Chileans will go out to vote today in the second — and decisive — round of the country’s most consequential presidential elections in over three decades. The first round, held on November 21, did not yield a clear winner. Far-right candidate Jose Antonio Kast, 55, of the Republican Party finished on top with 28% of the vote while the left-wing alliance’s Gabriel Boric, 35, a former student leader and two-time Congressman, came second with 25.7%. Today’s vote is the run-off between the two, with the winner taking charge as Chile’s next President. What sets this Presidential election apart is that it comes at a crucial time: Chile is in the process of drafting a new Constitution. In May 2021, Chileans voted to elect the members of a Constitutional Convention — the equivalent of a Constituent Assembly — to work on a new Constitution to replace the one that was imposed on them through a fraudulent plebiscite under the dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet. To everyone’s surprise, mainstream political parties did poorly in these elections, with independent candidates winning most of the 155 seats. Under the pressure of public opinion, various electoral mechanisms had been employed to ensure, perhaps for the first time in the world, a Constitution-drafting body with absolute gender parity (50% of the members are women) and reserved seats (17 out of 155) for indigenous people. Understandably, expectations from the new Constitution — the final draft will be subjected to a national vote in 2022 — are high. The drafting is the culmination of a process of democratic transition that began in 1990, when Chile emerged from the Pinochet dictatorship. In the last 30 years, the country saw a succession of centrist governments that implemented textbook neoliberal policies — privatisation, deregulation, low taxes, welfare cuts — leading to the classical neoliberal ailment of extreme inequality, not to mention attendant symptoms of high indebtedness, resentment, and political unrest. Mass protests The first major protests against the political establishment occurred in the winter of 2011, when students occupied campuses to demand free university education. One of the student leaders who became the face of these protests was Mr. Boric, then 25 years old. He was also active in the even more massive demonstrations that erupted across Chile in October 2019. Triggered by a transport fare hike, the demonstrations zeroed in on the steep inequality. The protests produced calls for a wholesale revamp of the political system, which coalesced into a demand for a new Constitution. The government, led by Sebastian Pinera, a billionaire conservative, gave in. In what is viewed as a victory for the social movement led by the Left, a national plebiscite held in October 2020 saw overwhelming support for a new Constitution. Mr. Boric, as presidential candidate of the left-wing alliance, which also includes the communist party, has campaigned on a plank of inclusivity, gender equality, and climate-friendly development. If he wins, not only will he become Chile’s youngest ever President, the progressive forces driving the framing of a new Constitution will get a sympathetic Executive to work with. Although Mr. Boric was leading in the last opinion polls (held November-end) that were permissible before the run-off on December 19, reports indicate Mr. Kast has since closed the gap. Mr. Kast, who has publicly expressed pro-Pinochet sentiments, has been compared to Donald Trump and Jair Bolsonaro, both for his hostility to gender equality and abortion rights, and neoliberal politics, favouring low taxes on the rich and a minimalist welfare state. As for Mr. Boric, although he is seen as a compromise candidate among the Left, his socialist orientation, likened to that of the Podemos in Spain, is making the nation’s business elites nervous. In recent years, Chile has seen a large influx of distress migrants from Venezuela and Haiti. This has become fodder for right-wing elements intent on stoking anxieties over identity. In what is not great news for Mr. Boric, the conservatives have tasted success in injecting identity politics into issues of inequality and pension cuts. While the margin of victory is likely to be small, the outcome, regardless of who wins, will have an outsize impact on the future of Chilean politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-face-of-chiles-new-left/article37988723.ece
19 December 2021||Panaji,||Congress announces pre-poll tie-up with GFP||The Congress and the Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Saturday announced a pre-poll alliance for the State Assembly election due in February next year. Notably, the GFP had earlier shared power with the BJP in Goa but withdrew its support in July 2019 after all three MLAs of the party, including its president Vijai Sardesai, who was then Deputy Chief Minister in the Pramod Sawant-led Government, were dropped from the Cabinet. Addressing a press conference here, AICC in-charge for Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao said the Congress and the GFP have entered into an alliance for the forthcoming elections in the coastal State. ‘Bring about a change’ “After (GFP chief) Vijai Sardesai met our leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and expressed his support to the Congress, saying that he wants to work with us to defeat the communal and corrupt BJP government in Goa and to bring about a change in the State, we welcomed his move,” Mr. Rao said. More interaction took place in Goa between the two parties, he said, adding, “We ironed out whatever small issues were there between us and we are looking at a new beginning.” “Whatever happened in the past, has happened. In politics, there is always a scope for friendship, alliances, and we have mutual trust and confidence in each other,” the Congress leader said. During the talks held so far, the issue of how to go about carrying out the poll campaign was also discussed, he added. “We will be going to the elections together and I expect that this alliance will drive more people towards joining the Congress. I am sure that in this election, the people have decided to reject the BJP as they want a stable Government,” Mr. Rao said. He said the details of seat sharing between the two parties would be announced later. Talking on the occasion, Mr. Sardesai said this alliance will liberate the State from the “autocratic” Government. “The current Government in Goa is in the politics of acquisitions and takeovers that is poisoning democracy and there is a need to start a new movement to re-liberate Goa from the corrupt, communal BJP,” he said. There is a need for the like-minded people to come together, he said, adding, “What began at the residence of Rahul Gandhi has culminated here on an auspicious day.” Mr. Sardesai said the people of Goa are against the BJP but elected representatives are joining that because of the “high-handedness of the central leadership of the party”.  After (GFP chief) Vijai Sardesai met our leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and expressed his support to the Congress... we welcomed his move Dinesh Gundu Rao   AICC in-charge for Goa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-announces-pre-poll-tie-up-with-gfp/article37989235.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three aircraft carriers a must: House panel||Having three aircraft carriers will considerably enhance combat capabilities of the Navy, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence said in its recommendation to the government while also suggesting that it is “worthwhile” to prioritise investment for the development of various island territories as provisional aircraft carrier. The Navy has been pushing for a second Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC-II) based on its force structure centred on three carriers. The country’s first IAC (IAC-I) Vikrant is currently undergoing sea trials and is scheduled to be commissioned in August next year. “The requirement of third aircraft carrier will be worked out on the Indian Navy’s committed liabilities and future acquisition projects,” the government said in its reply to the committee. In the discussion on aircraft carriers, the committee was apprised that it was desirable to have three aircraft carriers in the Navy, with one carrier operating on either coastline, while the third one is undergoing maintenance and refit, given the lengthy maintenance schedules of carriers. “In this perspective, the committee recommend that case for development of a third aircraft carrier be taken up for serious consideration by the Ministry of Defence. The committee would like to be kept abreast with the development in this regard,” it said in the report tabled in the Parliament on December 8. Taking into account the long coastline and hostile adversities on both sides of Indian peninsula, an aircraft carrier on both sides of coast is “quintessential” to uphold operational requirements, the Committee said. However, given the long time for repairs and to bridge operational deficiencies thus arising, the Committee noted that three aircraft carriers is an “unavoidable requirement” to meet any eventualities. The Navy envisages the IAC-II to be displacing 65,000 tonnes and conventionally powered and a steam launched catapult for launching and recovering aircraft and operate both manned and unmanned platforms. Meanwhile, China is set to soon induct its third aircraft carrier, with Chinese media stating the aim is to build six carriers. Island territories The country is enriched with island territories having runways which can be operationalised, the committee said and noted that some of these islands are strategically and favourably located on both sides of the coast suited for “blocking” and “dominating” the ingress routes provided runways there are made operational. “The committee infer that above proposal is worthwhile and prioritising investment for development of various island territories as provisional aircraft carrier shall be contemplated by Ministry and decisions on the same shall be furnished to the Committee.” In response, the government said overall infrastructure development in these territories is being progressed in tandem with the “threat perception and long term strategic vision.” As suggested by the committee, investment is being prioritised to develop operational turnaround (OTR) ports and extension of existing runways in Andaman and Nicobar islands to support forward deployment of ships and aircraft, the government said. Further, armed forces are also supporting the NITI Aayog initiative of developing a joint user airfield in Minicoy, as well as the Ministry of Civi Aviation and Airports Authority of India project for development of the Agatti airfield, it stated. “Once completed, these assets can be effectively leveraged to dominate the ingress routes, especially from the Malacca Strait and the eight degree off the Lakshadweep,” the government stated. Earlier this month, Navy chief Admiral R. Hari Kumar said an aircraft carrier brings certain capabilities. “It’s not about either carrier or submarine, but the right balance between ships, submarines and aircraft,” he noted. On a similar note, Vice-Chief of Navy Vice Admiral S.N. Ghormade said last month that all platforms like carrier, submarine and maritime patrol aircraft have a definite role and the Navy has budgeted for a second indigenous aircraft carrier in its Maritime Capability Perspective Plan (MCPP). On the need for a IAC-II. “To make a balanced force, all these are required for the capability,” he had stated adding adding the MCPP has factored for all these while taking into account the budgetary allocation and constraints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-aircraft-carriers-a-must-house-panel/article37988682.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||Push for Statehood to Ladakh||Two years after Article 370 was read down by Parliament, certain sections of people in the newly created Union Territory of Ladakh are back to demanding Statehood and a greater say in development projects as they feel disempowered by bureaucratic overreach. Ladakh observed a shutdown on December 13 to press for four demands — Statehood for Ladakh, protection under Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, filling of 12,000 vacancies, and allocation of two Lok Sabha seats and one Rajya Sabha seat. The strike was called by powerful civil society groups — the Apex Body for Leh, a group comprising all political parties, and the influential Buddhist Association and the Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA). A day later, Ladakh’s only member in the Lok Sabha, Jamyang Tsering Namgyal of the BJP, demanded constitutional safeguards by amending the Ladakh Autonomous Hill District Council (LAHDC) Act that would clarify the role and responsibilities of the Union Home Ministry, Lieutenant Governor, and urban and rural panchayats vis-a-vis the two councils of Leh and Kargil. He also demanded that land, employment and cultural identity of Ladakh be protected under the Sixth Schedule. The Schedule in the Constitution protects tribal populations, providing autonomy to the communities through creation of autonomous development councils which can frame laws on land, public health, agriculture and so on. As of now 10 autonomous councils exist in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram. Cherring Dorjay Lakruk, a senior representative of the Leh Apex Body, says that it is true that they supported the Government’s bifurcation move in 2019 to carve out the Union Territory of Ladakh from Jammu and Kashmir, but it was also a reality that they got some protection through Article 35A, that was also read down. “We were against Article 370 because the attitude of Kashhmiri bureaucrats was not good to us, but it is also a reality that we got some protection through Article 35 A. In its absence, we now feel vulnerable,” Mr. Lakruk told The Hindu . A former president of the BJP unit in Ladakh, Mr. Lakruk said that in the past two years, no Government recruitment had taken place, though several persons had retired and the administration had claimed there were more than 20,000 vacancies. “We are not saying that we will shut Ladakh for investments, but we should get a say in it, which area will be developed and for which purpose? When they talk about mega solar power projects, thousands of acres of land are required, and it is not like the land is lying unused — it sustains wildlife, medicinal herbs grow there, nomads keep migrating. [But] people from outside think that the land is of no use,” he said. He alleged that the decisions in the Leh council are dictated by bureaucrats. The 26-member Leh council has a majority of members from the BJP. A senior Government official said the major concern of the group was addressed after the Ladakh Resident Certificate Order, 2021 was notified in September. Now the “Resident Certificate” is issued only to the Permanent Resident Certificate holders of the region, unlike J&K where new domicile laws allowed outsiders too to apply for jobs and purchase land. Sajjad Kargili, a member of the KDA, said that in the absence of a democratically elected Government in Ladakh, people are getting disempowered. “We will intensify the protests if our demands are not met. The KDA includes political and religious organisations. We will then go to public at village level and present our agenda, sensitise the people, we will organise rallies...Except BJP, everyone is associated with the movement. For unknown reasons, Government is silent, they have not initiated any dialogue process,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/push-for-statehood-in-ladakh/article37988688.ece
19 December 2021||Lucknow,||A Hindutvavadi bathes alone in Ganga: Rahul||A Hindutvavadi bathes alone in the Ganga but a Hindu bathes in it with crores of others, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Saturday, taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent display of religious symbolism in Varanasi and reiterated the distinction, according to him, between a “Hindu” and Hindutvavadi . “For the first time, I saw a person bathing in the Ganga alone. This has never happened in history. Yogi ji was removed, Rajnath Singh was sidelined,” Mr. Gandhi stated in Amethi, the constituency he held many a time before losing in 2019, referring to Mr. Modi’s dip and rituals in the Ganga before inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor recently. Mr. Gandhi observed that a Hindu represented truth, love, non-violence and was best personified by Mahatma Gandhi and on the other hand, Hindutvavadi meant lies, hate, violence and was represented by Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse. Mr. Gandhi asked that while Mr. Modi says he is a Hindu, but when has he protected the truth. He asked people if Mr. Modi had delivered on the promise of providing 2 crore jobs to the youth. He further asked, “Is Hindu a liar?” According to him, a Hindu is a person who walks the path of truth all his [or her] life and doesn’t let his [or her] fear convert into hate, anger or violence. Connection with Amethi Mr. Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also reaffirmed their connection with the Congress bastion that fell to the BJP in 2019 and assured the people that their bond with the constituency would never break. The relationship was not political but one of family bond, said Mr. Gandhi who, along with his Ms. Vadra took out a padayatra in Amethi. Asking the people to differentiate between truth and lies, he recalled the zabardast contribution he had made to Amethi’s development, in particular rewarding it with a network of roads and highways. The siblings said they were proud members of the Amethi family and would always maintain that bond with the constituency. There could be no complaints in a bond of family and emotions, said Ms. Vadra. “No matter what circumstances came, our relationship never broke,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-hindutvavadi-bathes-alone-in-ganga-rahul/article37988702.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||Marriage age Bill faces Opposition protest||Several Opposition parties are putting up resistance to increasing the legal age for marriage of women from 18 to 21. The Congress is questioning the government’s motivation in bringing the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, while the Left parties are rejecting it on the grounds that it encroaches on women’s autonomy to decide. Muslim parties and groups see it as an attempt to undermine the Muslim Personal Law. The Bill is likely to be moved in the remaining four days of the winter session of Parliament. Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said on Saturday that no political party was opposed to bringing gender parity and working for women’s rights, but he questioned the government’s intention. “Can the government deliver women’s rights merely by framing a law, without any accompanying infrastructural, financial and social support,” he asked. The Congress, though, has not held any formal consultations on the issue, sources said. The party has also not yet figured out its stand within Parliament, especially if the Bill comes up for vote. Party insiders said that by taking a nuanced position, the Congress would push the Bill to be sent to a parliamentary committee for a closer scrutiny. The Trinamool Congress, the second largest Opposition party in the Rajya Sabha with 13 MPs and the third largest party in the Lok Sabha with 22 MPs, has not yet formed an opinion on the Bill. Many of its leaders feel that it is a tricky terrain to negotiate. “The Bill has not been circulated so far, we will have to read it and consult our leader Mamata Banerjee before taking a position,” a senior Trinamool leader said. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagan has not yet made a public statement. The government though can count on support from the Biju Janata Dal and the YSR Congress party. Mithun Reddy, floor leader of the YSRCP in the Lok Sabha, told The Hindu , “The YSR Congress Party has always stood for women’s rights. Even without a formal law, 50% of our candidates for the local bodies elections were women. We will welcome the Bill.” Left position The Left parties, with seven members in the Rajya Sabha and five in the Lok Sabha, have taken a more strident stand. “If a person can choose their MP or MLA at 18, then why not their future partner. The argument that the change will bring gender parity is also fallacious, because if that was the case, the legal age for men should have been brought down,” they said. “The government needs to explain the motivation and the context under which they have brought this Bill. There were no consultations with the political parties or women groups. In a country like the United Kingdom, where women are far better placed than here, the legal age is 18 and with consent of guardians, girls can marry at 16 too,” CPI(M) Parliamentary Party leader Elamaram Kareem said. The Indian Union Muslim League has accused the government of packaging the law in a progressive garb to chip slowly away at the Muslim Personal Law. The IUML’s Rajya Sabha member Abdul Wahab moved an adjournment notice on Friday accusing the government of encroaching on the Muslim Personal Law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marriage-age-bill-faces-opposition-resistance/article37988715.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India prioritising second dose now: officials||While about 87% of India’s adults have got at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 56% are fully vaccinated, the government’s current priority appears to be increasing the number of second doses rather than the first, officials told The Hindu . With two weeks left for the year-end, the country is still far from its target of vaccinating all adults by that time. So far, 136.7 crore doses have been administered, with 82.6 crore of the first and 54.1 crore of the second. The target is to inoculate 94 crore adults by December 31, as claimed by several Union Ministers through the year. From October 16 to 22, however, the number of second doses has steadily outpaced that of the first. From 2.1 crore of second doses and 1.59 crore of first in that week, the week from December 11 to 17 has seen the first dose fall to 1.2 crore and the second one increase to 3.36 crore. So far, India has inoculated at least 60% of its population with one dose and 40% fully vaccinated. The government is yet to approve vaccines for children and booster doses even as global concerns emerge of the Omicron variant being far more capable of evading protective antibodies in those vaccinated as well those who have been exposed to a live infection. Experts say that while targeting 100% of the population is “ideal”, reaching out to the last 10%-20% is challenging as experience with previous vaccination programmes had shown, said Samiran Panda, who heads the epidemiology and infectious disease section of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Innovative approaches “While inoculating an entire population is ideal, I would rather have 80% of the population fully vaccinated. By all accounts, that would in itself be a tremendous achievement,” Dr. Panda told The Hindu . “Logistics, vaccine hesitancy, geographical challenges all play a role in reaching out to the last fraction of the population. We have a project of delivering vaccines through drones, called I-Drone, and you would have to employ innovative approaches such as this for full coverage.” More than 60 countries across the world are providing booster doses and India has at least four clinical trials going on to test the feasibility of mixing approved vaccines and using them as booster doses. Of the vaccines administered so far, Covaxin makes up about 10%. Bharat Biotech, which makes the vaccine, said in May that it took four months for a batch of Covaxin to be manufactured and readied for supply. That month, V.K. Paul, Chairman, National Empowered Group on Vaccines, said India would have close to 216 crore doses from August-December. But when the Union Health Ministry, in an affidavit to the Supreme Court in July, said that only 135 crore doses would be available, he clarified that his estimate was “aspirational”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-prioritising-second-dose-now-officials/article37988721.ece
19 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Modi hails razing of property of suspected mafia in U.P.||Endorsing Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s demolition of property of suspected criminals as part of his handling of law and order, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday came up with the formulation “Upyogi” — U.P. plus Yogi.  Upyogi means a useful person in Hindi, and with the word play, the PM has again thrown his weight behind Mr. Adityanath as the State inches closer to the 2022 Assembly election. At the foundation-laying ceremony of the Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur, Mr. Modi referred to the demolition of the property of suspected criminals and mafia under the BJP government in U.P. and said: “When the bulldozer runs over the mafia…the bulldozer runs over the illegal building but the person who is nurturing it feels the pain. That is why the people of U.P. are saying, U.P. plus Yogi, bahut hain upyogi [U.P. plus Yogi is very useful].” Responding to the comment, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the Yogi Adityanath-led government was not upyogi but anupyogi [useless] for the daughter of Hathras, the farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri, the trader of Gorakhpur, women, unemployed youth and aggrieved Dalits and OBCs. “People of U.P. are asking if someone is UP-Yogi, then who is “mukhya-yogi? Uttar Pradesh says that it doesn’t need BJP,” said Mr. Yadav on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-hails-razing-of-property-of-suspected-mafia-in-up/article37988698.ece
19 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||After 50 years, gharials alive and kicking in Beas Reserve||After successfully reintroducing the critically endangered Gharial ( Gavialis gangeticus ) in the rivers of Punjab where it had become extinct half a century ago, the State’s wildlife preservation wing is now keeping its fingers crossed, expecting the breeding of the crocodilians to start in the new few years as the released gharials are healthy and have adapted to the Beas Conservation Reserve as their home. “Since 2017, we have released 94 gharials in the Beas Conservation Reserve and there have been only two causalities. These gharials have been dispersed both upstream and downstream of the release sites in the reserve and they can be spotted any time depending on the water levels and season, indicating that the first step of their rehabilitation has been successful,” R.K. Mishra, Punjab’s Chief Wildlife Warden told The Hindu.  “The next big challenge is their breeding. Once natural breeding of gharials starts it would then be a real success. Normally, we expect the breeding to start after 10 years. The eldest of the reintroduced ghairals is seven years old now and we are hopeful that breeding could start in the coming three-four years. The habitat is conducive for egg-laying and hatching and we are taking all necessary steps to provide a safe environment predator,” he added. Ambitious project The gharial reintroduction in the Beas Conservation Reserve is an ambitious programme of the Punjab government. The reptiles were commonly sighted in the Beas River till the 1960s but later became extinct. The gharial can be found in north Indian rivers like the Ganga, Yamuna, Chambal and their tributaries. Mr. Mishra said after the release of gharials, regular monitoring by the department is being done to understand the dispersal, behaviour, threats and other ecological aspects so that these juvenile and sub-adult gharials mature into adults and start breeding. “Regular patrolling and monitoring of the reserve by forming a gharial task force, rapid rescue unit and anti-poaching group is being undertaken. The monitoring teams have also been raising awareness of the farmers and riparian communities working in the close vicinity of the Beas River,” he said. While there is no documentation on the extinction of gharial from the Beas, experts believe there have been multiple reasons for the disappearance of the species. “After understanding the Beas river ecosystem, learning from other gharial habitats in the world and from interacting with numerous stakeholders residing or working around the Beas river, it is quite evident that change in the hydrology due to construction of dams and barrages, significantly reduced water flow, rapid land-use change of floodplains and rampant overfishing led slowly into the extinction of the gharial from the Beas,” said Gitanjali Kanwar, Coordinator - Rivers, Wetlands and Water Policy, WWF-India. Release in batches In the first phase of the reintroduction project, 47 gharials were released in 2017-2018 in the river in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts. Later, 23 gharials were released in February 2021 on an island near Saleempur and Tahli Forest in district Hoshiarpur. Most recently, on December 5, another set of 24 gharials was released near the Kulla Fatta forests in the reserve in Hoshiarpur district. “40-50% of the released gharials are sighted during the field survey, and they are healthy and have adapted to the Beas Conservation Reserve. Like tigers are the topmost predators in a forest, gharials are the topmost predators in a river. They (gharial) balance the riverine food chain. Gharial keeps in check their prey (i.e. fish), which keep in check their prey and so on. The presence of gharials indicates a healthy riverine ecosystem,” Ms. Kanwar said. “We are also focusing on meticulous documentation of this conservation programme, which will act as a reference and learning guide for the next generation. A coffee table book on the gharial was released earlier this month, documenting 22 years of work on the gharial conservation by Punjab,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reintroduced-gharials-thriving-in-beas-reserve-experts/article37988711.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CEC not called for meet with PMO: Law Ministry||A day after a controversy erupted over the Election Commission of India being asked to attend a meeting with the Prime Minister’s Office, the Law Ministry on Saturday said the meeting in November was meant for the Secretary or representative of the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC), and not the CEC himself. The Ministry said several proposals of the ECI regarding electoral reforms had been pending for long and the CECs had written to the Law Minister several times since 2011. “Legislative Department is the nodal Department regarding matters related to Election Commission and regular interaction takes place between officials of ECI and Legislative Department,” the Ministry said. The PMO had written to the Cabinet Secretary, the Law Secretary and the Legislative Department Secretary on November 12 regarding the meeting on the common electoral roll to be held on November 16. “It was not addressed to the [CEC]. Since [ECI] has the necessary expertise and mandate regarding electoral roll and in the light of the previous letters of the [CEC] addressed to the Law Minister, Secretary, Legislative Department thought it appropriate to invite officials of Election Commission to this meeting,” it said. “After the meeting of officials, certain issues required further fine-tuning. These issues include the number of qualifying dates for updation of electoral roll, some aspects of Aadhaar linkage and requisition of premises. After the official meeting, a separate informal interaction was held virtually with the [CEC] and the two Election Commissioners,” the Ministry said. It said these deliberations led to the proposal by the Legislative Department, the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, being placed before the Cabinet, which approved it for introduction in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cec-not-called-for-meet-with-pmo-law-ministry/article37988696.ece
19 December 2021||Srinagar,||‘No faith in panel for delimitation’||Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said the J&K Delimitation Commission’s “only motive was to divide vote in J&K”. With two days left for the commission to hold a meeting with its associate members in New Delhi, Ms. Mufti said, “I have no faith in the fairness of the commission. The Commission is BJP’s Commission. It will try to divide votes between the majority and minority communities to further disempower the common people.” She said the recent summons the National Investigation Agency (NIA) issued to a party leader was attempt “to suppress our voice”. “Our party has been debunking the BJP’s false narratives on Kashmir and the Enforcement Directorate and the NIA’s actions against PDP leaders are to suppress us,” she said. She also described the recent decision to allow agriculture land for non-agricultural purposes as “a conspiracy to sell land to outsiders and bring a demographic change in J&K, which is a hidden agenda of the BJP”. NC accused of U-turn Peoples Conference (PC) president Sajad Gani Lone accused the National Conference of a U-turn on the Commission. He said the NC had earlier claimed that participation in the Commission would tantamount to accepting the events of August 5. “There is a limit on monopoly on morality. Please at least have the courtesy to show even some pretense and explain how it was tantamount to endorsement then and not now. What compelled the NC to participate in the proceedings of the commission,” Mr. Lone said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-faith-in-panel-for-delimitation/article37988704.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||Former SC judge Nanavati passes away||Former Supreme Court judge Justice (retd.) Girish Thakorlal Nanavati, who investigated the 1984 anti-Sikh and the 2002 Godhra riots, passed away on Saturday. He was 86. He died of cardiac failure at 1.15 p.m. on December 18 in Gujarat, family members said. Justice Nanavati, born on February 17, 1935, was enrolled as an advocate in the Bombay High Court on February 11, 1958. He was appointed a permanent judge of the Gujarat High Court on July 19, 1979, and transferred to the Orissa High Court on December 14, 1993. He was appointed as the Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court with effect from January 31, 1994. He was transferred as Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court on September 28, 1994. Justice Nanavati was appointed as a Supreme Court judge with effect from March 6, 1995, and retired on February 16, 2000. Justices Nanavati and Akshay Mehta had in 2014 submitted their final report on the 2002 riots to the then Gujarat Chief Minister Anandiben Patel. Over 1,000 people, mainly from the minority community, were killed in the violence. The commission was appointed in 2002 by the then Chief Minister Narendra Modi to probe the riots, which took place after the burning of two coaches of the Sabarmati Express train near the Godhra railway station, in which 59 karsevaks died. Justice Nanavati was appointed by the NDA Government to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. He was the sole member of the Nanavati Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-sc-judge-nanavati-passes-away/article37988719.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||It’s ‘Talibani mentality’, says Union Minister||Union Minorities Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Saturday hit out at “professional protesters” with “Talibani mentality” for creating roadblocks in the path to women’s empowerment. The Minister was speaking in the context of the recent Cabinet decision to increase the legal age of marriage of women to 21 from 18, bringing it on a par with that of men. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen have objected to the change. “Those who opposed making the social evil of triple talaq a crime and raised questions on the removal of restriction on Muslim women to perform Haj with mehram only are now creating commotion on the constitutional equality regarding the marriage age of women. These people are professional protesters,” Mr. Naqvi said at an event in Delhi to mark Minorities Day. ‘Equal rights’ India, he said, has believers of almost all religions of the world and also a large number of atheists. Irrespective of their faith, everyone enjoys equal constitutional and social rights. The government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had worked with commitment to “ Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas ” in the past seven years that has ensured significant reforms and inclusive development of all sections of society, including the minorities. The school dropout rate among Muslim girls, which was more than 70% before 2014, had fallen to 30%. “Our aim is to make it 0% in the coming days,” he added. In the Rajya Sabha, where Mr. Naqvi is the Deputy Leader of the BJP, the ruling party members have over the past few days spoken on a host of issues that fall under the core agenda of the party. Harnath Singh Yadav of the BJP spoke during Zero Hour, seeking repeal of the Places of Worship Act to allow the construction of a Krishna temple on an alleged disputed site in Mathura. The Act, which was brought in by the Narasimha Rao government in 1991, while keeping the Ram temple dispute outside the purview of this law, froze the status of places of worship as they were on August 15, 1947.  Those who opposed making the social evil of triple talaq a crime ... are now creating commotion Mukhtar Abbas NaqviMinorities Affairs Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-talibani-mentality-says-union-minister/article37988713.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar conducted on art-integrated learning||A webinar on art-integrated learning, hosted by FeviCreate Idea Labs and The Hindu Education Plus, highlighted the importance of bringing in art and creativity effectively into the Indian education system, and its impact on learning. “There’s something about the arts that makes us learn and remember better. For instance, we tend to remember the songs we learnt in preschool, rather than physics concepts from Class 9,” said Arundhati Ghosh, executive director, India Foundation for the Arts, making a case for integrating art and education. ‘Learning is fun’ Gautam Suri, president, Consumer Products, Pidilite Industries Ltd., emphasised how learning should be permanently fun for children. “Bringing in creativity, crafting it in accessible ways, and helping kids learn academic concepts creatively is important,” he said. He further attributed the difficulty of integrating art into the Indian education system to society being fundamentally marks-based. “That is possibly why art-based learning will take time to evolve. It has to have concerted efforts from the Government, education institutions, employers to come together and form an ecosystem,” he added. Rajesh Mahajan, principal, Jan Gan Man English Secondary School, Dombivili, pointed out that some of the greatest discoveries in science involved art. “It requires imagination and creativity — often, the subject is learnt through pictures and models.” The session was moderated by Soma Basu, deputy editor, The Hindu . The webinar can be viewed online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sw6GdoPyC4A||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-conducted-on-art-integrated-learning/article37988686.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||No funds or support, future tense for embassy||“At present, we represent the geographic landmass and people of Afghanistan…we represent a republic that is lost for the moment,” he said, in a reference to the Taliban’s decision to recast its interim regime as the “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan”, with a Taliban flag. However, like most of the other 70 missions, the Delhi embassy has retained the republic and its tricolour flag of black, red and green. According to the diplomat, until the Taliban forms a formal Government that is inclusive, representative and keeps the promises made, including on the rights of women and minorities, the embassy cannot represent it. “For now, we have lost a state, and the results are catastrophic”. Dwindling resources The Ambassador noted that he was worried about how long the embassy and the consulates in Hyderabad and Mumbai could continue to run on the fast dwindling resources, and only the fees from consular services to rely on in order to afford the roughly $1.2 million (approximately Rs. 9.1 crore) they have spent annually thus far. Sources said the embassy might now consider renting out its housing to diplomats of other countries, even as it is clear that the mission is stretched, cutting back on services, staff and electricity on the premises. The Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to a query about what support if any, it proposed to give the embassy. During the last Taliban regime from 1996 to 2001, New Delhi assisted the embassy, which officially represented the Government of President Rabbani that India continued to recognise. However, the Ambassador stated that he was far more concerned about the flight of Afghans who were facing food shortages and an economic crisis. Security concerns Amid growing reports of malnutrition and violence from Afghanistan, Mr. Mamundzay said New Delhi’s decision to cancel all pre-existing visas, and issuing, according to an answer in Parliament, only 200 visas, was well below what they had hoped for. “We certainly expected more from India,” said Mr. Mamundzay. “We acknowledge their security concerns, and the fact that it is not possible to verify each new case, but what about those who have been coming to India for years, close friends of India. They continue to wait, and they haven’t been fairly treated,” he added, estimating that about 40,000-50,000 Afghans desperate to leave, including military cadets, students, businessmen, patients and those who had been granted scholarships by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, who had applied for e-visas, were “losing hope”. No flights Even if visas came through, he pointed out, travel to India was virtually impossible as there were no commercial flights at present. One positive development was the Government’s decision to allow a Kam Air flight, the first since August 15, to land in Delhi last week, carrying 10 Indians and 90 Afghans, mostly members of the Sikh and Hindu community, and carrying back medical aid for the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul. “We hope there will be more such flights,” Mr. Mamundzay observed, remarking with a tinge of sadness, “When no Government exists to protect basic rights of people, then horrifying tragedies unfold in various forms not only at home but also abroad.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-funds-or-support-future-tense-for-embassy/article37988690.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||DRDO tests Agni-P missile for second time||New generation nuclear capable ballistic missile Agni-P was successfully tested from Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam island off the coast of Odisha at 11.06 a.m. on Saturday, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said. This is the second test of the missile. The first test took place in June last. “Various telemetry, radar, electro-optical stations and down range ships positioned along the eastern coast tracked and monitored the missile trajectory and parameters. The missile followed textbook trajectory meeting all mission objectives with high level of accuracy,” a DRDO statement said. Agni-P is a two-stage canisterised solid propellant missile with dual redundant navigation and guidance system and has a range of up to 2,000 km. This second flight-test had proven the reliable performance of all the advanced technologies integrated into the system, the DRDO stated. DRDO officials termed Agni-P as a new generation advanced variant of Agni class of missiles with improved parameters, including manoeuvring and accuracy. Canisterisation of missiles reduces the time required to launch the missile while improving the storage and ease of handling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-tests-agni-p-missile-for-second-time/article37988693.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||SP cries foul at I-T raids on its leaders||“But despite all this, the ‘cycle’ and the rath will not slow down and the BJP is destined to be wiped out in Uttar Pradesh,” he told reporters. Mr. Akhilesh Yadav questioned why the I-T Department had arrived at Mr. Rai’s residence just before the election when they could have done this when he submitted his asset details. The SP chief added the BJP was treading the path of the Congress in intimidating opponents through Central agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-cries-foul-at-i-t-raids-on-its-leaders/article37988695.ece
19 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Himachal to have a clean fuel policy||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said a “State Clean Fuel Policy” would soon be brought to reduce air pollution even as he asserted that there was a need to make collective efforts to tackle the problem of climate change. He was presiding over the climate change conference organised by the Department of Environment, Science and Technology in Shimla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachal-to-have-a-clean-fuel-policy/article37988716.ece
19 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Man beaten to death in Golden Temple||One person died after being beaten by devotees on Saturday when he entered the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar, according to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the apex body for the management of gurdwaras. In an official statement, SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami said an attempt was made by a man at “Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib” (Golden Temple) to cross the safety grille while the recitation of evening prayers was under way. “During the recitation, a man jumped over the safety grille and entered the sanctum sanctorum and picked up the sword kept in front of Sri Guru Granth Sahib, but he was apprehended by the Sewadars on duty, and he died due to beating by the sangat (devotees),” said Mr. Dhami. Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal expressed “shock and disbelief” at the incident, alleging a deep-rooted conspiracy and blaming the State government for inaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-beaten-to-death-in-golden-temple/article37988691.ece
19 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. backs ruling front in Meghalaya||The challenge from the Trinamool Congress has taken the Congress closer to the Bharatiya Janata Party through the National People’s Party in Meghalaya. The Congress Legislature Party on December 17 declared its “full support” to the NPP-led Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government in the north-eastern State. The BJP is a minor constituent of this alliance led by Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma. “We have offered the Chief Minister our dedicated support on several aspects of governance,” Congress MLA Ampareen Lyngdoh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-backs-ruling-front-in-meghalaya/article37988707.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||PM responds to plea from Lt. Gen. Hooda||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called Lt. Gen. (retd.) D.S. Hooda to assure him that a request of his sister Sushma Hooda, who is fighting breast cancer, for assistance in expediting the approval of a new drug for the Indian market will be considered. Both Lt.Gen. Hooda and his sister had made an appeal on Twitter seeking access to the drug Sacituzumab govitecan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-responds-to-plea-from-lt-gen-hooda/article37989125.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||DRDO scientist held for blast in Delhi court||The Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested a scientist in connection with the low-intensity blast in Rohini court on December 9, said Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana on Saturday. The scientist, employed with the DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organization), apparently wanted to eliminate his neighbour, police said. Mr. Asthana said that the accused has been identified as Bharat Bhushan Kataria (49). He committed the crime to take revenge on his neighbour, advocate Amit Vashistha, due to a protracted legal battle between the two. Improvised explosive The Commissioner said that after the blast in courtroom number 102, the case registered on charges of attempt to murder and under the Explosives Act was transferred to the Special Cell for investigation as the initial probe revealed the involvement of an improvised explosive. The crime scene and the IED (Improvised Explosive Device) were examined by both the Forensic Science Laboratory and National Security Guard. It was found that the materials used are easily available in the market. According to the police, Mr. Kataria went inside the courtroom at about 10:15 a.m. and placed a bag containing the explosive device behind Mr. Vashistha, after which he triggered the IED from a safe distance with a remote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-scientist-held-for-blast-in-delhi-court/article37988717.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RE-imagining routes to reap energy||The battle between conventional and renewable sources of power is as old as the technologies to mine these resources. While the domination of coal in power generation over the last century or so may be waning, in favour of renewables, State governments seem to be still betting heavily on thermal power. They do believe, quite sincerely, that any sort of renewable source cannot replace coal-generated electricity to meet the rising demands. While it is a known fact that establishing thermal plants would have a longer gestation period and leave a dark mark on the environment, not to mention a hole in the ozone layer, the need to generate enough power for handling the demand, and faith in thermal source to do so, has been overwhelming. The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has the best balanced electricity generation of 50% polluting energy and 50% non-polluting power, comprising wind, solar, gas, and hydro. But the fine balance remains only on paper, rue renewable energy activists. The activists point out that whether it is the backing down of wind energy or the lack of provision of grid support to solar power, renewable energy has remained the victim. The victimisation of renewable energy has been highlighted in various reports. The latest report from the Climate Risk Horizons (CRH) paints a dark picture of Tangedco’s plan to go ahead with the construction of the Udangudi power project which could burn a hole in the pocket of the power utility and add to the State’s fiscal deficit. The study, ‘White elephants-New coal investments threaten Tamil Nadu’s financial recovery’, bats for the freezing of the construction of coal plants in the State and for a mix of renewable energy, with coal only to manage the peak demand. The report says the construction would put the power utility in a financial mess of Rs. 29,000 crore from 2024-2030 and an annual fixed cost of Rs. 5,000 crore. Also the cost of power generated from the plants would be as high as Rs. 8.20 per unit, with the lowest cost worked out at Rs. 6.70 per unit if the plant load factor is at 75%. The report said, “Renewable energy is available at Rs. 3 per unit, and combined with storage cost, it would amount to Rs. 4.97 per unit. It could further drop to Rs. 3.40 per unit by 2030 when the thermal project would be commissioned.” Regardless of the ‘sunk cost’ of Rs. 6,155 crore spent on the Uppur project (which the National Green Tribunal has cancelled) and the Udangudi project, the study says the State can salvage Rs. 15,000 crore to Rs. 20,000 crore by freezing the Udangudi project and going for a mix of renewable and thermal energy. A senior official of Tangedco said that though renewable energy, especially solar energy, was being projected as a cheap option, in actual terms it is costlier than conventional power if round-the-clock supply is required. Comparing the cost of setting up a solar plant with that of a coal plant, the official said the storage cost for battery is anywhere in the range of Rs. 12-Rs. 15 per unit. The storage would last only six to eight hours. But what is required is storage for a minimum of 14 hours; in that case, the cost would be Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 per unit. There is the option of hydro pump storage with the cost being Rs. 8 and Rs. 12. But the potential is limited, and it would require a forest area for mining, leading to forest destruction. The power utility has planned to construct two mega plants under the Udangudi power project with a capacity of 1,320 MW and 1,600 MW. Both plants would cost nearly Rs. 27,000 crore, and this would put a heavy debt burden on the power utility, claims the report. The 1,600-MW plant has been planned as a replacement for the Uppur thermal plant, which was cancelled by the National Green Tribunal. A senior official of Tangedco, who went through the report, claimed that some of the facts cited in the study were incorrect. Officials said they were aware of the financial risks involved in the construction of the Udangudi power project, but they had no option since battery storage for solar power is in a nascent stage and the cost is prohibitive. Establishing a thermal plant is cheaper. However, the official said that going ahead with the Udangudi project would not mean that the State, a leader in the wind power generation, had closed the door on renewable energy; there are plans for increasing the renewable energy generation through solar plants with battery storage and hydro plants to 20,000 MW by the end of 2030. The power managers said a road map for increasing the share of renewable energy in the total mix from 50% to 60% was being readied by resolving the challenges, including the difficulties in the integration with the power grid. Wind, solar and hydro, which remain the mainstay of renewable energy for the power utility, are set to see an expansion. Solar power will be expanded to a capacity of 8,500 MW and hydro power generated through pumped storage to 11,500 MW. The solar plants are to be set up in the next five years and the pumped storage projects over a period of 10 years. Tangedco’s Non Conventional Energy Sources (NCES) Department has started the groundwork for generation of 6,000 MW of solar power in the first phase and 2,500 MW in the second phase. A senior official of the Department said that as part of the 6,000-MW project, solar parks with a total capacity of 4,000 MW would be established in all districts and a capacity of 2,000 MW in battery storage would be created. The Department has started readying the detailed project report for the 11,500 MW of hydro power through pumped storage. T.R.B. Rajaa, legislator and member of the Tamil Nadu State Planning Commission, said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was keen on promoting renewable energy and environmentally sustainable projects. Tamil Nadu is a leader in renewable energy with a capacity of more than 15,500 MW. The Chief Minister has set a target of adding 18,000 MW in renewable energies in the next 10 years. He said Tamil Nadu would switch to no-coal policy after it reached surplus capacity in wind, solar and other renewable sources of energy. The Minister for Electricity had said the State was developing land banks for building solar parks and Guidance Tamil Nadu had a list of land banks for wind and solar projects. He said one of the issues with renewable energy was that it would be available only at a particular period of time and so the main challenge would be storage. The Planning Commission is working towards finding the right solutions. Mr. Rajaa said that with Tamil Nadu accounting for 13% of India’s coastline, the State is looking at tapping into offshore wind potential. Some companies have shown interest. According to a preliminary assessment carried out by the National Institute of Wind Energy, 31 gigawatt of offshore wind power potential exists off the coast of Tamil Nadu. However, Mr. Rajaa said, offshore wind energy should be developed carefully as there are eco-sensitive zones and fishermen have expressed concerns. One of the challenges in the push towards green energy is the weak financial position of Tangedco, which has been posting huge losses. The tenders issued by Tangedco for procuring solar energy have received a tepid response. A few years ago, Tangedco handed over the task of procuring wind and solar energy to Solar Energy Corporation of India, a Central government agency. As per official data, Tangedco owes over Rs. 2,000 crore to renewable energy generators. There has been an issue of curtailment of renewable energy generation, which has become a never-ending dispute between Tangedco and the generators. In August 2021, the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity directed Tangedco and the Tamil Nadu State Load Despatch Centre to jointly pay compensation to solar energy developers for curtailment of generation from March 1 to June 30, 2017. Based on the report from Power System Operation Corporation Ltd., the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity concluded that the curtailment instructions were issued for reasons other than grid security and fixed the compensation at 75% of the tariff per unit as per the power purchase agreements. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission, too, had directed the State Load Despatch Centre to evolve a protocol of reasons for curtailment such as transmission constraints and grid safety and security. Curtailment shall be done after communicating the reasons to generators in writing, or through the State Load Despatch Centre website.  Though renewable energy, especially solar power, is being projected as a cheap option, in actual terms it is costlier than conventional power if round- the-clock supply is required Senior officialTangedco   Tamil Nadu will switch to no-coal policy after it reaches surplus capacity in wind, solar and other renewable energy sources T.R.B. Rajaamember Tamil Nadu State Planning Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/re-imagining-routes-to-reap-energy/article37988810.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||URC wins bid for construction of Metro Rail’s Madhavaram depot||URC Construction has emerged as the lowest bidder for building Chennai Metro Rail Ltd.’s (CMRL) largest depot at Madhavaram which will house a majority of the trains that will run under the Phase II project. Sources said the work was expected to start by mid-January and be completed within three years. CMRL had floated tenders for construction of this depot and URC Construction emerged as the lowest bidder. The depot will come up on 27.8 hectares of land and would be bigger than the facility in Koyambedu, which was spread over 25 hectares of land. The Madhavaram depot would have facilities essential for stabling lines, inspection lines, workshop for overhaul, workshop for carrying out major repairs of trains and wheel profiling, besides cleaning of roof and interiors of trains, according to the detailed project report. As many as 112 trains would run in the phase II project and all of them would be equipped to be operated as driverless. Initially, the trains would have three coaches and later three more might be added should demand arise. This depot was being constructed mainly for regular maintenance of trains operated on two corridors of Madhavaram-SIPCOT and Madhavaram-Shollinganallur in Phase II project. For the third corridor of Poonamallee-Light House, a depot would be built at Poonamallee for which the contract had been awarded to a joint venture between Ukraine-based Altis Holding Corporation and Varindera Constructions Ltd. Since the CMRL plans to start operations after 2025, both the depots should be ready first as they would have testing tracks and facilities to conduct trial runs of new trains before certifying them as fit for operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urc-wins-bid-for-construction-of-metro-rails-madhavaram-depot/article37989181.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Info panel comes down heavily on Corporation for bad roads||The Tamil Nadu Information Commission (TNIC) has come down heavily on the Greater Chennai Corporation for poor quality of roads, rainwater harvesting structures and drainage systems that caused flooding and inconvenience to the residents. State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj wrote this, disposing of a petition filed by V. Murugesh, city convener, All India Students Welfare Organisation, Chennai, alleging irregularities in road-laying at Perumalpuram abutting Greenways Road. In his 2018 petition filed under the Right to Information Act, the petitioner said his area got flooded in the rain because of bad road work and sought details of the same. He alleged that the authorities were reluctant to part with the information sought since Ministers, Madras High Court judges and other senior officials were residing in the area. In his order, Mr. Muthuraj called for an inspection of roads, rainwater harvesting structures and drainage systems in all 200 wards of the Greater Chennai Corporation. He recommended that personnel retired from the Military Engineering Services having expertise in civil work be deployed to inspect these amenities and supervise repairs as per the norms. Disciplinary action Suggesting that civil contractors should be asked to make amends for sub-standard work done while laying roads, the State Information Commissioner said disciplinary action should be taken against officials for lack of accountability. Mr. Muthuraj said new roads were being laid on the existing and damaged ones; this resulted in the roads rising above the ground level. Office, commercial and residential buildings were below the road level on either side, resulting in flooding and rainwater stagnation. “Retired defence personnel from the Military Engineering Services should be posted in each of the 200 wards to inspect and supervise repairs/rectification work. Instead of milling the old roads, the contractors have been laying new roads on the existing ones to save money. The road in many areas is now above the ground level. Such roads should be identified and rectified as per the Indian Roads Congress’s guidelines at the cost of the contractor responsible for the irregularity,” Mr. Muthuraj recommended to the Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation. Elaborating on the poor quality of civil works, he quoted from a communication from Corporation officials and said that while the width and height of a speed-breaker should be 5 metres and 10 cm respectively according to the Indian Roads Congress’s guidelines, the one in front of the official residence of the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court was 7.5 metres and 17 cm respectively. Government and private buildings were never built below the road level. But laying new roads repeatedly on the existing ones led to the elevated road levels, Mr. Muthuraj said, ordering Rs. 27,000 in compensation to the petitioner for the delay in his getting information from the Public Information Officer. The Greater Chennai Corporation could decide whether the money should be recovered from the official responsible for the delay in providing complete information, he said.  Instead of milling the old roads, the contractors have been laying new roads on the existing ones to save money. The road in many areas is now above the ground level S. MuthurajState Information Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/info-panel-comes-down-heavily-on-corporation-for-bad-roads/article37989203.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rich tributes paid to India’s first woman psychiatrist||Commitment, dedication, passion, empathy, grace, and humour were some of the words frequently uttered as a number of eminent people from Chennai and across the world paid their tributes at the event organised here on Saturday to celebrate the life of M. Sarada Menon, India’s first woman psychiatrist and an institution builder, who died last week. R. Seshasayee, chairman, Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF India), which was founded by Dr. Menon, said while many people pursued their passion, it was only a few who converted that passion into building an institution and in turn institutionalised their passion and concern for society. Dr. Menon was one of them, he said. R. Thara, vice-chairperson, SCARF India, traced the life of Dr. Menon and highlighted her role in developing not just the Institute of Mental Health in Kilpauk, but in opening psychiatry departments in many district hospitals in the State. Recalling her commitment to patients, she recalled how Dr. Menon cooked for the patients when the workers at IMH’s kitchen went on a strike. Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, World Health Organisation, whose recorded message was shared at the event, said that Dr. Menon was one of the most inspiring persons that she could ever meet. ‘Long way to go’ N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, said that what Dr. Menon achieved as the first woman in the field when there was little support and sensitivity on mental health was heroic. “We can truly say without exaggeration that her life and tremendous work made a significant difference,” he said. He stressed on the need to carry on her legacy and work as there was still a long way to go to achieve Dr. Menon’s larger goal of ensuring that mental health patients led a life as normal as possible. Filmmaker Rajiv Menon said that if Chennai continued to remain in the forefront of mental health study and care, it was largely due to the efforts of one trailblazing woman - Dr. Menon. V. Mohan, chairman, Dr. Mohan's Group of Diabetes Institutions, recalled his family’s long association with Dr. Menon. Stating that he cherished and preserved all the handwritten letters received from Dr. Menon, he recollected in particular her advice on excellence. “Excellence is doing your very best in everything, in every way and every day were her words,” he said. Highlighting how Dr. Menon had been an inspiration for many reforms, Poorna Chandrika, Director of IMH, said the State government’s recent acknowledgement on the need for a psychiatrist in obstetrics and gynaecology departments was in fact an idea that Dr. Menon had been pushing for long. Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali said that Dr. Menon was a dynamic person and a great leader. Vandana Gopikumar, co-founder of The Banyan, highlighted how Dr. Menon thought beyond organisational boundaries towards the common cause of mental health. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of Sneha, an organisation that works towards suicide prevention, said that Dr. Menon embodied the term “science with humanity”. O. Somasundaram and Peter Fernandez, who worked with Dr. Menon for several years at the IMH, reminisced the phase when IMH underwent transformation under her leadership. Many of her former colleagues, students and academicians from international institutions paid rich tributes. A photo exhibition of her life was organised as part of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rich-tributes-paid-to-indias-first-woman-psychiatrist/article37989185.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BIS conducts workshops to create awareness on certified products||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Chennai region, is organising workshops for different sectors like women Self-Help Groups, entrepreneurs and farmers to create awareness on the use of BIS certified products. BIS is also coordinating with district collectorates to create awareness about products with ISI mark, ISO certification and Indian standards. Officials said the standard body also coordinated with government departments and insisted them to procure ISI-mark products during tenders. Several district industries centres have come forward to get ISO certification after the training programmes. G.Bhavani, Scientist-E and Head, Chennai branch office, said standards clubs were being launched in educational institutions to develop in students a taste for quality. “We are targeting government schools and nearly 27 schools and colleges in and around Chennai region, including Vellore, have already come forward to start standards clubs. Students are encouraged to take part in writing, debate and poster contests too,” she said. BIS is roping in non-governmental organisations and consumer organisations to conduct workshops and competitions. The standards body is also approaching colleges and universities to introduce standardisation in their curriculum. This would help them apply standardisation in daily life and their careers. “We wanted to reach out to stakeholders at grassroots levels and hold workshops. We are getting enquiries from several women SHGs on getting their products certified. BIS has simplified and digitised procedure of certification for nearly 700 products. Applicants would get their licence in 30 days,” said Ms.Bhavani. Farmers in Vellore and Chengalpattu were recently sensitised to ISI mark and various standards available for irrigation methods and fertilisers and equipment. The BIS also contributed awareness videos to government online channel handled by the Anna Institute of Management, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bis-conducts-workshops-to-create-awareness-on-certified-products/article37989548.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safety of students is priority, says T.N. Education Minister||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said teams comprising officials from the School Education Department, engineers from the Public Works Department (PWD) and officials from the Revenue Department and the municipal administration would be formed to inspect school buildings in Tamil Nadu. On Friday, three students were crushed to death when a wall constructed near a toilet in Schaffter Higher Secondary School in Tirunelveli collapsed. Emphasising that the department did not want this to happen again, and that they were focussed on student safety, Mr. Mahesh said Chief Educational Officers (CEOs) across the State have been asked to send in lists from their jurisdiction of schools which are structurally unstable. “This will be reviewed and based on this, demolition orders will be issued. The department will also ensure that this will not affect the education of children. They will be absorbed into nearby schools or the School Education Department will rent other premises for their use,” he said. While education officials are already required to carry out periodic inspections of school buildings, Mr. Mahesh said they were once again instructed to check schools in person thoroughly, and fast track the process of sending in reports about the condition of the school buildings to prevent incidents like this in the future. “Over the last three to four months, the topic of schools reopening and whether the buildings were stable and safe for children was extensively discussed in CEO meetings. The Department has also insisted that everything, including electrical boards, have to be checked and despite all this, it is shocking that this has happened,” he added Surprise inspections The Minister said he had been carrying out surprise inspections of schools as well in the last few months, and always made it a point to check the condition of the bathrooms there. It was only recently in November that the Directorate of Elementary Education had issued a set of directives to schools under its jurisdiction, following heavy rains in several parts of the State, to be vigilant and ensure that the campus infrastructure was safe for students.  The department will also ensure that the demolitions will not affect the education of children. They will be absorbed into nearby schools Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi School Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-of-students-is-priority-says-tn-education-minister/article37989191.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Portion of road caves in||A portion of the R.K. Mutt Road at Mylapore caved in on Saturday because of weakening of sewer line. Residents of Mylapore and Mandaveli said this was the second case of the road cave-in in the area where vehicular traffic was hit. C.R. Balaji of Mandaveli said this part of the road collapsed regularly every monsoon because of old sewer pipeline that carried sewage in Mylapore and Mandaveli. “It often affects traffic. Only temporary solution is found every time the road collapses. We need a permanent solution to replace the entire pipeline with larger capacity.” Officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) said the sewer line had carried more than its capacity during November rain. On Saturday, another stretch of road collapsed, about 40 to 50 metres away from the previous cave-in site. The top portion of the old pipeline had developed cracks and caused the cave-in. “We will complete the work to replace the lines for a length of 5 to 10 metres by Saturday night. Work would be completed within a day if the pipeline is in shallow depth,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/portion-of-road-caves-in/article37989177.ece
19 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister congratulates chairperson of The Hindu Publishing Group||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday congratulated the chairperson of The Hindu Publishing Group, Malini Parthasarathy, for being named by the Columbia Journalism School as one of the recipients of its alumni award for 2022. In a social media post, Mr. Stalin said: “I’m delighted to learn that @MaliniP the chairperson of The Hindu Group, who has created a niche for herself in the history of Indian journalism, has been granted the highest award of @columbiajourn. Congratulations to her for being a role model to all journalists.” In her reply, Dr. Parthasarathy tweeted: “Deeply grateful to receive these kind and inspirational words from Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Thiru @mkstalin on the @columbiajourn award for journalism. I will certainly do my best to uphold the highest values of journalism as I go forward. Thanks again, CM @mkstalin.” Information Minister M.P. Saminathan in his congratulatory message said Dr. Parthasarathy had interviewed international leaders and had published editorials and news reports with neutrality and courage that is synonymous with The Hindu ,  and has established herself as a world-class journalist. He wished she would continue to serve the people by leading The Hindu and remaining neutral and courageous. By awarding her, the Columbia Journalism School has added to its pride, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-congratulates-chairperson-of-the-hindu-publishing-group/article37989197.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Goods train derails near Arakkonam||A wagon of a goods train derailed near Mosur on Arakkonam-Chennai line early on Saturday. The goods train started from Thirunindravur towards Renigunta in the morning. The 22nd wagon of the train derailed around 5.45 a.m. The loco pilot stopped the train and the crew alerted the Arakkonam railway station. Railway staff and police personnel rushed to the spot and began the restoration work. Services of express trains were not affected while suburban trains between Tiruvallur and Arakkonam were delayed. Later, the suburban trains were operated on the alternative line. “One wagon of a goods train derailed but trains on Chennai-Tiruvallur-Arakkonam line were not affected,” said an official from the Southern Railway. Normal traffic was restored after 8.40 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goods-train-derails-near-arakkonam/article37989587.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks mandatory COVID-19 testing for all international travellers||The Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has requested the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to issue guidelines to bring in mandatory post-arrival testing for COVID-19 for all international passengers and a compulsory seven-day home/institutional quarantine for those testing negative, followed by a re-test on the eighth day of arrival. In a letter to the Union Health Secretary, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, sought guidelines for additional surveillance of all international passengers arriving in the State similar to those arriving from countries at risk. He sought the Ministry to issue the following guidelines: all international passengers arriving in Tamil Nadu should undergo mandatory post-arriving testing. If found positive, they would be treated as per existing protocol. They should be allowed to leave the airport or take a transit flight only if their test result is negative. All passengers who tested negative should be advised to undergo home/institutional quarantine compulsorily for seven days and re-tested again on the eighth day of arrival. If they tested positive, they would be treated as per existing protocol. If negative, they may be advised to self-monitor their health for a further period of seven days. Stating the reasons to seek these guidelines, the director said that additional surveillance for international travellers was followed in Tamil Nadu from December 1 in all four international airports and three seaports. As of December 17, 12,767 passengers from countries at risk and 2,101 passengers from “not-at-risk countries” were tested. Of those from countries at risk, 22 turned out to be positive for COVID-19 on the day of arrival and 13 turned out to be positive on the eighth day. Among travellers from “not at-risk countries”, seven persons turned out to be positive for COVID-19 on arrival and 12 tested positive on the eighth day re-testing. Sixteen contacts also tested positive, the DPH said. All 70 samples were sent for whole genomic sequencing. One person who returned from Nigeria, a not-at-risk country, was positive for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. Seven more persons from not-at-risk countries — Turkey, Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Nigeria, Dubai — and four persons from the United Kingdom, a country at risk, had S-gene dropout. In addition, 16 contacts of four persons with COVID-19 who had travelled from not-at-risk countries also turned out to be positive with S-gene drop when the samples were tested. Out of the 28 persons whose samples were identified with S-gene drop, only four were from countries at risk. The remaining 24 were from not-at-risk countries. Highly contagious In fact, all positive contacts of persons with S-gene drop in their samples and the confirmed case of Omicron variant turned positive within 48 hours, thereby indicating the possibility of short incubation period. The exposure period of the positive contacts was as low as two hours, thereby indicating that it was highly contagious and rapidly transmissible. As per current guidelines, only 11 countries along with European countries, including the U.K., were declared as countries “at risk” and additional surveillance protocol was followed for passengers from these countries. No additional surveillance protocol was being followed for passengers from not-at-risk countries. Only 2% travellers from not-at-risk countries were being randomly tested with RT-PCR and permitted to leave the airport even before the results were declared.  Only 2% travellers from not at-risk countries were being randomly subjected to RT-PCR tests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-seeks-mandatory-covid-19-testing-for-all-international-travellers/article37989186.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 613 new COVID-19 cases; vaccinations cross 8 cr.||With Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 cases falling marginally to 613 on Saturday, Virudhunagar had no fresh case and 21 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. At the end of the 15th mega vaccination camp, during which 19,07,009 persons were inoculated, Tamil Nadu’s first dose coverage reached 84.26%, while the second dose coverage was 54.73%. With this, the total number of persons vaccinated in government and private centres in the State crossed eight crore, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said in a press release. Of the 19,07,009 persons, 6,21,942 received the first dose and 12,85,067 received the second dose of the vaccine.  Chennai reported 125 new COVID-19 cases, pushing its overall tally to 5,60,200. A total of 101 persons tested positive for the infection in Coimbatore, while there were 46 cases each in Chengalpattu and Erode. There were 44 cases in Tiruppur, 39 cases in Namakkal and 36 in Salem. Ariyalur, Pudukottai, Ranipet, Theni and Tiruvarur reported a single case each. A total of 27,39,196 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the State so far. Another nine persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,676. While there were no COVID-19 deaths in 31 districts, Chennai and Tiruppur had two deaths each, and there was one fatality each in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Erode, Nagapattinam and Vellore. As many as 665 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total recoveries to 26,95,174. The active caseload dropped to 7,346. While Chennai had the most number of active cases at 1,336, Theni had the least at eight. A total of 1,00,175 samples were tested. So far, 5,61,13,455 samples were tested in the State. A private laboratory — Kanyakumari Medical Mission, CSI Hospital, Kanniyakumari, was approved for COVID-19 testing. Presently, there were a total of 317 testing facilities - 69 government and 248 private laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-613-new-covid-19-cases-vaccinations-cross-8-cr/article37989188.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM visits vaccination camp||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday visited a primary health centre at Nandivaram in Chengalpattu district and reviewed the arrangements that had been made for the COVID-19 vaccination camp. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu, Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises T.M. Anbarasan and Health Minister Ma. Subramanian accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-visits-vaccination-camp/article37989171.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CM to take a call on New Year celebrations in temples’||The Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu on Saturday said that in the light of the new COVID-19 variant Omicron, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will take a decision regarding New Year celebrations in temples. “Though COVID-19 cases are coming down in the State, this new threat has come. Mr. Stalin will convene a meeting of experts and health department officials, and take a call on whether to permit devotees for the celebrations,” he said. Many temples conduct special pujas from early morning on New Year day as lakhs of devotees visit them. Authorities in some large temples were saying that even for Pradhosham pujas, they were unable to control the crowds. ‘To be displaced’ Mr. Sekarbabu, who inspected the Vedapureeswarar Temple in Thirukazhukundram said an electric tower near the temple will be moved elsewhere to facilitate the movement of eagles, which feed on offerings. “Devotees say that the electric tower is impeding birds’ movement. We will request the Tangedco to move it.” he told reporters. He said that steps were being taken to install a rope car to take devotees to the hilltop. Mr. Sekarbabu said the people of the State were happy with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-take-a-call-on-new-year-celebrations-in-temples/article37989201.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Start-ups will drive business transformation’||Innovations led by start-ups in clean energy and emerging technologies would support the transformation of Indian businesses and create a road map towards sustainable development, said Chintan Vaishnav, Mission Director, Atal Innovation Mission. Delivering his keynote address during a session on start-ups, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), as part of the CII Virtual Factory and Plant Expo, he said start-ups can be an effective collaborative partner towards creating a new future for the manufacturing sector. S. Sudhakar, chairman of MSME Sub-Committee, CII Southern Region and Managing Director, Turbo Engineers (CBE), said India ranked third in the world in the start-up ecosystem with over 70 unicorn companies. Lakshmi Santhanam, co-founder of Renkube Pvt Ltd, said India had a huge potential for generating solar energy as it had indigenous technology and an enabling policy framework. Vinit Kulkarni, co-founder, Greenovative, spoke about the need for energy-saving measures in industries. He said reliable technologies were available now to capture data in real time and perform analysis for effective energy management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-ups-will-drive-business-transformation/article37989205.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth’s message to ailing fan wins hearts||A video message of actor Rajinikanth wishing his ailing fan a speedy recovery was shared widely on social media on Saturday and has won several hearts. In the short video, the actor is seen addressing his fan Sowmya and reassuring her that she will get well soon. “I apologise for not being able to come and see you given the COVID-19 situation. I am also not feeling well,” the actor said. Asking her to not to worry and to be brave, Mr. Rajinikanth also said that he will pray for her speedy recovery. Ms. Sowmya has been hospitalised in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinikanths-message-to-ailing-fan-wins-hearts/article37989154.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Display contact details of officials outside shops’||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Food Safety Commissioner to ensure that WhatsApp complaint numbers, phone numbers and e-mail IDs of the officials concerned were displayed prominently outside every restaurant, eatery, provision store and other establishments dealing with food items. Justice S.M. Subramaniam ordered that time limits should be prescribed for officials to take action against complaints received from the consumers and they must be instructed to initiate prosecution against the offenders. Officers who fail to take prompt action on the complaints must be subjected to disciplinary proceedings. The Commissioner was also directed to create awareness among the people through the print and visual media regarding the ill consequences of consuming adulterated food and their right to lodge complaints with the food safety officials. The directions were issued while rejecting a plea made by a dhania (coriander) trader. ‘No mechanism’ The trader had approached the court against action initiated against him for selling adulterated dhania, which was found to contain chemicals above the prescribed limits. Shocked over adulteration in an essential ingredient of Indian cuisine, the judge called for data regarding prosecution initiated for food adulteration. He found that the officials only make random inspection, and there was no mechanism in place for consumers to access phone numbers of officers and lodge complaints immediately. Therefore, he ordered that the complaint mechanism should be made effective and promoted widely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/display-contact-details-of-officials-outside-shops/article37989549.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Masked men assault family, loot house near Arakkonam||Masked men attacked residents of a house in a village near Arakkonam and took away 25 sovereigns of gold jewellery and cash in the early hours of Saturday. Four persons, including three women, who were injured in the attack, have been admitted to a hospital. The police said that masked men knocked on the door of the house on the outskirts of Kannigapuram near Arakkonam. Pushkaran, son of the house owner Gopi, answered the door assuming it to be their relative. On seeing the masked men carrying a knife and a gun, Mr. Pushkaran tried to bolt the door. The suspects shot at Mr. Pushkaran with an airgun. His mother Sudha, 55, aunt Latha, 57, and grandmother Ranjithaammal woke up and shouted for help. Mr. Pushkaran fell unconscious after the assailants hit him on the head. They took away jewellery, Rs. 60,000 in cash and three mobile phones. They sprayed chilli powder before fleeing the spot. Deputy Superintendent of Police S. Pugalenthi Ganesh conducted preliminary inquiry. Ranipet Superintendent of Police Deepa Sathyan said: “Preliminary investigation suggested two persons were involved. Three teams have been constituted to trace the suspects. We are analysing call records of the suspects and CCTV footage. Modus operandi in similar offences is being analysed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masked-men-assault-family-loot-house/article37989204.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Awards distributed to 13 alumni of Alagappa College of Technology||Governor R. N. Ravi on Saturday distributed awards to 13 eminent alumni of the Alagappa College of Technology as part of its 77th anniversary celebrations. The award-winners for the year 2020 included M.S. Ananth of 1967 batch, K.P. Mohandas Rao (1957), N. Shankar (1965), J. Venkat Rao (1970), M. M. Murugappan (1976) and Jonnalagadda Raghava Rao (1984). The award-winners for 2021 included Ram Shankar Subramanian (1968), Arun Bijur (1969), Sukumar Devotta (1971), Y. Gee. Mahendra (1971), Rangarajan Srinivasagopalan (1979), Krishnaswamy Ramajayam Ilanghovan (1984) and Venkatasamy Raja Sreenivasan (1984). The two-day event will include discussions on the roadmap to excellence by the award-winners and industrialists followed by seminar and panel discussions by expert entrepreneurs. Governor R.N. Ravi urged the alumni to contribute towards achievement of the goals set by visionary leaders in the country. The Governor stressed the need for better contribution by the institutions of excellence in technology to achieve the goal and transform the country by 2047. Anna University Vice-Chancellor R. Velraj said the founders of the great institution understood that education was the key for societal transformation in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awards-distributed-to-13-alumni-of-alagappa-college-of-technology/article37989200.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure fair working, living conditions of workers, Ramadoss urges govt.||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday urged the State government to constitute multi-departmental monitoring committees to ensure that employees working in factories and commercial establishments are paid fair salary and their dignity is protected in hostels with basic amenities and nutritious meals. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss referred to a case of distribution of sub-standard food to employees of Foxconn at Sunguvarchathiram in Kancheepuram district and the eventual road block staged by several hundred women, which was called off later on. Sub-standard food Contending that sub-standard food, lack of basic amenities in the hostels they were staying for several years and unspoken hardships had pushed these women to stage a protest, he said if their grievances were not resolved another protest by them was inevitable. Hostels in other factories in the State too were in the same condition, the PMK leader claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-fair-working-conditions-of-workers-ramadoss/article37989310.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schoolgirl found dead||The body of 17-year-old girl was found at her home in Mangadu on Saturday. According to police, the girl was studying in a government school in Poonamallee. When her parents had gone out on Saturday morning, she was alone at home. When there was no response after knocking on the door, they broke open the door and found her dead. The police said she had committed suicide. The body was sent for post-mortem to Government Kilpauk Hospital. The police registered a case for unnatural death and recovered suicide notes calling to stop the sexual harassment. The note blamed a relative and a teacher. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpling 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schoolgirl-found-dead/article37989182.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNGEA holds conference||The Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association held its 14th edition of State-level conference at Madhavaram on Saturday. The association members urged the government to scrap the new pension scheme and regularise noon meal and anganwadi staff, village assistants, and rural librarians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tngea-holds-conference/article37989183.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trio arrested for running racket offering govt. jobs||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the Greater Chennai police has arrested three persons, including a woman, for allegedly cheating many job aspirants after collecting money from them with the promise of jobs in Coast Guard and other government establishments. The police said K. Somasundram, 29, of Madhavaram received a WhatsApp message from Rajesh Raguram that he was conducting a “ship simulation course” with an offer of a placement in the Coast Guard. Trusting him, Mr. Somasundram paid Rs. 5.50 lakh last year to Rajesh Raguram’s associate Sorna Senthil for getting an appointment order from Hemalatha supposed to be an official of the Coast Guard. Mr. Somasundaram soon realised that he was given a fake appointment order and lodged a complaint with the police. The Job Racket Wing of the CCB took up investigation. N. Hemalatha, 48, of Vadapalani, Sorna Senthil, 34 of Navalur and Rajesh Raguram, 40, of Ottiyampakkam were arrested. Investigation revealed that they had allegedly cheated over 200 job aspirants and collected Rs. 5 crore from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-arrested-job-racket-unearthed/article37989179.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Professor held for sexual harassment||The city police have arrested a college professor on charges of sexually harassing students. The police action followed a protest by students on the campus demanding his arrest. The police identified the accused as Abraham Alex, 53, a professor at an arts and science college at Jalladianpet where he taught hotel management. For the last two years, he had been sexually harassing the girls by sending obscene messages. Recently, he allegedly groped a girl on the campus and molested three others. Even after the crime was reported to the management, action had not been taken against him, said the students who staged a protest on Friday. The girls called the police control room and the helpline for women. Later, the police reached the spot and conducted an inquiry. A senior officer said: “One of the victims gave a written complaint and three others followed suit. Based on their complaints, the Pallikaranai police registered a case and arrested the accused.” Abraham Alex has been booked under Section 354 A(Sexual Harassment) 1 (ii) (Demand or request for sexual favours) and a provision of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-professor-arrested-for-sexual-harassment-of-students/article37989178.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM to open 11 new medical colleges in Jan.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will take part in the inauguration of 11 new government medical colleges in the State on January 12, 2022, according to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. The Minister said there were a total of 1,450 MBBS seats that were approved in the 11 new government medical colleges. He told reporters that online applications for admission to MBBS and BDS seats would be received from students at 10 a.m. Sunday. There were a total of 6,958 MBBS seats in government and private colleges and 1,925 BDS seats in government and self-financing colleges. The State had 37 government medical colleges, he said. Giving an update on surveillance of Omicron, the Minister said the number of samples in which S-gene dropout was found has increased from 28 to 33. Instructions were issued to follow 69% reservation rule in the appointment of new nurses and health inspectors, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-to-open-11-new-medical-colleges-in-jan/article37989189.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rumour over health of workers sparks protest||A section of women workers at Foxconn’s plant in Sriperumbur staged a protest from Friday midnight concerned about the whereabouts of their colleagues who were convalescing in hospital because of food poisoning. The protesters alleged that the management did not give them correct update about the status of those admitted in hospital. Minister of Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan and Minister for MSME T.M. Anbarasan held talks with the protesters and assured them of necessary action, after which the protest was called off. Kancheepuram Collector M. Aarthi told reporters that the protest was held due to a rumour spread through WhatsApp that two workers had died. The protest affected traffic on the busy Chennai-Bengaluru National Highway on Saturday morning. According to an official release from Tiruvallur Collector Alby John, there was an outbreak of acute diarrhoeal disease (ADD) among the Foxconn employees staying in the International Maritime Academy at Pudhuchathiram village, Poonamalle Block, Tiruvallur district, after they had hostel food on December 15. As many as 256 people were treated as out patients (OP) and later 159 of them were admitted in the hospital. There were no deaths. Of the 159 patients, 155 were discharged on Saturday. Four patients were responding well to the treatment and were out of danger, the release said. Meanwhile, Ms. Aarthi arranged for a video call between the protesters and two of the workers who were in hospital to scotch rumours about the situation. Later, the protest was called off. She said a case had been booked against the hostel warden in Tiruvallur district and the administration had formed a team to investigate the issue. Ms. Aarthi said a team would be formed to check the food and whether basic infrastructure had been provided as per the norms in dormitories in the Kancheepuram district. Although it was announced that the protest had been called off, a few workers protested near Oragadam in the evening and were picked up by the police. Foxconn makes Apple iPhones and Amazon Firestick among other products in its factory near Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rumour-over-health-of-workers-sparks-protest/article37989174.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Radhakrishnan gets SKOCH award||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Saturday received the SKOCH Public Service Award for Disaster Management and Mitigation in New Delhi. The award was presented to him for handling the aftermath of Kumbakonam fire tragedy, tsunami relief and rehabilitation in Nagapattinam district in 2004 to handling the COVID-19 pandemic, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/radhakrishnan-gets-skoch-award/article37989170.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to unveil statue of Anbazhagan||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will unveil the statue of the late DMK leader K. Anbazhagan on Sunday to mark the birth centenary of the former Minister. The Integrated Complex for Finance Department on Anna Salai in Nandanam will be named after K. Anbazhagan. The Chief Minister will hand over royalties for his books, which have been nationalised, to the former Minister’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-unveil-statue-of-anbazhagan/article37989172.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals witness more children with dengue, related symptoms||The government and private hospitals in Coimbatore district are witnessing an increase in the inflow of children with dengue and related symptoms. On December 2, a seven-and-half-year-old boy from Periya Negamam in Coimbatore district had died of dengue. While sources with the government and private hospitals said there was an increase in the number of such cases, the Health Department claimed there was no significant rise in paediatric cases compared to 2020. A senior doctor from the Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, said the hospital was getting both paediatric and adult cases of dengue. “Children with dengue whose platelet count drops below 50,000 per microlitre of blood are immediately referred to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for advanced care,” the doctor said. In normal cases, the platelet count ranges between 1.5 lakh and 4.5 lakh per microlitre of blood. The hospital was also getting cases of co-infections of dengue and typhoid. A doctor attached to a private hospital in the city said the number of children being brought for treatment with dengue-related symptoms increased in the last two weeks. More than half of them were getting tested positive for dengue. According to the doctor, school-going children were mainly getting infected which pointed to possible breeding of aedes aegypti, the primary vector of dengue virus, on the premises of schools. “Children spend most of their time in a day at schools and aedes aegypti is a day-biter,” said the doctor. CMCH had witnessed an increase in the number of paediatric cases a week ago. The hospital’s Dean A. Nirmala said it had 13 adults and 11 children undergoing treatment for dengue as of Saturday. According to K.T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, there was no significant increase in paediatric cases of dengue in the western districts this year compared to 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-witness-more-children-with-dengue-related-symptoms/article37989222.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DGP receives 843 petitions from police personnel||A total of 843 petitions were received at the grievances redress meeting held for police personnel under the ‘Ungal Thuraiyil Muthalamaichar’ (Chief Minister in your department) programme here on Saturday. Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu received the petitions from police personnel working in the police districts in the west zone, police city commissionerates of Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Salem at the meeting held on the Police Recruits School campus. A release said 1,340 petitions were received from police personnel and office staff at the office of the DGP between July and November this year. Of the 1,058 mercy petitions received, punishments given to 366 petitioners were revoked and 51 personnel were reinstated into the service. Punishment of 164 petitioners were commuted. A total of 1,353 police personnel were given transfers to the districts of their choice, it said. It said those police personnel, whose grievances were not redressed by the DGP, would present their petitions to the Chief Minister in person. Across the State, a total of 5,236 petitions from police personnel from 38 police districts and seven commissionerates were received under the ‘Ungal Thuraiyil Muthalamaichar’ programme, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-receives-843-petitions-from-police-personnel/article37989221.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Naval ship models displayed at INS Agrani||The Navy Children School (NCS), Coimbatore, in partnership with Indian Navy’s training establishment INS Agrani, Coimbatore, displayed models of naval ships at the swimming pool of INS Agrani on Friday as part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations under the Navy Week and Aazadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. The NCS students demonstrated remote controlled sailing operations of models of INS Veer, INS Pralaya (India) and Admiral Nakhimov (Russia) which were made by NCS teacher Amalnathan. The students performed different manoeuvres of the real ships using remote controls at the event that had Commodore Ashok Rai, Commanding Officer of INS Agrani, as the chief guest. Commodore Rai, also the Chairman NCS, Coimbatore, highlighted the contribution of the Indian Navy undertaken on the Western Seaboard and the Eastern Seaboard during the 1971 Indo-Pak War and its stellar role in safeguarding India’s national and maritime interests over the years, said a release. He cited the recent example of Operation Samudra Seth-II wherein the Indian Naval ships assisted the government in its fight against COVID-19 by transporting large amounts of medical grade oxygen and other medical equipment from various countries of the Indian Ocean Region to Indian ports using its ships during 2021, it said. Commodore Rai also answered questions asked by students and NCC cadets. Personnel from the INS Agrani, teachers and students of NCS; the Air Force School, Coimbatore; Army and Air Force NCC cadets took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naval-ship-models-displayed-at-ins-agrani/article37989228.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Work to improve basic amenities in city will begin by month end’||Coimbatore Corporation would start the work to improve basic amenities in the city by this month end, Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji said here at a programme organised on Saturday to mark the culmination of the second edition of Ukkadam Art District. The Corporation in association with St+art, Asian Paints, RAAC, CREDAI and a few others had started the Ukkadam Art District project to paint murals. In November, four murals were painted and this month five more added. When Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was in Coimbatore recently, he had announced commencement of work worth Rs. 200 crore. The Corporation was in the process of finalising tender for 281 works and by this month end, it would start the work that included laying roads, installing street lights and constructing drains. In Ukkadam, Ward 86, alone the Corporation would undertake work worth Rs. 15 crore, he told the residents. Mr. Senthilbalaji said one of the criticisms that the AIADMK had levelled against the Corporation was cancellation of works that were started in the previous regime. It was wrong. In fact, the AIADMK government had started works for which even tenders were not floated. As for the murals that were painted in the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board tenement in Ukkadam, he said it was a welcome move. He would speak to the Chief Minister to paint more murals in the city, at flyovers, government buildings and other places. A release from St+art said artists from across the country were here to paint murals depicting everyday life of the residents in Ukkadam. As part of the project, Coimbatore Corporation and St+art had organised competitions for children in Ukkadam. A release from the Corporation said the Minister distributed prizes to the children who won prizes in the competition and inaugurated a special cleaning drive involving 100 workers at 20 each a zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-improve-basic-amenities-in-city-will-begin-by-month-end/article37989213.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Used syringes, vials found at Nehru Stadium in Coimbatore||Used syringes and vials of drugs were found in some of the rest rooms of Coimbatore Nehru Stadium on Saturday, a day after the 61st State police inter-zonal athletic meet concluded. The stadium was the venue of the three-day inter-zonal athletic meet of the police that concluded on Friday and in which more than 400 athletes took part. The police have denied the role of participants of the athletic meet in connection with the incident. Several used syringes and vials that were discarded in a few rest rooms inside the stadium came to the attention on Saturday. A police officer said that the stadium was not in the control of the police, implying that anyone could discard such items on the stadium premises. District Sports Officer R.P. Ravichandran was not available for a comment on the issue despite several attempts to reach him over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/used-syringes-vials-found-at-nehru-stadium/article37989211.ece
19 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Action against Thangamani as per DMK’s manifesto, says Senthilbalaji||The DVAC searches at the house and properties associated with former AIADMK Minister P. Thangamani were as per the promise the DMK made in its manifesto, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji said here on Saturday. “The party [DMK] had promised in its manifesto for the 2021 Assembly election that it will go after those ministers who indulged in corruption. The search is in fulfilment of the promise,” he replied while responding to a question if he was the reason for the raid on Mr. Thangamani’s properties. The raids were conducted to unearth the reasons for the disappearance of 5.38 lakh tonne of coal, including 3 lakh tonne in Thoothukudi and his investment in cryptocurrencies. “Mr. Thangamani is perhaps the first person to face scrutiny for his investment in cryptocurrencies using money obtained by looting the exchequer,” Mr. Senthilbalaji said. In response to a question on the comments made during the AIADMK protest in the city on Friday, he responded that the party’s leaders made those comments out of frustration after having lost power. They, as politicians seeking votes from the public, should be mindful of what they speak in public and refrain from either threatening or disrespecting officials. “If the AIADMK leaders continue to insult officials or threaten the police, the DMK government will not only observe from the sidelines but will initiate legal action,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-thangamani-as-per-dmks-manifesto-says-senthilbalaji/article37989194.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant Rohini shifted from ATR to Tiruchi||Rohini, a captive elephant that was attached to the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) following a court intervention in 2018, is the new inmate of the Elephant Rehabilitation and Rescue Centre (ERRC), Tiruchi. A truck carrying the elephant, aged around 25, left the Kozhikamuthy elephant camp of ATR late on Saturday after the Chief Wildlife Warden issued instructions for its shifting. According to officials with the Forest Department, the elephant could not get accustomed to the weather and the routines at Kozhikamuthy camp as it was in the custody of a private person from Virudhunagar district for several years before being handed over to the ATR authorities in December 2018. It was also not trained to forage in the wild unlike the other camp elephants at Kozhikamuthy. The camp elephants at Kozhikamuthy are given balls made of steamed ragi in the morning and evening. They are allowed to forage in the open area around the camp rest of the time. However, Rohini did not get accustomed to the routine and had considerable weight loss. It often had diarrhoea. A team of experts including veterinarians were tasked to assess the condition of the elephant and suggest a solution. The experts opined that a change of location could improve the health of the elephant, based on which the Chief Wildlife Warden issued an order to transfer the animal to ERRC at M.R. Palayam in Tiruchi, said ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian. Deputy Field Director of ATR M.G. Ganesan, Forest Veterinary Officer A. Sukumar and Ulandy Forest Range Officer A. Kasilingam oversaw the shifting of the elephant following standard operating procedure and norms of the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephants (Management and Maintenance) Rules, 2011. According to the Forest Department, a native of Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district had purchased the elephant in 2001 to be offered to a temple. However, the man kept the elephant in his custody till 2003 and sold it to another person. The second owner approached the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in November 2018, seeking permission to keep the elephant with him. However, the court ordered the owner to hand it over to the Forest Department, following which it was attached to Kozhikamuthy camp in December 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-rohini-shifted-from-atr-to-tiruchi/article37989226.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Chamber seeks waiver of MD charges for lockdown period||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has appealed to Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji to consider waiver of Maximum Demand (MD) charges for High Tension electricity consumers for the lockdown period. In a memorandum submitted to the Minister at a meeting held at the Chamber on Friday, its president C. Balasubramanian said industries, especially the High Tension electricity consumers were affected badly due to lockdown last year. Several States, including Gujarat, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh, had waived the MD charges for HT consumers for this period. Tamil Nadu was the most important State with a high number of industries. Hence, the government should consider waiver of MD charges for these units for the lockdown period. The State government had announced that registration fee would be reduced to 0 % for agreements of micro and small enterprises and to further easy access to formal credit, the government would amend the Registration Act 1908 to permit online registration agreement relating to Memorandum of Deposit of Title Deeds for availing of term and working capital loan. The necessary government order should be issued at the earliest for this, it said. For availing of bank loans, the MD charges for registration was reduced to Rs. 5,000 till December end. This should be retained at Rs. 5,000 permanently, the Chamber said. It also sought introduction of single window clearance for sanction of building approvals. This system should be adopted by Director of Town and Country Planning, Local Planning Authority, Corporation, and Housing Department. Further, at present the building completion certificate was taking time as applications were kept pending even for minor deviations. The certificate should be issued if there were no deviations in height of the building, parking area, Floor Space Index and setback.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-seeks-waiver-of-md-charges-for-lockdown-period/article37989225.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Works to demolish damaged school buildings begin||The Department of School Education has commenced works to identify damaged buildings in government and aided schools in Coimbatore district for demolition to ensure the safety of students. Officials said Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha chaired a meeting with the District and Block Educational Officers, Block Resource Teacher Educators and engineers from the Public Works Department on Saturday regarding the status of damaged buildings in the government and aided schools in the district. Following inspections, the number of buildings to be demolished is expected to be finalised by Monday, according to the officials. In Tiruppur, Collector S. Vineeth chaired a meeting on Friday with officials from the School Education Department on the damaged buildings in panchayat union primary and middle schools and government high and higher secondary schools in the district. He advised demolition of the damaged buildings through the Public Works Department and the district administration, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/works-to-demolish-damaged-school-buildings-begin/article37989218.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs strike tomorrow||Over 95 % of the MSMEs in Coimbatore district are expected to take part in the one-day strike on December 20 announced by the All India Council of Association of MSMEs. M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (CODISSIA), said several large units here had extended their support and their vendors were expected to take part in the strike. About 70 associations, representing MSME traders and industries, had said their members would take part. Of the one lakh or so MSMEs in the district, over 95 % were likely to participate in the strike, he said. The unit owners and traders would also stage a demonstration in front of the south taluk office on Monday. A release from the All India Council said MSMEs were the backbone of the economy, contributing about 30 % of GDP and 48% of exports. The All India strike and protest was to demand measures by the Union government to control raw material prices. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said all the micro units, numbering nearly 30,000 in Coimbatore district, would shutdown on Monday. “We have put posters and distributed pamphlets about the strike and the response is high as the units are feeling the impact of high raw material prices,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-95-of-msmes-to-participate-in-strike-tomorrow/article37989214.ece
19 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Inspection at Aavin offices||A team of officers reviewed the marketing receipts at the Tamil Nau Co-operative Milk Producers’ Federation (Aavin) here on Friday and Saturday. An official said there were dues to the tune of Rs. 60 lakh to be collected. A three-member team had inspected the offices of Aavin at Pachapalayam and R.S. Puram. M. Sathyaseelan, Deputy Superintendent of Police/Assistant General Manager (Vigilance), Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited, said a routine visit was conducted at the Aavin offices here on Friday. He said the visit was not based on any complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspection-at-aavin-offices/article37989215.ece
19 December 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects safety measures in school||District Collector S. Divyadarshini visited Avvaiyar Government Girls Higher Secondary School and inspected the safety of the structures. The Collector advised authorities to destroy structures which are not in use on a holiday without causing inconvenience to the students. Ms. Divyadarshini said that the Education Department have been asked to provide details of unused structures at government schools, aided schools and private schools through education department. She said that the details of structures to be repaired are being collected and repair works are being done through various departments. An inter-departmental team, including rural development, revenue, public works, municipal administration, water distribution officials would be set up to conduct inspections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-safety-measures-in-school/article37989302.ece
19 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Students show the way to protect forest and its resources||With an aim to create awareness on protection of forest and its resources, students of Panchayat Union Middle School at Nadagoundampalayam in Modakkurichi Taluk echoed the problems faced by wild animals by dressing up like different animals, on Saturday. The students from the Government Higher Secondary School in Lakkapuram dressed up as elephant, tiger, snake, bear, rabbit, monkey and other animals, to highlight the problems faced by animals in forests. A boy, dressed up as an elephant said that, apart from natural deaths, elephants died due to electrocution, train hits and poisoning in the country. He said that railway tracks and roads are laid through forest areas disrupting their movement causing accidents resulting in their death. “Humans influences on forests are very high and we were forced to enter habitations”, the boy said. Another boy, dressed as a snake, questions farmers for killing them even though snakes protect crops from rats and other small animals. All the performers highlighted the need to protect the forest, its resources including trees, plants and animals, so that the benefit ultimately reaches the humans. They pleaded with humans not to disturb nature and instead take coordinated steps to protect it. Students were trained and costumes sponsored by N. Sivakumar, drawing teacher at the school in Lakkapuram. “My aim is to create awareness among students and the public on protecting the forest”, he added. S. Bhuvana, headmistress, Thomas Antony, teacher and coordinator for the event were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-show-the-way-to-protect-forest-and-its-resources/article37989301.ece
19 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode Railway Hospital gets award for energy conservation||The Railway Hospital in Erode was presented with a Certificate of Merit by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency for their efforts in energy conservation in the hospitals sector for the year 2021. A release from Salem Railway Division said that the country observes National Energy Conservation Day on December 14 every year to create awareness on the importance of energy conservation and stresses on avoiding unnecessary use of energy and using least energy possible in an efficient manner. The Ministry of Power observed Energy Conservation Week from December 8 to 14 and celebrated the day by presenting the National Energy Conservation Awards and National Energy Efficiency Innovation Awards to various organisations for their efforts in conserving energy and innovative ideas and practises. The hospital adopted various measures that resulted in gaining the recognition. Energy efficient LED lights, fans, AC plants, solar water heaters have been provided at the hospital. All the 28 watts lights (258 in total) were replaced by 18 watts LED fittings, 71 CFL lamps were replaced by LED lamps of nine watts and 12 numbers of conventional split AC plants were replaced by energy-efficient inverter AC plants. Also, roof top solar PV panels (grid connected) of 20 kWp were commissioned at the hospital in November 2020. The release said that all these measures brought about a great change in energy consumption levels. While 59,955 units of electricity was consumed by the hospital during 2018-19, the consumption came down to 42,150 units during 2019-20 and to 23,369 units in 2020-21. At a function held in New Delhi, Union Minister of Power and New and Renewable Energy R.K. Singh presented the award that was received by R.K. Mehta, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer, Southern Railway. P.K. Selvan, Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer (General), Salem Division, representing A. Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-railway-hospital-gets-award-for-energy-conservation/article37989299.ece
19 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murdering wife||A 28-year-old man was arrested for allegedly strangling his 24-year-old wife to death and dumping her body in the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. The murder was fallout of a verbal dispute between the couple. The accused Satheesh Kumar, an electrician, took his wife Sumithra, who is four months pregnant, on a two-wheeler from Chennimalai to Ottakulam on December 13. He enacted a drama stating that a snake crossed the road and he lost balance and both fell into the canal with the vehicle. In the impact, she was washed away in the canal and could not be traced, he told the police. The body was retrieved from the canal the next day. However, her father Kandasamy suspected foul play and lodged a complaint with the police. On Friday, Satheesh Kumar surrendered before the Town Village Administrative Officer Sivakumar who handed him over to the police. Satheesh Kumar told the police that he was having an affair with another woman that angered Sumithra leading to frequent disputes. On December 13, while they were moving in their vehicle, he kept receiving calls from the woman that prompted Sumithra to question him. An altercation broke out and Satheesh Kumar assaulted her after which she fell down. The police said that he strangled her to death and dumped the body and the vehicle in the canal. He was produced in a court and lodged at a prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murdering-wife/article37989297.ece
19 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district logs 46 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Saturday reported 46 new cases taking the toll to 1,07,240. While 47 persons were discharged, 576 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, taking the toll in the district to 707. Salem district reported 36 positive cases. According to health officials, 30 cases were indigenous and 18 were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 39 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. 11 indigenous cases were reported in Krishnagiri and three in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-logs-46-new-covid-19-cases/article37989295.ece
19 December 2021||JEELUGUMILLI,TAMIL NADU||Boy who ‘consumed pesticide’ dies in hospital||T. Lakshmanudu (19) of Cheemalavarigudem village in West Godavari district, who reportedly consumed pesticide on Friday, died while undergoing treatment in a hospital at Aswaraopeta in Telangana on Saturday. The boy, a driver, was reportedly upset over his parents chiding him for spending most of the time on his cell phone. The police have registered a case.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-who-consumed-pesticide-dies-in-hospital/article37988757.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tribal youth recall battle against bias||Anjali Bhaskaran had led too marginalised a life that she did not even dare to dream while studying. Yet, she ended up achieving the commendable feat of becoming the first veterinary doctor from her tribal community Paniya. “I didn’t know that I was studying to be a doctor till the second or third year of the course. But now, I love this profession and want to serve my community as a veterinary surgeon,” said Ms. Bhaskaran, a resident of a Paniya colony at Pulpally in Wayanad. She was speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of a gathering of tribal students here on Saturday. She was honoured at the function organised by Adi Shakti Summer School, a collective of Adivasi and Dalit youths under the Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha. Discrimination The journey, though, was not easy for her, neither during her school days nor even after getting a job as a night vet at the veterinary hospital at Pulpally. “I faced severe discrimination at a government school where I studied up to Class VIII. It was after moving to the Model Residential School exclusively for tribal children that I overcome my inhibitions, thanks to the immense support of teachers there,” said Ms. Bhaskaran. She continues to be looked down upon for her tribal background even by those who depend on her service as a vet. “No matter what we achieve, we continue to be judged by our background. That is exactly why I urge tribal youngsters to pursue education, which alone will help them fend off the discrimination just as I do now on the strength of my credentials as a veterinary doctor,” said Ms. Bhaskaran. No parental support C. Manikandan, also from the Paniya community in Wayanad, knows a thing or two about the dignity that education bestows on a tribal youngster. He was the first MBA graduate from the community when he passed out back in 2013. Incidentally, both met at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University at Wayanad where Ms. Bhaskaran did the course and Mr. Manikandan remains a teaching assistant. “There is hardly any dropout among youngsters in my tribal hamlet, and there are many who are doing postgraduation. Absence of parental support and the linguistic barrier because of our indigenous dialects remain the main challenges for the tribal youth in pursuing academics. Even educational institutions in Wayanad with significant tribal population are not tribal-friendly,” he said. Mr. Manikandan is also scathing of the over-politicisation of tribal department offices and the projects being implemented with the sole focus on utilising funds and little thought for self-sufficiency of the tribal community. “Service delivery at these offices is often based on the political affiliation of the people approaching them,” he said. Both have a similar message for their tribal brethren — remain steadfast in pursuing one’s dreams and never give up in the face of even the biggest of discrimination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-youth-recall-battle-against-bias/article37988756.ece
19 December 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||300 kg ganja seized in Krishnagiri dist.||The Denkanikottai police on Saturday seized 300 kg. of ganja worth about Rs. 30 lakh and arrested three persons. According to police, the ganja was being smuggled from Odisha to Tamil Nadu. The arrested were Harish from Chittur in Andhra Pradesh, Lokesh from Thiruvallur and Ayyappa Reddy from Andhra Pradesh. Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi said that stringent measures are being taken in the district to check the sale of ganja. Drugs to six States Mr. Tejaswi said that that the accused has been supplying the drugs to six States and those who were in contact with the accused are being traced. The SP said that those involved in the sale of contraband goods such as banned tobacco goods, ganja would be booked under the Goondas Act. He said that awareness programmes are being conducted in schools and colleges against drugs. Deputy Superintendent of Police of Denkanikottai sub-division J. Kiruthikaa said that the accused have been involved in supplying ganja to Maharashtra, Telengana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-kg-ganja-seized-in-krishnagiri-dist/article37989305.ece
19 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC reprieve for kin of former Minister||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Saturday directed the Virudhunagar police not to summon any family member or relative of former Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji who had not been named in the FIR registered in connection with a cheating case. In a special sitting held on Saturday, Justice G.R. Swaminathan directed the police not to summon the family members till December 20 and sought a counter affidavit in the case. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Lakshmi, sister of Rajenthra Bhalaji. She sought a direction to the Virudhunagar police not to harass the family members or the relatives of the former Minister in the name of inquiry. She complained that the police were harassing the family members. The court took note of the fact that the police on Friday night had picked up three persons including the family members of the former Minister. The State submitted that summons had been issued to the three persons. Since they did not appear, the police secured them for inquiry. The court was told that they were picked up for inquiry at about 9.30 p.m. and then let off on Saturday. The State clarified that the three persons picked up for an inquiry were not arrested. The court adjourned the hearing in the case till December 20. Two cases were filed against the former Minister for allegedly cheating government job aspirants. The Madras High Court on December 17 dismissed Rajenthra Bhalaji’s petitions seeking anticipatory bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reprieve-for-kin-of-ex-minister/article37989282.ece
19 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sub-Court opened at Oddanchatram||Additional courts would be established wherever required in order to reduce pendency of cases and ensure that there was no delay in the justice delivery system, said acting Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Munishwar Nath Bhandari on Saturday. He was speaking at the inauguration of a Sub-Court at Oddanchatram in Dindigul district. He urged the Bar Associations to work together to ensure justice for people. The Sub-Court was a long-pending demand for residents of Oddanchatram. ‘Boon for people’ Law Minister S. Raghupathy said that the government was taking steps to provide the required infrastructure and manpower to the judiciary. The Sub-Court in Oddanchatram was one such example. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani said that the Sub-Court was a boon to the people of Oddanchatram who otherwise had to travel to the Sub-Court in Palani Collector S. Visakan said that the Dindigul district administration was committed to providing required infrastructure to the judiciary. Principal District Judge M.Jamuna welcomed the gathering and Chief Judicial Magistrate J. Mohana proposed the vote of thanks. In HC Bench The acting Chief Justice will be sitting in Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on December 20 and 21. A Division Bench of the acting Chief Justice and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana will hear public interest litigation petitions and writ appeals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sub-court-opened-at-oddanchatram/article37989293.ece
19 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Margazhiyil Makkalisai’ music concert, a crowd-puller||The Margazhi season was significant to Tamils. All kinds of music, be it bhajans or folk or other forms were on a par with one another. They were all equally important and connected equally with the people, said film director Pa. Ranjith at the ‘Margazhiyil Makkalisai’ music concert. ‘Margazhiyil Makkalisai’ music concert was held for the first time in Madurai on Saturday. The event was well received and saw a large turnout of music lovers. Addressing media persons, Ranjith said the objective of the music concert was to provide a platform to artistes to showcase their talent. When Neelam Cultural Centre conducted the first edition of the music concert in 2020 in Chennai, it was well received and the event was a huge success. But, the people asked as to why the event was held only in Chennai. Following the success of the event in Chennai, we planned to continue the music concert. New talents emerged in the events last year and we decided to take the event to other cities as well. This year the music concert was being held in Madurai, Coimbatore and Chennai, in a bid to take the concept to more cities. The events would focus on identifying the local talents and also to connect the music with the people, he said. Rapper, lyricist and playback singer Arivu briefed the media persons about the schedule of the events at the Margazhiyil Makkalisai music concerts in the three cities. Senior artistes would be felicitated at the music concerts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/margazhiyil-makkalisai-music-concert-a-crowd-puller/article37989482.ece
19 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Call for judicious use of electricity||Explaining that the power tariff varied during 0-24 hours in a day, the TANGEDCO officials urged the consumers to use electricity for filling water in overhead tanks during non-peak hour as the spending reduces and helps save use of power during peak hours, here on Saturday. Members of the Tamil Nadu Electrical Installation Engineers Association organised a sensitisation programme marking the Energy Conservation Day celebration. Speaking at the event, TANGEDCO Chief Engineer S. Uma Devi said that simple aspects which, if followed by domestic consumers, may save close to two crore units of power daily in the country. While constructing dwellings, better designs for ventilation, use of quality paints, among others, would help use of less electricity. Instead of using electricity to fill overhead tanks during peak hour, the consumers can use it in day time (non-peak hour) as it may help save the cost, which varied from time to time during the day. By educating the children to switch off gadgets, when not in use, the power can be saved, which means saving money. In a nutshell, energy conservation would not only avoid unnecessary power generation but also helps to give electricity to the next generation without interruption. Superintending Engineer (Metro) Vennila said that with growing gadgets, majority of the people depended on electricity. Hence, there has been a sharp rise in the demand. While the government has been taking all out efforts to generate power and distribute it, the gap between the demand and supply could only be narrowed down. She said that the consumers should ask for themselves on where to use electricity, when to use and how much to use. In Madurai, during November-December, the power requirement is not peak. However, during February-March, it touched the peak. During the summer, the load curve usage was high between 22.00 and 23.00 hours. Night time management of power was a challenge to the officials. By propagating not to use motors to draw water during peak hours, it would save both the cost and waste of energy. The Centre started use of smart meters in industrial segment. In the next five years or so, the state-of-the-art meters would be there even for domestic users, which would measure multiple components and help improve the power factor, Ms Venilla said. Association president R Kannan welcomed. Technical sessions were addressed by experts and resource persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-judicious-use-of-electricity/article37989480.ece
19 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam on Saturday stood at 141.95 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 903 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.21 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,101 cusecs and a discharge of 1,069 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,112 mcft. Kodaikanal recorded 0.4 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37989290.ece
19 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP makes life miserable for common man: Congress||Criticising the Union government for neglecting the woes of the common man, the cadre of the Congress took out a rally here on Saturday. Led by district president V. Karthikeyan, they said that the BJP government had ruined the lives of the people. At a time when the people were suffering due to the pandemic, the prices of essential goods especially the fuel price had touched a new high. Comparing the fuel prices when the UPA government was in power, he said the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had managed them tactfully. Even though the Congress and other parties suggested concrete ideas to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, they ignored them. As a result, lack of knowledge by those sitting on power had made lives miserable for the people in this country. Vegetable prices were high due to various factors. Farmers were affected due to wrong policies of the Centre. Likewise, the student community and the MSME sector too were struggling hard to cope up due to the bungling in the NEET and non-release of funds to the industry by the Centre, he said. The only group of people who benefited from the BJP was its friends in the corporate house, the Congress functionaries said and added that after taking huge loans, they vanished. To give them more space, the Centre was keen to privatise many PSUs, including banks and the LIC of India in some form or the other. The time had come to teach the BJP a lesson and as told by the AICC leader Rahul Gandhi in Madurai, the beginning of the end had come for the BJP which was forced to take back the controversial three farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-makes-life-miserable-for-common-man-congress/article37989478.ece
19 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo interested to launch air services from Puducherry||The representatives of IndiGo on Friday met Minister for Home A. Namassivayam and Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan in New Delhi to discuss about launching air services from here. Mr Lakshminarayanan, who also holds the Tourism portfolio, said the private carrier was keen to launch services from Puducherry airport. “In fact, they told us that the company was in the process of recruiting ground staff to start operations before the outbreak of novel coronavirus. They stopped the recruitment process due to the pandemic. Now, they will again start the preparations to launch air services,” the Minister told The Hindu . The government had requested the operator to consider starting services to Tirupati, Kannur (in Kerala) and other destinations in the country, he said. On SpiceJet resuming flights to Hyderabad and Bengaluru, the Minister said the government had agreed to continue with the Viability Gap Funding (VGF) under the Centre’s Regional Connectivity Scheme - UDAN. VGF, a monetary assistance given to the airline operator to enable them in successfully operating flights in routes, would be provided for Hyderabad and Bengaluru sectors, the Minister said. For the Hyderabad sector, the financial guarantee would be for 15 seats and for Bengaluru 10 seats. Earlier, for the both the sectors, the assistance was guaranteed for 35 seats, he said. “The airline management is working out plans to resume the services very soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indigo-keen-on-services-from-puducherry/article37989429.ece
19 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No logic in privatisation move: Ramadass||Former Member of Parliament M. Ramadass has urged the Centre to stop the move to privatise the profit-making Puducherry Electricity Department (ED). In a letter to the Union Minister for Power and Renewable Energy Raj Kumar Singh, the economist-turned-politician said there was no “logic in privatising a profit-making and robust enterprise without examining the facts and figures." "A private player is not even an imperfect substitute to a strong department. He may not improve the existing supply of distribution any better. He may resort to a two-way exploitation of consumers and employees by hiking existing tariff under a pretext and by wage cutting and retrenchment. By maximising his profits and filling his coffer, he may proclaim to be more efficient but at a heavy loss of public welfare,” Mr. Ramadass said. ‘Made great strides’ The ED has made great strides in terms of financial efficiency and asset creation. The aggregate profit for three years worked out to be around Rs. 49.18 crore, which goes to the exchequer as non-tax revenue. Perhaps, if the subsidies and supply of free electricity to agriculture are dispensed with, the profit of the ED may be substantially higher and the eventuality of losses may disappear. Over the years, the government has made huge investments to improve power distribution in the Union Territory. The outlay on power increased from Rs. 0.22 crore in 1970-71 to Rs. 11. 58 crore in 1990-91. It increased substantially to Rs. 1736.61 crore in 2020 for 14 major schemes. Besides, the department attracted an additional investment of Rs. 746 crore from Japan International Cooperation Agency. "This sumptuous investment has facilitated the creation of more than required infrastructure for the distribution of electricity. For instance, the length of transmission and distribution lines have grown from 1966 Km in 1970-71 to 6,228 Km in 2020 registering a 3.2-fold increase," he noted. People are entitled to an explanation on the virtues of privatisation of their department. People are even consulted on revision of power tariff but not on denationalisation of their property, he charged. “Electricity is a concurrent subject and hence the views of the State should also be heard before taking a decision. Puducherry is a Union Territory with an elected Assembly and for various purpose it is treated as a State. Should not your Ministry consult the Government of Puducherry before making such a vital pronouncement? A decision applicable to Andaman and Nicobar Islands need not be germane to Puducherry,” Mr Ramadass said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-logic-in-privatisation-move-ramadass/article37989545.ece
19 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry Pradesh Congress stages protest against price rise||The Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) on Saturday took out a ‘padayatra’ as part of the party’s nationwide protest against inflation. Led by the PCC chief A. V Subramanian, party workers took out a protest march from Venkatasubba Reddiar Statue to a point near the Legislative Assembly. Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Member of Parliament and former Chief Minister V. Vaithilingam, former Minister M.O.H.F Shahjahan, former whip R. K. R Anantharaman and party vice-president P.K. Devadoss were among those attended the rally. The party workers shouted slogans against the BJP government at Centre for its failure to control the rise in prices of essential commodities. They also raised slogans against N. R Congress-led National Democratic Alliance government in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-pradesh-congress-stages-protest-against-price-rise/article37989543.ece
19 December 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 17 fresh cases||The Union Territory has registered 17 fresh COVID-19 cases from 1,961 tests in the last 24 hours ending at 10 a.m. on Saturday. Of these, 10 were reported from Karaikal, six from Puducherry and one from Mahe. Currently, there are 171 active cases, of which where 142 patients are under home isolation. The overall toll is 1,879. The tally of cases and recoveries stood at 1,293,09 and 1,272,59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-17-fresh-cases/article37989544.ece
19 December 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||UT records 17 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory has registered 17 fresh COVID-19 cases from 1,961 tests in the last 24 hours ending at 10 a.m. on Saturday. Of these, 10 were reported from Karaikal, six from Puducherry and one from Mahe. Currently, there are 171 active cases, of which where 142 are under home isolation. The overall toll is 1,879. The tally of cases and recoveries stood at 1,293,09 and 1,272,59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-17-new-covid-19-cases/article37989285.ece
19 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Minor fire in school||A minor fire broke out in a panchayat union middle school at Thelichathanallur near Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district on Saturday. A team led by Fire Officer Rajendran rushed to the spot and put out the fire in about 45 minutes. According to the Fire and Rescue Services personnel, about 100 boys and girls are studying in the middle school. The children, teachers and other staff left for home in the evening. Around 5.30 p.m., a villager who spotted fire in one of the rooms of the school alerted the fire station. Footwear meant for distribution to the children and some play equipment were destroyed in the fire. It is suspected that electricity leak might have led to a spark resulting in the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-fire-in-school/article37989281.ece
19 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Local holiday tomorrow||On account of Arudhra darshan at Sri Mangalanatha Swamy Temple in Uthirakosamangai, Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat has announced a local holiday on December 20. In a press release, he said that January 8, 2022 would hence be a working day. However, the treasury and other essential and emergency services would be functioning on local holiday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/local-holiday-tomorrow/article37989288.ece
19 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Dream Yercaud’ project to be implemented soon : Collector||District Collector S. Karmegham said that a special project for the development of Yercaud hill station under the theme ‘Dream Yercaud’ would be implemented here for its development. Mr. Karmegham along with senior officials visited the hill station on Saturday and assessed various development activities. The Collector along with A.Periyasamy, Conservator of Forests, R.Gowtham, District Forest Officer, and other officials trekked to tribal villages Gundur, Thepekadu, Kasikal and Peechikadu and interacted with villagers and inquired about their needs. The officials also visited the Government Residential Primary School and interacted with children at the school. Mr. Karmegham instructed the officials to remove the vendors who had set up shops around Yercaud lake without permission. Officials also reviewed cleaning activities at various parts of Yercaud town. The Collector said that as part of measures to develop the hill station and providing all basic amenities, a scheme ‘Dream Yercaud’ would be implemented. He said that opinion of the local people and officials would be collected as part of the scheme. Mr. Karmegham said that public opined that a winter festival similar to summer festival should be hosted. He said that they have received several suggestions for a ghat road to Yercaud from Danishpet which would provide easy access for tourists from Bengaluru, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri by skipping Salem city. It would be considered, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dream-yercaud-project-to-be-implemented-soon-collector/article37989308.ece
19 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand waiver of farm loans||Farmers staged a protest in front of the district Collectorate here on Saturday demanding complete waiver of farm loans as announced by present and previous regimes. Members of the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam said that the previous AIADMK government waived farm loans taken till March 31 and certificates were being issued from cooperative societies. However, recently, a few societies in Salem and Namakkal has reportedly asked a few farmers to repay the loans citing that due process was not followed for waiving of their loans. The farmers said that all farm loans were waived off when it was announced in 2006 and 2016. On Tuesday, members of the All India Kisan Mahasabha demanded higher compensation from the State and Centre for crop damages due to rain. They demanded the Centre to release the relief funds as requested by State government. The members demanded that Centre should release Rs. 4,025 crore demand by State government. They also demanded compensation of Rs. 30,000 per acre for Kuruvai crop that was ready to harvest and equal compensation for Thaladi and Samba crop damages. The compensation should be provided for farmers who cultivates other crops such as cane, tapioca, banana and others, the farmers said. The protesters demanded compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to families of persons who died following monsoon caused damages and measures to repair farm wells that got affected in monsoon and floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-waiver-of-farm-loans/article37989304.ece
19 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Youth hacked to death||A 26-year-old man was allegedly hacked to death near Mallur during the late hours of Friday. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Thirunavakarasu, a daily wager near Ayothiyapattinam. Police suspect that previous enmity could be the reason for the murder. Thirunavakarasu was chatting with his friend Saravanan at Nazhikalpatti when a gang hacked the duo with sickles. Though they were rushed to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, Thirunavakarasu died without responding to treatment, police said. According to police, Thirunavakarasu and Saravanan were involved in the murder of a youth Dileep Kumar in 2019 Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations. Thirunavakarasu and Saravanan, who were out on bail, were attacked by over 10 persons on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-hacked-to-death/article37989306.ece
19 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Soothsayer and couple held for infant sacrifice in Thanjavur||The Sethubhavachatram police have arrested a soothsayer and a couple on charges of murdering a six-month-old girl at Mallipattinam a few days ago. According to police, the infant was found dead in a plastic container used to stock fish in the backyard of the house of Nasurudeen (32) of Mallipattinam on December 16 morning. The girl child Hajarah was the second child of Nasurudeen and Shaliha (24). Subsequently, the body of Hajarah was buried at the burial ground of Mallipattinam Jamat. However, Shaliha unable to control her sorrow continued to lament all through the day. Meanwhile, on coming to know about the sudden death and immediate burial of the child’s body, the village administrative officer, Thangamuthu brought the incident to the notice of the Sethubhavachatram police. Based on his complaint, the police started interrogating the couple and their relatives about the incident. The interrogation by the police led the pointer to Nasurudeen’s relative, Sharmila Begum (48) whose husband, Azharudeen (50), who had returned to Mallipattinam from overseas recently. As Azharudeen suffered from different types of illness for the past three months, Sharmila consulted a soothsayer, Mohammed Saleem (48) of Krishnajipatti in Pudukottai district. Sharmila approached Saleem who had suggested that sacrificing an infant might end the health disorder problems experienced by Azharudheen. Thus, Sharmila sneaked into Nasurudeen’s house on December 15 night and killed the infant by holding her down in the water-filled plastic container. Sethubhavachatram police arrested Sharmila, her husband, Azharudheen and the soothsayer, Saleem. The body of the girl child was also exhumed and the postmortem was conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infant-sacrificed-at-mallipattinam-soothsayer-arrested/article37988811.ece
19 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Justice Aruna Jegadeesan panel to complete probe by February||After inquiring 15 of the 18 summoned witnesses over the past six days, the Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission wrapped up the first phase of its 33rd sitting here on Saturday. The one-member Commission is inquiring into the anti-Sterlite protest and the subsequent police firing that claimed 14 lives on May 22 and 23, 2018, in Thoothukudi. During the sitting, the Commission inquired nine Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, including eight Superintendents of Police (SP), including SPs Srinath of Kanniyakumari and Murali Ramba of Thoothukudi, and an Inspector General of Police, an Indian Administrative Service officer and the then Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri. “The Commission is keen on completing the investigation within the stipulated deadline of February 2022,” said the Commission’s advocate, Arul Vadivel Sekar, while addressing reporters here on Saturday after the sitting. He said 18 persons were summoned to depose before the Commission between December 13 and 18 and 15 of them turned up. The remaining three witnesses were expected to attend the second phase of the 33rd sitting scheduled between December 27 and 30. 1,410 summons sent The Commission has so far sent 1,410 summons and 1,031 witnesses have turned up for the inquiry. Moreover, 1,346 documents have been marked as evidences. “The Commission summons only those witnesses whose depositions are important for the probe. Since all the witnesses summoned by the Commission are appearing to give their statements on record, we are making efforts to complete the probe by next February,” Mr. Arul Vadivel Sekar said. Though preparing the Commission’s report based on the witnesses’ deposition would be a humongous task, efforts were being made to submit a comprehensive and accurate report to the government, he said.  The 33rd sitting 15 of the 18 summoned witnesses inquired over the past six days Remaining three are expected to attend the second phase scheduled this month-end Nine IPS officers and the then Thoothukudi Collector inquired||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commission-to-complete-probe-by-february/article37989273.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dilapidated school buildings demolished in central districts||Authorities began demolishing unsafe school buildings in some of the districts in central region of the State on Saturday. The move comes in the wake of the death of three students due to the collapse of a toilet wall in a government-aided school in Tirunelveli on Friday. Tiruchi District Collector ordered the demolition of 410 school buildings in the district as they did not adhere to safety standards. Demolition work began immediately in some schools following an order by the School Education Department to take action within 48 hours. Collector S. Sivarasu on Saturday said instructions were given to demolish school buildings that were not fit for use. In many schools, these buildings of poor shape were not being used by students but were being utilised as storage spaces. This too would not be allowed, he said. Private schools and commercial buildings too, would be inspected by authorities of the local bodies, and notices will be issued if required. Work to demolish the buildings in line with the order began in Tiruchi at the Lalgudi Boys Higher Secondary School. “The work has to begin within 48 hours, senior officials have instructed,” Mr. Sivarasu said. Meanwhile, Pudukottai Collector Kavitha Ramu ordered the demolition of 100 school buildings that were in bad shape, some of which had not been in use for years, official sources said. Speaking to The Hindu , an official of the School Education Department in Pudukottai said they had submitted a list of 259 government and government-aided schools buildings in the district that were in bad shape. Higher officials reviewed the list and sent a communication to the District Collector, who has ordered the demolition of 100 such buildings. “The remaining buildings may not need demolition but may need repairs,” the official said. The school buildings included toilet complexes, kitchens, classrooms among others. The order to demolish has been given to the Public Works Department and the District Rural Development Agency, and the work will begin immediately. The officials found that school buildings in Aranthangi and Avudaiyarkovil were some of the most damaged following cyclone Gaja, the official said. Alternate arrangements are in place as 99% of the buildings were already not in use. “Keeping the safety of the children in mind, we have asked teachers and school heads to inform us if there are any other such buildings which require repair,” the official said. Similar orders were passed to demolish 96 school buildings in Thanjavur and 20 in Karur. In Ariyalur district, unsafe buildings in 126 school, noon meal and anganwadi centres were ordered to be demolished. District-level authorities have been instructed to conduct inspections and monitor the quality of buildings as the recent rains may have caused damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dilapidated-school-buildings-demolished-in-central-districts/article37989193.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘State govt. keen on equitable industrial growth’||The government was keen on ensuring equitable industrial development across Tamil Nadu in its quest to realise the target of making the State a $1 trillion economy by 2030, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said on Saturday. “Within a short span of seven months, Tamil Nadu has attracted about Rs. 60,000 crore of investments, thanks to the confidence instilled among investors by the new government. We aim to attract investments to the tune of Rs. 23 lakh crore and generate 46 lakh jobs by 2030,” Mr.Thennarasu said addressing an Industry Growth Conclave-Tiruchi, hosted jointly by the Confederation of Indian Industry and Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation, through video conference from Chennai.  Educational excellence Tamil Nadu, Mr. Thennarasu observed, was known for its educational excellence and produced very good professionals every year. “We should create the opportunity for professionals to begin their own ventures and start-ups,” he said. Being an education hub, Tiruchi could not be overlooked in the industrial growth of the State. Tiruchi was the best bet for engineering industries, and there was still a lot of potential to be tapped. The region had good scope for promoting agro-based industries and food parks too. Mr. Thennarasu told industry representatives that the Tamil Nadu government was willing to hear them out and address their requirements. The two State Ministers from the city, K.N.Nehru and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, and the Chairman of CII, Tamil Nadu, S.Chandra Kumar, urged industry representatives to leverage the advantages offered by the good road, rail and air connectivity enjoyed by the centrally located tier-II city of Tiruchi in the State. Mr. Nehru said more than 20,000 acres of land was available in Tiruchi and the government was ready to meet the land, power and water requirements of industries. Mr. Poyyamozhi called upon the industry to work with the School Education Department, which was looking to integrate vocational education at the school level. Tiruchi could emerge as the node for manufacture of equipment for the defence sector, he said and urged industry to leverage the abundant human resource potential of the city.  ‘Target achievable’ Observing that th'e target of becoming $1 trillion economy was achievable, A. Sivathanu Pillai, eminent defence scientist considered the ‘father of BrahMos missile programme’, observed that industry could leverage India’s space programme and Indian Space Research Organisation’s move to establish a rocket launch pad in Tamil Nadu. Small and medium enterprises of Tiruchi could explore the scope for producing rocket parts. The SMEs could explore opportunities offered by the country’s move to produce advanced medium combat aircrafts with stealth features and also manufacturing missile components as the nearby air force base in Thanjavur had a squadron of Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter planes, which would be fitted with BrahMos missiles. The industry should seek to exploit the titanium mineral resource available in the state, he said. Sanjay Tyagi, Director, Software Technology Parks of India, called for efforts to nurture start-up eco system in the state and fostering unicorn companies. Rajappa Rajkumar, Chairperson, Defence Chamber of Industry and Commerce, said the chamber was trying to establish a common facility centre to cater to units, which were seeking to produce defence equipment. The city had the facility and expertise to execute orders for the defence sector but there still was a gap in realising the potential and getting orders. He suggested holding vendor registration camps of major defence establishments locally. Hans Raj Verma, Chairman and Managing Director, TIIC, S. Sivarasu, Collector, P. Rajappa, president, TIDISSIA, and Umapathy, Deputy Director, National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi, were among those who participated.  Tiruchi can emerge as the node for manufacture of equipment for the defence sector and industry must leverage the abundant human resource potential of the city Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi Minister for School Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-keen-on-equitable-industrial-growth/article37989279.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Single-use plastic carry bags surface again in Tiruchi||Plastic is being used to package anything from groceries and food to flowers and medicines in Tiruchi, even though not too long ago, shoppers in the city had become accustomed to bringing their own cloth bags to carry their purchases home. Despite being banned widely from 2019, single-use plastic products have quietly made their way back as the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic has forced manufacturers of biodegradable alternatives to down shutters. In 2018, the Corporation banned the use of disposable plastic goods such as carry bags, cups and straws, a year ahead of the government ban announced in January 2019. Since then the civic body has conducted searches, seized these items and slapped fines on those selling them. There was also a boom in the production of carry bags made from natural fibres such as cotton, tapioca and bamboo. But prioritisation of controlling the spread of COVID-19 by authorities has seen the resurgence of the banned items in the city, say many environmentalists and residents. “While the pre-pandemic awareness campaigns against plastic overuse made people more open to adopting eco-friendly options, cloth bags are no longer kept handy because shopkeepers are back to using plastic bags,” K.C. Neelamegam, secretary of Thanneer, a voluntary organisation, said. The irony is that some of the bigger franchise supermarkets in the city charge a hefty price for their cloth carry bags, while their smaller counterparts give away plastic bags for free. Mass-produced cotton bags that were being sold for Rs. 12 to Rs. 20 in the pre-pandemic days can easily cost Rs. 50 now. “Plastic litter is clogging up most of our water bodies,” said a journalist who writes on local environmental issues. “With fears about COVID-19, we have a new category of solid waste in the form of discarded non-woven fibre masks, which is just another version of plastic,” he added. Packing hot beverages such as tea and coffee in plastic pouches is also on the rise, said Crawford resident Biju Mathew. “Many lower income workers tend to take ‘parcel tea’ in polythene packets because it is cheaper, but in the long run this may lead to health problems as the hot liquid reacts with the plastic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/single-use-plastic-carry-bags-surface-again-in-tiruchi/article37989284.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sewage treatment plant to be shifted from Panchapur||Tiruchi Corporation has decided to dismantle the existing sewage treatment plant at Panchapur to make way for the new integrated bus terminus. The civic body constructed the plant in 1995 with a capacity of 87 MLD. It was built to process and treat sewage collected as part of Phase-I of the underground drainage project. The treated sewage water is being let out on open land. The corporation follows waste stabilisation pond technique to absorb the treated water. Though the plant has a capacity of 87 MLD, it uses 57 MLD of sewage water. It had planned to make use of the remaining infrastructure to treat the sewage water to be collected from household UGD connections, which are to be connected in Phase-II of the UGD project. It also began the preliminary work about a year ago to form waste stabilisation ponds in the unused tract of land allotted to the STP. But it halted the work midway once the DMK government that assumed office in May revived the plan of establishing an integrated bus terminus at Panchapur. The corporation subsequently appointed a Bengaluru-based consultant to prepare the Detailed Project Report for the bus terminus project. Officials feel that the site, where the sewage treatment plant and waste stabilisation ponds are located, is the best location to allot land to build the bus terminus and commercial complex as the STP is located just a few metres from the Tiruchi-Madurai highway. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman said that it had been decided to abort and dismantle the existing STP to make way for the new bus terminus. Moreover, there was no need to continue with the old technique of processing and treating sewage as it required huge tracts of land. A number of new techniques had emerged to treat the sewage water and a few methods were under consideration for establishing a modern STP. He said land would be allotted for the new STP at a remote corner of 574 acres of the Corporation land at Panchapur. Provisions would be made to treat sewage water being collected from the households of both Phase-I and II UGD project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-corporation-to-abort-sewage-treatment-plant-at-panchapur/article37989270.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stray cattle return to streets in Tiruchi||The issue of stray cattle roaming on city roads posing serious risks to motorists has cropped up yet again. With near-miss accidents occurring on a daily basis, the public demand a permanent solution. Whether rain or sunshine, cattle wandering the streets in Tiruchi is a common sight. Traffic flow on arterial roads, especially in Srirangam, Gandhi Market and Palpannai, are often hindered by a cow sitting by the divider. While the cattle mean no harm, their loitering poses several dangers including road accidents. While Tiruchi Corporation impounded nearly 80 cattle late last month, the issue seems to have cropped up yet again. “I had to stop my vehicle and shoo away a few cows that were sitting comfortably at a road crossing. Large vehicles would not have noticed them and could have run them over,” J. Kesavan, a resident of K.K. Nagar said. Cattle owners let them loose so they can graze on food waste. They take them to the sheds only to milk them, they complained. A fine of Rs. 10,000 for cattle and Rs. 5,000 for calves was levied last time. “This does not seem to be a permanent solution as once the civic body stopped impounding cattle, they returned to the streets,” the resident added. K. Chandrasekar, BJP district president, Arts and Culture Cell,Tiruchi, has written a letter to the Chief Minister seeking his intervention on the matter, seeking stern action as lives, especially those of pedestrians, are at risk. “The owners leave their livestock to roam on the streets not paying heed to the trouble it causes to the public. While many rest on the roads, some even chase the public," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-cattle-return-to-streets-in-tiruchi/article37989272.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||49 fresh cases, two deaths in central region||The central districts reported 49 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, continuing the trend of reporting less than 50 COVID-19 cases. Two patients, one from Nagapattinam and another from Tiruchi, died of the viral infection. Sixteen patients reported positive for the viral infection in Thanjavur, 13 in Tiruchi and 10 in Karur. The remaining six districts registered less than five cases each. Three patients reported COVID-19 positive in Mayiladuthurai, while two each were reported in Nagapattinam and Perambalur. One patient each tested positive in Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/49-fresh-cases-two-deaths-in-central-region/article37989276.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AUT demands promotion for teachers||The Association of University Teachers (AUT) has petitioned the State government to fulfil the pending promotion of teachers in government arts and science colleges under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS). Nearly 7,000 teachers who joined the profession since 2006 are yet to receive any promotions, they said. According to norms under the Career Advancement Scheme, an assistant professor must complete 13 years of service to be promoted as associate professor. Despite completion of the tenure, many are yet to get promotion due to want of funds, M.S. Balamurugan, general secretary, AUT, said. The previous government did not execute the CAS, leading to a large number of pending promotions. While teachers in engineering and even polytechnic colleges have received promotions and the benefits that come with it, government and government-aided arts and science college teachers have been ignored, he said. Several meetings with the officials of the Higher Education department are yet to materialise, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aut-demands-promotion-for-teachers/article37989274.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||18 teams to inspect school buildings across Tirunelveli||The Headmistress of Schaffter Higher Secondary School, its correspondent and the contractor, who were arrested by the police on Friday in connection with the wall collapse in which three students were killed, were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday morning. After being produced before Judicial Magistrate V Jaiganesh at his residence around 6.30 a.m. by the Tirunelveli Junction police, they trio was remanded in judicial custody till December 31. While correspondent R. P. J. Selvakumar and contractor John Kennedy were lodged in the Srivaikundam Sub-Jail, Headmistress B.V. Persis Gnanaselvi, who complained of chest pain on Friday evening, has been admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for treatment. Her condition is said to be stable. The three were arrested based on a complaint from Revenue Inspector Mari Durai. Meanwhile, Collector V. Vishnu has formed 18 teams for inspecting government, government-aided and private school buildings across the district - four teams in Tirunelveli Corporation area and the rest in other areas in the district. Teams of officials ‘The teams, comprising officials and engineers from the departments of Revenue, Rural Development, Corporation, Town Panchayat, Municipality and Education, will inspect the strength of school buildings and submit reports. Based on the findings of the inspection, further course of action will be taken,” said Mr. Vishnu. The first meeting of the team members was held at the Collectorate on Saturday with District Revenue Officer A. Perumal in the chair. “The inspection teams have been instructed to start their work immediately and submit their reports at the earliest so that the decision on demolishing the weak structures will be taken within a couple of days,” Mr. Vishnu said.  The teams have been instructed to submit reports soon so that demolition of weak structures can be taken up soon V. Vishnu Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-teams-to-inspect-school-buildings/article37989476.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||The untold stories through ‘Trails of Tamirabharani’||A book titled ‘Trails of Tamirabharani’ co-authored by Collector V. Vishnu, a wildlife enthusiast and trekker, and four others was released here on Saturday. It captures the myriad hues of the landscape, the travails, heritage and prosperity of the region. Ainthinai captures the five landscapes of Tirunelveli from the mountains to the shores, while Panpadu reminisces the symbols of past glory. Varalaru offers a glimpse into the transition from Tinnevelly to present Tirunelveli and Vazhviyal is a narrative of its people, culture and livelihood. “When we speak of history of Tirunelveli, one can refer only to Bishop Robert Caldwell’s ‘History of Tinnevelly’ published in 1881. In ‘Trails of Tamirabharani,’ the many aspects of ‘Porunai’ (Tamirabharani) landscape have been portrayed through old and new pictures,” says Mr. Vishnu. Replete with photographs from contributors, ‘Trails of Tamirabharani’ has borne out of people with a strong connect to the river and landscape. “Tamirabharani evokes an emotion that binds people. Meandering its way through the lush green paddy fields of Ambasamudram to the marshy Punnaikaayal near Thoothukudi where the river meets the sea, Tamirabharani drains out a thousand untold stories. Every monsoon heralds a new hope for the land and its people, and the river continues its journey carrying along memories etched in time,” Mr. Vishnu says. For posterity The coffee table book format would grab the attention of the youth and kindle an interest to act as stewards to conserve the nature, culture and livelihood of this unique landscape and cherish the rich history, says M. Soubadra Devy, one of the five authors and a scientist working in this landscape since 1990. “Agasthiyamalai landscape is my second home,” she says. Senior Research Associate of ATREE M. Mathivanan, volunteer Vinod M. Kumar and nature educator P. Maria Antony are the other authors of the book, which has been published by Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE) with the support of Sundaram Finance and Brakes India. Mohan Ananda Venkatesan, senior vice-president and Head, Sundaram Finance; G. Sivaraman, Managing Director and Chief Siddha Physician, Arogya Health Centre, Chennai; Vamsidhar Pothula, Chief Operating Officer, ATREE, Bengaluru; Rev. Fr. Mariadoss, Principal, St. Xavier’s College, Palayamkottai, spoke at the book release.  From lush green paddy fields of Ambasamudram to the marshy Punnaikaayal, Tamirabharani drains out a thousand untold stories V. Vishnu One of the authors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-untold-stories-through-trails-of-tamirabharani/article37989280.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Emergency treatment scheme launched in Tirunelveli||The State government’s new scheme of giving free emergency treatment to road accident victims for the first 48 hours was launched here on Saturday. After Chief Minister M. K. Stalin launched the scheme through videoconference, Assembly Speaker M. Appavu and Collector V. Vishnu inaugurated the scheme, ‘Nammai Kaakkum 48,’ at Galaxy Hospital in Vannarpet. Apart from this hospital, the scheme has been introduced in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and eight more private hospitals - Dr. Velan Multispecialty Hospital, Balaji Hospital, Krishna Maternity Hospital, Parvathi Nursing Home, Peace Health Centre, Santhosh Hospital, Shifa Hospital and Sudharshan Platinum Hospital. He handed over Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme cards to the beneficiaries on the occasion. The hospitals selected for this scheme have been given the password for updating online the free treatment given to the accident victims of any nationality for the first 48 hours as the State government will bear the cost up to Rs. 1 lakh if the accident occurred within any part of Tamil Nadu. If the victim is unstable and requires continuous treatment even after 48 hours, it will be continued in the same hospital under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme if the treatment has been approved under the scheme. District panchayat chairman V. S. R. Jegadeesh, Dean of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital M. Ravichandran, Joint Director of Health Services Venkata Rangan, urologist P. Avudiaiyappan, nephrologist J. Balasubramanian, gastroenterologist S. Bhakthavathchalam and cardiologist M.S.L. Mahaboob Subuhani were present.  How it works Victims of accidents will get free treatment up to Rs. 1 lakh for 48 hours If needed, the treatment can be continued under CM’s health insurance Scheme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emergency-treatment-scheme-launched-in-tirunelveli/article37989586.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 140.25 feet (maximum permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 766.07 cusecs and 824.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 117.35 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 389 cusecs and 100 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37989584.ece
19 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Protesters stage demonstration against alleged sexual assault on five-year-old girl||A demonstration demanding police action into an alleged sexual assault case involving a five-year-old girl at a private school in Tiruppur on Friday evening snowballed into a larger agitation that lasted for over four hours. The hundreds of protesters dispersed past midnight after the visit of Tiruppur City Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha. Speaking to the mediapersons, she said that a woman lodged a complaint at the All Women Police Station – Tiruppur North on Friday that a man had allegedly touched her daughter studying L.K.G in an inappropriate manner on the school premises. A case was registered and the process of reviewing CCTV footage from the school to ascertain the identity of the accused began. “There was a gap in communication of information between the police and the public,” Ms. Vanitha said, because of which the protesters had gathered in large numbers alleging lack of action. She said that she had assured the protesters regarding the formation of a committee by the Tiruppur City Police and district administration to create awareness among school-going children regarding sexual offences , following which they dispersed. According to the police, a small group of people staged a demonstration outside the school on Friday afternoon, after which nearly 500 protesters from various organisations gathered on Perumanallur Road near Pooluvapatti at around 8 p.m. Revenue Divisional Officer (Tiruppur) M. Jaganathan also visited the spot and held talks with them. Meanwhile, the protesters allegedly damaged the windows of an ambulance and a government bus, but none were hurt, the police said. Around 200 police personnel were deployed at the spot and the agitation ended past midnight. The girl did not have any external injuries as per the medical examination done after registering the case, the police claimed. The incident is said to have occurred on December 14 in the school and the footage from around eight CCTV cameras in the school were being analysed. The case was registered under sections 7 (Sexual assault) and 8 (Punishment for sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Ms. Vanitha told The Hindu on Saturday that an inquiry will be held in the school to gather evidence and the accused’s identity will be confirmed with the girl’s assistance. “The investigation will be scientific and child-friendly,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protesters-stage-demonstration-against-alleged-sexual-assault-on-5-year-old-girl/article37989209.ece
19 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||TNPCB shuts CETP, 21 dyeing units in Tiruppur||The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) on Friday ordered the closure of a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) and 21 dyeing units linked to it near Mudalipalayam here for violation of environmental norms. Officials said the Eastern CETP in Nallur treated effluents from units linked to it. A routine inspection by the TNPCB three months ago revealed violations in the CETP such as low reverse osmosis recovery rate and lack of proper storage and disposal of sludge. However, the discharge of untreated effluents into water bodies was not detected then, officials said. Violations Despite several warnings being issued over the next three months, the violations did not end, the officials said. Based on directions from TNPCB Chairman A. Udhayan, the Tangedco had disconnected power supply to the CETP and the units linked to it, following which these were closed on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpcb-shuts-cetp-21-dyeing-units-in-tiruppur/article37989216.ece
19 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against AIADMK leaders||The Tiruppur City Police registered a case against the AIADMK leaders, who led a demonstration condemning the DMK government on Friday allegedly in violation of COVID-19 safety protocols. The demonstration was held in Valipalayam on Friday as part of the party’s State-wide agitations. Former Deputy Speaker of Legislative Assembly Pollachi V. Jayaraman, former Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan and MLAs M.S.M. Anandan and K.N. Vijeyakumar along with nearly 1,000 cadre participated in the demonstration and violated the safety protocols laid down by the State government to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the police said. Hence, the Tiruppur North police booked the above persons under sections 143 (Unlawful assembly), 341 (Wrongful restraint), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code along with provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and the Disaster Management Act. No arrests were made as of Saturday, the police said. In Coimbatore, the Race Course police registered a case against nine AIADMK MLAs for violating COVID-19 safety protocols in connection with the protest they staged on Huzur Road. The case was registered against S.P. Velumani, Amman K. Arjunan, A.K. Selvaraj, P.R.G. Arun Kumar, S. Damodaran, Amul Kandasamy, K.R. Jayaram, V.P. Kandasamy, P. Dhanapal and several others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-registered-against-aiadmk-leaders/article37989217.ece
19 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school HM in Tiruppur suspended||The Department of School Education has placed under suspension the headmistress of a government school in the outskirts of Tiruppur on charges of caste-based discrimination against students from the Scheduled Caste (SC) in the school. Sources privy to the development said on Saturday that Geetha, the headmistress of Government High School in Iduvai, allegedly used casteist slurs and obscenities against the SC students, particularly girls. She also allegedly forced them to clean the toilets in the school. On Friday, R. Ramesh, Chief Educational Officer (CEO) for Tiruppur district, received a complaint from a group of Class IX and Class X students from the school, based on which he conducted an inquiry with the students and placed her under suspension till further notice, according to the sources. He said Ms. Geetha had been the headmistress for the past three years. District Collector S. Vineeth told The Hindu that the Department of School Education will also initiate departmental action against her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-head-in-tiruppur-suspended/article37989195.ece
19 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable store for police families||A vegetable store, exclusively for police families, was inaugurated here by IGP, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan on Saturday. The store has been set up at Tamil Nadu Armed Forces Quarters for the benefit of around 300 families and manned by the police. The vegetables for the store was being sourced from a wholesale vendor at Kumbakonam. It had also been planned to set up a store for essentials and medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-store-for-police-families/article37988812.ece
19 December 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Store set up||A vegetable store for police families was inaugurated here by IGP, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan. The store has been set up at Tamil Nadu Armed Forces Quarters and is manned by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/store-set-up/article37989581.ece
19 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rehabilitation centre inaugurated in Coonoor||A free physiotherapy, rehabilitation and occupational training centre was inaugurated in Vannarpet in Coonoor recently. Named the “Kindness Rehabilitation Center,” the facility was opened by the Kinder Trust. In a press release, the Kinder Trust said it aimed at helping people with disabilities live a pain-free life, empowering them and their families with skill training and sustainable employment to live a life with dignity. The release added that there were an estimated 10,000 people living with disabilities in the Nilgiris. A minimum of 25 patients are expected each day to use the facility. The trust thanked the Nilgiris district administration, Association of People with Disability, Bengaluru, the Rotary Club of the Nilgiris as well as volunteers for helping them get the centre operational.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rehabilitation-centre-inaugurated-in-coonoor/article37989207.ece
19 December 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Delimitation exercise over in Virudhunagar district||Following upgrade of Sivakasi as Corporation and other changes effected in some of the urban and rural civic bodies in Virudhunagar district, the delimitation exercise has been completed and the draft proposals released on Saturday. A press release said the public and representatives of political parties were welcome to participate in a public hearing on December 20 at the Collectorate. The delimitation had been carried out with 2011 census as the base. As per the State Election Commission guidelines, delimitation had been done for wards which were created, for extension areas, and upgradation of municipality as corporation. The draft proposals had been released for public view. All suggestions and objections may be given in writing to the Delimitation Authority at the meeting to be held between 3.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. It is in line with an Election Commission directive, the Delimitation Authority holds the meeting for Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts on December 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delimitation-exercise-over/article37989286.ece
19 December 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||32 school buildings to be razed in Virudhunagar||The district adminstration inspected schools to identify weak structures on December 4 and orders had been issued to demolish them, said Collector J. Meganath Reddy on Saturday. Presiding over a review meeting, he said that 145 buildings were identified as old or unusable by committees comprising officials from the departments of School Education, Public Works Department and Rural Development. It had been decided to demolish 32 buildings across the district in the first phase. All primary and middle school buildings in panchayat union and municipal limits were inspected by the committee members. As many as 21 anganwadi centres had also been identified as weak and they required demolition. And the demolition order had been issued on December 9, he said. The Project Director of District Rural Development Agency had been coordinating the demolition exercise. Steps were also being taken to construct new buildings and after obtaining the approvals from the government, the work would start, he said. Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy said in Sivaganga on Saturday that they have identified 99 school buildings which required to be razed down in the district. He said that teams of officials from various departments had conducted the inspections and according to them 58 anganwadi, 16 toilets and 68 kitchen in noon meal centres in schools also required to be pulled down. At a meeting attended by officials from the School Education Department, he said it must be ensured that students did not go near the buildings identified for demolition. He urged the officials to sensitise the school staff to this effect. He urged the public to inform the district administration or the Chief Educational Officer about weak structures in schools. After inspection, if needed, they would be pulled down, he said.  21 anganwadi centres have also been identified as weak and demolition order has been issued on December 9 J. Meganath Reddy Virudhunagar Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/32-school-buildings-to-be-razed-in-virudhunagar/article37989289.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||101 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 101 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said 104 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,132 active cases on Saturday. The toll increased to 2,494 after an 84-year-old man died of COVID-19 on Friday. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.1 % on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 44 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The toll went up to 1,016 as two new deaths were reported. The district had 552 active cases and 58 patients recovered from COVID-19 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/101-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37989223.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Margazhi Mahotsavam, Kovaipudur, 5.30 a.m.  VHP: Kanya puja, SN Arangam Mini Hall, Ramanathapuram, 8 a.m.    KPR Institutions: State-Level Chess Tournament, Avinashi Road, 10 a.m.  Sree Narayana Guru College: Mega Job Fair, K.G. Chavadi, 8 a.m.  Indian Cotton Federation: 42nd Annual General Meeting, GKS Cotton Chambers Building, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women and Kovai Kulangal Padhukaapu Amaippu: Extension Activity, Vellalore tank, 9 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology and Aram IAS Academy: Webinar on 'Civil Services As a Career', 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37989219.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Nandha Ayurveda Medical College and Hospital: Medical camp, Ayyanar Community Hall, Avalpoondurai, 9 a.m. to 12 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37989296.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||RELIGION  Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple,Srirangam: Vaikunta Ekadasi, Sri Namperumal purappadu from sanctum sanctorum, noon; reaching Thirumamani Asthana Mandapam, 2 p.m.; Arayar seva, 5 to 7 p.m.; purappadu from Thirumamani mandapam, 9.30 p.m.; reaching sanctum sanctorum to the accompaniment of veena, 10.30 p.m.; public darshan 5.30 a.m. to 9 a.m. & 1 to 7.30 p.m.; Paramapadavasal open from 1 to 7.30 p.m.  Sri Ananthakrishna Varadharaja Perumal Temple, Angarai: Dhanur masa bhajans, Namavali veedhi bhajans, 5.30 a.m. CULTURE  Manghalam Group: Margazhi Manghala Utsavam, mohiniyattam by Rekha Raju and vocal concert by Sai Vignesh and party, Manghalam Weddings and Conventions, Nelson Road, Thiruvanaikovil, 5.30 p.m. GENERAL  Ordnance Factory-Tiruchi: Exhibition of Modern Defence products and vintage weapons used in World War II, Junior Staff Club, Factory premises, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.  Sathana Chess Academy: State level children’s and open chess tournament, Seventh Day Adventist Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Bheema Nagar, 9 a.m.  Rotary Club of Tiruchi Midtown and Hindu Mission Hospitals Tiruchi and Tambaram: Distribution of free artificial limbs and registration of new beneficiaries, hospital premises, Anna Nagar, Thennur, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article37988813.ece
19 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||MoU signed||KLS Gogte Institute of Technology, Department of MBA, has collaborated with Global Incubation Services (GINSERV), Bengaluru, to create programmes and events that would encourage entrepreneurial and start-up activities. This is being done under the ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ initiative. Emphasis is on identifying, developing, and realising the potential of tier-2 and tier-3 cities of Karnataka. An MoU was signed on Friday by M.R. Kulkarni, governing council chairman, GIT, and Girish Hiremath, chief operating officer, GINSERV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-signed/article37989317.ece
19 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CM to lay stone for new RCU campus||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will lay the foundation stone for the new campus of Rani Channamma University (RCU) at Hire Bagewadi village on December 23. The State decided to set up the new campus after the Central Government did not approve transfer of forest land to the university at Bhootaramanahatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-lay-stone-for-new-rcu-campus/article37989316.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Impossible to get rid of SARS-CoV-2: Gagandeep Kang||Will the COVID-19 pandemic ever end? What will our lives look like from here on? Should we be sending children to school? And do we know where the virus came from? These were only some of the volley of questions that Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, answered at an ‘Ask me anything’ session at the Bangalore Literature Festival (BLF), which opened at the Bangalore International Centre here on Saturday. When asked if there is an end in sight for COVID-19, the virologist said, “Polio was much harder to get rid of in India. But with a lot of effort, we got to a point where we said there is no polio in our country. Why was it possible with polio and not with SARS-CoV-2? Polio only affects humans. SARS-CoV-2 infects both humans and animals. When you have a virus which is asymptomatic, and can cross the species barrier, that makes it impossible to get rid of.” In this backdrop, how do we live? “We are encountering a virus we haven’t seen before. We have to build our experience with the virus. It is a natural process that happens. If you look among the three coronaviruses, this one is the weakest. At what stage is it OK for us to be out and about with some level of precaution? It’s a bit like dressing for the weather; when it’s raining, carry an umbrella, when it’s cold, wear a sweater. When you see lots of cases, cut down activities, when they are fewer, expand them. We can’t live without interaction. We have to learn what are the risk tolerances,” she said. This would mean calibrating your own risks. Masks, ventilation, and limiting the number of unknown people work as we know, she added. Omicron About the newest variant - Omicron - Dr. Kang said unlike last year, when we didn’t have vaccination or an infection history, we now have a better chance of scenarios. “Omicron is very transmissive. Think about double masking, limiting crowds, ventilation. Ensure everyone you know and are interacting with are double vaccinated. Booster dose is a policy decision. We don’t know yet whether reinfections in vaccinated people will result in severe cases. It doesn’t seem to be causing severe disease like it did last year,” she said, adding that we need to make sure we have plans for the older and vulnerable populations. Responding to a particular question on data sharing by the government, she said even after 1.3 billion doses being administered and 11 months, data available for vaccine effectiveness is for less than half a million. Vaccinating children On the looming question of vaccinating children and sending them to schools, she said sit would be best to do this “carefully with the best, safest vaccines.” “With everything, you have to do a risk benefit assessment. It differs for each vaccine. We know from disease data in other parts of the world that risk of severe disease for adolescents is very low. I would like to vaccinate children when I know which vaccine is the best. I would like to see a solid data set that have received these vaccines and come down in a stepwise fashion with monitoring.” But she urged parents to send children to school, with masks, and by ensuring that they understand that they need to be careful. “It’s really important for children to be in school. The risks to children are very low,” Dr. Kang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/impossible-to-get-rid-of-sars-cov-2-gagandeep-kang/article37989140.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many defeated Cong. candidates keen to contest Assembly polls||Many Congress leaders, who were defeated in the previous Lok Sabha elections, are keen to contest the State Legislative Assembly elections in 2023. This has been spurred by the upbeat mood in the party after victories in the byelection in Hangal and in the 11 Council seats recently, even while being in the Opposition. Some senior Congress leaders’ statements that the electorate of the State is yearning for a change of government in 2023 has provided confidence among the party cadre. Sources in the party said leaders such as KPCC working president R. Dhruvanarayana, former Ministers Praksh Hukkeri and Vinay Kulkarni, and several others including Mithun Rai, Prashanth Deshpande, and B.N. Chandrappa, who contested and were defeated in the previous Lok Sabha polls, have expressed their desire for tickets to 2023 Assembly elections. Sources in Congress said Mr. Dhruvanarayana has chalked out a plan to contest from Nanjangud Assembly segment. B. Harshavardhan of the BJP won this reserved constituency in 2018. V. Srinivas Prasad, BJP MP, who was then in the Congress, won this seat in the 2008 and 2013 Assembly elections. Mr. Hukkeri, Congress leader in Belagavi, plans to enter the electoral fray in 2023 from Athani constituency. Mahesh Kumathalli of the Congress won this seat in 2018 but he quit the party and joined the BJP along with 14 other Congress legislators in 2019. In the byelections, he won again. With the Congress having no other winnable candidates, Mr. Hukkeri is planning to contest from this constituency. Mr. Rai, who contested from the Dakshina Kannada constituency and lost to BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel in 2019, is eyeing one of the Assembly constituencies in the district, sources said. Newly joined leaders Leaders who left the Janata Dal (Secular) and joined the Congress too are hoping for Assembly election tickets. Former MLAs Madhu Bangarappa, M.S. Akki, N.H. Konaraddi, former MLCs Ramesh Babu, C.R Manohar (all JD-S), and incumbent MLC N. Narayana Swamy (Congress) are eyeing the party ticket to contest Assembly polls. Kanthraj (BML), JD(S) MLC from Tumakuru, whose term will end next month, and JD(S) MLAs S.R. Srinivas (Gubbi), G.T. Deve Gowda (Chamundeshwari), and K. Srinivas Gowda (Kolar), reportedly plan to quit the JD(S) to join the Congress with the condition that Assembly ticket to be guaranteed to them in 2023, party sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-defeated-cong-candidates-keen-to-contest-assembly-polls/article37989162.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro services from 5 a.m. from tomorrow||With more people commuting to work and growing demand for longer operating hours, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has decided to advance metro services by an hour in the morning. BMRCL managing director Anjum Parwez told The Hindu that from Monday onwards, BMRCL will operate Namma Metro services from 5 a.m. till 11 p.m. At present, first trains depart stations at 6 a.m. “From next week, we will return to a schedule that is almost similar to that of pre-COVID times,” said BMRCL Managing Director Anjum Parwez, adding that the number of people travelling in Namma Metro has been steadily increasing over the last few months. “We have now touched a ridership of almost 3 lakh per day. Increased train services will help the passengers in the coming days.” On Sunday, however, trains will be run from 7 a.m. onwards. For the rest of the week, from Monday to Saturday, train services from terminal stations such as Kengeri, Silk Institute, Nagasandra and Baiyappanahalli will start at 5 a.m. The last train from these terminal stations will leave at 11 p.m. From Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Station, Majestic, the last train to all the directions leaves at 11.30 p.m. Mr. Parwez said, “There has been public demand to run trains from 5 a.m. People leaving early to office and passengers arriving from points such as Hoskote, Nelamangala, Doddaballapur and others in buses have to wait early in the morning outside Majestic station. It is for their benefit that we have decided to advance Namma Metro timings.” Other than office goers, early morning trains are also preferred by the people who go to jog at Cubbon Park and Lalbagh. Prior to the pandemic, more than 4 lakh people were using the metro services. While ridership has been increasing steadily, it has yet to return to pre-COVID numbers as many firms have asked employees to continue to work from home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-services-from-5-am-from-tomorrow/article37989148.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Making endangered languages more accessible||Karnataka’s tourism tagline is, ‘One state, many worlds’. But what attracts little discussion is the many languages within the many worlds of the State. The Bangalore Literature Festival (BLF), in its landmark tenth edition this year, opened here on Saturday with ‘Multilingualism and endangered languages’ as a dominating theme. The highlight of this year’s festival is a series of panel discussions around the theme, ‘The Many Language Worlds of Karnataka,’ with writers and those fluent in languages such as Tulu, Konkani, Kodava takk, Koraga, Dakhani Urdu, Byari, Navyati, Kundapra Kannada, Halakki Kannada, Sanketi and Havyaka. In one such session on ‘Scripting a future for endangered languages,’ panellists highlighted the need for making scripts of endangered languages more accessible to speakers. Writer Kaveri Ponnappa, speaking about Kodava takk, said endangered languages need more speakers, and rather than a new script, you need a script that is more accessible to speakers. Advocating a script that reaches the maximum number of speakers and increasing its scope, she said Kodavas have a considerable task - not only for for those who live abroad, but also live in other parts of India who are no longer learning the Kannada script. A Roman script would reach a larger number of people, agreed Sayeegeetha Hedge, from the Nitte University Centre for Tulu studies, NITTE, while speaking about Tulu. “If learners want to learn Tulu, it is difficult to go through with the Kannada script. We have to take revised Roman also for those who can’t speak and read Kannada. This is very much needed,” she said. Author Vivek Shanbhag spoke about challenges faced by the Konkani language, which adopted multiple scripts for survival as speakers are in different states Such as Kerala, Karnataka and Goa. “So the solution is apt for Kodava and Tulu, but not for Konkani because they are different languages.” But languages that are only spoken have a longer life, he said. “English is now confronted with Kannada. In Konkani homes, there’s no such confrontation. People still speak Konkani at home. There’s no one solution. We must understand the context and respond,” he added. In another session, ‘Konkani: One language, multiple scripts,’ this was discussed further by Damodar Mauzo, who was recently awarded Jnanpith Prashasti for his works in Konkani. “Multiple vocabularies are recognised by multiple speakers. When I go to Mangaluru or Kochi, I give a keen ear and find so many things we’ve lost but they continue to use. So I try to incorporate these in my writings. Though today the vocabulary is slightly different, it is not alien to us. We’re coming closer day by day. Words used in Goa can be heard in Mangaluru and vice-versa,” he said. “I look at the Konkani world as a cultural state. We are divided geographically. But culturally, we’re one State. It’s the main feature of the Konkani speaking diaspora - they live in harmony, whether they live in Karnataka or Kerala,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/making-endangered-languages-more-accessible/article37989143.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Security stepped up after protests and desecration of Shivaji statue||In the wake of the situation in Belagavi, the Bengaluru City Police have stepped up security at key installations and sensitive areas. Members of Kannada organisations staged protests on Saturday while a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji at Bashyam Circle near Sankey Tank was desecrated the previous day. As many as 50 people from Kannada organisations were detained after they attempted to disrupt the launch of a book on Veer Savarkar at Town Hall on Saturday, attended by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Security has been tightened at Town Hall with over a hundred policemen deployed to monitor law and order situation. Earlier in the day, a protest was held at the Sangolli Rayanna statue at KSR railway station. Protesters later submitted a memorandum to DG&IGP Praveen Sood demanding that strict action be taken against the MES activists. who had desecrated the statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna in Belagavi. Meanwhile, the Sadashivanagar police in Bengaluru have stepped up investigations to identify the culprits who blackened the statue of Shivaji with ink. A case has been registered based on a complaint filed by the Karnataka Maratha Welfare Association (KMWA) and investigations are on to identify those involved in the act, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) M.N. Anucheth. With tensions escalating, the police held a peace meeting with KMWA members and urged them not to retaliate. They had planned to stage a protest after the Shivaji statue was desecrated. “Association members have assured the police of their cooperation, and demanded that the miscreants be arrested soon,” said a police officer. On Friday morning, a group of people had gathered in front of the statue shouting slogans. According to eyewitness accounts, they threw ink on the statue and escaped. The police arrived at the spot soon after. The statue was cleaned and personnel were deputed in the area to ensure there were no further incidents, said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/security-stepped-up-after-protests-and-desecration-of-shivaji-statue/article37989157.ece
19 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hearzap app launched||Hearzap, a hearing aid provider launched their mobile application and six stores in Bengaluru, located at Indiranagar, Jayanagar, HSR Layout, Nagarbhavi, R.R. Nagar and Sadashivnagar recently. The inaugural ceremony was conducted at Jayanagar 5th Block. Tejasavi Surya, MP, who was the chief guest, launched the Hearzap app and inaugurated the store. He also donated hearing instruments to children. Avinash Pawar CEO – WS Audiology India and Dr. M. Jayaram - President Indian Speech and Hearing Association, attended the event. Dr. S. Raja, senior audiologist and founder of Hearzap, said, “There is an urgent need to identify and manage hearing problems at an early stage, and follow some healthy habits to primarily avoid hearing related issues.” This is easier said than done. Hearing care is delayed or denied because of varying reasons. According to Dr Raja, there are 3 major reasons for this. They are the 3 A’s - Awareness, Accessibility and Affordability. According to researchers, it takes roughly 7-8 years for someone to take their first step towards hearing care from the onset of the problem, Dr. Raja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hearzap-app-launched/article37989149.ece
19 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Monday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. because of maintenance work. According to a release from Bescom, Koramangala Division, the areas to be affected are: 66/11 KV Adugodi Sub station: 5th Block, Industrial Area, Koramangala, Madiwala, Venkateshwara Layout, Chikkadugodi, Jog Colony, St. John’s Staff Quarters, Maruthi Nagar, Adugodi 7th and 8th Blocks, CAR Police Quarters, Adugodi Main Road, Madiwala, 100 Feet Ring Road, Bannerghatta Road, KHB Colony, 5th Block, Industrial Layout, 7th Block, 3rd Block, Industrial Area, Koramangala, Bhuvanappa Layout, Cauvery Layout, Krishna Nagar Industrial Layout, S.G. Palya, 2nd Block, Madivala Santhe, Siddhartha Colony and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article37989150.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges struggle to conduct classes sans guest lecturers||Ever since guest faculty members started boycotting lectures earlier this month, many first grade government degree colleges are struggling to function and hold classes. Students are let off early in the day as college managements have been finding it difficult to run classes given the staff shortage that they are grappling with. Guest faculty members have been boycotting classes from December 10 demanding that their services be regularised. However, college principals said they require additional guest faculty this academic year to roll out the National Education Policy. One of the principals of a first grade government college in Bengaluru said that currently 35% of their lecturers are guest faculty members. “We are finding it extremely difficult to run classes. We have tried all the permutations and combinations, and even combined classes. But we will be able to conduct classes as per the timetable only once the guest lecturers return to work,” the principal said and added that in addition to the existing staff, they would need at least another 20 guest faculty members to run electives as per NEP. Amaresh Kadagada, State President of Students Federation of India, said that students were put to a lot of inconvenience and anxiety. “The Government should immediately call guest faculty members and ensure that the issue is addressed at the earliest,” he said. H. Prakash, Principal, Maharani Arts, Commerce and Management, said that nearly 60% of the teaching in their college was done by guest faculty members. “We normally conduct classes from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., but we have been letting off students around lunch time as we are unable to conduct classes. It will be difficult for us to complete the syllabus on time if this situation continues,” he said. The odd semester classes began in colleges in October this year. Hanumanthe Gowda R. Kalmani, state president of Government First Grade Colleges’ Guest Faculties’ Association, Bengaluru said, “For several decades now, we have been teaching in these colleges and earn a meagre Rs. 11,000 or Rs. 13,000. But this time, we have decided not to relent until all 14,544 guest faculty members working in 430 government colleges are made permanent.”  College principals say they require additional guest faculty this academic year to roll out the National Education Policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-struggle-to-hold-classes/article37989153.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 10 kg of marijuana seized in Bengaluru||In a special drive ahead of year-end celebrations, the North Division police arrested six people for allegedly peddling marijuana in the city. The police seized 10.2 kg of marijuana in four cases at Hebbal, J.C. Nagar and Mahalakshmi Layout. In all four cases, the accused said they had suppliers in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. Consignments were smuggled into the city in goods vehicles or on trains from the neighbouring States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-kg-of-marijuana-seized/article37989327.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Garment factory worker found dead||A 29-year-old man who worked in a garment factory was found dead at his house in Nelamangala on Saturday. According to the police, the deceased, Mohan K., who hailed from Tumakuru, killed himself. His body was discovered by family members who alerted the Nelamangala Rural police. “He left a suicide note stating that no one was repsonsible for his decision,” said the police.  Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garment-factory-worker-found-dead/article37989508.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC imposes cost on private company for ‘polluting stream of justice’||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on a private company for approaching the court “with unclean hands and wanting to pollute the stream of justice” by suppressing vital documents to get an interim order from the court in its favour in an issue related to polluting environment. M/s SKF Boilers and Drivers Pvt. Ltd, near Moodbidri, had suppressed the action taken by the KSPCB on air and noise pollution but had merely pointed out the notice issued by the jurisdictional GP for closure of the industry. The court on November 11, 2021, had stayed the closure notice, issued by the Padumarnad GP on October 30, 2021, based on the claim made by the petition that the panchayat had ordered closure of company’s paddy-processing unit on complaints from the public about pollution without taking the view from the KSPCB. The company is actually engaged in manufacture of padding processing equipment. The KSPCB, in its response sought by the court, had disclosed that the board had issued notice to the company on October 21, 2021 and the company had replied on November 4, and KSPCB had carried out an inspection on November 17. However, in the petition on November 10, 2021, the company had not disclosed initiation of action by the KSPCB by giving an impression that the panchayat had acted unilaterally without involving the board, which is the statutory body to assess allegation of pollution. The company had also to made the KSPCB as a party to the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-imposes-cost-on-private-company-for-polluting-stream-of-justice/article37989144.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP ‘suspects’ Cong. hand||The ruling BJP suggested in a tweet that the Opposition Congress had a role in the burning of Kannada flag in Kolhapur earlier and in the incident of defacement of the Shivaji statue in Bengaluru on Friday. “People of the State suspect the hands of Congress in these incidents,” said Karnataka BJP’s Twitter handle. The tweet carried a picture of Congress leader Zameer Ahmed with a man said to be a party activist, without citing any names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-suspects-cong-hand/article37989161.ece
19 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ticketless travellers penalised||In its drive against ticketless travel, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) conducted checks in its buses operated in the State and to neighbouring States. According to a KSRTC release, in November this year, the KSRTC vigilance squad checked as many as 44,577 buses and detected 3,095 cases of pilferage. The squad penalised 3,495 passengers for travelling without ticket, and collected a fine of Rs. 5,36,420. Disciplinary action has also been initiated against the erring staff, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ticketless-travellers-penalised/article37989146.ece
19 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Demand for Govt. support for SMEs||All India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru district committee, has expressed its support and solidarity with the issues raised by the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) of Peenya industrial area. M.D. Harigovind, General Secretary, AITUC, BDC, in a release said SMEs are struggling in the face of unprecedented price rise and lack of government support. “It is a known fact that the COVID lockdown has added to the miseries caused by demonetisation and GST. Many industries have shut down in Peenya,” he said. Mr. Harigovind urged the Government to offer support to the SMEs rather than pampering big corporate firms and indulging in crony capitalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-govt-support-for-smes/article37989151.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Omicron tally up to 14||Six new cases of Omicron have been detected in Karnataka on Saturday taking the total number of cases infected with the new variant to 14. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said five were found from two clusters in educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada. The sixth is of an international traveller who returned from the United Kingdom. Among the new patients, the UK returnee is an 18-year-old female, who arrived at KIA on December 10 and tested positive the same day, according to the Health Department. Double-vaccinated with a Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, she arrived with a negative RT-PCR report, the department said in a note. All the cluster cases were reported among girls of whom only one is fully vaccinated. According to DK district administration, four of the five cluster Omicron cases have recovered. Samples of 16 students from Navodaya Vidyalaya, where a cluster had been reported on November 10, were sent for genome sequencing on December 10. While the reports received on Saturday revealed that four were infected with Omicron, the four have already tested negative twice after 15 days of quarantine. Similarly, samples of 19 students of Srinivas Nursing College, where a cluster was reported on December 9, were sent for genome sequencing on December 10. Of these, one is positive for Omicron. New cases Karnataka on Saturday reported 335 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,02,127. With five deaths, the toll rose to 38,287. This is apart from 29 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-tally-up-to-14/article37989145.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Quarantine Watch to resume soon||The State Government - that has mandated a seven-day home quarantine for international arrivals from at-risk countries who test negative at the airport on arrival - is now planning to immediately restart home quarantine visits and the Quarantine Watch app. Munish Moudgil, who heads the State COVID-19 war room, said logistics for home quarantine visits are being worked out. “The Quarantine Watch app is running and will be used by those visiting people under home quarantine for monitoring compliance. They will be tested on the eighth day and if positive, will be shifted to a hospital and if negative their quarantine will end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quarantine-watch-to-resume-soon/article37989137.ece
19 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Address issues of NK during Winter session: Raita Sena||The members of the Raita Sena, Karnataka, have urged the Karnataka Government to raise and address the burning issues of North Karnataka during the ongoing Winter session of the legislature in Belagavi. Farmers, led by president of the sena Veeresh Sobaradmath, staged a protest outside the office of Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Ltd. in Dharwad on Saturday and demanded that priority should be on initiating works pertaining to utilisation of the share of waters allocated to Karnataka in the Mahadayi basin. Long-pending works Addressing the protesters, Veeresh Sobaradmath demandedthat the issue should be thoroughly discussed and steps taken to initiate the long-pending works. He said that the although Karnataka had received a share of 177 tmcft of water in the Krishna basin, the Government had not come up with projects to utilise the same and help farmers. Raita Sena would be forced to approach the court if no immediate action was taken by the Government, he said. He said the farmers were facing hardships as they were not getting remunerative price for the yield. Therefore MSP should be announced for all the crops and steps taken to prevent exploitation by middlemen, he said, adding that a permanent procurement centre should be opened in all APMCs so that farmers could sell their farm produce directly to the Government. Farmer leaders Gurappa Chouvaraddi, Mahesh Navalli, Dharmappa Somgoudar and others led the protest and demanded that steps should be taken immediately as per recommendations of D.M. Nanjundappa committee on regional imbalance and offices of government departments should be shifted immediately to the Suvarna Soudha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/address-issues-of-nk-during-winter-session-raita-sena/article37989315.ece
19 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vandalism in Belagavi: State DGP to speak to Maharashtra counterpart||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who strongly condemned acts of vandalism in Belagavi and desecration of statues in Belagavi and Bengaluru, said the Director General of Police of Karnataka would speak to his counterpart in Maharashtra about the safety of Kannadigas there. Speaking to presspersons in Belagavi on Saturday, the Chief Minister said: “The responsibility of maintaining law and order in the State is ours. Similarly, the Government of Maharashtra has to maintain law and order there.” This came in the wake of reports about vehicles from Karnataka and Kannadigas being targeted in Maharashtra. “Our Home Minister will also take up the issue with his counterpart in Maharashtra and if necessary, I will speak to the Chief Minister of Maharashtra,” he said. On Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s call that Marathas should unite, Mr. Bommai said that responsible people should not incite sentiments. “Chhatrapati Shivaji, Sangolli Rayanna, and Kittur Rani Chennamma fought against the British. We will be doing a disservice to them if we fight to divide society. Nobody should incite people to take law into their hands,” he said. Mr. Bommai said he had asked the Home Minister to take stern action against all those who had indulged in vandalism and that a thorough investigation would be carried out into the incident as it had happened when the legislature session was underway at Belagavi. He said he would ask the police to find a long-term solution to the recurring problem aimed at disturbing peace and harmony by inciting people and dividing them on the basis of language. Karnataka Border Struggle Committee headed by B.K.R. Rao Byndoor condemned burning of Kannada flag at Kolhapur in Maharashtra and the damage to the statue of Sangolli Rayanna in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vandalism-in-belagavi-state-dgp-to-speak-to-maharashtra-counterpart/article37989160.ece
19 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Crop loss: Action sought against insurance firms||Accusing two private general insurance companies of cheating farmers by not paying them crop loss compensation, the former Navalgund MLA N.H. Konaraddi has urged the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad to take action against them. On Saturday, Mr. Konaraddi submitted a memorandum addressed to the Deputy Commissioner in which he alleged that private insurance companies — Bharti Axa and ICICI Lombard — had not credited the crop loss compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana to the bank accounts of the beneficiary farmers. He said the companies had not paid the crop loss compensation for the years 2018–19 and 2020–21. Although they had filed a complaint against the insurance companies at Gokul Road Police Station in Hubballi, the police had not registered an FIR and asked him to file a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner, he said. The private general insurance companies had also not paid compensation to the tune of Rs. 36 crore to chilli growers of Navalgund who had suffered crop loss in 2016–17. Although the farmers had paid the crop insurance premium, there was inordinate delay in disbursing compensation, he said. Later, speaking to presspersons, Mr. Konaraddi, who switched sides from the JD(S) to the Congress recently, demanded a ban on the MES for its frequent attempts to disturb peace and bonhomie between Kannada and Marathi speaking people in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crop-loss-action-sought-against-insurance-firms/article37989313.ece
19 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four of five Omicron patients recover in DK||Four of the five persons who had been tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus have recovered from the infection in Dakshina Kannada. Report on the fifth person is expected in a couple of days, according to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. He said that 16 students of Navodaya Vidyalaya, Mudipu, tested positive on November 10. Later, the Government directed the Health Department to send the swab samples of old positive cases reported in November for genomic study. Hence the district administration sent the samples of same 16 students for study on December 10. In that the results confirmed on December 18 that four of the 16 had Omicron variant. Meanwhile, RT-PCR tests of all those students done a week ago returned negative. Hence the notification on containment zone was withdrawn on December 11. A team of Health Department personnel, led by District COVID-19 Nodal officer H. Ashok, visited the vidyalaya campus on Saturday and met the recovered students. They are all healthy and are regularly attending classes. Dr. Ashok said neither these students nor their parents had any travel history to Kerala or abroad. Similarly, the swab samples of 19 students of Srinivas Nursing College, Valachil, who were tested positive on December 9, were sent for genomic study on December 10. Of them, a student was found positive for Omicron. The student will be tested again on Sunday on the 10th day of quarantine, Dr. Rajendra said. The Deputy Commissioner said this student too had no travel history. She is healthy and has no COVID-19 symptoms now. One death Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts reported 25 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Dakshina Kannada reported 19 new cases and one death. After the discharge of eight patients, the district has 171 active cases and the test positivity rate was at 0.26%. Udupi district reported six new cases, of which four patients were from Udupi taluk and two were from Kundapur taluk. Following the discharge of four patients, the district has 30 active cases. As many as 7,267 people in Dakshina Kannada and 4,797 people in Udupi district were vaccinated on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-of-five-omicron-patients-recover-in-dk/article37989501.ece
19 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fish landing-cum-berthing basin for traditional boats to come up at Bengre||Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath initiated the work for the construction of the first fish landing-cum-berthing basin for traditional fishing boats at Bengre by laying the foundation stone for the project on Saturday. The basin will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.37 crore and it will come up on the either sides of the ferry point in Tota Bengre. It will cater to the needs of 150-odd fishermen from the city who use traditional boats. “You (traditional boat fishermen) have been demanding a basin for a long time. It will be ready in another 18 months,” Mr. Kamath said in his address during the function. Assistant Engineer, Fisheries Department, Manohar Acharya, said the basin would be 90-metre-long and 80-metre-wide. The river basin will be dredged by 2 metres to accommodate 150 boats. Two diaphragm walls each of length of 56 and 36 metres, respectively, will be constructed. Mr. Acharya said the project was sanctioned in 2018. It took time in getting clearance from the Coastal Regulatory Zone Authority and subsequently tenders were floated three times. The work order was issued in September 2021. Hovercraft issue Ajith Bengre, president of the Association of Traditional Boat Fishermen, said the traditional boat operators were facing a problem with frequent operation of Indian Coast Guard’s hovercraft on the river. Mr. Bengre said when hovercraft sails it generates waves of great intensity, which is causing damage to traditional boats which are closely berthed. “We have pointed out at this issue to the Coast Guard authorities and asked them to operate it with less speed. But the Coast Guards said they are helpless,” he said and asked the Fisheries Department to construct a breakwater for the basin that was being constructed. While asking the Fisheries Department to seek clearance for building the breakwater, Mr. Kamath said he would discuss with experts about the problem and arrange funds from the Government for its construction. Mr. Kamath later laid the foundation stone for the construction of a Skill Development Centre at the cost of Rs. 2 crore at Kasba Bengre. Women from minority communities would be trained in tailoring and computers at this centre, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fish-landing-cum-berthing-basin-for-traditional-boats-to-come-up-at-bengre/article37989493.ece
19 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yatri Nivas commissioned at Subrahmanya railway station||South Western Railway has commissioned the Yatri Nivas at Subrahmanya Road Railway Station, near Kukke Subrahmanya in Dakshina Kannada. It houses separate blocks for ladies, gents, and people with mobility issues. Railway passengers can use the toilets and bathing facilities at the Yatri Nivas for free before leaving for the temple. A dressing room and baby feeding facility are also available in the ladies’ waiting room. These facilities will go a long way in providing upgraded amenities for pilgrims reaching Kukke Subrahmanya by rail, Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railway, Mysuru Division, said on Saturday. The nivas was built to meet the needs of ever-growing pilgrim passengers at the station, he said. It is also the nearest railway station to the other prominent pilgrim centre of Dharmasthala.The station also witnesses continuous flow of pilgrims throughout the year from every nook and corner of the country. On auspicious occasions, the station caters to the needs of an extraordinary rush of traffic running into several thousands of passengers, a release from the Mysuru Division of the railway said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yatri-nivas-commissioned-at-subrahmanya-railway-station/article37989499.ece
19 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Committee to study feasibility of upgrading College of Fisheries as autonomous institute||The State Government is now exploring the option of upgrading the College of Fisheries here as an autonomous institute of fisheries research and technology. It has constituted an expert committee to submit it a report by analysing the pros and cons of carving the college from out of the Bidar-based Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (KVAFSU) to set up the institute. The seven-member committee is headed the Commissioner of theDepartment of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services. The Director of the Directorate of Fisheries is its member-secretary. The members of the committee are the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada, the Chief Executive Officer of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat, the Director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services, the Registrar of University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru, and the Joint Secretary in the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services. The Government issued an order constituting the committee on December 1, 2021. The committee will have to submit its report within three weeks, the order said. Earlier, stakeholders of the fisheries sector in the coastal belt had urged the Government to upgrade the more than a 50-year-old college as an independent university. They argued that marine fisheries contributed a major share in the fisheries sector. In such a scenario there is no point in keeping the college under the administrative control of the KVAFSU. If the college is made a university it would further help a large chunk of fishermen engaged in marine fisheries as the independent university can contribute more for research and development and it can impart skill training to fishermen to boost their economy. Mangaluru City Corporation council had passed a resolution in August 2021 seeking university status to the college. An agenda tabled in the council mentioned that the college established at Yekkur in 1969 was the first of its kind in Southeast Asia. Initially, the college was affiliated to the UAS, Bengaluru. It was brought under the KVAFS in 2005. Both the universities have not given due importance and priority to the college, it said. Meanwhile, on November 11, 2020, chairman of the Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation and president of Mangaluru Trawl Boat Fishermen’s Association Nitin Kumar and other stakeholders wrote to then Minister for Fisheries, Ports, and Inland Transport Kota Srinivas Poojary to prevail upon the Government to declare the college as a fisheries university. They urged the Government to declare the formation of the university on World Fishermen’s Day on November 21 itself. In a renewed appeal in this July, fishermen had launched a signature campaign pressing for their demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-to-study-feasibility-of-upgrading-college-of-fisheries-as-autonomous-institute/article37989497.ece
19 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Guest lecturer booked for sexually harassing student||The Shankaranarayana police in Udupi arrested a guest lecturer of a Government First Grade College for allegedly sexually harassing a 20-year-old student of the college. The police gave the name of the arrested person as Vignesh, 40. The police said the victim, a final year degree student, started getting unwanted messages from Vignesh from last year after online class sessions. Vignesh, a bachelor, was teaching History. The messages stopped after victim threatened Vignesh of reporting the same to the principal. Few days ago, Vignesh allegedly started following her on the college campus and reportedly asked her to marry him. He even reportedly threatened her against lodging a complaint. Compliant Following her compliant, the Shankaranarayana police arrested him for the offence punishable under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code. He was produced before the jurisdictional magistrate, who released Vignesh on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guest-lecturer-booked-for-sexually-harassing-student/article37989491.ece
19 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Charmadi Ghat: Curbs on movement of heavy vehicles||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has restricted the movement of heavy vehicles on the Charmadi Ghat from December 18 till further orders. It applies to bullet tankers, PIP cargo containers, long-chassis vehicles, heavy commercial vehicles, multi-axle trucks, truck trailers, and KSRTC Rajahamsa buses, an official release said. Other vehicles However, ordinary KSRTC buses, six-wheel lorries, four-wheelers, car, jeep, van, two-wheelers and other light motor vehicles can ply round the clock, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/charmadi-ghat-curbs-on-movement-of-heavy-vehicles/article37989495.ece
19 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Mescom will conduct a meeting of its consumers to address their grievances at its Talluru sub-division on December 23 from 10.30 a.m. to 12 noon. It will be on the virtual mode and also through phone. The link ishttps://meet.google.com/ woj-frki-cmg. Phone 08254-238031.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37989489.ece
19 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Protests in Mysuru over damage to Sangolli Rayanna statue||A protest was held in Mysuru on Saturday to condemn the damage caused to a statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna in Belagavi. People gathered near the Law Court complex under the aegis of Sangolli Rayana Fans Association and Kuruba Sanghas to voice their protest. They sought action against the vandals. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who was in Mysuru on Saturday, to participate in a programme to inaugurate the Hanuman Temple at Ganapathy Sachchidananda Swamy Ashram, said the act of vandalism was unacceptable and called for strict action against the alleged perpetrators. He called upon the authorities to immediately arrest the persons responsible for the act. He said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had already promised to act in the matter and assured to raise the issue in the ongoing session of the State Legislature in Belagavi. Yuva Janata Dal (S) activists gathered at the bust of Mahatma Gandhi in front of Law court complex in Mysuru on Saturday evening to voice their anger against not only the damage caused to Sangolli Rayanna’s statue, but also stoning cars and buses belonging to the State. H.A. Venkatesh, spokesperson of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), in a statement, has called upon the authorities to immediately arrest the “anti-nationals”, who had disfigured the statue of Sangolli Rayanna, and take action. Describing Sangolli Rayanna as a “patriot and freedom fighter”, who fought against the British, Mr. Venkatesh called upon the government to repair the statue and ensure it receives proper protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protests-in-mysuru-over-damage-to-sangolli-rayanna-statue/article37989324.ece
19 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat reunites 25 estranged couples in Mysuru||The Mega Lok Adalat programme held in Mysuru on Saturday has helped reunite 25 estranged couples. The couples, who had applied for divorce, were counselled and reunited. The couples, most of whom turned emotional, exchanged sweets while wiping their tears on the occasion. Principal District and Sessions Court Judge M.L. Raghunath and other judges were present during the Lok Adalat held at the Malalavadi court complex in Mysuru. Birth certificates The Lok Adalat also saw the issue of an estimated 7,000 birth certificates. A decision had been taken to facilitate the issue of birth certificates during the Lok Adalat after the Mysuru District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) had found that thousands of school children in the district, mostly in rural areas, did not possess them. The DLSA had distributed application forms in schools for issue of birth certificates to students who did not possess them. The application forms, filled up by the parents, were collected and notices issued to the jurisdictional birth and deaths registration officers for action. The reunion of the couples and issue of birth certificates were among the estimated 52,000 cases, which were resolved as part of the Lok Adalat that was held simultaneously across several court halls in Mysuru city and the district. Others included motor vehicle accident cases, cheque bouncecases registered under the Negotiable Instruments Act, those related to land acquisition, marital and domestic disputes, compoundable criminal cases, partition suits, and injunction suits. Pre-litigatioin The cases considered included not only pending ones, but also pre-litigation cases with the DSLA carrying out a legal awareness programme in different parts of the district calling upon the litigants to resolve their disputes through mediation, counselling and conciliation.  The couples, most of whom turned emotional, exchanged sweets The Lok Adalat also saw the issue of an estimated 7,000 birth certificates Motor vehicle accident cases, cheque bounce cases registered under the Negotiable Instruments Act, those related to land acquisition, marital and domestic disputes, compoundable criminal cases, partition suits, and injunction suits were also handled||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lok-adalat-reunites-25-estranged-couples-in-mysuru/article37989322.ece
19 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Handloom expo at JSS Urban Haat||A handloom expo featuring exhibition and sale of handloom products from across the country got underway at the JSS Urban Haat on the outskirts of the city on Saturday. The exhibition is being conducted by Ministry of Textiles, Government of India, Cauvery Handlooms, Bengaluru and the Department of Handloom & Textile & Commerce, Government of Karnataka in association with JSS Mysore Urban Haat. A release said the exhibition will be on till January 2, 2022 and more than 60 weavers and weavers’ societies from across the country will be participating in it. The handloom wares on exhibition and sale include materials from Kancheepuram, Molkalmuru, Jaipur, Bhagalpur etc., apart from dress materials from Kashmir, Bengal, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat. The organisers said the sale proceeds will help the artisan community directly. For the benefit of the people of Mysuru, KSRTC has a bus service (No.117) to provide for transportation. The exhibition will be open from 10.30 a.m. to 9 p.m. on all the days, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/handloom-expo-at-jss-urban-haat/article37989505.ece
19 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA reclaims over 5 acres of land, after court order||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) reclaimed a large swathe of land valued at over Rs. 100 crore in an early morning operation on Saturday. The land at Basavanahalli Survey number 118 in Vijayanagar 4th stage measured 5 acres and 14 guntas and the operations to reclaim it was consequent to a court order in MUDA’s favour. The authorities said the land was acquired by the MUDA in 1991 for layout formation and plot development and compensation was awarded to the land owners. But one of the land owners approached the court and the proceedings prolonged and in a recent order the court ruled in favour of MUDA. The operation commenced at 6 a.m. and a strong posse of police provided security to prevent any untoward incident. The authorities demolished a few temporary structures that were built on the land and installed a board proclaiming that the property belonged to the MUDA. With the reclaimed land, the MUDA can develop 47 sites of various dimensions including 11 plots of 50×80 ft and 36 plots of 40×60 ft, according to the authorities. MUDA Commissioner D..B Natesh, Superintendent Engineer Shankar, Land Acquisition Officer Harshavardhan, executive engineers and zonal officers were present. Meanwhile, MUDA Chairman H.V.Rajeev said that there was nearly 80 acres of land which have been acquired by the authority and even the compensation has been paid but is mired in legal dispute over the amount. However, there is clarity following the Supreme Court order on Section 24 of the Land Acquisition Act as per which land acquisition will not be void in case the State makes the award or payment and neither can settled issues be reopened or revived over compensation. “As the MUDA has offered compensation in most of the cases we expect the verdict to go in our favour and more tranche of land mired in legal dispute will revert to MUDA’’, Mr.Rajeev added. MUDA is strapped of both cash and land and the last major acquisition was over 20 years ago during the formation of R.T.Nagar, Lalitadri Nagar and a few other layouts. Subsequently, the MUDA has tried to adopt the 50:50 concept instead of acquisition but has not been successful. An attempt was made at Balahalli but it is mired in controversy and hence the MUDA is now opting for vertical growth. Mr. Rajeev said a site and land audit will be conducted so as to assess the extent of land in MUDA’s possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-reclaims-over-5-acres-of-land-after-court-order/article37989320.ece
19 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Scholarship for clearing ornithology course||Minds United Trust, Mysuru, has decided to offer scholarships to individuals from Mysuru, Mandya and Chamarajanagar, who will sign up for a basic course in ornithology and clear the examination. The Minds United Trust also known as Minds United for Health Sciences and Humanity, a registered public charitable trust, which has been contributing to nature conservation and awareness through various initiatives, is now keen on encouraging individuals to expand their knowledge about birds with a course in ornithology. A free basic course in ornithology has been introduced as part of SWAYAM, the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL), a project of Government of India, said a statement by Minds United Trust. The 12-week course - https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc22_ge10/preview - introduces enthusiasts to scientific study of birds. It is scheduled to start from January 24, 2022. Although the course is free, a certificate will be issued upon writing an exam by paying a fee of Rs. 1,000. “MINDS UNITED TRUST, as an encouragement towards nature conservation and awareness, has decided to offer 20 Scholarships to interested people from districts of Mysuru- Mandya - Chamarajnagar for this course”, said a statement. Each candidate has to sign up for the certified course and clear the exam. The scholarship is specifically for young people in the age group of 18 to 30 years. Interested candidates are requested to email mustenrich@gmail.com with brief statement of purpose (why I wish to apply for the scholarship on Ornithology) and background details (name, age, education, contact details - phone number and email, Aadhar number etc.,). A copy of the candidate’s Aadhar card has to be attached, said the statement. Rs. 1,000 in the form of cheque will be handed over only to selected candidates who submit the Certificate of Passing exams to the trust. The last date to receive applications is January 15, 2022. For queries, interested persons can contact Vaishnavi R. Kanzal on mobile number 6360804814 between 6 p.m. - 8 p.m.  Course has been introduced as part of SWAYAM, the National Programme on Technology Enabled Learning (NPTEL), a project of the Central Government Although the course is free, a certificate will be issued upon writing an exam by paying a fee of Rs. 1,000 20 scholarships available for people from districts of Mysuru, Mandya and Chamarajanagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scholarship-for-clearing-ornithology-course/article37989506.ece
19 December 2021||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Action taken against 57 panchayat employees in Yadgir in two years||Disciplinary action had been initiated against 57 employees, including panchayat development officers (PDOs) and secretaries, on various charges in two years in Yadgir district. In a press release, Shilpa Sharma, Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat, on Saturday said that of the 57 employees, 34 had been placed under suspension. Of the suspended, 16 are PDOs, four (grade-1) secretaries, six (grade-2) secretaries, three junior engineers, and one each first division assistant, second division accounts assistant, data entry operator-cum-clerk, tax collector, and second division assistant. Ms. Sharma said that a penalty was imposed against six PDOs, three JEs, and two executive officers. Departmental inquiry had been conducted against four PDOs and eight outsourced employees had been dismissed for misconduct and inefficiency in discharging duty, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-taken-against-57-panchayat-employees-in-yadgir-in-two-years/article37989318.ece
19 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Training for ASHAs on MDA||V.M. Patil, Shahapur taluk Supervisor of Directorate of National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), has appealed to the public to take diethylcarbamazine (DCE), Ivermectin (IVM), and Albendazole (Albenza) tablets to prevent the spread of elephantiasis. He was speaking at a training for ASHA workers for Mass Drug Administration (MDA) held at Wanadurga village in Shahapur taluk of Yadgir district recently. The MDA drive will be held from January 5 to 14. Dr. Patil said the Central Government had introduced various programmes on the administration of tablets against elephantiasis and therefore, the Health Department aimed to distribute the tablets through ASHA workers for free. “The general public should take the tablets without any fear of side-effect,” he said. Vasudha Kulkarni, doctor, said children below the age two, pregnant women, and persons suffering from long-term illness related to kidney and heart should not consume the tablets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-for-ashas-on-mda/article37989326.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders in Belagavi||According to complainant Shivaraj Holimath, president of Sangolli Rayanna Sene, the fibre glass statue which was kept in the verandah of his house and which was used for processions on Sangolli Rayanna Jayanti and Durga Mata Doud, was damaged by a group of miscreants, who escaped after he raised an alarm. The statue has been shifted to Tilakawadi police station and a contingent of reserve police personnel posted. So far three cases have been registered at Camp Khade Bazaar and Market police stations in Belagavi connection with incidents of stone pelting and damage to vehicles in different places and desecration of the statue. In all 27 accused have been arrested. Additional contingents of police and reserve police have been deployed in sensitive areas. Belagavi Police Commissioner K. Thyagarajan, who imposed prohibitory orders for a day initially (till Sunday 6 a.m.), subsequently extended it till Monday morning considering the tense situation. However, amid the prohibitory orders, even as members of Kannada organisations staged a protest seeking action against the accused, some MES office-bearers gathered at Shivaji Maharaj Park at Shahapur in Belagavi. After an altercation with the police, they managed to enter the premises and offer puja to the statue. The police eventually managed to disperse the crowd, which also sought release of persons arrested by the police. While Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra stated that no one would be spared, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and others took to Twitter to term the desecration of statues of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna as “unpardonable acts” and demanded strict action against the vandals. The leaders condemned desecrating statues of national heroes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prohibitory-orders-in-belagavi/article37989159.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Under watch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/under-watch/article37989165.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Yakshangana: Talamaddale Ganga Sarathya, University College, 2.30 p.m.; presenting of Yakshangana honorary award to Pathala Venkatramana Bhat, 5.30 p.m.; talamaddale Ma Nishada, 6.30 p.m.  Bharatiya Janata Party: Nalin Kumar Kateel, Member of Parliament and State BJP president, inaugurates various programmes of the cultural cell of the party, Yakshagana Sri Krishna Vijaya, Town Hall, 9 a.m. onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37989490.ece
19 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Man stabs friend to death at Puthuppally||A 39-year-old man was stabbed to death at Puthuppally, near Kayamkulam, on Friday night. According to the Kayamkulam police, the deceased was identified as Harikrishnan of Puthuppally. The police have taken Jomon, a friend of the deceased, into custody in connection with the case. The police said the incident happened around 11.30 p.m. during celebrations marking the wedding anniversary of Jomon. “The celebrations were arranged at the house of Jomon’s wife. He had an altercation with his mother-in-law and Harikrishnan questioned it. It snowballed into a scuffle and Jomon attacked Harikrishnan with a weapon,” said an official. Though Harikrishnan was taken to a hospital, his life could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-stabs-friend-to-death-at-puthuppally/article37989467.ece
19 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Clean-up drive on Alappuzha beaches today||National Cadets Corps (NCC) members of the 11 Kerala battalion will organise a cleaning drive on the Alappuzha beach on Sunday. NCC cadets from various colleges in the district will join the initiative. The drive is part of a campaign to free coastlines of the State of plastic waste. Similar clean-up drives will be held on other beaches in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clean-up-drive-on-alappuzha-beaches-today/article37989468.ece
19 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Meet on Kuttanad on Dec. 22||A high-level meeting to chalk out measures to reduce flooding in Kuttanad and to ensure the overall development of the region will be held at the Rice Research Station, Mankombu, on December 22. The meeting will be attended by Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad, Revenue Minister K. Rajan, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, among others. Permanent solution Mr. Cherian said the meeting would discuss various measures to find a permanent solution to flooding in Kuttanad during the monsoon season. Issues related to the implementation of the Kuttanad package, waterlogging caused by high tide in low-lying areas of Kuttanad, Aroor and Cherthala and progress of various development projects in Kuttanad are on the agenda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-on-kuttanad-on-dec-22/article37989463.ece
19 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||SDPI leader injured in attack||Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) State secretary Shan K.S. sustained serious injuries after being attacked by an unidentified gang at Ponnad, under the Mannancherry police station limits, on Saturday around 7.30 p.m. He was hospitalised with multiple fractures and head injury. “Shan was riding a motorcycle when a car rear-ended his two-wheeler. A group of persons came out of the car and attacked him with iron rods,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sdpi-leader-injured-in-attack/article37989441.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||If Bar becomes corrupt, Bench will collapse: HC||“If the Bar, which is the source for the Bench, becomes criminalised and corrupt, the Bench will get only bad apples. That will be the last nail in the coffin of democracy. There is no point in ruing thereafter that the judiciary has collapsed,” the Madras High Court observed on Friday after expressing deep concern over 263 criminal cases having been booked against advocates between January and April this year. Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha made the observations while finding lawyer R. Krishnamurthy guilty of contempt of court. The advocate had circulated an audio message on WhatsApp threatening Justice M. Dhandapani for having condemned the way in which a woman lawyer and her daughter, a law student, had behaved rudely with the police when they were questioned for roaming around in Chennai during COVID-19 lockdown. “All judges, right from a Magistrate to judges of the Supreme Court, including us, have come from the Bar and have not descended from the heavens nor have been imported from other countries. We are, therefore, grateful to the institution called the Bar, which has catapulted us to various judicial offices. We look upon the Bar as an independent and fearless body that would protect the judiciary when the judiciary is vilified and targeted by others,” the Bench wrote. “However, when we come across members of the Bar getting involved in unsavoury incidents, our paternal instinct is bound to make us exhibit our anguish and concern publicly. Statistics show that 263 criminal cases have been registered against advocates in the State between January and April, 2021. It is also unfortunate that Bar leaders tend to play God by readily going to the rescue of errant advocates who involve themselves in breaking the institution from inside,” it added. No sympathy Observing that the contemnor does not deserve mercy for his conduct unbecoming of a lawyer, the Bench wrote: “If the respondent had not been an advocate, then, we could be sympathetic to some extent. We usually extend the longest of our olive branches to disgruntled litigants who attack judges off and on... To be noted, advocates may be proximate to Judges, but, that does not lead to the inference that they are proximate to justice.” The judges found him guilty of having scandalised the court by stating in the video that he had sent a representation to the Chief Justice with a request to shift the hearing of an anticipatory bail petition filed by the woman lawyer and her daughter from Justice Dhandapani to some other “honest and honourable” judge. They also found him guilty of having interfered with administration of justice and imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 for each of the two charges. In default, he was ordered to undergo simple imprisonment for one week for each default. They also ordered that the lawyer should not practice in the High Court for a period of one year and marked a copy of their order to the Bar Council of Kerala, where he had got enrolled himself, and also to the Supreme Court Bar Association for taking appropriate action in accordance with law since he had also claimed to be practising in the Supreme Court too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/if-bar-becomes-corrupt-bench-will-collapse-says-madras-hc/article37989428.ece
19 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Fresh pug marks of tiger spotted||Tension prevailed at Mananthavady in Wayanad on Saturday after a group of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) workers detained officials of the North Wayanad divisional forest office seeking withdrawal of cases registered against Vipin Venugopal, a councillor of the Mananthavady municipality, in connection with a scuffle between forest officials and a group of people on Friday. The police registered cases against the councillor on a complaint by Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary warden S. Narendra Babu after he was allegedly attacked by Mr. Venugopal while he was on duty. The police also registered a case against a front-line forest staff on Saturday on a complaint by Akhil Krishna of the Pulikkal Paniya tribal hamlet. Akhil claimed the official attacked him during the scuffle and called him by his caste name. Later, O.R. Kelu, MLA, held a discussion with the leaders of the protest and assured them of steps to solve the issues amicably. Meanwhile, the task force constituted to capture the tiger, which had triggered panic at Kurkkanmoola after reportedly killing 16 domestic animals, could not be spotted on the 18th day on Saturday. “Although we could not sight the animal after a comprehensive combing of the Koliyottu reserve forest under the North Wayanad forest division and a piece of forestland of the adjacent Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, fresh pug marks were found on the fringes of the reserve forest by evening,” Mr. Babu said. Chief Wildlife Warden Bennichen Thomas, camping in Wayanad to coordinate search operations, held a review meeting with officials in the evening and discussed new strategies to capture the big cat. “We expect the tiger to reach Kurukkanmoola in the night to prey on cattle as the animal did not make any attempt to lift domestic animals in the past two days,” North Wayanad divisional forest officer Ramesh Bishnoi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-pug-marks-of-tiger-spotted/article37989426.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Over a year after its ambitious launch, KMTA left in the lurch||The Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), the first of its kind in the country with legislative backing, is struggling to stay afloat, 13 months after its inauguration. The authority was expected to act as an umbrella agency to streamline parking, integrate commuting modes, and usher in route rationalisation of buses in the Greater Kochi area. The situation is attributed mainly to the Finance Department not taking a call on appointing economists and experts in transport, urban planning and related fields in the body. KMTA, which was vested with wide-ranging powers to plan, coordinate and supervise transport-related matters that affect a population of over a million, is left with just a managing director and two technical experts, ever since its launch on November 1, 2020. This has also resulted in much of the office space that was taken on Rs. 80,000 monthly rent, remaining vacant. “The agency has not been able to implement decisions taken at two director board meetings chaired by the Minister for Transport. The decisions include formation of committees comprising personnel from departments like the Motor Vehicles Department as well as the Kochi Corporation, bus route rationalisation, finalising a parking policy, implementing a full-fledged open mobility network, and permitting entry of buses from Goshree Islands into the city,” sources said. The Finance Department is dilly-dallying in appointing 21 technical experts that the KMTA had sought, they added. The authority is learnt to have recommended to the Finance department to employ technical experts on contract basis. Its managing director Shanavas S. spoke of how NGOs with expertise in streamlining and integrating public transport are engaged in developing software to digitise the time schedule of buses that operate in the Greater-Kochi area. “They are doing it free of cost. On its part, the Regional Transport Authority too ought to take a call on permitting entry of Goshree buses into city routes, based on route rationalisation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-a-year-after-its-ambitious-launch-kmta-left-in-the-lurch/article37989431.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to adopt aerobic composting||Aerobic composting and community composting hold the key to addressing garbage treatment problems at the local level in a simplified manner, former Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said. Bio bins too must be made optimal use of. Above all, workers engaged in collecting and treating garbage must be given their due respect and remuneration. Their standard of life too must improve, he said on Saturday, while inaugurating HEAL (Health Environment Agriculture Environment), a model scheme to ensure cleanliness and scientific processing of garbage in a decentralised manner, which has been rolled out by the Kochi Corporation. It aims to sort and collect garbage from homes and convert bio-degradable waste into manure in Corporation divisions. Mr. Isaac said sorting garbage at the decentralised level held the key to its scientific processing. Each locale must have a protocol to ensure that household and other garbage is scientifically treated. In addition, children must be roped in, since they brim with energy and creative ideas. Schools can give them science projects like composting. “Kochi can even find a place in UNESCO’s creatively developed spaces, if artists and designers are roped in to ensure cleanliness of the city. The city must have a road that is a ‘green corridor’. In addition, buildings constructed using green technology must be given tax sops,” he added. Mayor M. Anilkumar said efforts were on to convert the stretch from Abraham Madamakkal Road to DH Ground into a green/heritage corridor. The Mayor expressed concern at many families not opting for the services of door-to-door garbage collectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-adopt-aerobic-composting/article37989436.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lakshadweep tourism official held, granted bail||Hussain Manikfan, Assistant Director of Lakshadweep Tourism, was arrested on Friday night by the Lakshadweep Police following a Facebook post in which he said that only two of the total seven ships that link the isles with the mainland were operating, with the result that the islanders were in distress. He was granted bail by the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Androth, which termed the arrest “misuse of power”. The police had charged him under non-bailable provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). His FB post read: “Only 2 of the 7 ships are running and people are going through hell. In a skewed logic, this will be a justification for not requiring more ships.” He further mentioned that the ships could be made operational in no time, if there was will. The comments came in the wake of the alleged delay in towing a ship, m.v. Kavaratti , whose engine room was damaged in a fire a fortnight ago, to Kochi, for repairs and generally the wholly “inadequate” number of services to mainland Kerala. Constructive criticism Mr. Manikfan’s counsel Adv. P.K. Saleem said the FB post was well within the freedom of speech assured by the Indian Constitution. Government employees too enjoy the same freedom to engage in constructive criticism. The ships under the Ports Department of the Lakshadweep Administration are operated by the Lakshadweep Development Corporation. With most of them not operating, people who want to sail to Kerala for medical and other reasons are left in the lurch, he added. ‘Peace not affected’ On the police arresting him under Section 505 (2) and 505 (1)(b) of the IPC, he said the FB post did not in any way affect public tranquillity, especially so since the isles have remained peaceful, (five days) after the post. “The Supreme Court had repeatedly and categorically stated that none should take offence to constructive criticism. That is the reason why the court termed the arrest as “misuse of power”, more so since it was carried out in the middle of the night. Mr. Manikfan had to be hospitalised soon after his arrest, after his health condition deteriorated. He has only three more years to retire from service, it is learnt.  Official charged under non-bailable provisions, court terms arrest ‘misuse of power’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lakshadweep-tourism-official-arrested/article37989434.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Quarantine made mandatory for overseas travellers||People coming from abroad, irrespective of those arriving from ‘high-risk’ nations, should undergo 14 days of self-monitoring, according to Jafar Malik, District Collector. The decision comes in the wake of a person, who came from Congo, getting infected by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. Mr. Malik said those returning from abroad should avoid visiting public places and functions. Besides the person who came from Congo, two others who arrived at the Cochin International Airport from the UAE were also infected by the Omicron variant. Incidentally, both the countries had not figured in the list of high-risk nations. The district administration said high vigil was required to contain the spread of the disease. COVID-19 tests are conducted for those coming from high-risk nations. They are allowed to go home only after confirming that the results are negative. They need to remain in quarantine for seven days. Tests should be done again on the eighth day. They should continue to remain in quarantine for seven more days, even if the results are negative. Random tests are held for those coming from countries not figuring in the high-risk category. Hence, they should ensure self-monitoring for two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-made-mandatory-for-overseas-travellers/article37989439.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cricketers relive memories of 1983||Kapil Dev, captain of the Indian cricket team which brought home the 1983 Cricket World Cup (the Prudential Cup), and teammate Krishnamachari Srikkanth relived their memories of the match that created sporting history. “The one thing that led to the victory was Kapil’s self-belief when the rest of us thought he was mad,” reminisced Mr. Srikkanth. He was speaking at an event here in connection with the film 83 , inspired by that victory. The film, for Kapil Dev, who also attended, “was reliving our life of those times.” Also present were actors Ranveer Singh and Prithviraj Sukumaran and director Kabir Khan. “The World Cup win was not just a sporting victory but a lesson of what India could achieve,” Prithviraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cricketers-relive-memories-of-1983/article37989433.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Moolampilly evictees’ wait for link road ends||A wait of 14 years for a link road less than a kilometre long may sound outrageous. But that is exactly how long 13 families uprooted from Moolampilly for the rail and road connectivity for the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal had to wait for the critical link road to their rehabilitation plots. District panchayat member Elzy George will inaugurate the road on Sunday at 10.30 a.m. The link road will connect the riverside rehabilitation plots located at a depth of nearly 8 feet to the nearby bridge on Container Terminal Road. The critical gap in access has been posing a major hurdle to the evictees in bringing construction materials to the plots and has remained unaddressed despite inspections by several officials, said a release issued by Moolampilly Coordination Committee. About five members from the 13 families had died without benefiting from rehabilitation owing to this lacunae. It was in February 2008 that 22 families were forcibly evicted from their homes at Moolampilly, and the government of the time was forced to declare a rehabilitation package in the face of a strong protest. The package guaranteed drainage and power, water, and road connectivity to the plots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moolampilly-evictees-wait-for-link-road-ends/article37989437.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held with brown sugar||The police arrested two persons with 2.590 grams of brown sugar from Brahmapuram on Saturday. Rameez Udheen, 23, and Inal Haq, 26, both from Assam, reportedly sold the drug to migrant workers. The seizure was made in a joint operation by the Infopark police and a special operation group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-with-brown-sugar/article37989440.ece
19 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||INS Shardul escorts m.v. Kavaratti to Kochi||INS Shardul, warship based at the Southern Naval Command, escorted m.v. Kavaratti, the Lakshadweep administration’s passenger ship, which got stranded off Androth following a fire incident, to Kochi for repairs. The fire on November 30 had damaged the ship’s starboard engine room. On receiving the Lakshadweep administration’s request, the Navy dispatched INS Shardul with a team of experts. The team, along with Officer-in-Charge Naval Detachment Androth Lieutenant Commander Bishnu C. Panda embarked m.v. Kavaratti on Friday and undertook a detailed assessment of the damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ship-towed/article37989421.ece
19 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||ICAME’21 concludes||ICAME’21, a three-day international conference on aerospace and mechanical engineering, organised by the Department of Mechanical Engineering, TKM College of Engineering, on the theme ‘Facing the future, growth through sustainability' concluded here on Saturday S Kasthurirenga, former chairman, Centre of Cryogenics, IISc, Bengaluru, and Professor emeritus at the Department of Mechanical Engineering, TKMCE, inaugurated the valedictory function. Alex P. James, associate dean (academics), Digital University of Kerala, was the guest of honour, a pressnote said. The function was presided over by N.K. Mohammed Sajid, head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/icame21-concludes/article37989464.ece
19 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bird culling operation concludes in Kottayam||In an operation that extended over four days without a break, 33,934 ducks were culled across four villages of Kottayam in connection with a fresh outbreak of bird flu. Officials said here on Saturday that the operation culminated with the culling of 7,317 birds at Kattamada in Vechur grama panchayat on Friday midnight. The culling operations were followed by a disinfection drive across duck farms in the region on Saturday. The entire operation was jointly carried out by the Animal Husbandry, Health and the Local Self-Governments departments. A few days ago, authorities had confirmed the presence of a highly pathogenic avian influenza virus in the region. Following the finding, a blanket ban on the movement of poultry, including duck, chicken, quail and other domestic birds, in the one km radius of the infected areas has been imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bird-culling-operation-concludes-in-kottayam/article37989469.ece
19 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Fire at Kottayam medical college||Garbage piled-up on the premises of the Government Medical College here caught fire on Saturday. According to officials, the fire broke out around 2 p.m. and was first noticed by sanitation workers at the location. By the time a Fire and Rescue Services unit reached the spot, the flames spread out to more areas, sending massive plumes of thick, black smoke in the air. Though no injuries were reported, the belongings of some of the sanitation workers were destroyed in the fire. The blaze was brought under control a few hours later. Preliminary probe attributed the flames to an electric short circuit at the garbage separation centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-at-kottayam-medical-college/article37989470.ece
19 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU staff association||The 37th annual meeting of the Mahatma Gandhi University Employees Association has elected Sreeni K.P. and Majeed V.P. respectively as president and secretary of the organisation. Joseph Abraham, Rajesh Kumar K.T., Swapna A., Anoop S. are the new vice presidents. The meeting has also elected Rakesh M. and Chithra Chandran as the treasurers, along with a 24-member executive committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-staff-association/article37989475.ece
19 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity panel to study court order ahead of polls||The authorities at the University of Calicut are expected to hold detailed talks on the implications of a Kerala High Court verdict on the voting rights of university union councillors (UUC) in self-financing colleges ahead of holding students’ union polls in affiliated colleges in February-end. The court in February 2020 had struck down an amendment made by the Syndicate to the university union election bylaws after a section of UUCs from self-financing colleges claimed in a petition that it curtailed their right to choose university union functionaries. A Syndicate sub-committee involving Tom K. Thomas, Shamsad Hussain, and K.P. Vinod Kumar has been formed now to discuss the implications of the court order, as also to hold talks with various student organisations. The Syndicate had in December 2019 amended the election bylaws to carve out an executive council from the general council of the university union. Only members of this council were given voting rights to pick university union functionaries. All the UUCs from aided and government colleges, university departments, and university study centres were to be its members. Only one-third of the UUCs from self-financing colleges, however, were made part of it. The UUCs elected from self-financing colleges said in their petition before the court that they were denied their rights to choose university union functionaries. They also claimed that it was a violation of the Lyngdoh Commission Report approved by the Supreme Court. In its order, the court pointed out that the changes made in the bylaws were not legally sustainable, as the 2019-20 college union polls had already been held. The court ordered that the university union elections be held in accordance with the unamended bylaws, and that the office-bearers of the university union be chosen from members of the general council. Opposition students’ organisations such as the Kerala Students Union and the Muslim Students Federation had claimed that the voting rights of around 290 UUCs had been curtailed by the amendment. They had also decided to boycott the university union elections. However, the pandemic struck by then, and the elections were not held in 2020 and 2021. Mr. Thomas told The Hindu on Saturday that the manual for college union elections was formed in 1968 when the university had only 15 affiliated colleges. There were no self-financing colleges. Right now, there are 404 affiliated colleges, including those in the self-financing sector. Some of these self-financing colleges have only between 100 and 300 students. Giving equal voting rights to the UUCs from these colleges and government and aided colleges that have over 1,000 students could be a mockery of democracy. “The sub-committee will discuss whether to go by the old manual or devise a new format for the polls,” Mr. Thomas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-panel-to-study-court-order-ahead-of-polls/article37989411.ece
19 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||At Niyukthi fair, about 6,000 youngsters find employment||The Niyukthi job fest organised by the National Employment Services at the Government Engineering College in Kozhikode on Saturday drew the participation of thousands of unemployed youths from various parts of the district. Recruiters representing 105 prominent companies took part in the fest and shortlisted candidates for various vacancies. Fest coordinators said recruitment was made to fill nearly 6,000 vacancies. The majority of the recruiters were in search of candidates trained in professional marketing. There were 20 IT companies and 20 automobile companies that absorbed a large number of qualified candidates for various positions.  e-exchanges Opening the fest, Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas said the State government was continuing with its efforts to convert employment exchanges into electronic exchanges to create more job opportunities. He said many prominent employers on digital platforms had agreed to sign memoranda of understanding with the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council to support job seekers. According to Mr. Riyas, start-up initiatives supported by the State government had generated employment for 35,000 educated youths in Kerala. Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, presided over the inaugural event. District Employment Officer P. Rajeevan presented the project report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-niyukthi-fair-about-6000-youngsters-find-employment/article37989423.ece
19 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Modular toilets to be futuristic and user-friendly||Less than a decade after their much-hyped appearance in the city, e-toilets are bidding farewell to Kozhikode. They will be replaced by the more convenient and effective modular toilets. The Kozhikode Corporation Council on Wednesday decided to dismantle e-toilets set up in 15 locations in the city, as they are rusting away due to disuse. Women’s protest It was following a prolonged protest by women in 2010 demanding safe toilets in public spaces that e-toilets were set up in the city. In fact, Kozhikode was the first city in the State to set up the facility. Incidentally, patronage for the facility was poor right from the beginning, as women were reluctant to use them, as they feared getting trapped inside. E-toilets could be accessed using coins. But there were instances where the users had got trapped inside with the signal going wrong. The placement of e-toilets in open spaces also discouraged women from using them. The firm that set up e-toilets ultimately blamed the Corporation for not providing water for use in them. In 2014, a few women’s organisations had filed a complaint with the Ombudsman for Local Self-Governance about the deplorable condition of e-toilets. The next year, the Ombudsman ordered the Corporation to ensure their smooth operation. But no action was taken even as the e-toilet modules fell into disuse. No safety issues Now, the Corporation is planning to replace them with modular toilets, which may look similar in appearance but are quite different in function. They are normal toilets in a sophisticated setting. “A sample modular toilet has been set up on an experimental basis. We will set up more provided it proves useful,” the Mayor had said. Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini said modular toilets had no safety issues. However, the civic body is yet to invite expressions of interest for setting up the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modular-toilets-to-be-futuristic-and-user-friendly/article37989408.ece
19 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘SilverLine will double per capita debt’||The proposed semi-high-speed SilverLine project will double the per-capita debt of each citizen in Kerala, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, has said. He was opening a protest against the project outside the Kozhikode District Collectorate on Saturday. The United Democratic Front (UDF) organised similar events in all district centres. Mr. Kunhalikutty said every Malayali was already bearing the burden of high debt, which increased exponentially during the tenure of the previous Left Democratic Front government. With the SilverLine project, it would go up again. “We are not against the project, we never said that it is not required. But, we are not convinced about its implementation. People are not convinced,” he said. The IUML leader asked what studies had been done to gauge its economic as well as ecological feasibility. The government had not been able to present a clear picture even in the Assembly. “That the SilverLine project will break the ecological balance of the State is being pointed out even by pro-Left environmental organisations. Where is the raw material going to come from? The people who are supporting it are the same ones who once claimed that a high-speed expressway proposed by us would divide the State into two,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-will-double-per-capita-debt/article37989410.ece
19 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Petrol attack: suspect succumbs to burns||Nandu Mohan, the suspect in the Thikkodi petrol attack case, succumbed to burns at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Saturday morning. The 28-year-old, who allegedly set ablaze his friend Krishnapriya Manoj on Friday by pouring petrol on her, suffered fourth degree burns in an attempt to immolate self. The police said the youths were neighbours and known to each other for many years. Krishnapriya died on Friday at hospital. The girl was attacked by the youth as she reportedly rejected his marriage proposal and denied to cooperate with his plans. There was also an argument between the two near the Thikkodi panchayat office where the attack took place around 10 a.m., the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petrol-attack-suspect-succumbs-to-burns/article37989450.ece
19 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CM to open CPI(M) meet in Kozhikode on Jan. 10||The three-day district conference of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will be held at Samudra Auditorium, West Hill, Kozhikode city, from January 10. Party district secretary P. Mohanan said here on Saturday that Chief Minister and CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Pinarayi Vijayan would open the conference to be attended by 253 members. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, central committee members A. Vijayaraghavan, E.P. Jayarajan, P.K. Sreemathi, Elamaram Kareem, and A.K. Balan, and State Secretariat member T.P. Ramakrishnan will attend the meet. New committee A new district committee and new district secretary will be chosen at the conference. Valedictory event  The valedictory event will be held at the Kozhikode beach. Mr. Mohanan said that 10,000 people would attend the event, to be held in line with COVID-19 protocol. A thousand centres will be arranged across the district, where party workers will be able to watch the valedictory event live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-cpim-meet-in-kozhikode-on-jan-10/article37989418.ece
19 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Panel to visit Calicut varsity on Dec. 21||A State-level panel that is tasked with reforming the examination system in universities and institutions of higher education will visit the University of Calicut on December 21. A release said on Saturday that the sitting would be held at the university seminar complex. Its mandate is to collect proposals for reforming the existing exam system in tune with changing times. Members of the panel will meet senior officials, Syndicate members, Pareeksha Bhavan officials, IT department staff, officials of the School of Distance Education, faculty members and deans, and student representatives. It will also meet representatives of the Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-visit-calicut-varsity-on-dec-21/article37989417.ece
19 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||P.T. Usha, six others booked in cheating case||The Vellayil police have registered a case against Olympian P.T. Usha and six others who were accused of involvement in a suspected realty fraud. The case was registered against them under Section 420 (punishment for cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the basis of a petition filed by former international athlete Jemma Joseph. Quoting the petition, police sources said the accused, associated with a private construction company in the city, did not meet their promise to hand over a 1,012-sq-ft flat she had booked paying Rs. 46 lakh. The money was handed over to the builders following an assurance given by Ms. Usha about the timely completion of the project she was associated with, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pt-usha-six-others-booked-in-cheating-case/article37989451.ece
19 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||State to go differently abled-friendly: Bindu||Minister for Higher Education and Social Justice R. Bindu has said that efforts will be made to convert Kerala into a differently abled-friendly State. “The government is duty-bound to ensure the welfare and rehabilitation of the differently abled,” she said while inaugurating a gathering of the differently abled at Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University at Tirur on Saturday. The eighth edition of the gathering was titled ‘Varam’. The Minister presented the Varam 2021 Award to K.V. Rabia, who circumvented her disabilities to become an ambassador of letters during the literacy movement in the State. Mr. Bindu said Ms. Rabia’s services to women empowerment in the last three decades were commendable. Malayalam University Vice Chancellor Anil Vallathol presided over the function. District panchayat president M.K. Rafeekha delivered the keynote address. Five indigent differently abled persons were given free power wheelchairs. District Social Justice Officer A. Krishnamurthy, who is retiring soon after 33 years of service, was felicitated at the function. District panchayat members E. Afsal and V.K.M. Shafi, Varam coordinator Mujeeb Tanalur, Malayalam University NSS coordinator T. Sundar Raj, former District Police Superintendent P. Raju, and Varam joint convener M. Rashij spoke. E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, inaugurated another informal session held later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-go-differently-abled-friendly-bindu/article37989413.ece
19 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram reports first Omicron case||A 37-year-old man who arrived from Tanzania tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus here on Saturday. It became the first Omicron case reported in Malappuram district, and the eighth in the State. The man hailing from Mangaluru was under observation at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. Hospital Deputy Superintendent Sheena Lal said his condition was stable, and that he was being monitored. The man, who visited Tanzania on December 8, reached the Karipur airport from Sharjah on Monday night. He was shifted to the Medical College and isolated as he had visited a high-risk country. He soon tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. His sample was sent to Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram, for genomic screening. Dr. Sheena said he had no symptoms. A few others who travelled along with him too are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-reports-first-omicron-case/article37989412.ece
19 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Loan scheme for farmers from watershed regions||The Kerala Bank has launched a special loan scheme for select watersheds in Palakkad district with the support of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The Kerala Bank will provide farmers in watershed areas loans at 6% interest rate up to five years. NABARD will provide the Kerala Bank loans at 3% interest rate. Bank officials said it was the first such project in the State. Farmers can avail themselves of the loan under the special refinance scheme not only for agriculture, but also for housing and small-time businesses. Twenty-odd watershed project areas of NABARD in the district will be considered for the loan. Kerala Bank director A. Prabhakaran, MLA, inaugurated the scheme at a function held at the bank’s regional office here on Friday. The bank’s board of management member P.A. Ummer presided. NABARD chief general manager P. Balachandran, Kerala Bank chief executive officer P.S. Rajan, and NABARD district development manager Kavita Ram spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/loan-scheme-for-farmers-from-watershed-regions/article37989536.ece
19 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Brahmana Sabha meet opens today||The Kerala Brahmana Sabha (KBS) will celebrate its 51st anniversary here on Sunday. BJP leader and president of Virat Hindustan Sangam Subramanian Swamy, MP, will inaugurate the celebrations at Saradha Sankara Kalyana Mandapam, Nurani, on Sunday morning. KBS State president Karimpuzha Raman said the anniversary would be a precursor to the second edition of the global conclave of Tamil Brahmins. The first edition had taken place in Kochi in 2019. Mr. Raman, KBS secretary N.V. Sivaramakrishnan and treasurer K.V. Vasudevan said the sabha would help reshape the vision of the Tamil Brahmin community in the State, especially with focus on environmental protection and modern economics. “We want to give shape to a generation that is fit for tomorrow,” they said. Employment providers Recalling the charity works that the sabha undertook during the floods of 2018-19 and the COVID-19 pandemic, KBS leaders said they were planning a Brahmin Business Connect (BBC) with the objective of converting the community into employment providers rather than mere seekers of employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brahmana-sabha-meet-opens-today/article37989535.ece
19 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man gets 15-year RI for raping minor||A court at Pattambi sentenced a sexagenarian man to 15 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) for raping a seven-year-old girl. The Fast Track Court, Pattambi, also slapped a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on Velayudhan (67) from Koppam. The case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered at Pattambi police station in the incident that took place in January 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-15-year-ri-for-raping-minor/article37989537.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. seeks action against corrupt staff||A meeting of the city Corporation council on Saturday recommended to the State government to take action, including termination of service, against employees found to be involved in corruption, in light of the recent corruption allegations against some officials. Mayor Arya Rajendran, who read out the demand in the council meeting, said that investigation in such cases should be completed on priority, following which those found to be in the wrong should be dismissed from service. Cashier’s suspension The Mayor also presented for ratification by the council the suspension proceedings against Anilkumar, cashier at the Kazhakuttom zonal office of the civic body, who was suspended on Friday following an inquiry that revealed that he had misappropriated funds using cancelled receipts for tar-cutting in the 2019-20 period. Councillors of the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who supported the recommendation moved by the Mayor, however, said that the suspension of some of the officials of some zonal offices, who were accused of revenue fund misappropriation in recent months, was not ratified in the council. Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillor Amshu Vamadevan said that the suspension was ratified in a council meeting held on October 5. BJP councillor V. Girikumar countered this claiming that it was done in a special council meeting, in which other subjects cannot be taken up. The BJP had also boycotted the meeting. ‘Quick action’ The Mayor, in her reply to the discussions, said that the civic body had taken quick action after information on fund misappropriation in tar-cutting was received on December 16. The investigation was completed quickly and the accused official suspended the next day. A case was registered at the Kazhakuttom police station on Saturday morning. The internal investigation will continue on whether similar instances of financial fraud have taken place in other zonal offices and in the main office. Revenue collection up She said the Corporation had witnessed a major jump in revenue collections in the period during which the revenue fund misappropriation controversy was going on. This reflected the trust that the people had in the administration, which had taken actions against the wrongdoers, said the Mayor. Earlier, CPI(M) councillor Clinus Rozario, who won from the Vettucaud ward in the recent byelection, was sworn in at a ceremony organised before the council meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-seeks-action-against-corrupt-staff/article37989576.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Supplyco taking steps to curb price rise||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) will be equipped to meet the needs of the changing times, Minister for Food and Supplies G. R. Anil has said, adding that steps will be taken to increase Supplyco's annual revenue from Rs. 6,500 crore to Rs. 7,000 crore. Mr. Anil was performing the State-level inauguration of the Christmas-New Year Metro Fairs at the Putharikandam ground here on Saturday. The Supplyco has taken steps to curb price rise of essential commodities during the festival season and to make them available at reasonable prices to the public, he said. Customers can use their ration cards to purchase 13 items at 2016 prices at the Metro Fairs. The prices of 39 other items are lower than that of the open market, he added. The department has taken steps to ensure the quality of commodities during the festival season, he said. The online sales and home delivery scheme piloted by Supplyco in Thrissur will be extended to all districts by March next year. All ration card holders will be issued 500 ml kerosene in view of Christmas, the Minister said. ‘40% lower price’ Supplyco outlets are selling food grains and Sabari products at prices up to 40% lower than in the open market. This is also applicable to vegetables of the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) sold at the Supplyco fairs. Tomato is available at Rs. 50 per kg. Products of Milma and Meat products of India (MPI) also are available at the fairs, the Food Minister said. Deputy Mayor P. K. Raju and Supplyco managing director Sanjeeb Kumar Patjoshi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-taking-steps-to-curb-price-rise/article37989579.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF holds State-wide protest against SilverLine||The Congress-led United Democratic Front on Saturday held State-wide protests against the Left Democratic Front government's flagship SilverLine rail corridor project alleging it was “unscientific” and “impractical”. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan launched the protest in Ernakulam and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee chief K. Sudhakaran inaugurated the event in front of the Secretariat here. Various UDF leaders led protests in the headquarters of 10 districts through which the project would pass. SilverLine is aimed at setting up 529.45 km of rail corridor connecting Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod, reducing the travel time to just four hours. No discussions Mr. Sudhakaran said the proposed SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project would turn out to be an economic, social, and environmental disaster for the State. He accused the government of going ahead with the project without undertaking social impact assessment and discussions with the stakeholders. Claiming that sections of Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Communist Party of India workers opposed the project undertaken by the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-Rail), Mr. Sudhakaran said the stir would intensify in the days to come. Referring to the LDF’s criticism of the protests, the KPCC president said the UDF had always been a strong advocate of development projects. “The Congress-led governments have been credited with realising mega projects, including the Vizhinjam seaport project, Kochi Smart City and airports in spite of fierce opposition by various parties, including the CPI(M). On the other hand, the LDF cannot boast of spearheading any such infrastructure project ,” Mr. Sudhakaran claimed. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Deputy Leader of the Opposition P.K. Kunhalikutty, and UDF convener M.M. Hassan led the protests in Kottayam, Kozhikode, and Alappuzha respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-holds-state-wide-protest-against-silverline/article37989447.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Policeman drowns in boat capsize||A 27-year-old civil police officer, who was inducted into the Kerala Police in September, drowned after a country boat carrying him and a few other officials capsized in the Anchuthengu lake on Saturday. S. Balu, an officer attached to the Special Armed Police (SAP) camp in Peroorkada, was part of a team led by Varkala station house officer (SHO) Prasanth that was on its way to apprehend an accused in the recent murder of Sudheesh in Pothencode. The incident occurred around 11.30 a.m. after the team hired a motor-powered country boat from near the Panayilkadavu bridge, a short distance from Varkala. They intended to go to an island near Anchuthengu where ‘Ottakam’ Rajesh, the second accused in the murder case, was believed to be hiding. Balu, who was part of a group of civil police officers deputed for security duty at the Sivagiri Madhom from the SAP camp, was enlisted in the four-member team. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) P.K. Madhu, three police officers and the boat operator were rescued by local people. 45-minute search Balu’s body was retrieved after a search operation that lasted nearly 45 minutes. Despite being rushed to a private hospital in Sivagiri, his life could not be saved. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. Following post-mortem examination on Sunday, the body will be kept at the SAP camp for the public to pay homage. Boat operator Vasanthan said the boat tilted and capsized after the SHO stood up abruptly. The Anchuthengu police have registered a case. The Varkala Dy.SP will investigate the circumstances that led to the accident. Balu, a graduate in civil engineering and economics, hailed from Punnapra in Alappuzha. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the death. State Police Chief Anil Kant remembered Balu as one of the best recruit police constables who had participated in the recent passing-out parade. He is survived by his parents D. Suresh and Anila Das.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policeman-drowns-in-boat-capsize/article37989462.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Front offices to function in supply outlets from Jan.||Front offices with facilities, including computers, will start functioning in district and taluk supply offices in January, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has said. The front offices will help address complaints promptly, he said. The Minister was speaking after a district-level inauguration of the Consumer Protection Week observance organised by the Food and Civil Supplies department as part of the National Consumer Protection Week on Saturday. The Consumer Protection Act was a revolutionary legislation that helped find solutions to all problems faced by consumers, he said. There were more than 91 lakh cardholders in the district. Their protection was a serious matter. Ration distribution The department was attempting to address all problems in the food and civil supplies sector. A number of complaints about disruption in ration distribution owing to faulty operation of E-PoS (electronic Point of Sale) machines had been received. These had been addressed, the Minister said. The department was also able to find a permanent solution to problems arising in connection with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns. Directions had been given that vehicles be loaded only after officials at the Supplyco and FCI godowns ensured its quality. Instructions had also been given about the weight of food items. Officials were trying to address problems faced by consumers as soon as they came to attention, the Minister said. The department would organise elaborate programmes in connection with National Consumer Day on December 24. The slogan this year was ‘Abandon plastic, save nature,’ he said. A seminar on plastic pollution was held as part of the district-level Consumer Protection Week observance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/front-offices-to-function-in-supply-outlets-from-jan/article37989577.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cultural feast on offer in the city for 111 days||Curtains will go up on the 111-day Soorya festival on Monday, with the Agni-2 mega show at Tagore Theatre. The show will be a tribute to musicians Raveendran, Johnson, S.P. Balasubramaniam, and R.D. Burman. This will be the 44th consecutive year of the festival, which showcases dance, music, drama, and cinema. Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Mullakkara Ratnakaran will deliver a lecture on Ramayana, spread over five days from December 21 at Ganesham in Thycaud. Malayalam film Kasiminte Kadal , directed by Shyamaprasad, will also be screened on the same day. On December 26, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will take part in a cultural meet, which will be organised in honour of poet Sugathakumari. Poets Sreekumaran Thampi, Gireesh Puliyoor, Anitha Thampy, and Murukan Kattakkada will take part in the Kaviyarangu. A short film on Sugathakumari, directed by M.R.Rajan, will also be screened. In other events till December 31, there will be a violin performance by Roopa Revathy, Hindustani performance by Sreenath Nair, rhythmic melodies by Soumya Sanathanan, Carnatic music performance by Chinmaya sisters, and Hindustani performance by Dev Anand. In the lecture series, historian M.G. Sasibhooshan, writer Hameed Chendamangaloor, retired High Court judge B. Kemal Pasha, poet Alancode Leelakrishnan, and poet and former Chief Secretary K. Jayakumar will speak. An Odisha handicrafts mela will be organised. Dance festival The Soorya dance festival will be held from January 1 to 10 with Bharatanatyam performances by Parshanath Upadhyay, Shruthi Gopal, Adithya, Kalakshetra Shreyasi, Aishwarya Raja, Sreejith Nambiar and Parvathy Nambiar, Haritha Thampan and Radhika Reddy, Kuchipudi performances by Pratheeksha Kashi and Reddy Lekshmi, Odissi performance by Abhayalekshmi, Keralanadanam by Raji Subin and Kathak by Hari-Chethana. Films to be screened The Soorya film festival from January 21 to 31 will have screenings of Haasyam directed by Jayaraj, Kaanekkaane directed by Manu Ashokan, Sunny directed by Renjith Shankar, Bannerghatta directed by Karthik Narayanan, Operation Java directed by Tharun Moorthy, 18 hours directed by Rajesh Nair, Ennivar directed by Sidhartha Siva, Santhoshathinte Onnam Rahasyam directed by Don Palathara, Thinkalazhcha Nishchayam directed by Senna Hegde, Jwalamukhi directed by Harikumar and 1956 Central Travancore directed by Don Palathara. Online performance The dance and music festival from February 1 to 10 will have an online performance by K.J. Yesudas, dance performances by Shobhana, Priyadarshini Govind, Rama Vaidyanathan, Meenakshi Sreenivasan, Asha Sarath, Lekshmi Gopalaswamy, Neena Prasad, Janaki Rangarajan and Divya Unni. There will also be a Carnatic performance by Nithyasree Mahadevan and fusion music by Umayalpuram Sivaraman and Stephen Devassy. The festival in the following days will have ghazal performances, dance and music programmes, Bhagavatha Sapthaham, spirituality talks, Mohiniyattam mela, renaissance lecture series, lockdown film festival, short film festival, lecture series by women achievers. The festival will conclude on April 6 with a Kuchipudi performance by Manju Warrier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cultural-feast-on-offer-in-the-city-for-111-days/article37989566.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested on fraud charge||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have recorded the arrest of a West Bengal native who allegedly defrauded a retired Central government employee of nearly Rs. 28 lakh under the guise of setting up a business. The accused, Shankar Dali, 29, was arrested by the City Cybercrime police on the basis of a complaint by the victim, a Peroorkada native. According to City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay, the accused befriended the complainant through WhatsApp and convinced him to become part of a business proposal for which he claimed he would invest $2.2 crore. He offered the victim a commission of 40% of the investment. The complainant transferred Rs. 27.34 lakh after the accused claimed that the entire money required for the investment was tied up at the New Delhi airport and that he would require the sum to pay customs duty, failing which the amount would be confiscated by the government. A team led by Cybercrime police station Dy.SP T. Shyam Lal nabbed the accused from Parnasree in Kolkata. He has been remanded to judicial custody here.  West Bengal native accused of duping a person of nearly Rs. 28 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-fraud-charge/article37989572.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farmers’ forum marches to Secretariat||The Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh took out a protest march to the Secretariat on Saturday demanding protection for farmers and crops from wild animal attacks and withdrawal of revenue recovery proceedings. They also demanded adequate compensation for crop loss, withdrawal from free-trade agreements that are against the interests of the farmers, among other things. Mahasangh national coordinator K.V. Biju, who inaugurated the protest, said that as much as 40% of the farmlands in the State have become uncultivable due to the threat of wild animal attacks. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had in its election manifesto promised to find a solution to the issue, but the Forest department had not taken any concrete steps yet. If the government failed to protect the farmers, they would take up the task of protecting themselves, said Mr. Biju. Mahasangh convener Joy Kannanchira read out a declaration that called for breaking the laws regarding protection of wild animals if the government failed to take any step to curb animal attacks. Punitive action He said punitive action should not be taken against farmers who broke such laws following animal attacks on their lands. Mahasangh State chairman V.C. Sebastian said all farm organisations in the State should come together to fight for justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rashtriya-kisan-mahasangh-marches-to-secretariat/article37989424.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case pool shrinks to 31,901||The State reported 3,297 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 52,570 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 52,14,594 cases. The active case pool in the State has now shrunk to 31,901 patients, of whom 8.2% are currently admitted to hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. A total of 3,609 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Saturday. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State stood at 44,407 on Saturday, with Kerala adding 218 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. These include 43 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 175 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The number of deaths added to the official COVID fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise has now reached 14,278. ICU occupancy Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals was 545 on Saturday, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support dipped to 199 on the day. On Saturday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 was 209. Hospitalisations are going down steadily and have gone below the 4,000 mark. At present, only 3,841 persons are being treated for moderate or severe disease in hospitals. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 708, followed by Ernakulam 437, Kozhikode 378, Thrissur 315, Kottayam 300, Kannur 212, Kollam 200, Pathanamthitta 172, Malappuram 135, Alappuzha 106, Wayanad 102, Idukki 86, Palakkad 74 and Kasaragod 72 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-pool-shrinks-to-31901/article37989444.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel moots guidelines for school fitness certificate||A detailed guideline on criteria to be followed for giving fitness certificate to educational institutions in the State should be prepared, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. Only if the criteria are fully complied with should local self-government institutions issue the certificate. A division bench of commission members K. Nazeer and B. Babitha was taking suo motu action on the basis of media reports on the condition of AUP School, Kunnamangalam, Kozhikode. The commission directed the Local Self-government Secretary, Panchayat Director, and the Town Planning Director to take steps to ensure that its directions were followed. AUP School, a government-aided institution, has more than 1,000 students. A drain that cut across National Highway 212 passed through the school ground for nearly 100 m and was covered with slabs. Water that reached the drain, including from the Kunnamangalam market, entered the school compound, causing waterlogging. During heavy rain, the school compound would get waterlogged, with water reaching the classrooms and compromising the safety of the school building. ‘Deepen drain’ The problem that had persisted for some years should be addressed urgently for children’s health and safety, the commission observed. The drain should be deepened and smooth flow of water ensured by the school manager. The commission directed the headmistress and the manager to take steps, including legal measures, to ensure students’ safety. Only after the fitness of the building was ensured should the local body authorities issue the certificate. The commission had been informed that there were no clear guidelines for issuing fitness certificate to schools, and only the safety of the buildings was examined. Hence, guidelines should be issued on giving approval, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-mooted-for-school-fitness-certificate/article37989419.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||10,000 jobs up for grabs: Minister||The first phase of the Kerala Knowledge Economy Mission job fair has opened doors for 10,000 people to secure employment, Minister for Transport Antony Raju has said. He was inaugurating the State government’s Kerala Knowledge Economy Mission district-level job fair here on Saturday. The Minister said the government was attempting to give shape to projects that would help educated youth get job in various sectors. The K-DISC (Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council) was framing scientific projects after understanding the difficulty involved in realising the dreams of youth for government jobs. The K-DISC was aiming at providing employment to 20 lakh people in five years. The job fairs were intended to bring under one roof employees with expertise and employers who were in need of their services. Options galore As lack of skilled workers was the problem experienced by the industrial sector, the industries and education sectors should work together to come up with projects designed to nurture talent, Mr. Raju said. Innumerable job opportunities in sectors such as agriculture, health, knowledge, and tourism were opening up. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar inaugurated the programme organised at LBS Institute of Technology, Poojappura. Kerala Knowledge Economy Mission vice chairperson K.M. Abraham was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10000-jobs-up-for-grabs-minister/article37989569.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||K-Rail a den of nepotism and graft, says KPCC||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran on Saturday said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s nascent K-Rail (SilverLine) semi-high-speed rail project was embroiled in nepotism and corruption. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has eroded public trust in the integrity of K-Rail by nominating the next of kin of a powerful clique in the Communist Party India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] to senior positions in the Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail), he said. For one, he has appointed CPI(M) MP John Brittas’s wife, a middle-level railway employee, as general manager, rejecting eligible candidates. A relative of CPI(M) leader Anavar Nagappan is K-Rail company secretary. Managing director of K-Rail Ajith Kumar has leased his wife’s house at an exaggerated rent as official quarters, Mr. Sudhakaran alleged. Mr. Vijayan has turned K-Rail into an entity to extend patronage to select CPI(M) families, flouting legal and ethical guidelines. He should clarify technical expert Asok Kumar Verma’s revelation that Kerala’s detailed project report for K-Rail was a fake document, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-rail-a-den-of-nepotism-and-graft-says-kpcc/article37989445.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Throwing light on plight of transgender persons||The Supreme Court’s landmark NALSA (National Legal Services Authority) judgment of 2014 and the fundamental rights transgender persons are entitled to under the Constitution were introduced at an awareness class on transgender welfare here on Friday. Government officials, block panchayat representatives, lawyers and paralegal volunteers attended the event organised by the District Social Justice Office. Sreeja Sasidharan, district legal services authority lawyer, spoke about the NALSA judgment wherein the apex court recognised the rights of transgender persons and affirmed that they should enjoy fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. The court also gave them the right to self-determination of their gender. She said Article 14 (equality before the law) did not restrict the word ‘person’, and hence transgender persons were entitled to legal protection in spheres such as education, health care, employment, and so on as per the judgement. Under Article 15 and 16, discrimination on the grounds of biological sex was prohibited. Article 19 (1) said gender identity lay at the core of one’s personal identity, and hence values of privacy and self-identity were guaranteed to them. However, transgender persons continued to face issues when it came to property inheritance or marriage, she pointed out. Anishia Jayadev, nodal officer (gender), Institute of Management in Government, spoke about gender roles, stereotyping and gender and culture. She dwelt on sexual identity and gender identities that lay outside the binary of male and female such as bisexual, pan-sexual and others. Calls for empathy Ms. Jaidev called for empathy towards the transgender community and the need to accept their orientation and choices rather than see it as a mental illness that could be cured. Teachers who interacted with children the most and the police to whom people turned to for help especially needed to correct their attitudes towards the transgender community, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/throwing-light-on-plight-of-transgender-persons/article37989563.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Meet of rural innovators||The State-level Rural Innovators’ Meet 2021 (RIM), organised by the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE), will be held at Mar Gregorios Renewal Centre at Nalanchira in the capital on Monday. Held annually, RIM offers unorganised innovators and technical experts from rural Kerala a platform to showcase their innovations and products. It is also an opportunity for them to interact with science and technology professionals. The meet will see participation by winners of seven regional events conducted for the 14 districts. RIM 2021 will be open to the public on Monday, the KSCSTE said. The best innovation this year will be presented the Chief Minister’s Rural Innovation Award and a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh. Two innovations that grab the second prize and the best innovation by women will be awarded Rs. 25,000 sponsored by NABARD. Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan will give away the prizes on Tuesday. In view of the COVID-19 situation, the KSCSTE is also organising a virtual exhibition of the innovations this year, which can be accessed on www.kscste.com .  Rural Innovators’ Meet begins at Nalanchira tomorrow||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-innovators-meet/article37989420.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||708 more test positive||Thiruvananthapuram recorded 708 COVID-19 cases and 485 recoveries as the active caseload rose to 5,781 on Saturday. A test positivity rate of 8.6% was recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/708-more-test-positive/article37989571.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth held on burglary charge||The Nemom police on Saturday arrested a youth on charge of multiple burglaries reported from shops in the area. The police identified the accused as Jithin, 23, of Manacaud. He has been accused of burgling shops at Nemom and Karakkamandapam on November 29. He allegedly stole various valuables, including a gold ring, gold locket, cash, ATM card and pen drives, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-on-burglary-charge/article37989573.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assault on youth: three arrested||The Kazhakuttam police have arrested three people for allegedly attempting to murder a youth a week ago. The arrested are Satheesh, 40; Ratheesh, 38; and Akhil, 29; of Nettayikkonam in Kazhakuttam. The trio were allegedly involved in an attack on Kazhakuttam native Akhil on December 7. The gang allegedly assaulted him and injured him grievously using rocks. They had gone absconding after the attack. The accused had been involved in criminal cases registered in the Kazhakuttam, Thumba, and Tirurangadi police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-youth-three-arrested/article37989574.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tharoor undermines his perch: KPCC chief||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran on Saturday compared Shashi Tharoor, MP, to the proverbial person who cut the very branch on which he was safely perched. Mr. Sudhakaran’s comment came when reporters asked him whether Mr. Tharoor had violated the Congress line by declining to sign a petition signed by the United Democratic Front (UDF) MPs seeking the Centre’s help to stop the State from forging ahead with the K-Rail (SilverLine) project. “Mr.Tharoor might be a global citizen with a personality that could barely fit into the Congress fold. But, the party could not allow anyone elected to public office on the Congress ticket to undermine the very organisation that elevated them to the position,” he said. To seek explanation Mr. Sudhakaran said he would speak in person to Mr. Tharoor and seek an explanation. The UDF had taken a studied position on K-Rail. “The party has to know why Mr. Tharoor had denied the UDF position,” he said. Congress workers could hold forth their views on any matter. But, finally they should tow the party line. Mr. Tharoor’s purportedly pro-government tweets and comments had irked Congress leaders. Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Bharatiya Janata Party leader V. Muraleedharan said the Left Democratic Front had enlisted Mr. Tharoor as an agent for whitewash jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tharoor-undermines-his-perch-kpcc-chief/article37989449.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Demands raised||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal inaugurated a State convention organised by the Self-financing College Teachers and Staff Association here on Friday. The forum demanded the implementation of the Kerala Self Financing College Teaching and Non-Teaching Employees (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Bill, 2021, that was recently passed by the Assembly. They demanded that each university adhere to its provisions and implement them in university-controlled and private self-financing colleges. SFCTSA State president P.K. Biju and state secretary A. Abdul Wahab spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demands-raised/article37989565.ece
19 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Haemophilia patients hit by drug shortage||Haemophilia patients in the State are a worried lot owing to an acute shortage of anti-haemophilia factor (AHF), a life-saving drug, in Karunya pharmacies. “There is a shortage of AHF across the State. We are receiving panic calls from various districts,” says E. Raghunandanan, chairman of the Coordination Committee of Haemophilia Chapters, Haemophilia Federation of India, Kerala. Rs. 20 crore pending The companies supplying the anti-haemophilia factor has reportedly stopped the distribution due to huge payment arrears. It is learned that there is a total pending payment of Rs. 20 crore. Haemophilia is a genetic disorder that prevents blood clotting. Haemophiliacs have low levels of clotting factor in their blood, which leads to excessive bleeding in case of external or internal injuries. The bleeding can be managed by injecting the anti-haemophilia factor. “Without the factor, hundreds of people are going to die and many will be left disabled,” Mr. Raghunandanan said. 10,000 patients There are around 10,000 haemophilia patients in the State. Those working in the field say the actual number could be much more since there are several unidentified cases. Timely treatment is key for the disorder. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Haemophilia Federation of India urged the government to make urgent intervention to make the drug available immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/haemophilia-patients-hit-by-drug-shortage/article37989538.ece
19 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||NRI wins Guruvayur temple’s Mahindra Thar||Bahrain-based Malayali Amal Mohammed Ali won a Mahindra Thar of the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple in an auction on Saturday. He bid Rs. 15.10 lakh for the red limited edition SUV, which was offered to the temple by the Mahindra Group recently. The base price was set at Rs. 15 lakh. However, soon after the auction, some in the Devaswom raised objections against handing over the vehicle. Following the protest, Guruvayur Devaswom Chairman K.B. Mohandas said the management committee would meet again on December 21 to take a final decision. Subhash Panicker, who participated in the auction for the non-resident Indian, said it was not right to cancel the auction once the procedure was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nri-wins-guruvayur-temples-mahindra-thar/article37989442.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A gallery along the way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-gallery-along-the-way/article37989415.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Large as life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/large-as-life/article37989540.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In full fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-full-fury/article37989568.ece
19 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||21,280 more ducks culled in Alappuzha||With bird flu (H5N1) confirmed in two more grama panchayats, rapid response teams (RRTs) of the Animal Husbandry department culled 21,280 ducks in the district on Saturday. Officials said that apart from Thakazhy, Nedumudi and Karuvatta, the disease was reported from Purakkad and Cheruthana. The team killed 9,100 birds within a one-km radius of the infected area at Purakkad and another 3,325 at Cheruthana. As many as 8,065 ducks at Karuvatta and 790 at Nedumudi were also culled. Carcasses of culled birds were burned. Officials said the bird culling operations would continue in affected areas on Sunday. Around 50,000 birds, mostly ducks, were culled in the district so far to tackle the spread of the disease. Avian flu was first confirmed in ducks at Kunnumma South (Ward 10) in Thakazhy grama panchayat on December 8. Later, the outbreak was confirmed at Nedumudi and Karuvatta on December 24. Mass death of ducks Following the mass death of ducks at Purakkad and Cheruthana in recent weeks, the department sent samples of dead birds to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analyses, which tested positive for avian influenza. It is the fourth outbreak of bird flu to strike the district in the last seven years. Earlier this year, avian flu caused by the H5N8 strain of the Influenza A virus was detected from five places at Nedumudi, Thakazhy, Pallippad, Karuvatta, and Kainakary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/21280-more-ducks-culled-in-alappuzha/article37988743.ece
19 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally against govt.’s policies and lack of support: AIKS leader||The farmers must launch a united and determined fight against the government’s farm policies and lack of support at every step, and the recent victory of the Punjab and Uttar Pradesh farmers in New Delhi should serve as an inspiration, said All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) national joint secretary Vijju Krishnan on Saturday. He was addressing the participants of the Rythu Coolie Rakshana Padayatra at a ‘maha dharna’ staged outside the District Collector’s office here on the concluding day of the 28-day journey through 300 villages and 63 mandals by two teams in the district. He said the BJP had promised before the 2014 elections that it would ensure a price more than 50% of the cultivation cost for all the agricultural produce. But it forgot it after elections. “The Union Agriculture Minister has gone on record saying that it is only an electoral promise made to garner votes. The farmers, with a steely resolve, showed the government its place and forced it to withdraw the three draconian farm laws,” he said. The padayatra and the ‘maha dharna’ should ignite the spark of revolution in Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Krishnan said. Farmers of the State should join hands against the State government, which, except for giving a mere Rs. 6,000 a year under Rythu Bharosa, had stopped extending any other help, he added. A.P. Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham State president D. Subba Rao, Rythu Sangham district leaders V. Rambhupal, Imtiaz, Chandrasekhar and Nagaraju narrated their experiences during the padayatra. A rally was taken out from Ballari Bypass Road to the District Collector’s office by about 500 participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rally-against-govts-policies-and-lack-of-support-aiks-leader/article37989530.ece
19 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRDO is ready to fund research projects, says its Chairman||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is ready to fund up to Rs. 10 crore any research project at the JNTU-A College Engineering Incubation Centre if the idea is approved and finds a solution to any existing problem. Making the announcement on the concluding day of the Platinum Jubilee celebrations of JNTU-A College of Engineering here on Saturday, Union Defence Secretary and DRDO Chairman G. Sateesh Reddy said the DRDO would actively pursue efforts to get patents for any specific innovative project incubated. ‘Make for the world’ “Academic institutions are the places for new ideas and solutions. But they must fulfil the ‘Make for the World’ dream of the Prime Minister,” the Defence Secretary said. Earlier, he unveiled the pylon of the Platinum Jubilee celebrations in the presence of Registrar C. Sashidhar, Principal P. Sujatha, and the alumni. Congratulating the APSPDCL group of the JNTU-A College of Engineering Alumni Association led by SPDCL CMD H. Haranatha Rao for donating Rs. 27 lakh and the 1979-83 batch for donating Rs. 50 lakh for the establishment of the Innovation Makers’ Lab on the campus, Mr. Sateesh Reddy asked Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana Rao to keep in touch with the alumni and find ways and means to improve the quality of education and research on the campus. “Donating money alone will no improve quality, and the alumni can help in many other ways,” he opined. He also called upon the students and faculty to apply for the ‘Dare to Dream’ contest of the DRDO in six verticals to earn good rewards for ideating on several new projects and get funded for the incubation. He advised the College of Engineering to start M.Tech in Defence Technologies course on the campus with a chance to work in the laboratories of the DRDO in the second year. Mr. Sateesh Reddy said four members of the alumni were occupying top positions in road transport and DRDO, which tells the power of dedication. SRIT Engineering College director Aluru Sambasiva Reddy and Singanamala MLA J. Padmavathi, both alumni of JNTU-A College of Engineering, donated Rs. 9.2 lakh for construction of one hostel room in the Platinum Jubilee block that would have 100 such rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drdo-is-ready-to-fund-research-projects-says-its-chairman/article37989524.ece
19 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. can hand over Polavaram execution to Centre: GVL||The Andhra Pradesh government, which wanted to be the executing agency for the Polavaram project has failed to pump in enough money, execute work and submit work done reports on time to get reimbursement, which has led to the escalation of cost to Rs. 55,000 crore, said BJP Rajya Sabha Member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao. At a press conference here on Saturday after the inauguration of a training programme for the BJP workers, Mr. Narasimha Rao said that the YSRCP government was free to hand over the execution of the project to the Centre so that it could implement it properly. “Whatever development people are able to see in the State was all funded by the Centre and the State government had not spent anything on development at all,” he said. The Centre had spent Rs. 25,000 crore for laying new roads from 2014 till 2020 and had nearly doubled the total length, he said. Asked why was it not taking special interest in getting approvals for the six ongoing irrigation projects of Rayalaseema that could be stopped as per gazette notification of the Jal Shakti Ministry, he said the State government was supposed to submit the Detailed Project Reports, but failed to do so in six months from July 15. The Special Category Status, he said, would not have benefited the State much but in the name of revenue deficit compensation, the Centre had given Rs. 23,000 crore so far and another Rs. 11,000 crore was sanctioned for the current year, which was much higher than any benefit the State would have got due to the SCS, he opined. He said the BJP was firm on having only one captial for the State and High Court at Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-can-hand-over-polavaram-execution-to-centre-gvl/article37989522.ece
19 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Agni-P a perfect textbook launch’||The test launch of Agni-P (Prime), the new generation nuclear capable ballistic missile, off the Odisha coast, near Balasore, on Saturday was a textbook launch, and the entire team deserved accolades for the excellent work, said Union Defence Secretary and DRDO Chairman G. Sateesh Reddy. After spending about 15 tense minutes from 11 a.m., Mr. Reddy, who was here to participate in the Platinum Jubilee celebrations of JNTU-Anantapur College of Engineering, said the team had test-fired the first missile in June and used the data obtained from it to improve the system. “Today’s launch is a perfect textbook launch. Kudos to the entire Agni-P team for doing the country proud,” Mr. Reddy told the team members over the phone. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh have conveyed their congratulations to you. We are all proud of you for accomplishing such a mission perfectly. India is now among the top select few countries that have the capability of hitting the target at a range of 1,000 km to 2,000 km,” Mr. Reddy said. He made the announcement at a meeting on the campus with the students, faculty, and alumni of the JNTU-A College of Engineering. “When the puja for unveiling the pylon began here, I received the news of the beginning of the missile launch and, within 15 minutes, when the pylon launch and puja were over, I received the good news of a perfect launch,” the DRDO Chairman told the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agni-p-a-perfect-textbook-launch/article37989525.ece
19 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prohibitory orders clamped in Belagavi||Prohibitory orders have been clamped on Belagavi till Monday morning after a statue of Sangolli Rayanna, a 19th century icon who fought against the British, was vandalised and government vehicles were damaged in stone pelting. Inter-state bus services to Maharashtra have been stopped and as many as 27 people have been arrested in connection with three cases. The snap protest and vandalism, by activists of Maharashtra Ekikarana Samiti (MES), followed news of desecration of Shivaji statue in Sadashivanagar police station limits in Bengaluru by throwing black ink on it. Tension has been building since last week with protests over Kannada flag being burnt in Kolhapur in Maharashtra. Late on Friday night, a protest at Sambhaji Circle in Belagavi against alleged desecration of the Shivaji statue in Bengaluru turned violent as miscreants started pelting stones at vehicles, including police vans. The police resorted to lathi-charge. However, early on Saturday, miscreants allegedly desecrated the statue of Sangolli Rayanna at Angol in South Belagavi, triggering further tension. According to complainant Shivaraj Holimath, president of Sangolli Rayanna Sene, the fibre glass statue which was kept in the verandah of his house and which was used for processions on Sangolli Rayanna Jayanti and Durga Mata Doud, was damaged by a group of miscreants, who escaped after he raised an alarm. The statue has been shifted to Tilakawadi police station and a contingent of reserve police personnel posted. So far three cases have been registered at Camp Khade Bazaar and Market police stations in Belagavi connection with incidents of stone pelting and damage to vehicles in different places and desecration of the statue. In all 27 accused have been arrested. Additional contingents of police and reserve police have been deployed in sensitive areas. Belagavi Police Commissioner K. Thyagarajan, who imposed prohibitory orders for a day initially (till Sunday 6 a.m.), subsequently extended it till Monday morning considering the tense situation. However, amid the prohibitory orders, even as members of Kannada organisations staged a protest seeking action against the accused, some MES office-bearers gathered at Shivaji Maharaj Park at Shahapur in Belagavi. After an altercation with the police, they managed to enter the premises and offer puja to the statue. The police eventually managed to disperse the crowd, which also sought release of persons arrested by the police. While Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra stated that no one would be spared, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and others took to Twitter to term the desecration of statues of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna as “unpardonable acts” and demanded strict action against the vandals. The leaders condemned desecrating statues of national heroes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prohibitory-orders-clamped-in-belagavi/article37988747.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. launches emergency care scheme||If the victims were unstable or required continuous treatment after 48 hours, three guidelines were drafted — coverage under the CMCHIS if they are a beneficiary and if the treatment was covered under the scheme, if not, they would be stabilised and shifted to a government hospital. If the victim is not willing to get treated in a government hospital or prefers treatment under private insurance cover or paying for treatment, the patient can be stabilised and treated at the same hospital or whichever hospital they preferred, said an official release. Noting that time played a crucial role in saving lives, Mr. Stalin said road accident victims could be saved if admitted to hospital immediately, while delay resulted in deaths. This was why doctors stressed that golden hour was important. One of the key highlights of the scheme was that the government would bear the emergency treatment expenses for the first 48 hours in private hospitals, he said, adding that majority of the lives could be saved if treated appropriately within 48 hours. Following this, the injured would be covered under the CMCHIS. The required surgeries and intensive care would be covered under the scheme, he said. Stating that most of the life-saving emergency treatments should be undertaken in the first 48 hours, he pointed out that it was said many private hospitals showed hesitancy in providing emergency treatment. As a result, though private hospitals were located nearby, accident victims were taken to government hospitals located at a distance many times, leading to delay in emergency care. This scheme was launched to solve such issues, he said. Over-speeding was the main cause of accidents. Two-wheeler riders should wear helmets, he said. The Chief Minister noted that the cost of bikes was on a par with cars today, while some bikes were priced higher than cars. Not everyone could ride these bikes and required training and skills, he observed. He urged parents to be careful while purchasing vehicles for their children. He urged those travelling in cars to wear seat belts and avoid speeding. He emphasised the need to obey traffic rules and said adherence showed an individual’s discipline. The district-wise list of empanelled hospitals under the scheme was published on the website https://cmchistn.com. Frther information can be obtained from the State’s health helpline 104.  The cost of bikes is on a par with cars today. Not everyone can ride these bikes, and they require training and skills. Parents should be careful while purchasing vehicles for their children M.K. Stalin Tamil Nadu Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-launches-emergency-care-scheme/article37989198.ece
19 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1.5 cr. worth red sanders logs seized in Chennai||The Red Sanders Task Force squad from Tirupati on Friday night seized 2.08 tonnes of red sanders logs, worth about Rs. 1.5 crore in the international market, from a godown at Ponneri on the outskirts of Chennai, and arrested one smuggling operative while a search is launched for five other accused. Superintendent of Police (Task Force) M. Sundar Rao, speaking to the media at Tirupati on Saturday, said that a special party led by Inspector Suresh Kumar Reddy conducted the operation. The official said that on Friday morning, one operative from KVB Puram mandal was nabbed and seven logs were seized on the outskirts of Tirupati. Acting on information from him, the raid was conducted on the clandestinely-operated godown near Chennai. “The consignment of 270 logs was getting ready for transportation to Chennai harbour when the raiding party reached there. In order to avoid detection, the logs were hidden beneath scrap material,” the SP said. The seized logs were brought to the Task Force godown in Tirupati. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-15-cr-worth-red-sanders-logs-seized-in-chennai/article37989553.ece
19 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 red sanders smuggling operatives nabbed in Chittoor||In a major operation, the Puttur sub-division police on Saturday nabbed as many as 18 red sanders operatives, including 15 from Tamil Nadu, and seized three tonnes of logs, worth about Rs. 3 crore in the international market, from hideouts on the forest-fringe hillocks between Narayanavanam and Yerpedu mandals. Addressing the media, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar, who visited Narayanavanam police station in this connection, said a batch of smuggling operatives trespassed into the forested hills between Narayanavanam and Yerpedu a couple of days ago, and felled several trees. In the early hours, an SUV carrying 20 logs was intercepted at Palamangalam junction on the Puttur-Chennai national highway. Four red sanders operatives who were nabbed had provided vital information, leading to the operation on the hillocks. Following this, as many as 290 logs were seized from the bushes and were brought to the Narayanvanam police station. Of the accused, three were from KVB Puram of Puttur sub-division who used to assist the smuggling operatives with information about the movement of police on the NHs, besides providing them logistic support, including food material. Vigil to be intensified Fifteen others were from the Tiruvannamalai district of T.N. Ten are aged between 19 and 28, while the rest are aged between 30 and 35. The SP expressed serious concern about the lure of red sanders among the youth. “Police vigil would be intensified at all the important road points serving as transit routes for the red sanders operatives,” he said. Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant said that in the wake of the detection of red sanders felling activity in Narayanavanam hillocks, surveillance would be mounted at the entry and exit points. In another major haul, the Red Sanders Task Force squad from Tirupati on Friday night seized 2.08 tonnes of red sanders logs, worth about Rs. 1.5 crore in the international market, from a godown at Ponneri on the outskirts of Chennai, and arrested one smuggling operative while a search is launched for five other accused. Superintendent of Police (Task Force) M. Sundar Rao said that on Friday morning, one operative from KVB Puram mandal was nabbed and seven logs were seized on the outskirts of Tirupati. Acting on information from him, the raid was conducted on the clandestinely-operated godown near Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-red-sanders-smuggling-operatives-nabbed-rs-3-cr-worth-logs-seized/article37988749.ece
19 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘NDA rule scuttled Seema’s development’||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Saturday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA Government had scuttled the development of the Rayalaseema region during the last eight years, leading to unemployment and poverty. ‘Political vendetta’ Addressing a press conference at Srikalahasti, the Congress leader said that though the UPA Government had launched the multi-crore projects of BHEL-NTPC Mannavaram project, Srikalahasti-Nadikudi railway line, and Dugarajapatnam port in Tirupati parliamentary constituency during 2010-14, the NDA Government had halted their progress due to political vendetta. “This led to grave injustice to the people of Rayalaseema and south coastal areas, suppressing the employment generation in the region,” he said. Dr. Chinta Mohan alleged that the BJP was fostering communal politics in the country, much to the detriment of peace and harmony, besides resorting to cheap electoral politics. OBC quota He also flayed the claim of Union Home Minister Amit Shah that it was the BJP that contributed to the reservations for the OBC communities. Dr. Chinta Mohan said it was the Congress Party, which ushered in reservations for them. Amaravati capital issue Referring to the Amaravati capital issue, the CWC member felt that the agitation lacked the support of a majority of the districts. “Except for a couple of districts, there was no representation from other areas at the Tirupati public meeting, which proved that the issue is weakening and it required a wider political and public discussion,” he said. “In 1954, there was a proposal to make Tirupati the capital of Andhra Pradesh, but it was granted to Kurnool. In 2014, again, Tirupati was projected as the possible capital of the State, but it also fizzled out due to political reasons. By not considering Tirupati as the capital, but choosing Amaravati, Telugu Desam Party chief Chandrababu Naidu did a serious blunder,” Dr. Mohan observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nda-rule-scuttled-seemas-development-chinta/article37989512.ece
19 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA lashes out at Ayyanna||Narsipatnam MLA Uma Shankar Ganesh has come down heavily on TDP leader Ch. Ayyana Patrudu for making “derogatory comments” against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Ganesh accused the TDP of making false charges against the Chief Minister. He said the comments of Mr. Patrudu made it clear that Rs. 241-crore scam had happened in the AP State Skill Development Corporation. The most important thing was not who had signed the papers but those who had taken the money, Mr. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-lashes-out-at-ayyanna/article37989590.ece
19 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Latest inputs, farm tech on display at agri expo||A stall on farm mechanisation was one of the highlights of the Agri Tech exhibition held on NG Ranga Agricultural Univerity campus in LAM village. Tobacco Board chairman Y. Raghunatha Babu and MLA of Pedakurapdu Namburu Sankara Rao were among those who visited the expo. The exhibition features the latest advances in agri inputs, farm mechanisation, and post-harvesting technologies besides stalls on easy financing. Another highlight of the exhibition is a two-day conference for farmers that would be held starting from Monday. “Farmers need to be sensitised about the best management practices at a time when cost of agricultural production is going up,” said M.V.S. Nagi Reddy, vice-chairman of AP Agricultural Mission. In the farm mechanisation category, latest models of tractors, micro irrigation devices and combined harvesting machines were on display. A stall consisting of various post-harvest technology devices has some of the latest technology being used in cold storages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/latest-inputs-farm-tech-on-display-at-agri-expo/article37989589.ece
19 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 days to apply for SC/ST backlog posts||Collector Vivek Yadav has said that the candidates interested in applying for jobs under the backlog (SC/ST) quota should apply before December 20. Mr. Yadav said that the notification has been issued and is available in the website www.guntur ap..ac.in/SC/ST. He said that the recruitment process was being done in a transparent manner and asked the applicants not to believe any rumours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-days-to-apply-for-scst-backlog-posts/article37989596.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. not to buy even a kg of paddy in rabi: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that there was no way the State government will buy even a kilogram of paddy produced in the ongoing rabi due to Centre’s adamant stand not to lift stocks from the State in the season. The government will not open any paddy procurement centres though it was a painful decision but had become inevitable, Mr. Rao said at the Collectors’ conference on Saturday. He asked the Collectors to sensitise farmers why the government was unable to procure paddy. Instead, they should be motivated to cultivate alternative crops. They should be informed how the foodgrains stocks were piling up in godowns due to the indifference of FCI. It was the responsibility of Collectors to bail out farmers from the dangerous methods adopted by Centre to hit agriculture sector. The pro-farmer policies of the government which have become a model and revitalised rural economy in the State will be continued at any cost. Referring to plans for next kharif, Mr. Rao asked officials to focus on promotion of paddy, cotton and red gram. The investment support under Rythu Bandhu for the present rabi at Rs. 5,000 an acre would be credited to farmers accounts from December 28. The amount will reach the beneficiaries’ accounts in serial order in a week or ten days. He asked the Collectors to take up re-allotment of employees to new districts, ensuring 95 % jobs to locals, in tune with the guidelines of the revised zonal system. The allotment should be completed in four or five days and compliance reports filed with the government. The spouses should be accommodated at common centres without setting up obstacles to the jobs of local youth. Regarding Omicron, Mr. Rao was briefed about the latest position in the State by health officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-not-to-buy-even-a-kilo-of-paddy-in-rabi-kcr/article37988750.ece
19 December 2021||Kalaburagi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka CU registrar’s letter to RSS chief stirs controversy||A letter written on the Central University of Karnataka (CUK) letterhead by Registrar (in charge) Basavaraj Donur seeking an appointment with RSS sarsangchalak (chief) Mohan Bhagwat has triggered a controversy in the university and the academic circles. In the letter dated December 9, 2021, Mr. Donur has, as the Registrar of the university, introduced himself as a professor of English and a bilingual writer and sought appointment with the RSS chief. Move flayed Some activists took to social media to criticise Mr. Donur for his desire to meet the RSS chief as Registrar of the university. Activist and writer K. Neela held CUK Vice-Chancellor Battu Satyanarayana responsible for Mr. Donur’s letter. “As head of the university, the Vice-Chancellor should take responsibility,” she said. Mr. Satyanarayana told The Hindu that he had not instructed Mr. Donur to meet the RSS chief. “I came to know about the letter, purportedly written by Mr. Donur to Mr. Bhagwat, only through the media. Will check and do the needful,” he said. Move justified Mr. Donur justified his action. “There is no rule that I should not use my letterhead when I write a letter. It is a courtesy visit and there is nothing controversial about it..,” he said, alleging that it was an attempt to tarnish his image and that of the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-cu-registrars-letter-to-rss-chief-stirs-controversy/article37988745.ece
19 December 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotion to school drives this headmaster||Ferrying children is not part of his job as a school headmaster, but that hardly stops N. Udayakumar from going the extra mile. When the Parent-Teacher Association of Government Lower Primary School, Poovathoor West, Kollam, could not find a regular driver after the long COVID-19 break, the headmaster stepped in. Currently, he drives the school vehicle, an auto taxi, covering a distance of 40 km, picking up and dropping students at rural Mavady. When Mr. Udayakumar took over as headmaster on December 2 this year, he noticed a considerable number of absentees. “When the school reopened in November, parents used to drop their children. But slowly, there was a fall in attendance, especially among students who depended on the school vehicle. Since 90% of the students are from underprivileged families, their parents cannot afford private vehicles. But we did not want them to drop out,” he says. Mr. Udayakumar typically starts around 8.30 a.m. so that he can complete all trips by the time classes commence. Before COVID-19, the PTA had rented a van. When the school reopened last month, the driver was not frequently available. Pandemic impact “Since the pandemic has left vehicle operators in dire straits, they now prefer long-distance trips. Since pre-primary students are not attending school, we also switched to an auto taxi. For most days in the last two weeks, I drove the auto taxi,” says Mr. Udayakumar. Though the PTA cannot provide all facilities offered by the managements of aided and unaided schools, they want to support the students in all possible ways, he says. “We want more students to join government schools.” Mr. Udayakumar, who has been working as a teacher in the school since 2008, says he does not consider the extra responsibility a burden. “We primary teachers are keen on preventing any fall in student strength. When I joined the school in 2008, we had only 36 students. The current strength of 154 is the result of our consistent efforts. The trips also help me maintain regular contact with parents. We function like a family,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotion-to-school-drives-this-headmaster/article37989130.ece
19 December 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||One arrested in Vadakara office fire case||The special investigation team probing the Vadakara taluk office fire has arrested a man suspected of having direct involvement in three other fire outbreaks in and around Vadakara. The arrest of Satheesh Narayanan, a native of Andhra Pradesh, was recorded on Saturday after interrogation based on some CCTV visuals that showed the man in suspicious circumstances. “Comprehensive investigation is still continuing into the latest fire outbreak in the Vadakara taluk office. His arrest is likely to be recorded in this fourth case on Sunday,” said District Police Chief (Kozhikode Rural) A. Srinivas. “Being a sensitive case, we are following it up in a thorough manner,” he told The Hindu . During the interrogation on Saturday, the man, fluent in Hindi, English and Telugu, was found to have an active Facebook account. Police officers said his social media activities would be examined . The man was taken to various locations on Saturday. He had allegedly entered three government buildings other than the Vadakara taluk office and attempted to set on fire articles there. As he reportedly showed behavioural disorders and made contradictory statements during the interrogation, the opinion of a medical panel would also be sought. Outbreak on Friday It was around 5.30 a.m. on Friday that a fire broke out in the Vadakara taluk office building. It took around four hours for rescue personnel to douse the flames and save nearby buildings. A preliminary site inspection by experts and the police had ruled out the possibility of an electrical short circuit triggering such a massive fire. A high-level inquiry has been ordered into the incident as people’s representatives and some officials raised suspicion about a sabotage attempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-arrested-in-vadakara-office-fire-case/article37988758.ece
19 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool ZP chief puts in his papers||Zilla Parishad Chairman M. Venkata Subba Reddy tendered his resignation to the post on Saturday even before presiding over the first general body meeting following orders from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Subba Reddy submitted his resignation to District Collector P. Koteswara Rao in the afternoon after meeting the ZP CEO. The former sarpanch and single window chairman, Mr. Subba Reddy was elected from Sanjamala and took the oath of office on September 25. As per the original plan, the Kolimigundla ZPTC member, Yerrabothula Venkata Reddy, was supposed to be the ZPTC Chairman. But, the 74-year-old leader had succumbed to COVID-19 on September 3. In the by-election, Venkata Reddy’s son Papireddy had emerged victorious. He is likely to be named the next ZP Chairman. Banaganapalle MLA Katasani Rami Reddy has very close ties with the Yerrabothula family, and is said to be backing the candidature of Mr. Papireddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-zp-chief-puts-in-his-papers/article37989527.ece
19 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam completes first dose vaccine target||The Prakasam district administration has achieved a milestone by administering first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to every eligible person. With this, Prakasam becomes the third district in the State to achieve the feat after SPSR Nellore and Vizianagaram districts. The relentless efforts of the health staff paid dividends as they succeeded in convincing the people to take the jab, said District Collector Pravin Kumar. The officials took the lead by getting themselves vaccinated in the first phase to remove any misapprehensions in the minds of people. “We administered 12,594 first doses today, achieving the target of vaccinating 26,87,537 persons with the first dose,” Joint Collector T.S.Chetan said. On the other hand, 74.3% of the district’s population was fully vaccinated as 19,96,727 people took both the doses. There is no vaccine shortage in the District, according to health officials who geared up for another challenge of administering the second dose to partially vaccinated people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-completes-first-dose-vaccine-target/article37989515.ece
19 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transport workers to go on strike on Feb. 23, 24||Members of the All India Road Transport Workers Federation will observe a nation-wide strike on February 23 and 24 against the alleged “anti-worker” policies of the Bharatiya Janata party-led Government at the Centre, said federation’s national deputy general secretary R.Lakshmaiah. Addressing the media here, he said the Motor Vehicles Amendment Act and the new labour code spelt doom for the transport workers.  Centre of Indian Trade Union Prakasam unit Secretary D.Srinivasulu said the workers were fully geared to make the two-day strike a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transport-workers-to-go-on-strike-on-feb-23-24/article37989516.ece
19 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polytechnic student dies in mishap||An 18-year-old student was killed and seven others were injured when the tractor in which they were travelling overturned at Kambalapadu near Podili on Saturday. In all, 30 students as part of a field study were going to a farm by the tractor when the link with the trailer snapped and it overturned after the vehicle was hit by a speeding car, police said. The deceased was identified as N. Koteswari. The injured were rushed to private hospitals in Ongole for better treatment. Congress leaders Sk. Saida and Sripathi Prakasam called on the injured and demanded that the State Government announce liberal compensation to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polytechnic-student-dies-in-mishap/article37988775.ece
19 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||UBI announces soft loan||The Union Bank of India has announced liberal sanction of loan for various sections of people to tide over the crisis induced by the pandemic. Farmers could avail loan for raising various crops up to 125% of the scale of finance, said its Deputy General Manager S. Jawahar. Other sections of people, including artisans, women self help groups both in rural and urban areas and those with housing loan accounts could get credit without additional mortgage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ubi-announces-soft-loan/article37989514.ece
19 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soon, Sabari mala base camp may get helicopter service||While devotees to Sabarimala can expect an hours-long crawl along the roads that lead to the hill shrine, the more elite among them may soon have access to its base camp at Nilackal in rides lasting just about half-an-hour from Kochi or Thiruvananthapuram. Eyeing to tap the market for air traffic to Sabarimala, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has invited Expression of Interest (EoI) from chopper operators to facilitate the pilgrimage. The plan envisages leasing out the helipad owned by the board at Nilackal for three years to the highest bidder, who will have to run regular services in strict compliance with all rules and regulations laid down by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. The move, according to officials, is part of a plan by the board to leverage the idle property in its possession and generate sustainable income. As of now, the board charges Rs. 20,000 for each landing on its helipad. Confirming the move, TDB president K. Ananthagopan said on Saturday that the chopper service would give the devotees more choice to travel and make the transport network to the pilgrimage zone more resilient. If things go as planned, the service would begin during the ongoing pilgrimage season itself, he said. More sponsorships “The demand for chopper services to Nilackal will only increase as more and more high-profile personalities are now opting for air rides,” Mr. Ananthagopan said. The arrival of these personalities, according to him, would help draw more sponsorships as was evident during the recent visits of Krishna Ella and B. Parthasarathy Reddy, chairmen of Bharat Biotech International Limited and Hetero Group of companies respectively. Funds promised Dr. Ella had made a contribution of Rs. 1 crore for the free meal programme at the temple, while Mr. Reddy had promised to fund an infrastructure renovation project worth Rs. 4.5 crore. Official sources, however, said the new proposal came even as the earlier plans to run heli-taxi services connecting Kochi and Nilackal had to be abandoned for lack of adequate demand. Meanwhile, the hill shrine has reported a consistent surge in footfall this season with over seven lakh devotees visiting the temple in a span of 32 days. The income during the season too has risen sharply to Rs. 55 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/soon-sabarimala-base-camp-may-get-helicopter-service/article37988751.ece
19 December 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl kidnapped by boyfriend rescued||The Rajamahendravaram city police have rescued a 19-year-old girl a day after she was reportedly kidnapped by her ‘boyfriend’ for ransom. Recently, the girl from the city and Moka Phaneendra of West Godavari district became close following their friendship over social media platforms. Phaneendra is allegedly a habitual offender involved in theft cases in West Godavari district. On December 15, Phaneendra had taken the victim on a long drive. In the evening, he locked her up in a room in Bhimavaram town and later demanded Rs. 5 lakh from her parents for her safe release. He also made video calls to the victim’s parents to show her condition in the room.“Phaneendra hatched the kidnap plan for money. He recently took a rented room in Bhimavaram to execute his plan. He trapped the victim in the name of love and resorted to the kidnap,” said Rajamahendravaram SP Aiswarya Rastogi at a press meet on Saturday. The same day, the police swung into action based on a complaint lodged by the victim’s parents. The next day, the police traced the accused and rescued the victim. “The accused has proposed to receive the money in different locations, including Kakinada, Amalapuram, and Bhimavaram. He has been traced based on a clue from a neighbour at the room, in which the victim was kept,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-kidnapped-by-boyfriend-rescued/article37989513.ece
19 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s campaign against dowry gets a shot in the arm||Kudumbashree can make the most effective interventions in raising social consciousness against social ills such as dowry, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating online ‘Sthreepaksha Navakeralam,’ an awareness campaign by the Kudumbashree Mission against dowry and dowry-related harassment, here on Saturday. If there was a dowry-related issue in an area, Kudumbashree should bring it to the attention of those who could raise their voice against such ills. If dowry was demanded at the time of marriage-related talks, it should be opposed right then. If dowry-related issues occurred after marriage, Kudumbashree should intervene. ‘Social responsibility’ The mission should take this awareness campaign forward, Mr. Vijayan said. This was a huge social responsibility. The government machinery would take strong action against social ills and support Kudumbashree. There was a time when women were married off when they were still children. They had no education, no rights to paternal property. However, people stood for change, setting aside religious and caste differences. Social reformers led the protests. Such support resulted in the conditions here being very different from those in other States. Many problems still remained, which led to the launch of the Sthreepaksha Navakeralam campaign. Every woman should be equipped to react against wrongs in society, the Chief Minister said. Not only women, men too should come out against dowry. Complaints abound Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan, who presided, said numerous dowry-related complaints were being received. From 2010 January to June 2021, 1,096 cases had been received at the Kerala Women’s Commission. As per State police crime records, 86 cases related to death of women following harassment had been reported in the past five years. Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchurani said Sthreepaksha Navakeralam would energise women. Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson P. Satheedevi announced the crime mapping to be taken up by the Kudumbashree in 152 blocks. Campaign ambassador Actor Nimisha Sajayan who is the Sthreepaksha Navakeralam campaign ambassador read out the pledge. She also called for social support to the Kudumbashree campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-campaign-against-dowry-gets-a-shot-in-the-arm/article37988754.ece
19 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plant species named after Palakkad||A team of researchers from three government colleges in the State have reported a new plant species which is a close relative of the herb popularly called Acharamkolli. Classified under the genus Polycarpaea of the family caryophyllaceae, the species has been named Polycarpaea palakkadensis as floristic surveys in Palakkad have led to its discovery. The findings of V. S. Anil Kumar and S. Arya of the Department of Botany, University College, Thiruvananthapuram; Ambika V., Alen Alex Philip and V. Suresh, Department of Botany, Government Victoria College, Palakkad; and Jose Sojan of the Department of Botany, Government College, Chittur, Palakkad; have been highlighted in the journal Phytotaxa . Across the globe, the genus Polycarpaea has 50 species, six in India. In Kerala, the species Polycarpaea corymbosa (Acharamkolli) is more widely distributed.  Polycarpaea palakkadensis is closely allied to Polycarpaea rangaiahiana , a species found in Kannur district, but differs in several physical traits. It also resembles P. corymbosa with respect to verticillate, linear leaves and dense cyme, but differs in terms of the shape of stipules, sepals and petals and seeds. Found on dry land in the Malampuzha region, Polycarpaea palakkadensis is an annual herb, standing 7.5 cm tall with leaves arranged in a whorl-like pattern and seeds creamy white and ovoid. Flowering and fruiting happens during July-October. While the species has now been reported only in Palakkad, researchers feel that it could occur in further sites in southwest India and the country as a whole. Specimens have been deposited at the herbarium of the Department of Botany, University College here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plant-species-named-after-palakkad/article37989128.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prioritise science and technology to improve quality of life: Sivan||Science and technology are the prioritised strategy for the next stage of national development plans, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman and Secretary, Department of Space, K. Sivan, has said. Addressing the students of KL Deemed to be University on the occasion of the 11th convocation in the online mode, Dr. Sivan underscored the need to develop strong capabilities in science and technologies for improving the quality of lives, creating quality manpower, centres of excellence, and an enabling environment for innovation, and for acquiring a reputation for global leadership in science and technology. “Another focus area is to bring the R&D activities in the mainstream, revising the conventional methodologies of realisation of space systems, missions and space-based services. There have been many planetary explorations such as Chandrayaan 1 and 2, Mars Orbiter Mission and Astrosat missions that ploughed back rich benefits to global scientific community,” Dr. Sivan said. He said with the new National Education Policy in place, the academic institutions would become platforms for innovation, addressing the real problems of society, and this institutional framework could complement and supplement the existing conventional approaches for socio-economic development. “There are enormous opportunities capable of touching the life of a common man through a multitude of capabilities that can be translated into meaningful applications,” he said. Referring to ISRO’s indigenous capability in space technology, Dr. Sivan said, from a humble beginning in 1960s, the national space programme had witnessed many developments and achievements till date. “We have mastered many critical and strategic technologies, indigenously developed complex space technologies, built state-of-the-art infrastructure, operationalised three of our launch vehicles, increased the number of launches, improved our mission versatility, and brought in technology improvements,” he said, informing students about the immense opportunities in space sector in the areas of building satellites, launch vehicles, Satcom and navigation services, electro-optical imaging systems, microelectronics, antenna, RF electronics, PCB fabrication and wiring, and assembly of space subsystems. President and Managing Director, Volvo Group, India, Kamal Bali, noted spiritual orator Chaganti Koteswara Rao, founder, Silicon Andhra, USA, Kuchibhotla Anand, and actor Ali were conferred honorary doctoral degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prioritise-science-and-technology-to-improve-quality-of-life-sivan/article37988752.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister inaugurates jewellery expo||Home Minister M. Sucharita said that the request made by merchants for setting up a jewellery park would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister. Speaking at the inauguration of the two-day B2B jewellery exhibition ‘Grand Abhushanam’, organised by the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) in association with the AP Bullion Gold Silver and Diamond Merchants Association (APBGSDMA) in the city on Saturday, Ms. Sucharita said such exhibitions provide a wide scope for merchants to bring in more designs and models. The organisers said that about 6,000 visitors from across the State are expected to visit the exhibition where over 120 stalls were set up. The Home Minister said that the organisers could not conduct the exhibition last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic which impacted businesses across the country. Regarding a request by the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council , Ms. Sucharita said that the proposal, made by members of GJC on setting up a jewellery park in about 40 acres to benefit jewellers and generate jobs, will be discussed with the Chief Minister. Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivasa Rao appreciated the jewellery trades and the GJC for organising the exhibition. AP Bullion Gold Silver and Diamond Merchants Associationpresident Vijay Kumar said that there are over 50,000 jewellery stores in the State and this exhibition will be useful for them as makers from across the country will be available under one roof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-inaugurates-jewellery-expo-in-vijayawada/article37988773.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Exercise, practise yoga for health’||Speakers at the 30th Annual Walkers International Convention stressed the importance of regular walking, exercise and yoga for maintaining good health. More than 1,000 walkers attended the two-day meet which began in the city on Saturday. Walkers International AP president Thondepu V. Hanumantha Rao said every person should make it a habit to exercise and walk regularly for fitness. Later, prizes were distributed for ‘Best Club’ and ‘Best Performance’ across the country, and the club members were felicitated. Child members of the clubs in A.P. performed cultural shows. The Best Club award was given away to Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Walkers Club (Simhachalam) president T. Ranga Rao. Presidents of the Walker Clubs of Odisha, Karnataka, Bihar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exercise-practise-yoga-for-health/article37989588.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC council witnesses protests against OTS, new property tax system||The council meeting of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation on Saturday witnessed protests by the opposition parties over implementation of the new property tax system and the State government’s One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme for registration of houses. CPI(M) leaders Ch. Babu Rao, Gade Adilakshmi and others attempted to lay a siege to the VMC office in protest against hike in property tax and imposition of user charges on garbage collection. The TDP corporators also staged protests on the VMC premises against the OTS scheme. Mr. Babu Rao, who was arrested along with other leaders and activists, said the government succumbed to the pressure mounted by the Central government, which, for the first time, imposed user charges on every household for garbage collection. He said the decision of the governments was burdening the urban local bodies and the residents. CPI corporator B. Satya Babu opposed the new tax system. He demanded that the civic body should not implement G.O. 198 until the court’s gives its verdict. The TDP corporators also opposed the new tax system based on capital value of the property and OTS scheme. YSRCP MLA representing Vijayawada Central Malladi Vishnu came down heavily on the opposition parties for obstructing the council proceedings. While addressing reporters outside the council, he said the TDP’s only aim was to ensure that the welfare schemes did not reach the poor. The council, chaired by Mayor Rayana Bhagyalakshmi, passed several resolutions proposed by the members during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmc-council-witnesses-protests-against-ots-new-property-tax-system/article37989595.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to roll back hike in GST on footwear||Members of the Andhra Pradesh Footwear Manufacturers and Dealers’ Association on Saturday took out a protest rally against increasing the GST on footwear from 5% to 12% with effect from January 1, 2022. The GST hike is applicable to footwear category falling under Rs. 1,000 per pair. Footwear manufacturers and dealers from across the State participated in the rally demanding immediate rollback of the government decision. “The footwear industry is already in a crisis for the last two years due to the effect of COVID-19. Now, if the GST is increased to 12 %, the rates of the footwear will be hiked and it will be a burden to the public as well as the industry,” said the association convener Chukkapalli Arun Kumar. There are 700 wholesale and 6,500 retail shops of footwear across the 13 districts which provide employment to a large number of people, he said. The rally started at Gymkhana grounds and culminated at Dharna Chowk passing through Hanumanpet and Alankar Road areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-roll-back-hike-in-gst-on-footwear/article37989597.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lone COVID-19 death reported from Vizag||The State reported one COVID-19 death and 137 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative toll and tally to 14,478 and 20,75,683 respectively. The lone death was reported from Visakhapatnam district. The recovery rate and the total number of recoveries stood at 99.22% and 20,59,500 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 1,705. Chittoor reported 28 infections in the past one day. It was followed by West Godavari (23), East Godavari (16), Visakhapatnam (14), Krishna (12), Guntur (12), Srikakulam (10), Nellore (8), Anantapur (5), Kadapa (5), Kurnool (2) and Prakasam (2). Vizianagaram did not report any infections during the period. The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: E.G. (2,95,001), Chittoor (2,48,497), W.G. (1,79,932), Guntur (1,79,166), Visakhapatnam (1,58,734), Anantapur (1,58,194), Nellore (1,47,014), Prakasam (1,38,781), Krishna (1,20,575), Kurnool (1,24,214), Srikakulam (1,23,638), Kadapa (1,15,932), and Vizianagaram (83,110).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lone-covid-19-death-reported-from-vizag/article37989519.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC opens hospital in Hyderabad for retd. staff||The AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao on Saturday inaugurated a hospital to facilitate free medical treatment for the 2,000-odd retired employees of the corporation from Andhra Pradesh, who are now settled in Hyderabad, on Road No.1 at Tarnaka. After the bifurcation of the State, the APSRTC, with the support of its employees, built a central hospital at Vidyadharapuram in the city in 2017 to cater to the medical needs of the employees. But around 2,000 employees who retired from the corporation and settled in Hyderabad who were unable to utilise the services from the Tarnaka hospital built in the composite State, were forced to travel to A.P. for treatment. ‘Free treatment’ Heeding to their plea for a separate hospital, the APSRTC management opened a facility for them on Saturday. Mr. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said the hospital was equipped with adequate medical staff and required equipment. It would extend free medical treatment to the retired RTC employees and their families, he said. APSRTC Executive Director (Administration) A. Koteswara Rao, Chief Medical Officer Appa Rao, Financial Advisor Raghava Reddy and retired employees of the corporation were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-opens-hospital-in-hyderabad-for-retd-staff/article37989532.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One held, gutkha worth Rs. 3.54 lakh seized||The Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) police arrested one N. Sambasiva Rao, who was allegedly smuggling banned gutkha products, and seized 23,625 packets of chewing tobacco, valued at Rs. 3.54 lakh. The team led by K.V. Srinivas Rao raided a private transport company at Bhavanipuram and seized the stocks. The accused, a native of Shivayalam Street, Vuyyur, had been procuring different brands of gutkha products and supplying them to local traders, said ACP G.V. Ramana Murthy and V.S.N. Varma, who participated in the raid. The Bhavanipuram police registered a case on Saturday and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-held-gutkha-worth-rs-354-lakh-seized/article37989591.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||80,367 mt paddy purchased in Krishna||Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha said that the government purchased 82,367 metric tonnes of paddy worth Rs. 161 crore from the farmers in Krishna district so far. During the ‘Dial Your JC’ programme on Saturday, she interacted with the farmers who raised complaints regarding the purchase of paddy. Responding to a farmer who told her that 1318 variant of paddy was not being purchased, Ms. Madhavi Latha asked the Rythu Bharosa Kendram (RBKs) personnel to accept the said variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/80367-mt-paddy-purchased-in-krishna/article37989593.ece
19 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apply online for ex gratia||The State government has appealed to the next of kin of those who have succumbed to COVID-19 to login to the portal — covid19.ap.gov.in/exgratia — and apply for ex gratia. The Health Department says that Rs. 50,000 ex gratia is being provided by the State Disaster Management Authority. Offline applications can be submitted at the offices of the District Collectors. For further details, applicants can dial ‘104’. The State has so far reported 14,478 deaths due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apply-online-for-ex-gratia/article37989520.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drug addiction on the rise among students in Visakhapatnam||The use of narcotics, injected drugs and ganja is on the rise in Visakhapatnam city. The unfortunate part is that young students are getting addicted, but it is being too late by the time, their parents come of know of it. It’s for the parents and other family members to look out for behavioural changes in their children, particularly college-going students, who are vulnerable to such influences and try to assess their mental condition apart from seeking professional help at the earliest. Timely intervention can save lives. “The Centre for Psychological Assessment and Counselling, Andhra University, is getting two to three cases a week for counselling and treatment. A majority of those coming to our centre are students of engineering and law colleges, in addition to some students, who studied in Russia and returned after picking up the habit there,” Centre Director M.V.R. Raju tells The Hindu . “The irregular classes and relaxation in attendance in some colleges is giving a lot of freedom and making some students thinking of new ways to kill time. Frequent quarrels among parents and sometimes insistence of parents on taking a particular course, which the students don’t like, are also causing stress and anxiety among youngsters. The easy availability of ganja, through a network of suppliers and online links, comes in handy for them to pick up the habit,” he says. “The problem begins with the victim disinterested in interacting with those around him, leading to emotional problems, damage to mental health, depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress and schizophrenia. Our centre is treating patients through Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT), education, social support and family help and aversion therapy,” says Prof. Raju. The Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC), located in the city, is only tertiary care hospital for mental care in Andhra Pradesh. It has qualified psychiatrists and the facilities required to deal with such cases. The Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST) Centre, which was inaugurated on January 6, 2020, at GHMC, is a boon to those addicted to injected drugs. The centre has a psychiatrist, a data manager, counsellor and a staff nurse to take care of the patients. Most of the patients, who have taken treatment at the OST have been completely cured and are leading normal lives now. A total of 124 persons had registered for treatment at OST from January to December 2020 and the number reached 165 by the end of November, 2021. There was, however, a decline in new registrations during 2021, which can be attributed to fears of patients in visiting hospitals due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drug-addiction-on-the-rise-among-students-in-visakhapatnam/article37989556.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSSDC scam: TDP dares govt. to prove charges||Senior TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has challenged the CID to conduct a physical verification of assets and prove the charges of corruption allegedly made against the AP Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) during the previous government’s rule or admit its “mistake.” Addressing the media along with party spokesman K. Pattabhiram here on Saturday, Mr. Patrudu said he was ready to come, on behalf of the party, for a probe by the CID at any of the 40 Skill Development Centres (SDCs) in the State. Challenging the CID, he said: “I will give the details of the amounts spent on setting up the SDCs and acquisition of tools for those centres.” The SDCs were established during the tenure of the TDP government to provide skill training to youths, who were being rejected by industries. Mr. Naidu had sent a team to Gujarat and brought the Siemens company. The company had agreed to invest 90% of the funds and the remaining 10%, which was Rs. 370 crore, had to be paid by the government. An eight-member monitoring committee, consisting of senior IAS officers, was appointed to submit what all was needed for the SDCs, which were planned to be set up all over the State. He alleged that the YSRCP government was misusing the CID to target those who question its actions. Arrests were being made without proof and the CID was being made to dance to the tunes of the Chief Minister. The CID report says that Rs. 240 crore was diverted from the Designtech company to shell companies, but the same report says that the funds were transferred back to Designtech. Mr. Patrudu said the CID had raided the homes of Ganta Subba Rao and Lakshminarayana, while leaving out Premachandra Reddy, then MD and CEO of APSSDC. Mr. Pattabhiram alleged that the CID has lost its credibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apssdc-scam-tdp-dares-govt-to-prove-charges/article37989602.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||100 sportspersons from State to attend National Youth Fest||Youth Festivals will be organised all over the State to commemorate the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda on January 12, Minister for Tourism, Youth Affairs and Sports Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said. The Minister participated in a virtual meet held by Union Minister of Youth Services and Sports with the Ministers of various States in the country on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that 100 sportspersons would represent the State in the National Youth Festival – 2022 to be held in Puducherry from January 12 to 16. Competitions would be conducted at the State-level in events like kabbadi, kho kho, volleyball, folk dance, folk songs and other cultural activities on January 12. Competitions in essay writing and debate would be organised on the life history of Swami Vivekananda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/100-sportspersons-from-state-to-attend-national-youth-fest/article37989603.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC celebrates 99th College Day||The 99th College Day of Andhra Medical College (AMC) was held at the college campus, here, on Saturday. Addressing the students, Principal P.V. Sudhakar impressed upon them to follow the footsteps of eminent faculty and always remain dedicated to their profession. Vice-Principal C. Jayaraj presented the academic excellence report of AMC. K.V.S.G. Murali Krishna and KGH Superintendent P. Mythili, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amc-celebrates-99th-college-day/article37989610.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day tribal science festival concludes in Paderu mandal||The three-day tribal science festival, organised at the Talarisinghi Tribal Welfare Ashram School at Paderu mandal in the Agency area of the district concluded on Saturday. Paderu MP Goddeti Madhavi, who was chief guest at the valedictory function, called upon the participants in the fest to teach whatever they learnt at the festival to their fellow students. She hoped that tribal students would participate in sports competitions at the State, national and international levels and bring name to the nation. She said that participation in events was more important than winning or losing in a competition. ITDA PO Ronanki Gopalakrishna, who presided over the meeting, commended the tribal students for their models pertaining to science, mathematics, social and English. The festival helped in relieving the stress among students . SC/ST Commission Chairman K. Ravi Babu, Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi and Tricor Chairman S. Bullibabu spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-tribal-science-festival-concludes-in-paderu-mandal/article37989604.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Digital campaign against VSP sale||Jana Sena Party (JSP) has launched a digital campaign for the protection of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) from the prospect of privatisation. On the directions of the JSP chief Pawan Kalyan, the party leaders are organising campaigns all over the State from December 18 to 20. The digital campaign was launched on Twitter by Mr. Pawan Kalyan on Saturday. He called upon the YSRCP and TDP MPs to raise their voice in Parliament against privatisation of the VSP. As part of the three-day programme, JSP State general secretaries T. Shiva Shankar and B. Satya and other leaders and party workers held a demonstration, holding placards near the Gandhi statue, opposite the GVMC, here. The participants raised slogans against the State government. Mr. Shiva Shankar alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not committed to saving the steel plant and was indulging in ‘dramas’ and cheating the people. He sought that the Chief Minister should lead a delegation of MPs from the State to exert pressure on the Centre and make it repeal its decision on the strategic sale of VSP. Mr. Satya alleged that the State government had made a secret pact with the South Korea-based steel company, POSCO, for sale of lands of VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/digital-campaign-against-vsp-sale/article37989534.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online course for defence personnel||Andhra University has invited applications from defence personnel, ex-servicemen, spouses and children of defence personnel for admission into online certificate course in fire and industrial safety programme for the academic year 2021-22. The duration of the course is 12 weeks and the eligibility criterion is 10+2 or Intermediate or equivalent. For more details contact: Directorate of Admissions, Andhra University, Vijayanagar Palace, Pedawaltair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-course-for-defence-personnel/article37989557.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 kg hashish oil seized, one held||The officials from SEB, Narsipatnam, arrested one person and seized 3 kg of hashish oil or liquid ganja near Alluri Park, KD Peta in Golugonda, here on Saturday. The arrested was identified as P. Suresh Kumar from G.K. Veedhi. The SEB arrested the smuggler during a routine vehicle check. Meanwhile, four SEB teams led by its Joint Director Satish Kumar, destroyed 54 acres of ganja plantation in G. Madugula mandal on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-kg-hashish-oil-seized-one-held/article37989607.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead, two injured in accident||One person died and two others were seriously injured, when van carrying cows rammed a stationary lorry on the NH near Anandapuram. According to the police, both the injured persons were rescued from the badly mangled cabin and sent to a hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dead-two-injured-in-accident/article37989608.ece
19 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walk organised at VSP||As a part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’, “Iconic Week Celebrations” are being observed at RINL- VSP from December 13 to 19. In this connection, a walk was organised on Saturday morning at Ukkunagaram. Around 500 persons, including NCC cadets from various schools in Ukkunagaram Township, Home Guards, Employees and youth participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walk-organised-at-vsp/article37989606.ece
19 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government urged to change curriculum in tune with NEP||Vidya Bharati-Akhila Bharatiya Shiksha Samsthan on Saturday urged the Union government to take necessary steps for change of curriculum in accordance with the National Education Policy-2020 which was expected to ensure overall development of students. Vidya Bharati’s Akhila Bharatiya Karyakarini Bhaitak, a meeting of the national executive body, was held at Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju School here. All India president of Vidya Bharati Doosi Ramakrishna Rao, Central Tribal University Vice-Chancellor and member of the National Educational Policy T.V. Kattimani, Tripura Central Tribal University V-C Ganga Prasad Prasain, and former Vice-Chancellors of various universities, retired IAS officers, academicians and intellectuals participated in the meeting which would continue on Sunday. On behalf of the executive body, Professor Ganga Prasad told The Hindu that the changes in the existing curriculum in Vidya Bharati schools were needed and its implementation procedure was discussed in the meeting. “National Education Policy is going to bring many significant changes in the Indian education system. The change of the curriculum as suggested by experts is the need of the hour. The meet discussed the issues at length and took the opinions of all the members,” he added. He said that Vidya Bharati was keen to extend its expertise to the Union and State governments also since effective implementation of NEP would benefit next generations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-urged-to-change-curriculum-in-tune-with-nep/article37988776.ece
19 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pride Developers bags award||Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations State general secretary and managing director of Pride Developers K. Subhash Chandra Bose received the ‘Best Built Apartment’ award from Indian Concrete Institute and Ultra-Tech, which have been jointly promoting quality and creativity in construction field. At a function in Vijayawada on Friday night, Mr. Bose received the award from ICI-Vijayawada Centre representative P. Polurraju and other representatives of th etwo organisations. Lakedew Enclave-Vizianagaram of Pride Developers was selected as the best apartment after studying architectural and technical aspects of the building. Mr. Bose told the media here on Saturday that CREDAI was keen to promote quality and highest standards in every structure in accordance with the norms of the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) and National Academy of Constructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pride-developers-bags-award/article37989518.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor to become cheaper||On beer, 40% of rationalised rates of VAT, 100% special margin is being reduced for those priced below Rs. 200, while it is 40% of VAT and 115% of special margin of rationalised rates of special margin. The decision follows the rampant smuggling of liquor from other States in spite of severe checks at borders. The government had even formed SEB to prevent smuggling of liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-to-become-cheaper/article37989528.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road to future||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-to-future/article37988760.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fitness training||The District Sports Authority (DSA) will provide pre-Army Recruitment ‘fitness training’ to candidates for the recruitment rally to be held in January 2022. Candidates interested in joining the fitness training have to pay Rs. 3,000 as fee to the DSA, Visakhapatnam by December 27. More details can be had by calling the mobile nos 9848802424 or 8309417921.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fitness-training/article37989605.ece
19 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Probe into chopper crash may take few more weeks: IAF chief||The probe into the helicopter crash that killed former Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and 12 others may take a few more weeks and the court of inquiry would be a thorough process, Chief of Air Staff V.R. Chaudhari said on Saturday. He said that he would not like to pre-empt any of the findings of the court of inquiry since it is a thorough process. “The mandate given to him (Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, the investigating officer) is to investigate every single angle and look into every single aspect of what could have gone wrong and come out with the suitable recommendations and findings,” he said while addressing the media after reviewing the Combined Graduation Parade (CGP) at the Air Force Academy at Dundigal here. “I would recommend that I do not make any announcement in haste about what could have been the cause or what are the remedial actions that we are going to institute,” he said. “So, we will just have to wait for a few more weeks till the court of inquiry is completed. Let me assure you that it is a very, very fair process, the entire court of inquiry,” the Air Chief Marshal said, expressing grief over the demise of General Rawat and others. Asked if procedures concerning flying by VVIPs are being reviewed especially after the Mi-17 chopper crash, he said all the procedures would be reviewed based on the findings of the inquiry. Stand-off with China Further, he said that the Air Force is continuing deployment as the stand-off with China is persisting and that the Force is ready to enhance the presence of troops if the need arises. “Disengagement has taken place in certain areas in Eastern Ladakh. But, the complete disengagement has not yet been done. I would not like to go into the details, but suffice to say we are deployed, we are prepared to take on any challenge that may face us in that area with the shortest of notice,” the top IAF officer said. Status quo with regard to the deployment of forces in the region continues at the same level as April last, following the Galwan incident, he said. The IAF is continuously evaluating the threats, CAS Chaudhari said when asked if a scenario of two-front war can be seen in the near future in view of the threat from Pakistan, apart from China. Aircraft delivery Further, he said that three of the remaining four aircraft would be delivered in February and the last aircraft, to which India-specific enhancements are being made, would be delivered after its due trials are completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-into-chopper-crash-may-take-few-more-weeks-iaf-chief/article37989348.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘BJP, TRS ‘looted’ Rs. 32L cr. from people’||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh and TPCC president Revanth Reddy have accused the Narendra Modi government and TRS government of looting Rs. 32 lakh crore from common people in the last eight years. Mr. Singh said that the Congress was fighting for the poor by raising a voice against the rising inflation while the Modi government was busy benefiting a few big industrialists at the cost of the common man. “The greed of the BJP government is evident in the way the prices of fuel and all essential commodities are increasing manifold even during the pandemic,” he said. The Congress leader addressed a massive public meeting at Chevella crossroads after completing a 10-km padayatra on Saturday along with Mr. Revanth Reddy and other senior leaders as part of the AICC Jan Jagaran Abhiyan against rising inflation. Earlier, Mr. Singh and Mr. Revanth Reddy visited the historic Chilkur Balaji temple and offered their prayers. Later, Mr. Revanth Reddy along with hundreds of party workers began the 10-km padayatra that culminated into a public meeting at Chevella crossroads. En route, he paid tributes to the statues of Ambedkar, Indira Gandhi and YSR. Addressing the meeting, he said that the padayatra was to sensitise the ‘insensitive’ BJP and TRS governments that were busy with politics leaving aside people’s welfare and also to express support to Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi leading the agitation in different parts of the country. Mr. Reddy alleged that Modi and KCR have been robbing people for the last eight years by imposing various taxes. “Petrol was just Rs. 60 in 2014 under Congress-led UPA regime and now it is Rs. 108 per litre. The actual price of petrol should be Rs. 40-45 per litre as per the international market price of crude oil. Similarly, an LPG cylinder worth Rs. 400 is being sold for over Rs. 1,000. Farmers have suffered due to increase in prices of diesel,” he said. The Congress chief slammed KCR for not reducing VAT on prices of petrol and diesel. “KCR is busy increasing liquor prices while not reducing VAT. Crores of money being ‘extorted’ from people in the form of taxes are being swindled by the BJP and TRS leaders by way of commission in different projects.” He also said that the Kaleshwaram project did not benefit farmers despite the government spending over Rs. 1 lakh crore. He added that Chevella lost project benefits due to redesigning and assured that the Congress would restore the Pranahita Chevella project. Senior Congress leaders Mallu Ravi, Mohammed Ali Shabbir, Sampath Kumar, Ram Mohan Rao, Mahesh Kumar Goud, Challa Narasimha Reddy and others also addressed the meeting on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-trs-looted-rs-32l-crore-cong/article37989391.ece
19 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three killed in suspected case of drunk driving||In a suspected case of drunk driving, a private bank’s loan recovery agent and two short film actors were killed, while their friend suffered severe injuries early on Saturday when the car they were travelling in slammed a roadside tree near the University of Hyderabad at Gachibowli. The car, which was allegedly being driven at a high speed, split into two halves due to the impact of the collision. The victims are Abdul Raheem (25), a loan recovery agent with Axis Bank, a native of Vijayawada, and short film artists, N. Manasa (23) from Doddaballapur near Bengaluru, and Madamoni Manasa (19) from Badepally of Jadcherla mandal in Mahabubnagar district. The girls were staying at a hostel in Ameerpet. Injured Sai Siddhu (24) is battling for life at a private hospital in the IT Corridor. According to Gachibowli sub-inspector A Naveen Reddy, the accident took place around 2 a.m. when the victims were going towards Lingampally from Siddhu and Raheem’s residence at J.V. Hills, Kondapur. The girls went to Siddhu’s house to discuss scenes for a short film and reportedly consumed alcohol there, before going for a drive in a car booked from an app-based self-drive rental company Zoomcar, to have tea. The ill-fated vehicle was driven at a speed of more than 120 kmph when Abdul Raheem lost control of it, and rammed a roadside tree, before it crashed a temple wall and halted, Mr. Reddy said. He said that Siddhu, who was sitting next to the driver seat, and the two girls in the rear seat, were thrown off from the vehicle, while Raheem was sandwiched between the seat and engine. “We need to wait for the autopsy report to know if Raheem was driving under the influence of alcohol or not,” Mr. Reddy said. Police got the information about an accident at 2.12 am from a passer-by on Dial-100 and a case under Section 304-A (negligence causing death) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-in-suspected-case-of-drunk-driving/article37989371.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Inter students’ deaths due to government failures: BJP||Asserting that the maximum number of students who failed in the examination conducted by the State Board of Intermediate Examination are from the poor sections and those living in the rural areas, State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay said it was a result of the TRS government’s failure in addressing infrastructural needs for online classes in the wake of COVID. Consequentially, “it is because of the government’s failures that students have committed suicide, yet again. It is shameful on the part of the government that a few students had even tweeted the leaders’ names before taking the extreme step,” he said, addressing media persons on Saturday. Remembering the 2019 fiasco around Inter results which saw 27 student deaths, Mr. Sanjay wondered if students should continue to be the subjects of government’s negligence and corruption. He said the government has no other go than to claim responsibility for the failures at the examination and the deaths following it. Demanding that the government conduct free re-evaluation of the papers, he said the BJP would also initiate legal action. The Intermediate first year exam results and the three suicides reported from Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Jayashankar Bhupalpally districts following it, besides reports of students attempting to take the extreme step, has caused tension and stir across the State. Several voluntary and student wing organisations voiced the concerns of students and their parents, and demanded immediate corrective action from the government amid police tension on Saturday. According to Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad leaders, who protested before the BIE office at Nampally, the government deciding to go ahead with the examinations without the completion of syllabus was also a contributor to the failures. “The government’s approach was lukewarm even after many surveys showed that lakhs of Telangana students were unable to access online education,” said State secretary Praveen Reddy. Calling for Intermediate educational institutions’ bandh on Tuesday, he said activists of ABVP would burn the government’s effigies across the State on Monday to protest police high-handedness at the protests on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-students-deaths-due-to-govt-failures-bandi-sanjay/article37989384.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BIE on the back foot||After record number of failures in the first year Inter exams this year, the government fears a repeat of students’ suicides, going by the outrage generated and three students already ending lives allegedly after failing in the first year exams. Only 49% students cleared the exams and this is the lowest ever since the formation of TS. The results also showed that there was no leniency in the valuation of the answer scripts going by the steep fall in the pass percentage. These students who entered college life for the first time had to come to terms with the examinations conducted in unusual circumstances – first taking the exam without attending a single class and later attempting a very different exam from what they had given earlier in 10th class. The conduct of exams itself was a controversy as the students had not attended a single class of first year and there was no assessment of their learning capabilities after they were forced to take online classes only due to the pandemic. But officials argued that the exams were necessary as the marks would be the base for final results in case the second year exams are not conducted due to unforeseen situation in the pandemic. However, there is a blind belief among the officials that online classes had indeed succeeded, but the results in the government colleges where the pass percentage is said to be astonishingly less showcase how the students failed to come to terms with technology teaching. The students who are now in second year were asked to take the exams in the normal mode and many believed the valuation wouldn’t be strict given predicament of the students. Sources in the BIE say out of the 2.35 lakh students who failed, at least 1.75 lakh are from the government colleges and some government colleges have registered less than 10% passes. The BIE has also not officially released the data of the government colleges this year unlike the previous years, fearing protests from parents and students. The biggest disadvantage these students face is that there is no second chance for them now and to go relatively stress-free to face the second year exams in April next year. BIE secretary Omer Jaleel said all those who failed have to write the backlogs along with second year exams. This would be adding to the already stressed students, say the parents of those who failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bie-on-the-back-foot/article37989389.ece
19 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ahead of Sankranti, kite sales wait to take off||Unseasonal rain and the rapid spread of Omicron variant have left kite sellers in the city twiddling their thumbs. Outside the wholesale shops near Kali Kaman, Koka ki Tatti, Dhoolpet and Begum Bazaar, the colourful wares are piled high inside the shops and spill onto the streets. “There is no sale as buyers from the districts are not coming due to Omicron fear. We bought the goods expecting better business than last year. Our hopes have been dashed,” says Surinder Singh of Old Motilal Patang Ghar near Begum Bazar Chatri. Mr. Singh is the fourth generation owner of the 80-year-old shop and says business has never been this grim. “The prices of all the items have gone up due to hike in fuel prices. Most of the kites and manja come from Kanpur, Gujarat and Kolkata. Because of the distance, prices have gone up,” he says. Buyers from places like Warangal, Karimnagar, Khammam, Mancherial, and even Rajamahendravaram and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh throng the shops in the area between November 15 and January 5, but are missing this year. Across the Musi river, children stop, haggle, and buy kites at the shops in the Hussaini Alam area. Some kites are in the air but they are few and far between. The kite festival begins in real earnest on January 1 and reaches a crescendo during the festival of Sankranti. “Whenever there are clouds, I get worried. This year, out of 180 days, it has rained on 100 days and my business has gone for a toss,” says Bhagwandas Bajaj sitting inside his 40-year-old shop near Kali Kaman. Traders from Nellore, Tirupati, Kadapa and other districts of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu pick up stock from Bajaj Patang Mahal. “All the items that you see are bought with an anticipation that we will do good business but in the last 15 days, we didn’t do very well. If business picks up now, it will be good,” says Mr. Bajaj whose grandfather started a kite shop in Yakutpura area about 80 years ago. As Omicron cases surge and clouds play hide and seek, the kite sellers keep their fingers crossed about their future.  This year, out of 180 days, it has rained on 100 days and my business has gone for a toss. Bhagwandas Bajaj, Kite seller||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ahead-of-sankranti-kite-sales-wait-to-take-off/article37989342.ece
19 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Against the Big C, soldiering on in pressing conditions||A collection of Hot Wheels cars is spread on a table. Dhruva, 21, his mother Devika Bahudhanam and younger brother Dheer, 9, are quizzing each other and identifying the cars. At first glance, this looks like regular family banter. Behind this happy photograph is a story of a family soldiering on despite multiple challenges. World over, owners of rare Hot Wheels cars take pride in their collection and exhibit them at international events. That is not in the immediate scheme of things for Dhruva. The collection is a source of immense joy for Dhruva, who showed an astute skill for identifying cars since childhood, even in low visibility conditions when the features were barely visible. This ability stood out, given that otherwise he was termed a slow learner, required speech therapy and occupational therapy to help better his motor skills. At the age of eight, he was diagnosed with a rare chromosomal disorder termed ‘49,XXXXY syndrome’. Patience, perseverance “I was told maybe one in a lakh children have this condition. Lakhon mein ek ,” Devika says with a smile. Behind that smile is a journey of patience and perseverance to understand what her child was suffering from. Not knowing what sort of disability her child is growing up with, she had gone from pillar to post, until a doctor suggested chromosomal analysis. Alongside medical treatment for his motor skills, in the 2000s Devika learnt as much as she could from a Yahoo support group that connected parents who were sailing on similar boats worldwide. “Now it is a focussed Facebook group where there is knowledge transfer and discussions,” she explains. Devika and her late husband rallied around Dhruva and did all they could, to ensure an empathetic environment of medical help, counsellors, therapists and schools. Almost every year, we had to find a new school since the awareness of how to deal with a child with a chromosomal disorder, and therefore developmental and behavioural differences, was lacking,” says Devika. Multiple setbacks What made the family’s journey tougher were the unexpected health setbacks a few years ago. Her husband was coping with renal failure and she was diagnosed with multiple myeloma. Dhruva was a source of strength, telling her that she will be fine. Following comprehensive cancer treatment, Devika was on the path to recovery. However, she lost her husband. Memories come rushing back as she talks and it is hard to not notice that she refers to him in the present tense rather than the past. “It has been three years and I miss him a lot,” she says, fighting back tears. Her work in cinema, as a creative and executive producer and various other capacities, kept her going. Devika has been associated with filmmakers Nagesh Kukunoor and Elahe Hiptoola since their second film Rockford (1999) and in 2014, joined Arka Media. She was part of the post-production team for Baahubali - The Beginning and worked closely on the Hindi dubbed version of Baahubali - The Conclusion . “Nagesh, Elahe, Arka Media producers Shobu Yarlagadda and Prasad Devineni and S.S. Rajamouli family have been extremely helpful and I am grateful for their support,” she emphasises. When she thought she had put her cancer chapter behind her, it relapsed in mid-2020. Chemotherapy sessions and bone marrow transplant followed, but it wasn’t enough. In a few days, she will be travelling to Spain for CAR T-cell therapy (for which funds were raised through a campaign that is still active on ketto.org). The treatment can take up to six months. Devika has been an optimist all along. “I want to and I am hopeful of returning to India after successful treatment and being there for my sons,” she says. Once she returns, she hopes to make a film inspired by Dhruva. The script has a tinge of adventure and is far from a weepy tale.  (For longer version, check www.thehindu.com)   I want to and I am hopeful of returning to India after successful treatment and being there for my sons. Devika Bahudhanam, Executive producer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/against-the-big-c-soldiering-on-in-pressing-conditions/article37989354.ece
19 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Several unanswered questions||For Shaik Mohammed and Madamoni Vaishnavi, uncle and sister of Adbul Raheem and M Manasa, respectively, who were found sitting helplessly at the Osmania General Hospital morgue, there were several unanswered questions. While Mohammed was surprised to know that his nephew was staying in JV Colony in Kondapur, while they were under the impression that the latter was staying at a hostel at Ameerpet, Vaishnavi was shocked by the death of her younger sister as she video-called her hours before the fatal road accident. They were unclear how the four persons were related to each other and why the girls did go to Sai Siddhu and Raheem’s place late in the night. “Around 8.30 p.m. on Friday my sister spoke to me over video call and informed me that she was safe with her newfound social media friend N Manasa, at her hostel room at Ameerpet,” Ms.Vaishnavi told The Hindu . And hours later, around 6.30 a.m., she got a phone call from Gachibowli police informing her of a road accident in which her sister was killed. “Initially, I thought it was a prank call from her friends and confronted them and asked them to send me a photograph of the accident. Soon after seeing the photograph, I rushed to Hyderabad,” she said. Manasa came to Hyderabad only on Friday afternoon with a hope to get new chances in short films through her newfound friend. Earlier, she worked in a few short films in the city and went back to her native place, Jadcherla in Mahabubnagar district, as there was not much work here. Later, Mohammed said that his nephew Raheem came to Hyderabad from Vijayawada two years ago to do some computer course at Ameerpet, and had a backlog in his engineering, and went back due to COVID-19 lockdown. He again came to Hyderabad a few months ago and started working as a loan recovery agent. “We still don’t know how, where, when and why they meet each other,” both Mohammed and Vaishnavi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/several-unanswered-questions/article37989373.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Consumer forum directs INOX to pay Rs. 1 lak to viewer||Observing that a delay in screening of a movie by playing commercial advertisements is an unfair trade practice, a district consumer commission directed INOX Leisure Private Limited to pay Rs. 1 lakh as punitive damages, and mention the actual time when the movie will be played. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Hyderabad – I was dealing with a complaint filed by Vijay Gopal. The opposite parties were INOX, and the Hyderabad City Police Commissioner, the licensing authority. In the complaint, Mr Gopal said that in June 2019 he went to the theatre. While the screening timing mentioned on the ticket was 4.30 pm, it began 15 to 20 minutes late. In this time, the theatre played advertisements, he said. Mr Gopal sought directions from the Commission that INOX adhere to movie screening timings as mentioned on the ticket, and the City Police Commissioner curb non-adherence to movie screening timings. For their part, INOX denied all allegations and stated that per Telangana Cinemas Regulation Act, 1955, it is a practice to screen advertisements before the movie. They contended that by way of screening, under certain stipulations, these advertisements generate revenue for sustaining its operations, and for providing entertainment to patrons. The also stated that Telangana Cinemas (Regulations) Rules, 1970 allows five minutes to exhibit slides supplied by the licensing authority free of cost. Taking the evidence and arguments, the Commission stated, “Whereas the Opposite Party No. 1 [INOX] admitted that it is screening commercial advertisements for its maintenance and to generate income from sliding commercial advertisements”. This, the Commission stated, was contrary to the rules and regulations, amounted to unfair trade practice and was deficiency of service towards its viewers by “wasting their time and money”. The Commission was of the view that it was the right of the consumer to be informed of products and services rendered to them. It stated that by stating that the show begins at a particular time and starting it at a later time is unfair. ‘Mention movie time’ The Commission directed INOX to mention actual movie starting time on the ticket, stop unfair trade practices, pay Rs. 5,000 each as compensation and cost of litigation. INOX was directed to remit damages of Rs. 1 lakh with the City Police Commissioner. The City Police Commissiner was directed to take steps to ensure that movie begins on time, and to stop unfair trade practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/consumer-forum-directs-inox-to-pay-rs-1-lak-to-viewer/article37989377.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1st case at IAMC to be Lalit Modi dispute||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Saturday expressed confidence that the International Arbitration and Mediation Centre (IAMC) in Hyderabad would be a step towards enhancing the alternative disputes redressal landscape in the country, even as he pointed out that the first case at the Centre would be that of the Lalit Modi family dispute. The IAMC premises was handed over by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to Justice Ramana. “I am sure that this trend will change with this Hyderabad centre. Domestic and international parties will increasingly come to this centre, which has world class facilities. Its location in Hyderabad will also be an attraction,” the CJI said, as he described Hyderabad as his city, and one of the best in the world. “It is a growing hub of commerce and is one of the top destinations for business in India.” The CJI recalled that recently ‘Modi family dispute’, referring to former Indian Premier League Commissioner Lalit Modi family dispute, came up to his bench for hearing. "I want to tell one thing: before the Centre started, two days back when a heavy dispute between two families, that is the Modi family, has come up before our bench, Sister Justice Hima Kohli was one of the members of the bench. So, we suggested for mediation and they readily agreed. We set a condition that you have to use the facilities of Hyderabad Mediation and Arbitration Centre. So you already have got a first case,” Justice Ramana said. Batting for alternative dispute redressal mechanism, he said that these were beneficial on account of low cost, speed, control over timelines, autonomy of processes, a more comfortable environment and a non-adversarial nature. Such methods, Justice Ramana said, provide support to the judicial system as they worked towards stopping matters for going to court, or moving them outside courts. Justice Ramana described the setting up of the centre as ‘nothing short of a miracle’ as the project concluded in a short span of time. He said that the centre was established collectively, and with a lot of hope. “It is for you to take it forward and turn it into most sought after destination for resolution of all types of disputes, including family as well as commercial disputes,” he said. Soon after handing over the premises, the Chief Minister said, “I assure the Honourable Chief Justice and the honourable judges of the Supreme Court that we will bring in an amendment, a suitable law to facilitate the local arbitration in our own centre.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1st-case-at-iamc-to-be-lalit-modi-dispute/article37989379.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘IAF is on cusp of transforming into a highly potent air force’||Earlier in the day, Chief of Air Staff V.R. Chaudhari during his address to the 175 newly inducted officers, said that the Indian Air Force (IAF) is on the cusp of transformation into a highly potent air force with new induction like Rafale, Apache, Chinook and a wide variety of SAGW systems. “Today, as you graduate and move into an environment that is challenging and technology-intensive, the IAF looks upon young and dynamic officers like you to carry forward the rich legacy of professional attitude, aptitude and temperament shown by your predecessors,” he said. He further said, as military officers, they are bound to face certain hardships in their careers. “Never allow these hardships and constraints to affect you mentally and physically,” he added. Two officers from the Indian Navy, nine from the Indian Coast Guard and three Cadets from Vietnam were awarded Wings on successful completion of flying training. The newly-commissioned officers were then administered the ‘oath’ by the Commandant of the Academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iaf-is-on-cusp-of-transforming-into-a-highly-potent-air-force/article37989349.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protests mar GHMC meeting||Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi on Saturday led a very stormy session of her first ever General Body meeting of the GHMC Council, which began on a raucous note owing to her decision not to allow media to view the proceedings directly. Her decision to allow print and electronic media representatives to view and record the meeting via live video streaming instead, earned ire from the journalists too, who staged an impromptu sit-in at the GHMC headquarters raising slogans against her and the GHMC Commissioner. Inside the meeting hall, BJP corporators raised the issue soon after the condolence motion for the late former Chief Minister of the joint State K. Rosaiah and Mayor’s address. Commotion prevailed, but Ms.Vijayalakshmi refused to budge. Without giving any reason for barring the media, she said as a person presiding over the meeting, it was her prerogative to decide whom to allow. Question Hour which followed was interrupted frequently with sharp protests by the BJP corporators, who opposed the Mayor’s refusal to allow answers to a few questions. The meeting had to be adjourned a couple of times when the Mayor could not handle the situation. One such question was by corporator Vanga Madhusudhan Reddy representing Champapet constituency, about non-payment of bills to contractors for the works done. He claimed there were pending bills of Rs. 600 crore. Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy claimed there were pending bills of Rs. 600 crore from April to November-end this year, besides the bills of last year up to March. GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar said the pending bills were only Rs. 260 crore, and blamed tardy tax collections for the non-payment. Responding to this, Mr.Madhusudhan Reddy sought to know why the allocations specific to the GHMC from the Central Finance Commission were not being devolved to the corporation, forcing it to depend solely on tax collections. A total Rs. 1,453 crore accrued to the corporation over the last five years from the Finance Commission’s allocations, he said, citing from the information obtained through RTI query. Mr. Lokesh Kumar sought the Mayor’s permission to answer the query, which was promptly denied by Ms. Vijayalakshmi who said the details would be sent to the corporator personally. Another such instance was about a question with regard to the works taken up under the Strategic Nala Development Plan (SNDP), and the timeline of completion before next monsoons. Mayor asked the SNDP Officer on Special Duty C. Vasantha to send the details to the member directly, evading a discussion about it in the meeting. Speaking to the media outside the meeting hall, Mr. Reddy said discussion was allowed only with regard to 11 questions out of the total 96, and alleged that the media was not allowed entry because BJP members were in good numbers whose questions put the ruling party in a spot. Another member Thokala Srinivas Reddy said several dues to GHMC are from the State government too, apart from the Central allocations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mayors-first-council-meeting-marred-by-protests/article37989361.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS Ministers, MPs leave for Delhi||A delegation of six Ministers and TRS MPs left Hyderabad for Delhi on Saturday night to pursue for increased quantity of kharif rice to be lifted by the Food Corporation of India (FCI). Ministers S. Niranjan Reddy (Agriculture) G. Kamalakar (Civil Supplies), E. Dayakar Rao (Panchayat Raj), G. Jagdish Reddy (Energy), V. Prashanth Reddy (Roads and Buildings) and P. Ajay Kumar (Transport) comprised the delegation in addition to MPs. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao instructed the Ministers and party MPs led by floor leaders K. Keshava Rao and N. Nageswara Rao in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, respectively, to go to Delhi and pursue the matter with Union Ministers concerned and Prime Minister. Mr. Niranjan Reddy already stated that 59.6 lakh tonnes of paddy as agreed upon by the FCI so far has already been procured. On milling it as custom rice (raw), the State has to supply 40 lakh tonnes of rice. However, he pointed out that paddy that had reached procurement centres was less than half the estimated production for the season – around 1.3 crore tonnes to 1.5 crore tonnes as paddy was cultivated in 62.13 lakh acres against 58.6 lakh acres estimated by the Centre. Mr. Reddy stated that they were making efforts for appointment with Union Food and Public Distribution Minister Piyush Goyal and Mr. Modi to explain the situation and request for higher quantity of rice lifting for Kharif season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ministers-leave-for-delhi/article37989382.ece
19 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 toddlers among 9 killed in mishaps||Nine persons, including six members of two families from Hyderabad, were killed in two road accidents at Kamareddy and Kazipet on Saturday. At Chinnathakedpally on Sangareddy-Nanded highway in Kamareddy district, six persons, including two women and two toddlers, were killed, and six children suffered severe injuries when their Toyota Qualis rammed a stationary lorry. The victims, all residents of Chaderghat and Falaknuma, went to a dargah in Nanded district of Maharashtra, two days ago. They were returning home when the accident took place around 1.30 p.m. The victims are Amir Taj (29), AC mechanic and driver of the ill-fated Qualis, his wife Sana Parveen (26) and two toddlers Hania Begum (2) and six-month-old Hanaan from Chaderghat, and a couple Mohammed Hussain (35) and Tasleem Begum (22) from Falaknuma. The wounded, five girls and a boy, were rushed to Government Hospital, Banswada, for immediate medical assistance, and from there, they were shifted to the Government Hospital, Nizamabad, for better medical assistance, Bhanswada DSP Jaypal Reddy said. He said that Amir Taj, who was driving at a speed of over 120 kmph, lost control of the wheel, and crashed into a lorry from behind. “The vehicle was parked nearly 1.5 metres from the highway,” he said. In the second accident that took place at Taralapally of Kazipet mandal in Hanamkonda district, three persons were killed when their tipper fell into a stone quarry in the wee hours of Saturday. The victims are Chitram Chandu (21) from Gudur mandal, Mohammed Hakeem (22) from Bihar and Mukesh (23) from Tarapally. According to Madikonda inspector M. Ravi Kumar, the accident took place around 2.30 a.m. when tipper driver Mukesh, proclainer operator Chandu and helper Hakeem, were dumping stone waste into the quarry. “When the vehicle was on the edge of the quarry and Mukesh pulled the hydraulic to lift and unload the waste, the vehicle toppled and fell into the ground,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-toddlers-among-9-killed-in-mishaps/article37989386.ece
19 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||An endeavour to promote reading habit||A permanent book fair is set to be established in the Ravindra Bharathi auditorium complex in Hyderabad. “Books are the key to the past as well as the future. To promote book reading habit, we will set up a permanent book fair at Ravindra Bharathi,” said Minister for Culture V. Srinivas Goud, while inaugurating the 34th Hyderabad Book Fair at NTR Stadium on Saturday afternoon. He, however, did not specify a timeline for the project. “Books were the driving force in the creation of Telangana as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is an avid reader. Books are like weapons,” said Mr. Goud. Earlier, the Minister was welcomed by folk artistes who stood in the sun for nearly three hours and later showcased their skill to a few bureaucrats. “Good news doesn’t become viral on WhatsApp or social media. A few seconds of bad behaviour by humans become viral. People who spread fake news cannot write books. They will get beaten up if they do,” said Mr. Goud as he asked youngsters to pick up books instead of the cellphone. Speaking at the launch of the fair, author Juloori Gouri Shankar said, “We will take book fairs to the interior regions of Telangana. We will take it to the districts so that people start reading books in a big way.” The book fair at NTR Stadium will go on till December 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-year-round-book-fair-to-hook-in-youngsters/article37989351.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stop playing politics with ryots: TRS to BJP||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not to play politics with farmers and instead work on their welfare. The party has also asked farmers to take to protests till the Centre changed its stand on the issue of paddy procurement. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, party legislators G. Venkataramana Reddy and S. Venkata Veeraiah said that the entire farming community of Telangana was deeply concerned over the Centre’s ‘discrimination’ in the matter of paddy procurement. Stating that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has become more popular with his pro-farmer schemes, they alleged that the Centre was acting only with an intention to “demoralise farmers and make KCR culprit”. The TRS legislators said that the government has the export policy under its control and could procure and export rice even if it was being produced in surplus. “Even people and parties from other States are hailing the schemes in Telangana,” they noted. Asking farmers to stage protests in every village on December 20 against the Centre’s attitude on paddy procurement, the TRS MLAs requested increase in paddy/rice quota for Kharif.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-playing-politics-with-ryots-trs-to-bjp/article37989381.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||70k families benefited from Rythu Bima||The Rythu Bima scheme for farmers is the harbinger of hope for several families who lost their sole bread winner. Male Mahesh (22) had about one-and-a-half acres. He was a native of Khajipur village in Mirdoddi mandal of Siddipet district. He was not only into farming but also allied activities. But, fate had its way and soon his debts started piling up. On October 18, the young farmer ended his life leaving behind his wife, Kanaka Lakshmi, also 22 years old, daughter Navya Sree (7) and son Manush (5). The family had to approach the local AEO with their pattadar passbook, nominee details, Lakshmi’s bank account number and Aadhaar card on October 30. All these details were crossed checked by the AEO and later by the District Agriculture Officer (DAO). The details were uploaded and would directly go to the commissioner’s office as well as Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India. On November 8, Rs. 5 lakh was credited into her account. More than 70,000 families had benefited from the Rythu Bima scheme since its inception. According to Agriculture Minister Niranjan Reddy, as much as Rs. 3,502 crore insurance amount was paid by LIC till date. “The entire process of paying insurance to the family of a deceased farmer is quick and transparent. In three days to a maximum of one week, the amount is released to the account of the nominee, once the required papers are submitted. No middleman is involved,” DAO of Siddipet P. Shravan Kumar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/70k-families-benefited-from-rythu-bima/article37989385.ece
19 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Air Chief Marshal catches up with school friends||Amid his hectic schedule, Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari caught up with his school mates, including Nalgonda MP and former TPCC president, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday. The get-together was attended by several of his classmates from BHEL Higher Secondary School. The MP said Mr Chaudhari was not only his school mate but also his NDA course mate and fellow fighter pilot on the MiG-21s and MiG-23s in forward air bases, defending the country’s borders. The gathering was a refreshing change for the Air Chief Marshal as he and his friends went down the memory lane, recalling their school days and discussing the laidback lifestyle of Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/air-chief-marshal-catches-up-with-school-friends/article37989344.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traffic restrictions for Hyderabad Marathon||Traffic would be stopped or diverted at some points on city roads between 5 am and 12.30 pm on Sunday owing to the annual Hyderabad Marathon where thousands of runners take part. The event takes place on various roads starting from People’s Plaza, Necklace road up to Gachibowli Stadium for a distance of 42 km. The event involves Full Marathon and Half Marathon both starting from People’s Plaza Necklace Road and the 10-km un starts from Hitex NAC main gate, Madhapur. Full Marathon Route - 42 KM :- Peoples Plaza, Hyderabad – Jubilee Hills – Enters in Cyberabad from Road No-45 – Cable Bridge – ITC Kohinoor – My Home Abbra – C gate Junction – IKEA (Mind Space Rotary) - Left turn- IKEA gate No 2 – NCC Urban – Nissan showroom - NCB/ Biodiversity Jn- Right turn – Telecom Nagar – Gachibowli flyover – Indira Nagar–IIIT Jn- Left turn - Wipro Jn –Right Turn – Gowlidoddi village – Gopanpally ‘X’ roads –Right Turn –HCU back gate – HCU University – HCU 2nd Gate -Right turn – Right turn at Gachibowli Stadium 2nd Gate –– Gachibowli Stadium. Half Marathon Route- 21 km:- People’s Plaza, Hyderabad – Jubilee Hills – Enters in Cyberabad from Road No-45 – Cable Bridge – ITC Kohinoor – My Home Abbra – C gate Junction – IKEA (Mind Space Rotary) - Left turn- IKEA gate No 2 – NCC Urban – Nissan Show room - NCB/ Biodiversity Jn- Right turn – Telecom Nagar – Gachibowli Fly over – Indira Nagar–IIIT Jn and Gachibowli Stadium main gate. 10-km Marathon Route: NAC main gate- Hitex Junction- Right turn- CII Junction – Left Turn – GATI U turn – Rainbow Hospital U turn – Tech Mahindra Gate – N heights – Tech Mahindra Back side U turn – Fire station road – Dell Junction – Cyber Pearl Lane – HSBC Exit Junction – Lemon Tree Junction – Right turn – IKEA Rotary - IKEA gate No 2 – NCC— Bio Diversity X roads right turn — opposite CP office Cyberabad —Alsaba Hotel -Gachibowli Fly over – Indira Nagar–IIIT Jn and Gachibowli Stadium main gate... To facilitate smooth conduct of the event, certain measures to regulate traffic at various places/junctions/roads need to be taken. Heavy vehicles, including water tankers, are not be allowed on above mentioned routes under Madhapur and Gachibowli traffic police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-restrictions-for-hyderabad-marathon/article37989369.ece
19 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nigerian arrested||A Nigeria national was arrested by Hyderabad cyber crime police in connection with a gift fraud case. The accused, Onyeka Solomon Wisdom (24)alias Simon, from Chanakya place, New Delhi, was a native of Asaba in Nigeria. In May last year, a woman from East Marredipally approached police, stating that she had been cheated by a person who sent a friend Request on Facebook. Told by him that she had got a parcel and that she had to pay IT, insurance etc, she deposited a total of Rs. 38,57 lakh in different accounts. Based on her complaint, a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nigerian-arrested/article37989374.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NBFC director held||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday said it arrested a director of a non-banking finance company (NBFC) under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Director and CEO of Kudos Finance and Investment Private Limited, Pavitra Pradip Walvekar, who was arrested on Friday, was produced before the PMLA special court at Hyderabad, the press release stated. The KFIPL “purportedly” engaged with digital lending partners as a service provider to assist in identifying prospective customers, conduct pre- and post-loan procedures, among other services. The company neither had a mobile application nor was involved in the lending business, but it was blindly allowing fintech companies to operate at the back of MoU. The company, despite having a net owned fund (aggregate of its paid-up capital and free reserves) of just Rs. 10 crore, circulated loans totalling to Rs. 22,24,15,11,508, funded by 39 fintech companies. The company gained Rs. 24 crore profit and the fintechs made a profit of about Rs. 544 crore. Pradip Walvekar was remanded in 15 days’ judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nbfc-director-held/article37989376.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rachakonda police book four under PD Act||Rachakonda police on Saturday booked four persons, including two women, under Preventive Detention Act. The duo Rehana Begum and Salma Begum from Chandrayangutta were found to be organising prostitution in Balapur police limits, the police said. In another instance, two persons hailing from Visakhapatnam, Kunchinipally Veerababu and Ruttala Srinivasa Rao, who had been found procuring ganja from one supplier of Rajahmundry and distributing it in several places, were also booked under the Act. ‘Hair smuggling’ Hyderabad Central Crime Station police recently registered a case against smuggling of hair that went on from the city to China based on the complaint lodged by Enforcement Directorate. “A few exporters are smuggling hair from Hyderabad to China deviating various norms. A probe is launched,” an officer said. It was the second case registered by CCS police against the hair exporters who were also using Chinese apps to transfer funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-booked-under-pd-act/article37989356.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MCEME hosts battle of robots, 25 models on show||An inter-collegiate robotics competition ‘Robothon’ at the Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering here saw 25 models of ‘robots in various applications’ from several participating colleges in the city. Snake robots, spherical robots, tree-climbing and humanoid robot models grabbed the attention of visitors at the two-day event organised in association with Bharat Forge. Participating in the closing ceremony, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said the initiative was excellent in guiding engineering students’ efforts and their thought processes towards robotics, a field of immense potential for the future. According to MCEME Commandant T.S.A. Narayanan, the contest served as an effective platform for interaction among learners and experts, and for exchange of ideas and knowledge. He encouraged students to build on the experience and to work towards developing tangible and deployable robotic solutions. In the contest, students from Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology bagged the first prize, and MCEME and MLRIET teams followed. Ms. Soundararajan, later at the mega job fair at Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Hyderabad, exhorted students to sharpen skills to improve their employability in the competitive job market. She said Skill India and Start-Up India, initiatives of the Government of India, were to hone the entrepreneurial skills of students. While advising more universities and institutes to conduct such fairs, Ms. Soundararajan also called for an industry-academia interface for improving internships and industry-ready experience learning for students, eventually for better employability.  The initiative is excellent in guiding engineering students’ efforts and their thought processes towards robotics, a field of immense potential for the future. Tamilisai Soundararajan, Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/college-hosts-battle-of-robots-25-models-on-show/article37989346.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collectors told to identify 100 Dalit Bandhu beneficiaries||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday asked Collectors to launch an action plan to identify 100 beneficiaries for implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme of empowerment of SCs in all constituencies across the State. The suggestions of local MLAs should be taken for the purpose, he said at the Collectors’ conference. He added that the scheme will be implemented as conceived in the whole of Huzurabad constituency and one mandal each of Madhira, Tungaturthy, Jukkal and Atchampet constituencies. The funds would be released shortly. Mr. Rao assured Collectors that implementation of Dalit Bandhu would go down as the biggest achievement in their lives. They will get satisfaction as never before in their participation of the scheme. Sky was the limit for them now. All kinds of business and employment opportunities in government and private sectors should be explored for the implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collectors-told-to-identify-100-dalit-bandhu-beneficiaries/article37989388.ece
19 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Suicide bid near CM’s camp office||A couple attempted to kill their three children and end their lives near Pragathi Bhavan, the official residence-cum-office of Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao, on Saturday, hours before the Cabinet meeting. The attempt was made by Mashamoni Ilesh (34), a labourer from Nadargul village in Balapur mandal of Ranga Reddy, his wife M. Anuradha (32) and their children – Akishta(9), Manitej (8) and Venutej (6). Police said that they tried to take the extreme step around 10.55 a.m. due to some some agriculture land issue. “Suddenly, two persons along with three children came near BB1 gate, Pragathi Bhavan, on foot and tried to commit suicide by pouring petrol on their bodies, which they brought in a plastic can. Immediately they were rescued and brought to the police station,” they said.  (Suicide intervention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suicide-bid-near-cms-camp-office/article37989375.ece
19 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. will cut fuel prices when in power: Jagga||As part of Congress’ Jan Jagaran Abhiyan across the country against rising inflation, Sangareddy legislator and TPCC working president Jayaprakash Reddy led a huge rally in the district on Saturday. Accompanied by Congress leaders of the district and people’s representatives, Mr. Jagga Reddy charged the BJP government with enjoying increasing the fuel prices even as people suffered a lot due to falling incomes in the pandemic. “Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have been raising this issue in Parliament but it fell on deaf ears,” he said. Accusing the TRS government of equally failing in controlling prices, he said that the State government has not reduced VAT on fuel prices when other States did the same. He added that Mr. Rahul promised to reduce fuel prices once the Congress comes back to power and he would never go back on his word. The Gandhi family never fails to honours its commitment, recalling how Telangana was created by Gandhi despite opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-will-cut-fuel-prices/article37989392.ece
19 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fake certificate racket busted, two arrested||Hyderabad city police busted a fake educational certificate racket and seized 222 fake certificates of various universities. Acting on credible information, the Task Force (Central Zone) team raided Cubez Overseas Education Services at Babukhan Estate, Basheerbagh, and found that they were were supplying fake certificates. The accused are Syed Naveed alias Faisal (30), owner of firm, and Syed Owais Ali (22), DTP operator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-certificate-racket-busted-two-arrested/article37989359.ece
19 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vinod Kumar flays Centre’s attempts to undermine ECI||Vice Chairman of TS Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar has alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was trying to undermine the Election Commission of India by holding a clandestine meeting with the Election Commissioners and termed it anti-democratic. In a statement issued on Saturday, Mr. Vinod Kumar, a former MP, said the secret meeting of PMO officials with the Election Commissioners recently was highly objectionable and was against the principles of democracy. Stating that the Centre’s attempt to control the Election Commission would also tarnish the image of the constitutional body, he said the agency was complimented by countries across the globe several times for conducting the elections in a free and fair manner in the world’s largest democracy. Expressing concern over the Centre’s attempt to keep the Election Commission under its control, he said it would harm the democracy badly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vinod-kumar-flays-centres-attempts-to-undermine-eci/article37989380.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Tourism on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tourism-on/article37989394.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Breathtaking view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/breathtaking-view/article37989364.ece
19 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP is modern incarnation of East India Company: Channi||Terming the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as “modern incarnation of East India Company”, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said the sole aim of AAP’s convener Arvind Kejriwal was to loot the wealth of State. Addressing the gathering in Hoshiarpur, Mr. Channi said AAP leadership is eyeing the wealth of Punjab due to which its leadership is showing ‘green pastures’ to the people. He dared Mr. Kejriwal to announce cheap power and petrol for the residents of Delhi like what the Punjab Government has done before rolling out his bundles of lies before Punjabis. “AAP leadership should understand one simple thing that the proud Punjabis will not allow any outsider to rule them,” he said. He also urged the people to remain cautious from his ‘nefarious plans to grab power’. “Mr. Kejriwal’s promises vary from State to State as per his own whims and fancies. In Punjab, he is promising allowance of Rs. 1,000 per month to women but in Goa, he is promising Rs. 5,000. In Delhi he is offering nothing to the ladies,” he said. ‘Power to common man’ Mr Channi added that Punjab has witnessed a revolutionary change as for the first time power has been given to a common man like him instead of a royal or an affluent person. He said his Government aims to ensure equal opportunities to all and access of everyone to the resources of the State. “Gone are the days when only ‘Badals’ had access to power during which they looted it fully. Now the time has come when resources are being used for the well-being of the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-is-modern-incarnation-of-east-india-company-channi/article37989252.ece
19 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Farmer leader floats party for Punjab polls||Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Saturday floated his political party to contest the Punjab Assembly polls next year and batted for opium farming in the State. Mr. Charuni told reporters that their aim is to ‘purify’ politics and bring good people forward. “We are launching the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party,” he told the media here. Replying to a query, Mr. Charuni said he will not contest the polls in Punjab. On an alliance with any party, he said there is no decision yet in this regard but his party will try to contest all the 117 Assembly seats in the State. He also batted for opium farming in Punjab. “If opium farming is allowed, Punjab can progress a lot,” he said. He also slammed political leaders, saying they frame policies in “favour of capitalists while ignoring interests of the poor”. Mr. Charuni said there is a need to bring a change and to oust those people who are “looting” the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmer-leader-floats-party-for-punjab-polls/article37989265.ece
19 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Caught in legal tangle, lone mosque struggles to stand tall||Sharing its boundary wall with a multistorey building of a private school with a sprawling campus in upscale Sushant Lok Phase-III township here, stands a partially built, unplastered structure with rusted iron rods protruding from the pillars of the yet-to-be-finished first floor. One might be tempted toquickly dismiss this weather-beaten building on a barely 800 sq m plot as an abandoned structure until they spot a board on its entry gate, announcing the premises as Anjuman Jama Masjid. Situated in Sector 57, this lone mosque on a Government-allocated land in New Gurugram caters to almost half of the city’s municipal area spread across south and east zones and a large section of the floating population commuting to the Millennium City daily for work. Construction stalled Barely six months after the construction on this plot began in 2004, a few real estate agents moved the court taking the plea that the land allocated for the mosque was earmarked for other purposes. “Only the basement could be constructed when the court stayed any further construction. In2013, the construction for the ground and the first floor began after we won the case in the High Court. But the opposite party moved the Supreme Court and the construction was stayed yet again. This time we did not even find time to remove the shuttering for the ongoing construction. The construction was immediately stopped and the trust ended up paying lakhs for the shuttering,” said Mohammad Abul, vice-president, Haryana Anjuman Charitable Trust, pointing at the wooden planks still firmly stuck in the first-floor roof the building. Unplastered building Not just that, the entire building is without plaster, the walls on the ground floor are also incomplete exposing the worshippers to extreme weather conditions throughout the year. A portion of the ground is paved with bricks for the visitors to walk around and a temporary room has been built along the boundary wall for the imam to stay. Amid the growing population, both the residents and the floating population, and the raging controversy over the offering of Juma Namaz in the open, the trust decided to hold prayers in four shifts every Friday from 12.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m. to accommodate the maximum worshippers. People from around a radius of 10-15 km visit the mosque on Fridays for the Juma Namaz. Mohammad Saeed, a retired Central Government engineer, said he drove to the mosque every Friday from Sector 50. Gulshad, from Bihar, said he came to the mosque on a motorcycle from Sector 46 for the Friday prayers since the controversy over namazerupted. Aslam Khan, chairman, Haryana Anjuman Charitable Trust, said around 1,500 people offered Friday prayers every week. The number of devotees in the mosque for Juma Namaz has gone up by 25%-30% in the wake of the controversy. Pleas rejected “In 2002, the Government allocated land for 17 temples, two gurdwaras, one church and one mosque. Though one mosque is not enough in view of the growing population of Muslims, the stay on construction has added to our woes. We can accommodate more people once the building is completed. We hope the Supreme Court to expedite the hearing in the matter in view of this controversy and settle the case at the earliest,” said Mr. Khan. Though two Muslim community trusts had applied for five mosque sites in Gurugram in response to the Government advertisement seeking applications for allocation of religious sites in 2016, they failed to get any. The India Islamic Research Centre too sought land for a building for social and religious activities in Sector 39 earlier this year, but the application was rejected. The only other mosque in New Gurugram is on the Waqf Board land near Rajiv Chowk. Visitors disappointed The imam at Anjuman Masjid said the partially built mosque also gave off a bad impression to the foreign visitors from the community, mostly coming to the city for treatment at posh private hospitals. The visitors, said the imam, often offered financial help thinking that the construction was left mid-way due to paucity of funds. “The visitors come to the mosque with great excitement searching it on Google Maps, but feel disappointed to see the dilapidated structure,” said the Imam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/caught-in-legal-tangle-lone-mosque-struggles-to-stand-tall/article37989239.ece
19 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||High Court restrains govt. from evicting Assam villagers||The Gauhati High Court has restrained the Assam government from evicting the people of a village in Darrang district. The circle officer of Dhekiajuli revenue circle had on November 15 issued eviction notices to the residents of No. 1 Basasimolu village, directing them to vacate the government land they had encroached upon. The village is not far from Dhalpur – also in Darrang district – where two persons, including a minor, were killed in police firing during an eviction drive on September 23. Like Dhalpur, all the residents of No. 1 Basasimolu are Bengali-origin Muslims. After receiving the notices over a fortnight ago, the villagers had on December 3 written to the Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management and the officials concerned, requesting not to evict them and seeking allotment of the land they had been living on for decades. A total of 244 petitioners later approached the court. On December 15, Justice Manash Ranjan Pathak directed the representatives of the Government not to take any coercive measures against the people served eviction notices until a representation of the petitioners to the circle officer concerned is disposed of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/high-court-restrains-govt-from-evicting-assam-villagers/article37989258.ece
19 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot reiterates commitment to effective delivery of services||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday reiterated his commitment to providing good governance, ensuring a transparent and accountable administration and making an effective delivery of services to the people. Mr. Gehlot made the announcement on the completion of three years of the Congress government in the State. Mr. Gehlot launched and virtually laid the foundation of various works and schemes worth Rs. 13,195 crore on the occasion. He also inaugurated a four-day exhibition named Aapka Vishwas, Hamara Prayas [Your faith, our efforts], based on the State government’s achievements during the last three years, at Jawahar Kala Kendra here. Mr. Gehlot said his government would continue to improve on its achievements and work with a commitment to “public service as the religion”. He said the people were willing to elect the Congress to power again in the 2023 Assembly election because of the government’s achievements and successful management of the pandemic. “The change of government leads to important schemes being stopped. The people have seen our work in the limited time. We will continue working with the same spirit for the rest of our term,” Mr. Gehlot told reporters. The works dedicated to people included those related to energy, water resources, public health engineering, urban development, local self-government, forest, agriculture, cooperative, dairy and industries departments. The exhibition was based on the achievements of 22 departments. Good governance Mr. Gehlot also discussed the issues of good governance and service delivery with the senior officers at the State Secretariat. He said more than 70% of the promises made in the Congress manifesto, since converted into a policy document, had been realised, while 87% of the budgetary announcements made in the last three years had been executed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gehlot-reiterates-commitment-to-effective-delivery-of-services/article37989256.ece
19 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan cuts losses in power transmission||Rajasthan has emerged as a leading State in the implementation of the smart transmission operation management system which has enabled it to cross the target of reducing transmission and distribution losses in the power sector. The State has utilised information technology to make the system robust and effective. The transmission and distribution losses in the State have been reduced to 3.33%, crossing the target of 3.5% reduction set in the Centre’s Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana, the Additional Chief Secretary (Energy) said. The scheme is aimed at improving operational and financial efficiency of power discoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajasthan-cuts-losses-in-power-transmission/article37989259.ece
19 December 2021||Kolkata,||Civic issues take a back seat in KMC elections||In contrast to high-pitched Assembly polls in West Bengal earlier this year, the elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation are a muted phenomenon. Even though the elections are being held after a gap of six years, the frantic electioneering that is characteristic of polls in West Bengal is missing. Political observers feel the results are a foregone conclusion. The Trinamool Congress had a lead in 132 of the 144 wards five months ago and there are little chances that the results would be different this time. But what is surprising about the civic polls that there is not much discussion about civic issues. About 40.48 lakh voters will on Sunday exercise their franchise to elect 144 civic representatives, who will choose a Mayor and an elected board who will administer the city for the next five years. Political observers feel the TMC’s rhetoric was that people of the city should have faith in Jana Netri (People’s Leader) Mamata Banerjee and support the Trinamool Congress nominees who are accessible to the people. The BJP leadership has been promising a “Sanatani and patriotic Mayor” who will “root out corruption of the existing board of administrators of KMC”. The TMC’s four-page manifesto Kolkatar 10 Diganta [Ten milestones for Kolkata] has photographs of the party’s chairperson on the first and last page. The four-page manifesto of the BJP is also filled with photographs of party leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi on first page and the party symbol on the last page. Like the TMC, the BJP’s promises for civic polls are summed up in two pages. In fact, much of the BJP campaign was on deployment of central forces for civic polls rather than what better civic infrastructure will the party provide to the people.  The biggest omission in both the manifestos is air pollution in Kolkata. Experts say there have been instances in past few years that the Air Quality Index in Kolkata was worse than Delhi but no promises have been made on the issue. In May 2020, Kolkata braved one of the worst cyclones of recent times, Cyclone Amphan. The frequent cyclones in the Bay of Bengal and their location and proximity of the city to the sea poses a need for robust disaster management, which did not find a mention in the manifestos. “There is a section in the TMC manifesto which refers to improving civic facilities for people with disability. The Bengali version of the manifesto refers to Braille path nirman (Braille roads) which does not make any sense. Policy makers can consult experts while drafting such promises,” Shampa Sengupta, disability rights activist, said. Issues like piped drinking water, water-logging during monsoon, improving drainage were not debated or discussed during the campaign for the civic body elections. “It is a civic poll with no focus on civic issues. There is no discussion on how the KMC can be made self-sufficient,” political commentator and psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civic-issues-take-a-back-seat-in-kmc-elections/article37989254.ece
19 December 2021||Kolkata,||‘A cartoonist who happens to be a policeman’||If you ask Dyutiman Bhattacharya whether he is a cartoonist who became a policeman or a policeman who is also a cartoonist, he’ll tell you he’s the former — a cartoonist who happens to be a policeman. “Policing is just my job, cartooning is my passion,” Mr. Bhattacharya, 47, an Indian Police Service officer currently serving as a Deputy Commissioner of Police in Howrah, tells The Hindu , when asked how he reconciles the two avatars. He then adds, “A policeman is usually at the receiving end in cartoons. I have turned the tables.” Mr. Bhattacharya — the cartoonist, that is — is a busy man these days. He’s an integral part of the month-long, first-ever Cartoon Mela in Kolkata being hosted by a bookshop Read Bengali Books in south Kolkata. The festival began on December 5 and is being anchored by the Cartoon Dol, a group of seasoned cartoonists from the city. Mr. Bhattacharya spends most of his evenings these days at the shop, doing live cartooning and interacting with the spectators and aspiring cartoonists. The shop even has on sale a 2022 desk calendar featuring caricatures done by him. “The idea is to demonstrate that cartoons need not be confined to newspapers. I love doing on-the-spot caricatures of people I meet. My pet cats and dogs feature in most of my cartoons. I also love doing caricatures of celebrities,” he says. Mr. Bhattacharya is a self-taught artist whose inspirations include R.K. Laxman, Mario Miranda and Bud Blake. He got introduced to the world of cartoons through R.K. Laxman, thanks to Malgudi Days on Doordarshan. “I kept changing jobs, but I always kept my passions alive. I keep sketching in between tasks,” says Mr. Bhattacharya, also an amateur painter — he recently sold all of his 22 works at an exhibition in Howrah — and a novelist and has a column on policing in a periodical. He and the Cartoon Dol now plan to institutionalise the Cartoon Mela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-cartoonist-and-a-policeman/article37989250.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Container trolley crushes 4 to death||Four people, including a minor were killed when a trolley container overturned on an autorickshaw near Indira Gandhi stadium in central Delhi on Saturday morning. A case has been registered. Accused driver Pritish Chaudhary and helper Nitish have been arrested from Tughlakabad. the police said. DCP (Central) Shweta Chauhan said the victims have been identified as autorickshaw driver Surender Yadav, 40, his nephew Jay Yadav, 32, both residents of Shastri Park, and two passengers Tata Prakash, 13, and his uncle Komal Singh, 35. Wasn’t locked properly Standing outside Maulana Azad Medical College mortuary waiting to get the bodies, kin of the victims said the trolley container was on its way to Tughlakabad from Sonipat while the autorickshaw was reportedly coming from Sarai Kale Khan and was on its way to north-east Delhi. Both were in opposite directions when the trolley tried to take a U-turn and overturned, crushing the four people inside the autorickshaw. They said the container wasn’t locked from the corners which they suspect is the reason behind it overturning. The police said the driver and helper of the trolley fled the spot. Gas cutters were used to extract the autorickshaw from underneath the trolley. The four injured were taken to Lok Nayak Hospital where they were declared brought dead. Tata Prakash’s uncle Diwan Singh, who works in a private canteen at Seelampur police station, said that the boy, from his village in Agra, had come to Delhi for the first time. “He was a Class VII student. He wanted to see Delhi and spend a few days with me so I had called him. I had told my cousin, Komal Singh, to bring along Tata with him,” Mr. Diwan said. Tata and Komal Singh had reached Sarai Kale Khan on a bus on Saturday and had taken the autorickshaw to reach Mr. Diwan’s house in Seelampur. Komal Singh is survived by two minor children and wife. Tata’s father was killed in Punjab two years ago and is now survived by his mother and two younger siblings. Surender’s family said that he used to drive a rented autorickshaw and is survived by his wife, four minor children and parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/container-trolley-crushes-4-to-death/article37989237.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘AI to be a valuable tool in education’||Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a valuable tool that will aid the future transformation of education, said educationists at a panel discussion on the ‘Role of Artificial Intelligence in schools and university education’. The discussion was part of ‘Principals’ Meet 2021’ organised by the The Hindu and Validate Me, a technology company offering solutions in document verification. Several teachers, principals and heads of prominent educational institutions in Delhi-NCR participated. Santosh Sarangi, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Education was the chief guest. He said the New Education Policy (NEP) would track the learning abilities of children in early education. The curriculum would evolve in a way that there would be no hard separation between vocational and theoretical aspects of learning. Manoj Kumar Arora, Vice-Chancellor, BML Munjal University, said disruption in educational pedagogy was a force for good but at no point would machines replace people as human intelligence was yet to be fully tapped. A panel of teachers also discussed the promises and challenges the NEP posed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ai-to-be-a-valuable-tool-in-education/article37989242.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||City witnesses first ‘cold day’ of season||Delhi witnessed its first ‘cold day’ of the season on Saturday. The mercury dipped to six degrees Celsius which was two degrees below normal, while the maximum temperature was 17.8 degrees Celsius, five degrees below the average for this time of the year, according to India Meteorological Department. Both the maximum and minimum temperature settling at the season’s lowest. Delhi’s forecast for December 19 shows a mainly clear sky with shallow fog in the morning. “Cold day conditions with cold wave at isolated places. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 18° and 5° Celsius respectively,” it reads. The Capital’s weather has been influenced by cold wave to severe cold wave conditions prevailing in some parts of north Rajasthan and Punjab. “Dry northwesterly winds of about 10-15 kmph and markedly below normal maximum temperatures are prevailing over Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan since past three days, enhancing the adverse impact of the cold wave conditions, which are likely to prevail during next three days and improve thereafter,” the IMD said in its bulletin. According to the IMD, when the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below the normal, it is said to be a ‘cold day’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-witnesses-first-cold-day-of-season/article37989244.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||Painting police booths with the hues of trust||Communal harmony, women empowerment, crackdown on drugs, safety of senior citizens, and cybercrimes are among the themes decided by the Delhi police to paint their booths in Rohini. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal confirmed the development. The initiative aims to make people feel more at ease while approaching the police. So far, four police booths have been painted — north Rohini, south Rohini, Prashant Vihar and Budh Vihar — where the themes have been safety and service of senior citizens, safety and empowerment of women, cybercrime awareness, and ‘say no to drugs’. “All these designs have been selected based on an analysis of complaints and other issues that were reported in the police stations. The themes depend on the major issues or population of the area,” a senior police officer said. The district police have roped in Street Art Foundation for painting the booths and the people’s response is overwhelming, a member of the organisation said. A senior officer said that the objective is to create awareness besides bringing the police services to the citizens’ doorstep. For instance, Nukkad Nataks will be organised on the themes to sensitise the public to these issues while simultaneously improving the “police public rapport”. Nukkad Nataks were held at three venues on Friday— north Rohini, south Rohini and Budh Vihar. These police assistance booths are equipped with a laptop for registration of e-FIR, public announcement system, CCTV cameras, and a place for citizens to interact with the police. More such booths are being designed at other police stations, an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/painting-police-booths-with-the-hues-of-trust/article37989247.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||BSF shoots drone along Pak. border in Punjab||The Border Security Force has shot down a drone along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, the Force said on Saturday. The Chinese-made drone was “detected and downed” on Friday around 11.10 p.m. near the Wan border post in the Ferozepur sector, BSF said in a statement. The black colour flying object was shot at a distance of about 300 metres from the international border and 150 metres from the border fence, the BSF said. It said the drone, a hexa-copter with four power batteries, weighed around 23 kgs and could carry a payload of around 10 kgs. It was, however, not carrying any payload like drugs, arms or ammunition. The BSF said a search operation is being carried out in the area The BSF, in the past, had shot down two such drones that originated in Pakistan and were carrying arms and ammunition. Both the incidents took place in the Punjab frontier area. BSF Director General Pankaj Kumar Singh had said on November 30 that there have been a total of 67 drone sightings along the border in Punjab and Jammu areas this year. “Right now, the frequency of drones that are coming to our country is fairly small and these are by-and-large Chinese-made drones...they are very good...and carrying small payloads and in 95% cases they are carrying drugs,” Mr. Singh had said on the eve of the BSF’s 57th Raising Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bsf-shoots-drone-along-pak-border-in-punjab/article37989263.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records 86 new virus infections||The Capital on Saturday recorded 86 fresh COVID-19 cases in a day, the highest in over five months, and zero death as the positivity rate stood at 0.13%, according to data shared by the city’s Health Department. The rise comes amid the Omicron scare as the total number of patients infected with the latest variant jumped by 12 on Friday to reach 22. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi Government is ready to tackle the new variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-records-86-new-virus-infections/article37989240.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC aims to regulate scrap collection||In a move to ensure safe disposal of scrap material, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has proposed to empanel scrap-handling agencies. The civic body said it will put forth the proposal in the next week’s Standing Committee meeting. The period of empanelment for the selected agencies will be three years, including a monthly royalty that will be paid to the EDMC. A senior EDMC official said that various unorganised sectors and households in areas under the EDMC, generate high volumes of scrap material, which have no regulated process of disposal. The civic body was open to include informal players through the empaneled agencies, he added. As per the proposal, the EDMC will act as the facilitator while the empaneled agency will be in charge of the collection, transportation and recycling as per stipulated guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-aims-to-regulate-scrap-collection/article37989245.ece
19 December 2021||Patna,||BJP MP slaps wrestler at an event in Jharkhand||A Bharatiya Janata Party MP was seen in a video, which has gone viral on social media, slapping a young wrestler at a wrestling event in Ranchi iin Jharkhand. The BJP MP is president of the Wrestling Federation of India and was the chief guest at the event. The BJP MP from Kaiserganj in Uttar Pradesh, Brijbhushan Sharan Singh, was caught on camera while slapping a wrestler repeatedly on the stage at an Under-15 National Wrestling Championship event held at Shahid Ganpat Rai indoor stadium in Khel Village in Ranchion December 14. The video of the incident went viral on social media on Saturday. The wrestler was said to be over-age for the Under-15 event and was disqualified but he kept requesting the authorities to allow him to participate. “When the authorities refused to allow him, the wrestler went up the stage and kept requesting Mr. Singh and other judges to allow him to participate. Mr. Singh lost his cool and slapped him,” said an organiser of the event. “The wrestler came down from the stage and disappeared,” he added. Mr. Singh too left the venue soon after the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-mp-slaps-wrestler-at-an-event-in-jharkhand/article37989262.ece
19 December 2021||Pune,||Schisms emerging within Shiv Sena||Fissures within the Shiv Sena’s top leadership emerged after senior Sena leader and former Minister Ramdas Kadam on Friday accused his party colleagues Anil Parab and Uday Samant of trying to finish off the party by colluding with the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Mr. Kadam urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to take note of the ‘conspiracy’ while charging Mr. Parab, the State Transport Minister, of attempting to finish him off politically. At the same time, Mr. Kadam, on being asked whether he intended joining the BJP, said he is a staunch Shiv Sainik and would never quit the party. “Anil Parab has no time for protesting staffers of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation but he was stationed in Ratnagiri for three days to drive me and my son out of politics…A meeting was held here and all loyal office-bearers were expelled. I think Mr. Thackeray has no idea about what is happening,” he said. This is the first time that a major schism has openly emerged within the Sena. The infighting between three top leaders of the Konkan region does not augur well for the party as the area is one of the Shiv Sena’s few spheres of influence in Maharashtra other than Mumbai city. Earlier this week, the Sena announced new office-bearers for the Ratnagiri district. The supporters of Mr. Kadam and his son, Dapoli MLA Yogesh Kadam, were shown the door and fresh faces were inducted. “Speaking out against Anil Parab does not mean taking an anti-Shiv Sena stance...Parab and Uday Samant were made Ministers to strengthen the Sena and not to finish off senior party leaders, who have given their sweat and blood to the party,” said a disgruntled Mr. Kadam. Mr. Parab refused to comment on the accusations. Tensions between Mr. Kadam and Mr. Parab, considered a close confidante of Mr. Thackeray, have been brewing for the last several months ever since Mr. Kadam was dropped from the Cabinet. In October this year, Mr. Kadam landed in a soup when a local Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Vaibhav Khedekar and former NCP MLA Sanjay Kadam (both are from Dapoli in Ratnagiri) released a series of audio clips purporting that the Shiv Sena leader had allegedly furnished ‘proof’ of irregularities against Mr. Parab to BJP leader Kirit Somaiya with the help of an RTI activist. Mr. Kadam had denounced the audio clips as ‘doctored’ and said he would move the court against those who had attempted to defame him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/schisms-emerging-within-shiv-sena/article37989261.ece
19 December 2021||London,||Europe reimposes curbs to stem Omicron||Nations across Europe are moving to reimpose tougher measures to stem a new wave of COVID-19 infections spurred by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, triggering calls for protests from Paris to Barcelona. As case numbers escalated, alarmed Ministers in France, Cyprus and Austria tightened travel restrictions. Paris cancelled its New Year’s Eve fireworks. Denmark closed theatres, concert halls, amusement parks and museums. Ireland imposed an 8 p.m. curfew on pubs and bars and limited attendance at indoor and outdoor events. London Mayor Sadiq Khan underscored the official concern about the climbing cases and their potential to overwhelm the health care system by declaring a major incident on Saturday, a move that allows local councils in Britain’s capital to coordinate work more closely with emergency services. Irish Prime Minister Micheál Martin said the new restrictions were needed to protect lives and livelihoods from the resurgent virus. “None of this is easy,” Mr. Martin said on Friday night. “We are all exhausted with COVID-19 and the restrictions it requires. The twists and turns, the disappointments and the frustrations take a heavy toll on everyone. But it is the reality that we are dealing with.” Other nations may go further still. Dutch government Ministers were meeting to discuss advice from a panel of experts, who are recommending a toughening of the partial lockdown that is already in place. Some stores opened earlier than usual on Saturday and shoppers flocked into shopping areas, fearing it could be their last chance to shop before Christmas. In the U.K., where confirmed daily infection soared to records this week, the government has already reimposed a requirement for masks to be worn indoors and ordered people to show proof of vaccination or a recent negative coronavirus test when going to night clubs and large events. Leaked minutes from the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies suggested a ban on indoor mixing and hospitality, the BBC reported. Britain and other nations are also accelerating the pace of booster shots after early data showed that two doses of vaccine were less effective against the variant. Shopping centres, cathedrals and soccer stadiums in U.K. have been converted into vaccination centres. French government said that it will start giving the vaccine to children in the 5 to 11 age group from Wednesday. Prime Minister Jean Castex said on Friday that the Omicron variant was spreading like “lightning”. Demonstrations are planned on Saturday in Paris to voice opposition to the new vaccine pass and ongoing government restrictions. Protests are also being planned in Turin, Italy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-reimposes-curbs-to-stem-omicron/article37988675.ece
19 December 2021||Berlin,||Germany: Nord Stream won’t open if Russia attacks Ukraine||German Economic Affairs Minister Robert Habeck warned in an interview published on Saturday of “severe consequences’ for the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany if Moscow attacked Ukraine. The Baltic Sea pipeline is set to double supplies of cheap natural gas from Russia to Germany, which the European Union’s top economy says is needed to help it transition from coal and nuclear energy. But the €10 billion ($12 billion) project has for years been dogged by delays and drawn fierce criticism from Germany’s eastern EU allies like Poland and from the U.S. Critics say the project will increase Europe’s dependence on Russian gas and Ukraine has described it as a “geopolitical weapon”. “Any new military action cannot remain without severe consequences,” the Green Minister told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung , a Sunday weekly, referring to a Russian troop buildup on the Ukraine border. He warned that “nothing can be excluded” if “there is a new violation of the territorial integrity” of Ukraine. The new German government threatened to block the pipeline from operating if Russia invades Ukraine. “In the event of further escalation this gas pipeline could not come into service,” Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said. Mr. Habeck said: “From a geopolitical point of view, the pipeline is a mistake,” adding: “All the countries were against it except Germany and Austria”. He added: “The pipeline has however been built. And the question of it being put into service remains open and must be decided according to European and German law.” German authorities are waiting for the pipeline’s Swiss-based “Nord Stream 2 AG” operating company to submit documents to restart the certification process. The pipeline would then also have to be approved by the European Commission — a process not likely to be completed in the first half of next year. Nord Stream 2 was completed in September but BNetzA suspended the German approval process in November, saying it needed to become compliant with German law before it could be certified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/germany-nord-stream-wont-open-if-russia-attacks-ukraine/article37988676.ece
19 December 2021||Karachi/Islamabad,||At least 16 killed as blast rips through Karachi bank building||At least 14 people were killed and 15 others injured in Pakistan’s financial capital of Karachi on Saturday when a powerful blast, apparently triggered by a gas explosion in a covered sewage drain, ripped through the building of a private bank situated on it, police said. Most of the casualties are reportedly customers and staff present inside the HBL bank which was built on top of a covered sewage drain in Karachi’s Shershah area and collapsed following the explosion, the Express Tribune newspaper reported. Sindh Home Department Secretary Qazi Shahid Pervaiz confirmed that 14 people died in the explosion, while 15 others were injured, the Dawn newspaper reported. The dead also included father of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf’s member Alamgir Khan. Karachi Administrator Murtaza Wahab said that an investigation was under way to ascertain the cause of the blast. SHO Zafar Ali Shah said the explosion took place in a drain located underneath the private bank, which had been served a notice to vacate the premises so the drain could be cleaned up. An initial report of the Bomb Disposal Squad (BDS) said that the explosion was caused by a build-up of gas in the sewerage line. A senior official was quoted in the report as saying that that counter-terrorism officials were probing the explosion. A police spokesperson clarified that there was no lead suggesting that the blast might be linked to terrorism, Geo TV reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-12-killed-as-explosion-rips-through-karachi-building/article37988678.ece
19 December 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong for arrest of activists for ‘poll boycott’||Hong Kong has issued arrest warrants accusing five overseas activists of urging voters to boycott Sunday’s polls for the legislature — the first to take place under Beijing’s “patriots only” rules. Voters in the Chinese finance hub will pick new lawmakers under rules that have cut the number of directly elected seats in the legislature to 20 from a total of 90 seats. Most of the city’s traditional pro-democracy opposition have either been jailed, barred from standing, declined to take part or fled overseas. Authorities accused Britain-based campaigner Nathan Law of inciting people to boycott the vote during a web conference held earlier this month. It is not illegal in Hong Kong to cast spoiled ballots or refrain from voting, but this year it became a crime to incite others to a boycott or cast invalid ballots. Offenders face up to three years behind bars and a fine of HK$200,000 ($25,600). The arrest warrants also named Sunny Cheung, Timothy Lee, Carmen Lau and Kawai Lee — all of whom have left Hong Kong. The group hosted a livestream on social media on Thursday during which they allegedly urged voters to stay home. Authorities also cited social media content posted by Mr. Cheung, who is currently seeking asylum in the U.S. Mr. Cheung earlier said that Hong Kong residents should not “endorse the autocratic regime and help the regime to pursue a pseudo-democratic veil”. Last month, Hong Kong issued similar arrest warrants for two other overseas activists including former lawmaker Ted Hui.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-for-arrest-of-activists-for-poll-boycott/article37988677.ece
19 December 2021||Moscow,||Russia sends bombers on patrol over Belarus||A pair of nuclear-capable Russian long-range bombers patrolled the skies over Belarus on a mission on Saturday intended to underline close defence ties between the two allies amid tensions with the West. The Russian Defense Ministry said two Tu-22M3 flew a four-hour mission to practice “performing joint tasks with the Belarusian air force and air defence.” The bombers were escorted by Russian-supplied Su-30 jets. Saturday’s Russian bomber patrol marked a third such mission since last month. The patrol flight comes amid Western concerns over a Russian troop buildup near Ukraine. Moscow has denied plans for such an attack, but urged the West to provide security guarantees that would exclude NATO’s expansion to Ukraine and the deployment of the alliance’s weapons there. Some Ukrainian officials have voiced concern that Russia may use the territory of its ally Belarus for attacking Ukraine. Moscow has strongly supported Belarus amid a tense standoff last month when thousands of migrants gathered on the Belarusian side of the border with Poland in the hope of crossing into Western Europe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-sends-bombers-on-patrol-over-belarus/article37988679.ece
19 December 2021||Kabul,||Taliban seek UN seat after Afghan envoy quits||The Taliban made a fresh appeal on Friday for Afghanistan’s seat at the United Nations after the Ambassador of the former U.S.-backed government left his post. The UN seat, and some other Embassies abroad, are at the centre of a tug-of-war between exiled diplomats of the old government and Afghanistan’s new Islamist rulers. No country has yet recognised the Taliban regime. Assistant UN spokesman Farhan Haq said that Afghan Ambassador Ghulam Isaczai “relinquished his position as of December 15”, according to a letter they received on Thursday. The Taliban’s nominee for the position, Suhail Shaheen, said the seat should be now given to the new government of Afghanistan, adding it was a matter of credibility for the world body. The current government in Afghanistan “has sovereignty” over the country, he said on Twitter. Early this month, the UN General Assembly passed a resolution indefinitely delaying a decision over the rival claims. But even a month after the Taliban takeover, Mr. Isaczai was still being received at UN headquarters — and in November openly criticised the country’s new rulers at a Security Council meeting. When they previously ruled Afghanistan, from 1996 to 2001, the Taliban had no UN representation and their rule was recognised by just three countries — Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan. UN-nominee Mr. Shaheen served as Deputy Ambassador to Islamabad during that period, becoming the movement’s exiled spokesman after they were toppled and a favourite of foreign media because of his fluent English. Meanwhile, Taliban authorities said on Saturday they will resume issuing passports in Kabul, giving hope to citizens who feel threatened living under the Islamists’ rule. Thousands of Afghans have applied for new travel documents to escape a growing economic as well as a humanitarian crisis. Authorities will start issuing the documents from Sunday at Kabul’s passport office, Alam Gul Haqqani, the head of the passport department in the interior ministry, said. New applications will be accepted from January 10. The Taliban stopped issuing passports shortly after their August 15 return to power, as people scrambled to Kabul airport in a bid to catch any international flight that could evacuate them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-seek-un-seat-after-afghan-envoy-quits/article37988680.ece
19 December 2021||Nairobi,||Ethiopia says retook towns from rebels||Ethiopian forces have recaptured several towns from Tigrayan rebels, including Kobo and Woldiya in the north, the government announced on Saturday, as fierce fighting raged in the 13-month war that has left thousands dead. The conflict between forces loyal to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) rebel group has triggered a severe humanitarian crisis. Mr. Abiy announced last month that he would head to the front, following which the government has claimed to have retaken several key towns.  On Saturday, the government communication service said pro-Abiy forces “have managed to fully control Sanqa, Sirinqa, as well as the cities of Woldiya, Hara, Gobiye, Robit and Kobo.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ethiopia-says-retook-towns-from-rebels/article37988674.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||City gas licensing round draws 430 bids||As much as Rs. 80,000 crore investment is envisaged in setting up city gas infrastructure in 61 geographical areas (GAs), including Jammu, Nagpur, Pathankot and Madurai, that were put on bid in the latest licensing round, oil regulator PNGRB said. Bids for the 65 GAs offered in the 11th city gas licensing round came in on December 15, Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) said in a statement. The 65 GAs are spread over 215 districts in 19 States and one Union territory covering 26% of India’s population and 33% of its area. “This round attracted an overwhelming response from investors with more than 430 bids against 61 GAs,” PNGRB said. “The technical bids would be opened between December 17 to 22,” it added. “This initiative would help in creating a robust CGD infrastructure and play a significant role in transforming to a gas-based economy. This would bring investment of more than Rs. 80,000 crore and generate employment.” Presently, there are 228 geographical areas authorised by PNGRB in 27 States and UTs covering approximately 53% of the geographical area and 70% of its population. In the last city gas distribution (CGD) bidding round — the 10th CGD bidding round, 50 GAs were authorised for the development of CGD network. In the present round, 215 districts clubbed into 65 GAs are being offered. Bids were received for 61 GAs, according to PNGRB. During 2018 and 2019, PNGRB gave out licences to retail CNG to automobiles and piped cooking gas to household kitchens in 136 GAs. This extended coverage of the city gas network to 406 districts and about 70% of the country’s population. Push for natural gas use The push for city gas expansion is part of the government’s plan for raising the share of natural gas in the country’s energy basket to 15% by 2030 from the current 6.3%. The 65 GAs to be bid out in the 11th CGD bidding round include Jammu, Udhampur, Samba and Kathua districts in Jammu and Kashmir. Nagpur in Maharashtra, Madurai in Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan’s Bikaner and Churu districts are among the areas being offered for bidding. Nizamabad in Telangana, the Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu, East Medinipur in West Bengal and Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand are also on the list. Kurnool, Guntur and Prakasam districts in Andhra Pradesh, Assam’s Kokrajhar and Dhubri districts, Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur, Kerala’s Idukki and Kottayam, Jalgaon and Amravati in Maharashtra, Koraput in Odisha, Pathankot and Tarn Taran in Punjab and Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu are among the other areas being offered for bidding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/city-gas-licensing-round-draws-430-bids/article37989122.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Growers should diversify to boost income: Coffee Board||Coffee farmers in the country should think innovatively and create additional revenue streams to make the growing process more sustainable and profitable, suggested the Coffee Board. In addition to traditional intercropping of pepper and cardamom, coffee growers could explore options such as planting exotic fruit bearing trees, growing food crops or getting into fish and dairy farming, beekeeping or green tourism to increase incomes from their coffee plantations, it said. “To continue in coffee and make it sustainable, growers should focus on creating additional revenue streams through intercropping or through innovative measures,’’ said K.G. Jagadeesha, CEO and Secretary, Coffee Board .  Citing the example of Arasu, a progressive farmer from Thandikudi in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Jagadeesha said, the farmer had planted lots of avocado trees in the coffee farm and sold a sizeable quantity of avocados at the farm gate for a price of Rs. 150 to Rs. Rs. 200 a kg last year. In fact, avocados had fetched him more money than coffee and pepper, he asserted.  Coffee gardens could also double up as ideal green and eco getaways, he added.  Shade and terrain made Indian coffee the world’s best, the board’s CEO said.  However, India’s coffee productivity was low compared with the international average due to lack of even sunlight and other ideal climatic conditions. Also, the cost of production was high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/growers-should-diversify-to-boost-income-coffee-board/article37988658.ece
19 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Indian Bank refines focus on digital transformation: CTO||State-owned Indian Bank, which recently completed a merger with Allahabad Bank, said it has sharpened its focus on digital transformation this year. “In the current financial year our focus is on digital transformation to offer seamless customer experiences across all digital delivery channels,” said the bank’s chief technology officer Deepak Sarda . “It includes revamping our IT operating model and enabling API banking,’’ he added. Globally, banks are opening up APIs (application programming interfaces) or communication tools for software applications to fintech firms or third parties to help offer seamless services to customers. Complex transactions “In the next decade, technology will play a big role in mutating the DNA of the current banking model followed by most banks. Technology will further evolve to support complex banking transactions and processes,’’ Mr. Sarda observed. According to him, banking as a service (BaaS) platform is expected to open new revenue streams for banks. One of the key monetisation strategies for BaaS include charging for the usage of fintech services, thereby improving the CASA (current account, savings account) share for banks. He said Indian Bank would further strengthen its IT infrastructure and ensure optimum utilisation of technologies and systems deployed. The bank has also set up artificial intelligence-driven Bots to create virtual branch interaction. “During amalgamation, we upgraded our IT Infrastructure to the latest technology, including moving the core workloads to IBM Power 9 processors.” Indian Bank and IBM have over a decade of relationship that started with Indian Bank using IBM Power Servers and storage for their core banking solution. The bank has implemented network technology in its data centre (Cisco Application Centric Infrastructure) that supports scalability and provides throughput to handle the load for the next 5-6 years. Private cloud It also implemented private cloud with the capability to fulfil urgent IT Infrastructure requirements with a turnaround time of less than an hour. To strengthen its technology, the bank has also been hiring. “The technology landscape is changing more rapidly than ever before,” he said. “To ensure that we have specialists across the new technology areas, especially in new-age technologies, we have been hiring resources to bridge any gap that existed,’’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-refines-focus-on-digital-transformation-cto/article37988660.ece
19 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Sterlite Power eyes green transmission projects||Sterlite Power Transmission Ltd. said it would aggressively bid for business from among the transmission projects worth Rs. 70,000 crore coming up for auction soon. These projects have been announced for evacuation of green energy from generation centres. Across the world, power generation is changing from fossil to non-fossil and this is giving rise to a large transmission infrastructure requirement across global markets, said Pratik Agarwal, MD, Sterlite Power. “With India aiming to add 500 KW of RE (renewables) by 2030, huge investments are needed in the transmission sector,” he said. The company would bid for as much as possible from the Rs. 70,000 crore worth of projects that have been announced, Mr. Agarwal said, adding that the firm would be raising fresh capital of Rs. 1,250 crore from its proposed IPO to fund growth and capital expenditure. As an asset owner, the company is focusing on India and Brazil, which are the two largest markets in the world that offer transmission lines on a BOT basis.  The firm will bid for as much as possible from projects worth Rs. 70,000 cr. set to be auctioned soon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sterlite-power-eyes-green-transmission-projects/article37988656.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre gets bids for stake in Pawan Hans||The government has received an undisclosed number of financial bids for the sale of its stake in ailing helicopter operator Pawan Hans, moving the divestment process to the last stage. “The financial bids for Pawan Hans disinvestment have been received by the transaction advisor. The process now moves to a concluding stage,” DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. Mr. Pandey, however, did not disclose the number of bidders. The government is selling its entire 51% stake in Pawan Hans. For 2019-20, the PSU reported a net loss of Rs. 28 crore, narrower than Rs. 69 crore in the previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-gets-bids-for-stake-in-pawan-hans/article37988661.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Secondary steel sector must upgrade’||The Steel Ministry has exhorted the sector’s secondary players to upgrade their manufacturing technologies to help achieve the 300 MT output target. Secondary steel makers are those who make steel through electric arc furnace (EAF) route and induction furnace (IF) route. “Secondary steel sector is an important part of domestic steel sector,” said Minister of Steel Ram Chandra Prasad Singh. Noting that the 300 MT steel output target could not be achieved without the secondary sector’s involvement, Mr. Singh added, “the sector needs to upgrade itself”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/secondary-steel-sector-must-upgrade/article37988662.ece
19 December 2021||Jaipur,||Karnataka will be the team to watch||The Vijay Hazare Trophy knockouts will kick off here on Sunday with three pre-quarterfinal fixtures. Three teams from here will join the toppers of the five Elite groups in the last-eight of the competition. Karnataka will be the team to watch on Sunday when it takes on Rajasthan at the K.L. Saini Stadium. Karnataka, who lost the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy final off the last ball to Tamil Nadu, will hope to set things right in the 50-over format. Reinforcements The team has been bolstered by the arrival of three key players — opener Devdutt Padikkal, all-rounder K. Gowtham, India-A team members in South Africa, and pacer Prasidh Krishna, who was on national duty for the New Zealand Tests. The Manish Pandey-led side finished the group stages second after three wins and two losses. The team played well in a tough group except against TN, where it was bowled out for 122. Speaking ahead of Sunday’s clash Karnataka coach Yere Goud said, “an area we would like to improve is batting which has not been consistent. The arrival of these three players is a huge boost as they bring valuable experience with them.” Rajasthan on the other hand was in a relatively easier group and was tied with Services on points from four wins. But, a 16-run loss to Services meant the home team now has to play the pre-quarterfinals. Skipper Deepak Hooda, who joined Rajasthan from Baroda this year, though feels confident ahead of Sunday’s clash, given the familiar conditions. “We have played good cricket so far this year, even in T20s and we are confident against a strong team like Karnataka. Yes, playing at home is an advantage, we know the venues and grounds but what you do on the day is what’s going to matter,” said Hooda. Also playing In the other two pre-quarterfinals, Vidarbha will take on Plate group topper Tripura while Madhya Pradesh will clash against Uttar Pradesh. This is also the last chance for domestic players to show their white-ball prowess ahead of next month’s IPL auctions.  Sunday’s fixtures: Pre-quarterfinals: Vidarbha vs Tripura; Karnataka vs Rajasthan; Uttar Pradesh vs Madhya Pradesh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-will-be-the-team-to-watch/article37988786.ece
19 December 2021||Huelva (Spain),||Srikanth zooms into final||Displaying immense character, seasoned Indian shuttler K. Srikanth staged a remarkable comeback to down young compatriot Lakshya Sen 17-21, 21-14, 21-17 and enter the final of the BWF World Badminton Championships here on Saturday. Clashing swords in what was a historic match for Indian badminton, Srikanth raced to an early lead before his younger opponent pulled level at 2-2. Two more points and Srikanth was in the lead again. Then it was Lakshya’s turn to briefly take an 8-7 lead but Srikanth immediately levelled at 8. The 20-year-old Lakshya regained the lead and at 13-10, he was looking confident of maintaining the momentum, but Srikanth drew level 16-16. Lakshya dominated from thereon to grab the first game and seize the initiative. However, Srikanth roared back into the contest with a flurry of smashes to take the second game. He continued in the same vein in the third game despite some fine defensive show by Lakshya and emerged winner in a match that lasted 69 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikanth-zooms-into-final/article37989124.ece
19 December 2021||Dhaka,||India looks to continue its run||Assured of a place in the semifinals, defending champions India would look to continue its winning run when it clashes with Japan in their final round robin match of the Asian Champions Trophy men’s hockey tournament here on Sunday. After a slow start to the tournament, Olympic bronze-medallist India roared back into the five-team tournament with two consecutive wins. Playing its first tournament after a historic Olympic campaign, India was held to a 2-2 draw by Korea in their opener. However, the players lifted their games by leaps and bounds to trounce host Bangladesh 9-0 and then got the better of arch-rival Pakistan 3-1 on Friday. India is currently leading the standings with seven points from three games ahead of Korea (5), Japan (2) and Pakistan (1). Bangladesh is yet to register its presence in the scoresheet, having lost both their games so far. Coming into the tournament as clear favourites, the Indians were by far the better side among all other teams, simply on the basis of form and world standings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-looks-to-continue-its-run/article37989132.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala Blasters faces the Mumbai City juggernaut||Mumbai City is sitting pretty atop the ISL table. It has 15 points, four more than any other team. It has posted five wins, two more than anyone else. It has also slammed in 17 goals, four more than any other team. Kerala Blasters must be well aware it is facing an in-form side on Sunday at Fatorda. Not surprisingly, the Kerala men haven’t started the season in roaring form. They are eighth in the table with six points, having won just one game. That sole win came against Odisha FC (2-1). After that they drew 1-1 with SC East Bengal last week. Mumbai, on the other hand, comes into this match having won four in a row — ATK Mohun Bagan (5-1), Bengaluru (3-1), Jamshedpur (4-2) and Chennaiyin (1-0). Des Buckingham’s men must be keen to make it five on the trot, but it may not be easy: Blasters may not be winning everything, but it isn’t losing that many, either; after the 2-4 loss to Bagan in the opening match, it hasn’t tasted defeat. One of the best Buckingham said he was happy with the performances of his players. “We were the last to start pre-season, but I am happy with the work we have done and adapted to as a unit,” he said. His counterpart Ivan Vukomanovic said Mumbai was one of the best teams in the competition. “Every game is a fight for us, whether the opponent is from top of table or bottom,” the Blasters coach said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-blasters-faces-the-mumbai-city-juggernaut/article37989400.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Nidheesh back with a bang||When M.D. Nidheesh found that his name was missing from the Kerala squad for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament, he was understandably disappointed. But the 30-year-old seamer took that in his stride and worked hard, all alone, on his skills and fitness: the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament was not far away. He was back in the Kerala team. And he made the ball talk on the batting-friendly tracks at Rajkot. Good show He took 11 wickets to emerge as one of the leading bowlers of the tournament at the league stage. He is looking forward to increasing that tally, as Kerala has qualified for the quarterfinals, to be held at Jaipur. His best efforts came in two crucial wins for Kerala, against Maharashtra and Uttarakhand in the last match. He is particularly pleased with his five-wicket haul against Maharashtra. “Maharashtra had a strong batting line-up and it was a game we had to win, so it felt nice to have contributed to the team’s cause” Nidheesh told The Hindu on Saturday. “But we wouldn’t have won that match if Vishnu Vinod and Sijomon Joseph hadn’t come up with that brilliant partnership from a hopeless situation. It was one of the greatest fightbacks by a batting side I have ever seen.”  He said bowling on the Rajkot wickets was a challenge. “All the teams had some fine batsmen,” he said. “But as a bowler I didn’t put pressure on myself and just concentrated on serving my team in the best way possible.” Coach Tinu Yohannan said Nidheesh served Kerala’s cause rather well at Rajkot. “It was a great comeback by him,” he said. “Kerala needed an experienced bowler like him to play a leading role. He is doing that now.” After Sandeep Warrier, who spearheaded the Kerala attack for the best part of a decade in admirable fashion, moved to Tamil Nadu, the team has suffered in the pace department. So Nidheesh’s form augurs well for Kerala, with the Ranji Trophy coming up. Nidheesh’s focus at the moment, though, is on Kerala’s quarterfinal match, to be played on Dec. 22. “We are all very confident after our performance at Rajkot,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nidheesh-back-with-a-bang/article37989402.ece
19 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Strikers to clash with Leon Army||Hyderabad Strikers and Mumbai Leon Army rode on their men’s doubles teams to set up a title clash in the Tennis Premier League at the Celebration Club on Saturday. Karman Kaur and Arjun Kadhe laid the foundation for Hyderabad’s win against Chennai Stallions in the semifinal. Karman beat Samantha Sharan and Arjun tied with Sidharth Rawat. Purav Raja and Samantha brought Chennai back by winning the mixed doubles before Vishnu and Arjun sealed it by beating Purav and Sidharth 12-8 in the last doubles. The other semifinal witnessed a fascinating contest as the first three matches were tied 10-10. Eventually, Mumbai dethroned Pune as Ramkumar Ramanathan and Niki Poonacha won the decisive doubles 12-8 against Divij Sharan and Vijay Sundar Prashanth.  The results:   Semifinals: Hyderabad Strikers bt Chennai Stallions 42-38 (Karman Kaur bt Samantha Sharan 11-9; Arjun Kadhe tied with Sidharth Rawat 10-10; Vishnu Vardhan & Karman lost to Purav Raja & Samantha 9-11; Vishnu & Arjun bt Purav & Sidharth 12-8).   Mumbai Leon Army bt Pune Jaguars 42-38 (Sowjanya Bavisetti tied with Rutuja 10-10; Ramkumar Ramanathan tied with Saketh Myneni 10-10; Sowjanya & Niki Poonacha tied with Ishaque Eqbal & Rutuja 10-10; Ramkumar & Poonacha bt Saketh & Ishaque 12-8).   League: Rajasthan Tigers bt Gujarat Panthers 41-39; Bengaluru Spartans tied with Delhi Binny’s Brigade 40-40.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/strikers-to-clash-with-leon-army/article37988797.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mumtaz shines for India Juniors||Mumtaz Khan slammed home four goals, including two in the final ten minutes, as the India Junior Women’s team continued its scoring spree with a comprehensive 6-0 win against HIM Academy, Himachal Pradesh in a Pool A match of the Khelo India Under-21 Women’s Hockey League here on Saturday. This was the third successive win for the team in as many games while HIM Academy is yet to open its account and is sixth among the seven teams in the Pool.  The results:   Pool A: Khalsa HA, Amritsar 2 (Simranjeet Kaur 2) bt Raja Karan HA 1 (Gurmail Kaur); India Juniors 6 (Mumtaz Khan 4, Deepika, Baljeet Kaur) bt HIM Academy 0; SAI B 3 (Vinamrata Yadav, Vartika Rawat, F. Lalawmpuii) bt NTHPC 2 (Kamla Singh, Neha Toppo).   Pool B: Haryana Academy 2 (Preeti 2) bt Pritam Siwach HA 1 (Kanika Siwach); MPHA 2 (Yogita Bora, Bhumiksha Sahu) vs Sports Hostel, Bhubaneswar 1 (Neha Lakra); SAI A 7 (Sanjana Horo 2, Pooja Nagle, Deepali, Prini Kandir, Sonam, Sujatra Kujur) bt Delhi Hockey 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumtaz-shines-for-india-juniors/article37989231.ece
19 December 2021||PUNE,||Shrivalli is seeded seventh||Shrivalli Bhamidipaty, National runner-up and one of the best emerging players in the country, has been seeded seventh and drawn to play Pooja Ingale in the first qualifying round of the NECC $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament to be played at the Deccan Gymkhana from Sunday. Strong field In a strong field that has as many as eight foreign players, including top seed Clara Vlasselaer of Belgium and third seed So-Ra Lee of Korea, there will be many other Indian aspirants vying for a berth in the main draw. Jennifer Luikham, Ramya Natarajan, Nidhi Chilumula, Sathwika Sama, Saumya Vig, Sharmada Balu, Arthi Muniyan, Soha Sadiq, Humera Baharmus and Shreya Tatavarthy are the other prominent players figuring in the qualifying event. Four Indian players — Pranjala Yadlapalli, Rutuja Bhosale, Karman Kaur Thandi and Zeel Desai — entered the main draw on the basis of their rankings while four more received wild cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shrivalli-is-seeded-seventh/article37989452.ece
19 December 2021||Miami,||‘Not yet ready for Tour-level play’||Tiger Woods is looking forward to his first competitive rounds since the career-threatening leg injuries he suffered in a car crash, but he said on Friday the PNC Championship family tournament is no gauge of his readiness for the PGA Tour. Short on endurance “I still have a long way to go in this rehab process,” said the 15-time Major champion, who suffered compound fractures in his right leg after the car he was driving in a Los Angeles suburb veered off the road and flipped several times. “I don’t have the endurance to be out here to play at the Tour level. This is different,” he said after playing a pre-tournament pro-am round on Friday. “I can hit around here, drop a ball here, hit a few wedges, do that. But to go out there and have 220 yards and know that you have to hit a 3- or 4-iron and miss the ball in the correct spot, and then hit certain shots and one stroke determines whether you win or lose, that’s a totally different mindset than what we have out here this week. I’m not there yet,” he said. Woods, who returned from 2017 spinal fusion surgery to win his fifth Masters title, and 15th Major crown, in 2019, said this injury rehabilitation had been the hardest of many in his career.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-yet-ready-for-tour-level-play-woods/article37988784.ece
19 December 2021||Adelaide,||England collapses again, stares down the barrel||England found itself staring down the barrel once again, having been dismissed for 236 and then forced to watch as Australia stretched its lead in the day-night second Ashes Test here on Saturday. Joe Root and Dawid Malan had survived the opening session of day three unscathed, building a 128-run stand as they chased Australia’s first-innings 473 for nine declared. But it all came crashing down after the dinner break with both players removed in quick succession, Root for 62 and Malan for 80, sparking a collapse that saw England slump from 150 for two to 236 all out. Making matters worse was that it was against an attack missing Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood. Stand-in Australia skipper Steve Smith could have enforced the follow-on, but chose to rest his bowlers and send in the openers to turn the screws. They negotiated some 75 minutes for the loss of David Warner for 13, needlessly run out after a disastrous mix-up with Marcus Harris, who remains unbeaten on 21. Nightwatchman Michael Neser was on two as Australia reached 45 for one, building the lead to 282. Starc’s hostile pace Hostile pace from Mitchell Starc and Nathan Lyon’s dangerous spin did the damage to England, complemented by Cameron Green, who bagged Root for the second consecutive time. Having passed 1,600 Test runs in a calendar year — only the fourth player in history to do so — Root poked at a Green delivery and got an edge to Smith at slip, leaving him still searching for an elusive first-ever century in Australia. Malan soon followed, slashing at a Starc thunderbolt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-collapses-again-stares-down-the-barrel/article37988664.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad in second spot after draw with Goa||The contest had two fine goals, silky footwork and a fair share of fouls but lacked a winner as FC Goa and Hyderabad FC were involved in a 1-1 draw in the Indian Super League at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Saturday. The Gaurs, eager to build on their two successive wins, began the game with great fervour and ran circles around the Hyderabad defence. Juan Ferrando’s side held on to the ball and spread it around well but failed to capitalise on its possession. Hyderabad's Joel Chianese was denied a penalty in the 33rd minute after being tripped by Aiban Dohling in the box; the referee saw it differently and instead booked the Australian striker for simulation. The second half got off to a fiery start as a melee ensued after Asish Rai’s foul on Devendra Murgaonkar. Asish was booked for the tackle and was then engaged in a heated exchange with Airam Cabrera. The little scuffle seemed to have spurred on both players as they influenced the goals that were to come. Asish was in action first as he played a delicate pass to release Nikhil down the right flank. He floated in a cross and Chianese nodded the ball home from two yards out to put Hyderabad ahead in the 54th minute. The lead lasted only eight minutes as Cabrera struck in the 62nd minute. Alberto Noguera threaded a defence-splitting pass and Devendra raced in on goal. He attempted a shot from a tight angle but it bounced off the upright. The rebound fell to Cabrera, who slotted home to make it 1-1. Laxmikant Kattimani pulled off a blinder in the 89th minute to ensure his side shared the honours. He was initially wrong-footed but reacted brilliantly to parry the ball away as Hyderabad moved to second.  The results: FC Goa 1 (Cabrera 64) drew with Hyderabad FC 1 (Chianese 54); Chennaiyin FC 2 (Germanpreet 23, Murzaev 63) bt Odisha FC 1 (Javier 90+6).   Today’s match: Blasters vs Mumbai City, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-in-second-spot-after-draw-with-goa/article37989337.ece
19 December 2021||PALA,||Godwin breaks Bimin's pole vault record||St. Thomas College's Godwin Damian, with a 4.80m effort, broke former national champion K.P. Bimin's men's pole vault record in the 39th Mahatma Gandhi University athletics championships at the Municipal Stadium here on Saturday. That was one of the five records to fall on the three-day championship's concluding day. Mar Athanasius College retained the men's team title and also won the women's title for the first time.  The results (gold medallists only): Men: 400m hurdles: M. Manoop (St. Dominic's) 54.10s. 3000m steeple chase: Aswin Antony (Athanasius) 9:41.70s. Triple jump: Akash M. Varghese (Athanasius) 15.71m. Pole vault: Godwin Damian (St. Thomas) 4.80m MR, OR 4.76. Discus throw: Andric Michael Fernandez (Athanasius) 46.26m MR, OR 45.96. 4x100m relay: Mar Athanasius, Kothamangalam 42.50s. 4x400m relay: Mar Athanasius 3:18.40s. Half marathon: Sherin Jose (Athanasius) 1:05.40s MR, OR 1;07.21.   20,000m race walk: Thomas Abraham (Athanasius) 1:37:27.80s MR, OR own 1:37:55.10.   Women: 400m hurdles: Anila Venu (Assumption) 1:03.10s. 3000m steeple chase: K. Swetha (Athanasius) 11:16.40s. Triple jump: Gayatri Sivakumar (Athanasius) 12.90m. Discus throw: Niya Rose Raju (Assumption) 33.65m. 4x100m relay: Maharaja's College, Ernakulam 47.30s. 4x400m relay: Alphonsa, Pala 3:49.30s. Half marathon: Anju Murukan (Assumption) 1:26.23s.   20,000m race walk: K. Akshaya (Athanasius) 1:47:42.40s MR, OR 1:54:19.50.   Team championships: Men: 1. Mar Athanasius College, Kothamangalam (214 pts), 2. St. Berchmans, Changanassery (101), 3. St. Dominic's, Kanjirappally74.5.   Women: 1. Mar Athanasius College, Kothamangalam (161 pts), 2. Assumption, Changanassery (149), 3. Alphonsa, Pala (117) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/godwin-breaks-bimins-pole-vault-record/article37989397.ece
19 December 2021||Paris,||Sulayem is first non-European FIA chief||Mohammed ben Sulayem became the first non-European to be elected president of the International Automobile Federation (FIA) on Friday, succeeding the retiring Jean Todt.  The 60-year-old Emirati gained 61.62% of the votes against the 36.62% for his sole rival Britain’s Graham Stoker. The former rally driver replaces Todt, who stands down after 12 years at the helm. Ben Sulayem, from Dubai, has been campaigning for several months as the non-establishment candidate against Stoker who was Todt’s right hand man. He has vowed to modernise the FIA and make it more transparent. Meanwhile, Lewis Hamilton failed to show for the FIA’s year-ending gala and could face sanctions. “If there is any breach, there is no forgiveness in this,” said Sulayem on being asked about Hamilton missing the event. Hamilton and his Mercedes team are unhappy with the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix result. Especially the way the race was restarted giving Max Verstappen of Red Bull the chance to seize victory, and the driver’s title. Hamilton, who was in Windsor in England on Wednesday to receive his knighthood, and the Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff then skipped the Thursday night gala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sulayem-is-first-non-european-fia-chief/article37988778.ece
19 December 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Srihari registers best Indian performance||Ace Indian swimmer Srihari Nataraj set the ‘best Indian time’ at the FINA short course World Championship, but that was not enough to take him to the semifinals of the 50m backstroke event here on Saturday. The 20-year-old clocked 24.40s in the men’s 50m backstroke event to finish 26th in the overall heats. However, Srihari, who competed at the Tokyo Games after becoming the second Indian swimmer after Sajan Prakash to breach the A qualifying time for the Olympics, was unable to progress to the semifinals where the top 16 swimmers compete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srihari-registers-best-indian-performance/article37988793.ece
19 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Electra claims Karnataka Police Trophy||United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Limited’s Electra (Antony up) won the Karnataka Police Trophy, the main event of the races held here on Saturday (Dec. 18). The winner is trained by S. Attaollahi.  The results:   1. WIND STREAM PLATE (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over: ELITE AGENT (Rajesh K) 1, Ozark (Dhanu Singh) 2, Lifeisamiracle (Sai Kumar) 3 and Raw Gold (Vivek) 4. Not run: Orogenesis. 3/4, 3-1/4 and 3/4. 1m 28.64s. Rs. 118 (w), 31, 22 and 25 (p), SHP: 60, THP: 62, FP: 801, Q: 312, Trinella: 6,194 and 5,309, Exacta: 36,160 (carried over). Favourite: Prime Star. Owner: Mr. R.R. Byramji. Trainer: Narayana Gowda.  2. INVASOR PLATE (1,100m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): MILLBROOK (Antony) 1, Belvedere (Akshay K) 2, Scribbling Hopper (Dhanu Singh) 3 and Lady Supremos (Rayan) 4. 2-1/4, Shd and 5. 1m 07.84s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 16 and 13 (p), SHP: 29, THP: 42, FP: 44, Q: 23, Trinella: 66 and 53, Exacta: 364 and 324. Favourite: Millbrook. Owners: Rajagiri Rubber & Produce Co. Ltd rep by. Mr & Mrs. Dilip Thomas. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  3. FIELD MARSHAL PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over: RULE OF ENGAGEMENT (J.H. Arul) 1, General Patton (Antony) 2, Three Aces (S. Saqlain) 3 and Allabouther (S. John) 4. 4, 3/4 and 2-1/2. 1m 13.25s. Rs. 20 (w), 13, 21 and 14 (p), SHP: 59, THP: 50, FP: 138, Q: 88, Trinella: 438 and 129, Exacta: 653 and 243. Favourite: Rule Of Engagement. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal & Mr. Gautam Aggarwal. Trainer: Pradeep Annaiah.  4. SUN KINGDOM PLATE (Div. II), (1,100m), rated 20 to 45: GUN POINT (Vivek) 1, Shanaey (P. Surya) 2, Amazonite (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Debonair (Nazerul) 4. Shd, 5-1/4 and 2. 1m 08.14s. Rs. 379 (w), 36, 13 and 15 (p), SHP: 41, THP: 40, FP: 1,445, Q: 293, Trinella: 3,147 and 3,372, Exacta: 48,076. Favourite: Shanaey. Owner: Mr. Nanda Kumar N. Trainer: Kishan Thomas.  5. SPRINT STAR PLATE (2,000), rated 40 to 65: SPEEDSTER (Akshay K) 1, Antibes (Antony) 2, Almanach (J.H. Arul) 3 and Velocidad (L.A. Rozario) 4. 2-1/2, 4 and 1-1/2. 2m 07.10s. Rs. 37 (w), 18 and 10 (p), SHP: 27, THP: 25, FP: 61, Q: 24, Trinella: 76 and 48. Favourite: Antibes. Owner and trainer: Mr. Warren Singh.  6. KARNATAKA POLICE TROPHY (1,600m), rated 60 to 85: ELECTRA (Antony) 1, Bellator (Akshay K) 2, Lake Tahoe (S. John) 3 and Set To Win (Arvind Kumar) 4. 3-1/2, 2-3/4 and 2. 1m 38.17s. Rs. 54 (w), 20 and 13 (p), SHP: 22, THP: 47, FP: 223, Q: 58, Trinella: 141 and 57, Exacta: 437 and 455. Favourite: Lake Tahoe. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  7. SUN KINGDOM PLATE (Div. I), (1,100m), rated 20 to 45: CAESARS PALACE (S. Shareef) 1, Thousand Words (S. John) 2, Ocean Dunes (Antony) 3 and The Inheritor (Sai Kumar) 4. Not run: The Adviser. 1, 1-1/2 and 1/2. 1m 08.63s. Rs. 70 (w), 16, 12 and 13 (p), SHP: 31, THP: 30, FP: 142, Q: 94, Trinella: 455 and 214, Exacta: 565 and 188. Favourite: Thousand Words. Owner: Mr. Harakchand C. Gandhi. Trainer: M. Rajendra Singh.  8. WIND STREAM PLATE (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over: GYPSY (B. Nayak) 1, Southern Power (Akshay K) 2, Iconic Princess (Shreyas Singh) 3 and Smile Around (Sai Kumar) 4. 1/2, 1-1/4 and 1. 1m 28.04s. Rs. 182 (w), 29, 22 and 32 (p), SHP: 73, THP: 76, FP: 2,528, Q: 472, Trinella: 12,993 and 16,705, Exacta: 9,022 and 42,102 (carried over). Favourite: Super Gladiator. Owner: Mr. H.S. Chandre Gowda. Trainer: S. Inayathulla. Jackpot: Rs. 68,045 (carried over); Treble (i): 7,435 (one tkt); (ii); 14,712 (one tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/electra-claims-karnataka-police-trophy/article37988799.ece
19 December 2021||Mumbai:,||Juliette should extend winning streak||The queen filly of Mumbai, Juliette, who has won five races in a row, maintains her winning form as evidenced by her track performances and should extend her winning streak by winning the prestigious race of 2021, the Zavaray S. Poonawalla Indian Turf Invitation Cup (Gr.1), here on Sunday (Dec. 19). Another wonder filly of Mumbai, Miracle, who has won five races out of five starts in her career so far, is in fine fettle and should score an encore in the first Indian classic of the Mumbai racing season 2021-22, the Villoo C. Poonawalla Indian 1000 Guineas (Gr. 1). There will be no false rails. An amount of Rs. 10 lakhs will be added to the combined jackpot pool.  GOOL S. POONAWALLA MILLION (Gr. 3) (1,200m) (Terms), 2-y-o only — 1.15 p.m.: 1. Dear Lady (2) Neeraj 57, 2. Fortunate Son (9) Parmar 55.5, 3. Hawk Of The Wind (1) Zervan 55.5, 4. Liam (6) T.S. Jodha 55.5, 5. Son Of A Gun (8) Dashrath 55.5, 6. Daianne (4) Bhawani 54, 7. Mehr (3) P.S. Chouhan 54, 8. O Hansini (7) P. Dhebe 54 and 9. Venus (5) C. Umesh 54.  1. MEHR, 2. HAWK OF THE WIND, 3. DEAR LADY   SPARTAN POKER SPRINTERS’ CUP (Gr. 1) (1,200m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over — 2.00: 1. Corfe Castle (1) David Egan 57, 2. Golden Oaks (3) S.A. Gray 57, 3. Iron Age (5) A. Sandesh 57, 4. Multifaceted (2) Suraj Narredu 57, 5. Enigma (4) P.S. Chouhan 55.5 and 6. Smashing Blue (6) Akshay Kumar 55.5.  1. IRON AGE, 2. CORFE CASTLE, 3. MULTIFACETED   MAJ. P.K. MEHRA MEMORIAL SUPER MILE CUP (Gr. 1) (1,600m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over — 2.40: 1. Make My Way (8) P. Dhebe 57, 2. North Star (1) P.S. Chouhan 57, 3. Northern Alliance (7) Neeraj 57, 4. Taimur (4) C.S. Jodha 57, 5. Truly Epic (2) Antony Raj S 57, 6. Born Queen (9) Suraj Narredu 55.5, 7. Cosmic Ray (6) A. Sandesh 55.5, 8. Rambunctious (3) C. Umesh 55.5 and 9. Saffron Art (5) Mukesh Kumar 55.5.  1. BORN QUEEN, 2. COSMIC RAY, 3. NORTH STAR   SURESH MAHINDRA MULTI-MILLION (Gr. 2) (1,400m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over — 3.20: 1. Ashwa Bravo (1) David Egan 59, 2. Augustus Caesar (2) Neeraj 58, 3. Sultan Suleiman (5) T.S. Jodha 58, 4. Victorious Sermon (6) Zervan 58, 5. Mystic Bay (3) Yash Narredu 57 and 6. N R I Valley (4) Akshay Kumar 55.5.  1. ASHWA BRAVO, 2. SULTAN SULEIMAN   VILLOO C. POONAWALLA INDIAN 1000 GUINEAS (Gr. 1) (1,600m) (Terms), Indian Fillies, 3-y-o only — 4.00: 1. Aah Bella (9) Antony Raj S 57, 2. Animous (8) Bhawani 57, 3. Dragoness (4) Parmar 57, 4. Lit (6) P. Dhebe 57, 5. Marvellous (5) Kirtish 57, 6. Miracle (2) P.S. Chouhan 57, 7. Petronia (3) C.S. Jodha 57, 8. Queen O’War (1) A. Sandesh 57 and 9. Teresita (7) Akshay Kumar 57.  1. MIRACLE, 2. PETRONIA, 3. QUEEN O’WAR   ZAVARAY S. POONAWALLA INDIAN TURF INVITATION CUP (Gr. 1) (2,400m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over — 4.30: 1. Lagarde (1) Akshay Kumar 57, 2. Sovereign Legend (4) S.A. Gray 57, 3. Alluring Silver (5) David Egan 55.5, 4. Arcadia (6) C. Umesh 55.5, 5. Juliette (3) A. Sandesh 55.5, 6. Parisian (2) P.S. Chouhan 55.5 and 7. Successor (7) Parmar 55.5.  1. JULIETTE, 2. PARISIAN, 3. LAGARDE   DR. M.A.M. RAMASWAMY STAYER’S CUP (Gr. 1) (3,000m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over — 5.15: 1. Caprisca (5) Yash Narredu 57, 2. Magistero (1) Bhawani 57, 3. My Opinion (4) Akshay Kumar 57, 4. Salazaar (6) A. Sandesh 57, 5. Theon (7) P.S. Chouhan 57, 6. Apsara Star (3) S.A. Gray 55.5 and 7. Bisate (2) Mukesh Kumar 55.5.  1. SALAZAAR, 2. THEON, 3. BISATE  Day’s Best: MIRACLE  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juliette-should-extend-winning-streak/article37988800.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Germanpreet and Murzaev deliver for Chennaiyin||An opportunistic strike by Germanpreet Singh and a floating long-ranger by Mirlan Murzaev powered Chennaiyin FC to a 2-1 win over Odisha FC in an Indian Super League match in Vasco on Saturday. The victory, its first in the last four games, put CFC in the fourth spot with 11 points from six matches while OFC is fifth (nine from six). Germanpreet, who replaced Edwin Vanspaul in the XI, struck at the right moment to provide the momentum to Chennaiyin. He slotted home from close range in the 23rd minute. The move was initiated by Murzaev, who passed the ball to Anirudh Thapa. The latter’s cross was deflected back into play by Odisha ’keeper Kamaljit Singh and fell to Germanpreet. His first shot — a left-footed strike — hit a defender and went back to him and Germanpreet didn’t make any mistake with his right foot the second time. Minutes into the second half, Lallianzuala Chhangte had a golden opportunity to make it 2-0. A swift counter-attack saw Murzaev put Chhangte through with a slick pass, but the forward, with just the goalkeeper to beat, hit straight to Kamaljit. Odisha almost equalised when a 30-yard blinder from Aridai Suarez got past Chennaiyin goalkeeper Vishal Kaith, but the ball struck the post and rolled out. In the 58th minute, Vishal jumped high to pull off a one-handed save off an Aridai shot. In the 63rd minute, Murzaev’s thunderbolt from well outside the box beat Kamaljit all ends up. CFC missed a golden chance to go 3-0 up when Lukasz Gikiewicz fluffed a penalty in the 85th. In the dying minutes, Javier Hernandez pulled one back from Odisha with a brilliant long-range strike.  The results:   Chennaiyin FC 2 (Germanpreet Singh 23, Mirlan Murzaev 63) bt Odisha FC 1 (Javier Hernandez 90+6); FC Goa 1 (Cabrera 64) drew with Hyderabad FC 1 (Chianese 54).   Today’s match: Blasters vs Mumbai City, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/germanpreet-murzaev-help-cfc-climb-to-third/article37988669.ece
19 December 2021||Berlin,||Lewandowski breaks Gerd Muller’s record||Bayern Munich opened a nine-point lead at the top of the Bundesliga table Friday with a 4-0 home win over Wolfsburg. Robert Lewandowski, who on Tuesday equalled Gerd Muller’s record of 42 German league goals in a calendar year, capped a gala night with Bayern’s fourth to claim the new record outright. Leader Inter Milan thrashed last-place Salernitana 5-0 on Friday to close in on the honorary title of Serie A ‘winter champion’.  The results: Serie A: Atalanta 1 (Cristante 45+1-og) lost to Roma 4 (Abraham 1, 82, Zaniolo 27, Smalling 72).   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 0 drew with Arminia Bielefeld 2 (Serra 57, Okugawa 75); Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Lindstrom 34) bt Mainz 05 0; Hoffenheim 1 (Akpoguma 90+1) drew with Borussia M’Gladbach 1 )(Embolo 35); Bochum 0 lost to Union Berlin 1 (Kruse 16); Greuther Furth 0 drew with Augsburg 0.   On Friday: La Liga: Celta Vigo 3 (Mina 3, Aspas 47, Suarez 82) bt Espanyol 1 (Loren 90+2).   Serie A: Lazio 3 (Pedro 36, Acerbi 75, Zaccagni 81) bt Genoa 1 (Melegoni 86); Salernitana 0 lost to Inter Milan 5 (Perisic 11, Dumfries 33, Sanchez 52, Martinez 77, Gagliardini 87).   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 4 (Muller 7, Upamecano 57, Sane 59, Lewandowski 87) bt VfL Wolfsburg 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lewandowski-breaks-gerd-mullers-record/article37988671.ece
19 December 2021||CHENNAI,||TN men top the charts||The Tamil Nadu men's team topped the table after a 93-85 victory over Kerala in the South Zone National basketball qualifiers here on Friday.   The results: Men: Tamil Nadu 93 (Aravind 31, Siva Balan 18,Muin Bek 15) bt Kerala 85 (Sejin 23,Pranav 19, Jishnu 19); Telangana 65 (Billa 20, Santhosh 15, Vijay 14) bt Puducherry 44 (Srikanth 13, Gokul 10); Karnataka 71 (Ashwij 15, Aravindh Kumar 13, Harish 11) bt Andhra Pradesh 43 (Kumar Varma 10)   Women: Telangana 66 (Aswanthy 10) bt Karnataka 43 (Sandhya 11); Kerala 74 (Sreekala 18, Chippy 14, Stephy Nixon 14) bt Tamil Nadu 65 (Aishwarya 23, Shruthi 13, Nishanthini 12).   Final standings: Men: 1. Tamil Nadu, 2. Karnataka, 3. Kerala, 4. Telangana.   Women: 1. Telangana, 2. Kerala, 3. Tamil Nadu, 4. Karnataka .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-men-top-the-charts/article37989166.ece
19 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Solaimani does it for Kickstart||Solaimani’s goal gave Kickstart FC a 1-0 win over Bangalore Eagles in the BDFA Super Division football league here on Saturday.  The results: FC Bengaluru United 3 (M. Luke 1, 36, Ronaldo Augusto 38 bt Thanco’s Students Union FC 0; Kickstart FC 1 (Solaimani 29) bt Bangalore Eagles FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/solaimani-does-it-for-kickstart/article37989133.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI:,||Sahil stars with hat-trick||Sahil Ruhal struck a hat-trick as NCC Directorate General registered a convincing 6-0 win against Govt. Boys SSS (Ghuman Hera) in the opening match of the quarterfinal league at the 38th Nehru sub-junior boys’ hockey on Saturday. The other A1 group match in the quarterfinal league saw Surjit Hockey Academy (Jalandhar) defeat Govt. Boys HS (Simdega) 5-1.  The results: NCC 6 (Sahil Ruhal 3, Vinay, Nitin, Rahul) bt GBSSS (Delhi) 0; SHA 5 (Jobanpreet Singh 2, Prabhdeep Singh 2, Rohan Bhushan) bt GBHS (Jharkhand) 1 (Sahil Minz) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sahil-stars-with-hat-trick/article37989230.ece
19 December 2021||New Delhi,||IPL: Gambhir is Lucknow team mentor||Former India opener Gautam Gambhir was on Saturday appointed mentor of the new Lucknow franchise ahead of IPL 2022. Gambhir, who is also a Member of Parliament, had captained Kolkata Knight Riders to two titles during his playing days. “The fire to win a contest still burns bright inside me, the desire to leave a winner’s legacy still kicks me 24x7. I will not be contesting for a dressing room but for the spirit and soul of Uttar Pradesh,” Gambhir said in a statement. Owner of the yet-to-be-named franchise, Sanjiv Goenka welcomed Gambhir into the RPSG family. “Gautam has an impeccable career record. I respect his cricketing mind and look forward to working with him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-gambhir-is-lucknow-team-mentor/article37988779.ece
19 December 2021||KOVILPATTI,||Sachin, Subal go on the rampage||Sachin Dungdung and Subal Kerketta scored five goals apiece as Bihar hammered Goa 14-0 in a Pool H clash of the 11th junior National men’s hockey championship at the SDAT hockey turf here on Saturday. In Pool A, defending champion Odisha registered a facile 9-0 win over Rajasthan while in another keenly fought Pool C contest, Chandigarh overcame Karnataka 1-0. Surinder Singh scored the winner in the 35th minute.  The results: Pool A: Odisha 9 (Amandeep Lakra 3, Roshan Kujur 2, Paulus Lakra, Mangal Lohar, Cyril Lugun, S. Chirmako) bt Rajasthan 0.   Pool C: Haryana 8 (Rohit 4, Pankaj 2, Amandeep, Deepak) bt Bengal 0. Telangana 5 bt Tripura 0 after Tripura forfeited match.   Pool D: Chandigarh 1 (Surinder Singh) bt Karnataka 0; AP 7 (Santha Kumar 2, Raghavendra Rao, Siva Pramod, S. Srinivas, M. Rajesh) bt Mizoram 1 (Lalruatsanga).   Pool E: Kerala 5 bt Arunachal Pradesh 0 after Arunachal forfeited match; Punjab 2 (Jaswinder Singh, Amritpal Singh) bt Maharashtra 0.   Pool H: Bihar 14 (Sachin Dungdung 5, Subal Kerketta 5, Sanchit Horo 2, Rohit Lama, Turtan Minz) bt Goa 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sachin-subal-go-on-the-rampage/article37988787.ece
19 December 2021||Pune,||Punjab, Karnataka post wins||Punjab and Karnataka registered victories in their respective quarterfinal matches of the 11th Hockey India senior men's national championship here on Saturday. In the first quarterfinal, Punjab edged out Chandigarh 2-1 in a thriller to reach the semifinals of the tournament, courtesy of a brace from captain Rupinder Pal Singh (46', 53'). Arshdeep Singh (50'), who put up a spirited performance, was the goal-scorer for Chandigarh. In the second quarterfinal, Karnataka earned a hard-fought 3-2 win over Bengal. In the topsy-turvy encounter, it was Bengal who struck first through Alsem Lakra's goal in the 9th minute. However, in the second quarter, Karnataka bounced back and took the lead through goals from captain Mohd. Raheel (21) and Harish Mutagar (30'). Abhishek Pratap Singh scored an equaliser for Bengal in the 40th minute. With both teams pushing hard for the winner, it was S. Deekshith, who converted a penalty corner in the 58th minute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punjab-karnataka-post-wins/article37988788.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mukund beats Palan||Second seed Sasikumar Mukund beat Dominik Palan of Czech Republic 7-6(5), 6-1 in the semifinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament in Doha on Saturday. In the final, Mukund will play third seed Hady Habib of Lebanon, who beat the top seed Yu Hsiou Hsu of Chinese Taipei in straight sets.  Other result: $15,000 ITF men, Doha, Qatar: Semifinals: Maxence Broville & Axel Garcian (Fra) bt Adil Kalyanpur & Sasikumar Mukund 6-3, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukund-beats-palan/article37988791.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||ATK-MB sacks Habas||ATK-Mohun Bagan head coach Antonio Lopez Habas has become the first casualty of failures in the current edition of the Indian Super League. The Spanish coach, who was in charge when the Kolkata outfit’s previous avatar ATK FC lifted three titles, was given the marching orders on Saturday. Last year’s runner-up ATK-Mohun Bagan made a good start to this season’s campaign with two successive wins. But, its performance dipped thereafter, managing just two points form the next four matches. The worst came in the form of a 1-5 loss to holder Mumbai City FC. Habas looked for explanations as ATK-MB conceded the lead twice before being held to a 3-3 draw by Bengaluru FC. This appears to be the sparking point as the club issued a statement announcing Habas’ departure before its upcoming fixture against NorthEast United FC. “ATKMB has released Antonio Habas as the Head Coach for ATK Mohun Bagan. Manuel Cascallana who is currently the Assistant Coach will be the interim Coach,” was the short message from the club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mb-sacks-habas/article37988667.ece
19 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahul set to be Kohli’s deputy in SA Tests||Opener K.L. Rahul is all set to become India’s vice-captain for the three-Test series against South Africa, starting December 26, BCCI sources confirmed on Saturday. The 29-year-old Rahul has played 40 Tests and scored 2321 runs at an average of 35.16 with six centuries. Importantly, he is being looked at as a long-term potential leader in the coming days. “Rahul is going to be Virat Kohli's deputy for the three-Test series,” a senior BCCI official confirmed. It is also expected that Rahul will be Rohit Sharma’s deputy in white-ball cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-set-to-be-kohlis-deputy-in-tests/article37988670.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Muthu scalps five||Ponmari Muthu (five for 27) starred in Medavakkam's 54-run win over Kovalam in a second division match of the CDCA cricket league held here.  The scores: II div.: Medavakkam 127/5 in 30 overs (Jemoh Roshan 59 n.o, K. Sunil Prabhu 39 n.o., G. Vijayan 3/39) bt Kovalam 74 in 19.3 overs (Ponmari Muthu 5/27).   Chrome 121/9 in 30 overs (G. Ruthra Priyan 3/22) bt Thiruporur 115/9 in 30 overs (Roop Prasad 34, K. Ashwath 3/26).      Chengalpattu District Cricket Association will conduct selection trials for the u-16 boys at Sumangali Cricket Ground at Santhosapuram, on Sunday at 10 a.m.   Habeebur Rahman defeated Shabbir Dhankot 395-362 in the final of the Tamil Nadu state-ranking tenpin bowling tournament here.  Special prizes: Highest average in 6 Game Block: J. Parthiban (216); highest average after 18 Games: J. Parthiban (214.6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muthu-scalps-five/article37989169.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||All-round brilliance by Harman||Man-of-the-Match Harman scored a quickfire 63-ball 124 and picked up four wickets as SB Youth Club beat Global Cricket Academy by 125 runs in the 7th RP Dhoundiyal tournament.  The scores: SBYC 275 in 33 overs (Harman 124, Daksh 59, Anish 2/22) bt GCA 150 in 16 overs (Ronit 36, Harman 4/36, Dhruv 3/14) .      Anindo Naharay smashed a 105-ball 131 as Dream Chaserz Cricket Academy beat Ramakant Achrekar Cricket Foundation by seven wickets in the Bat & Ball under-14 tournament.  The scores: RACF 211/7 in 40 overs (Rohit Sharma 66, Rudraksh 55, Aarush Singh 2/32, Harshvardhan 2/30) lost to DCCA 212/3 in 35 overs (Anindo Naharay 131) .    Man-of-the-Match Isherpreet Singh made an unbeaten 52 as Titiksha Academy beat Shree Krishna Cricket Academy by seven wickets in the 1st Children Under-14 tournament.  The scores: SKCA 131/9 in 40 overs (Moksh Jain 30, Saksham 3/27) lost to TCA 135/3 in 23 overs (Isherpreet Singh 52 n.o., Baljot Singh Gomra 2/27) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-round-brilliance-by-harman/article37989229.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Varun Tej and Anudeep star in Gowtham JC’s win||Centuries by Varun Tej (122, 132b, 11x4) and Anudeep Javvaji (121, 106b, 15x4, 1x6) helped Gowtham Junior College score a 172-run win over Sri Chaitanya Techno School in the HCA Under-16 inter-schools \ colleges one-day cricket championship here on Saturday. For the losers, C. Siddharth Rao (113, 153b, 14x4) batted well. In another match, B. Sachiet (123, 119b, 14x4, 1x6) fashioned Bhavan’s Sri Aurobindo Junior College’s emphatic, 237-run win over Bhavan’s Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya.  The scores: Warangal 107 in 36 overs (Avinash 4/25) lost to Vignan Vidyalaya, Nizampet, 108/1 in 12.2 overs (K. Sriniketh 78 n.o.).   Gowtham JC, ECIL, 374/7 in 50 overs (Varun Tej 122, Anudeep Javvaji 121, Anvith Reddy 31) bt Sri Chaitanya Techno School 202/6 in 50 overs (C. Siddarth Rao 113).   Bhavan’s Sri Aurobindo JC 309/3 in 50 overs (B. Sachiet 123, Vivek Gagan 90, B. Jayanth Reddy 50 n.o.) bt Bhavan’s Sri Ramakrishna Vidyalaya 72 in 30.2 overs (D. Abhiram 3/13).      G. Yeswanth and Harshini Viswanadh won the boys’ and girls’ under-18 singles titles in the AITA Championship Series tennis at the Sania Mirza Tennis Academy here on Saturday.  The results:   Boys: U-18: G. Yeswanth (Mt. Litera G School) bt D. Trishant Reddy (Birla Open Minds School) 6-4, 6-4.   Doubles: V. Hansh Karthikeya (JNR College, Hyd) & Arjun Abhayankar (BMC college, Pune) bt G. Naishik Reddy (Slate The School, Hyd) & P. Yagnesh (Nalla Malla Reddy College, Hyd) & P. Yagnesh 6-3, 6-4.   U-16: V. Dhiraj Reddy (CMR Intl School, Hyd) bt D. Trishant Reddy (Birla Open Minds School, Hyd) 7-6(7), 6-7(1), 7-6(4).   Girls: U-18: Harshini Viswanadh (SFS School, Vsp) bt Omna Yadhav (Devi Memorial HS) 6-3, 6-4.   Doubles: G. Sowkhya (Triveni Jr College) & K. Yesasvi (Omega JNR College) bt V. Harshini & V. Ruchita (Sri Aadhya Jr College) 5-7, 6-3, [10-6].   U-16: Nainika Reddy (Indian Memorial School, Solapur) bt Harshini Viswanadh (SFS School, Vsp) 6-4, 6-4 .    The Hyderabad District Throwball Association will conduct selection trials for senior men and women at Villa Marie Degree College here on December 19 from noon. The selected players will represent the district in the seventh inter-district championship to be held at Cantonment Grounds (Secunderabad) here soon. For details, call 93914 15084 / 95024 71347.   Telangana girls clinched the honours in the 34th sub-junior National softball championship with a 7-1 win over Andhra Pradesh in the final at Ahmedabad (Gujarat). In the boy’ section, Rajasthan emerged winner while Maharashtra finished runner-up and Andhra Pradesh third.  Final placings: Boys: 1. Rajasthan, 2. Maharashtra, 3. Andhra Pradesh.   Girls: 1. Telangana, 2. Andhra Pradesh, 3. Maharashtra .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varun-tej-and-anudeep-star-in-gowtham-jcs-win/article37989368.ece
19 December 2021||Mysuru:,||Hemanth shines in FUCC'S big win||B. Hemanth (101) helped FUCC register a 183-run win over SKRSC in the KSCA Mysore zone second division league match played at the SDNR Wadayar grounds here recently.  The scores: II div.: FUCC 317 in 44.5 overs (B. Hemanth 101, S. Pradeep 86, V. Chethan 56, Suhas Adiya 32, K.V. Vijay five for 43) bt SKRSC 134 in 28.4 overs (K. Naveen 52, Sibtan Ali five for 43).   Sunny Side CC 143 in 41 overs (M. Chirag 40, P. Prajwal 30, Umashankar five for 14) lost to Yuvarajas' College 144 for eight in 33.4 overs (Sachin Pandey 29, Sinchan 25, A. Likith three for 39).   III div.: Royal CC 172 in 43.5 overs (R.C. Darshan 50, V. Prajwal 38, P.A. Chandru five for 22) lost to Rising Star CC 173 for seven in 36.1 overs (Piyush Bafna 60, Mahesh Kumar 46, H.T. Sandeep three for 49) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hemanth-shines-in-fuccs-big-win/article37989504.ece
19 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||East Godavari to take on Srikakulam in final||East Godavari DCA and Srikakulam DCA entered the final of the eighth United Cricket Club Friends memorial T20 championship on Saturday.   The scores: Semifinals: East Godavari 159/8 in 20 overs (P. Pandu Ranga Raju 54, A.V.V. Vijay 47) bt Vizag Colts CC 136/8 in 20 overs (K. Nitish Kumar Reddy 35, P. Manikanta Gangadhar 3/38).   ECoRSA 152/8 in 20 overs (M.S. Deepak Kumar 70, G. Shankar Rao 46) lost to Srikakulam DCA 154/7 in 18 overs (S.H. Srinivas 50, B. Satwik 36, C.H. Someswara Rao 4/12).      The fourth S. Kodandaramaiah memorial Andhra Pradesh inter-district senior volleyball tournament will be organised by the Visakhapatnam District Volleyball Association at Ramakrishnapuram Beach here from December 19 to 22.   Leela Sai cracked a century (109, 75b, 15x4, 3x6) to help Anantapur Sports Academy record a 55-run win over BKS in the Ananta Premier League cricket championship for seniors here on Saturday,  The scores: ASA 278 in 43.3 overs (Leela Sai 109, Amarnath Reddy 47, Arjun Tendulkar 34, Pavan 4/29) bt BKS 223 in 49.3 overs (Pavan 93).   Anantapur 255 in 48.2 overs (Harinath 75, K. Sai Kumar 81) bt Kanekal 134 in 38.4 overs (Yogananda 4/30, Srinivasulu 5/26).   Dharmavaram 240 in 46.5 overs (M. Prasanth Reddy 60, Waseem 35, Naveen 4/71) bt Rapthadu 185 in 48.4 overs (Rajasekhar Raju 70, Rahul, M. Prasanth Reddy 4/65, Waseem 3/32).   Bathalapalli 157 in 31.5 overs (Hemanth 4/47) bt Hindupur 129 in 26.1 overs (M. Naresh 4/31).    Rural Development Trust (RDT) Veterans scored a five-wicket win over Veterans CC of Hyderabad in a cricket match at Anantapur Cricket Ground here.  The scores: VCAH 193/5 in 25 overs (Clement 57, John 47, Vikram 38) lost to RDT Veterans 196/5 in 23.3 overs (G. Pradeep 64, Adi Royal 60) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-godavari-to-take-on-srikakulam-in-final/article37989511.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 08:18 IST,||Sudoku — December 19, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-19-2021/article37989629.ece
19 December 2021||Leena Nair:,||Talking point||She was the ‘tallest girl in class’ at school in Kolhapur and is now the first Indian CEO of French luxury brand Chanel. She is also the second Indian-origin woman to head a global brand, after Indra Nooyi, and joins a growing list of CEOs, from Satya Nadella and Sundar Pichai to Parag Agarwal. No wonderdesiTwitter hasn’t stopped celebrating the 52-year-old British Indian’s journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/talking-point/article37989456.ece
19 December 2021||Seeing Stars:,||Instapic||Dutch artist Daan Roosegaarde, who blends science and design in his projects, recently worked with UNESCO to bring the night sky back to people. ‘Lights off, stars on!’ saw Franeker in the Netherlands switch off all its non-essential household and street lights to see the stars. Let’s hope this solution to light pollution spreads to other cities, too. @daanroosegarde||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/instapic/article37989455.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The universe conspires||Twenty one years after Lara Dutta was crowned Miss Universe, 21-year-old Harnaaz Sandhu has brought the crown back to its rightful place in the year 2021. You think those numbers are a coincidence? This is a preordained event that occurred because of the delicate conjunction of planets. For a reason. As someone who trained rigorously for 45 minutes under the renowned astronumeropalmist Guru Kilijosyananda in the rugged forests of Parangi Malai, and as someone who has repeatedly predicted past events with unerring accuracy, let me show you the significance of these numbers. That’s three 21s in a row. 21 + 21 + 21 = 63. Now divide that 63 by 3. What do you get? 21 again! While that is amazing in itself, there is more. If you divide that 21 by 3, you get 7. How many views do you think Ms Sandhu’s crowning moment garnered on the pageant’s official Twitter page? 7 lakh views, that’s how many. Hold on, there’s more. Now if you take that 7 and multiply it by 10, you get 70. And she is the 70th Miss Universe. Ha. Do you see what I am saying now? No? Okay, divide that 70 by 10 and you get 7, which is a prime number, which proves once and for all the primacy of our nation among not just all the countries of the world but the entire universe itself. Plus, it happened on the 12th day of the 12th month (though it may have been the 13th for us). And what is that? Thalaivar Rajini’s birthday, dammit! The divine significance of this date aside, Ms Sandhu’s historic win came now to serve as a slap in the face of all those whining about our position on the hunger, pollution, press freedom, happiness, health and employment indices, or how badly we lost in the World Cup. The Crown is ours, for god’s sake. Our beti has brought it back to us. It is only a matter of time before the British realise their mistake, call the Lalitha Jewellery man and request his assistance to prise out the Kohinoor from their crown jewels and courier it to us. So deeply moved by young Ms Sandhu’s glorious victory were the UP Police that they tweeted ‘Congratulations #HarnaazSandhu for bringing back the “beautiful moment” for India after 21 years. Proud of you!’ See that clever pun on beauty there? The ‘beautiful moment’ is within quotes. Kudos. Imagine how secure the lovely Ms Sandhu would be feeling knowing the UP Police is proud of her. The irrepressible Sunny Paaji, too, praised Ms Sandhu’s achievement on Twitter. ‘Women raising the bar in all fields,’ he tweeted. ‘We couldn’t be more proud of her.’ Coming from a man who has raised hand-pumps with alacrity, that is a compliment indeed. Not to be left behind, Upasna Singh of The Kapil Sharma Show took the opportunity to share her connection with Ms Sandhu. ‘She was living with me before leaving for Israel,’ said Ms Singh. ‘She once cooked rajma chawal for me.’ I request Upasna-jito share the recipe with us, so all Indians from all corners of the world can cook and eat the dish on the 12th of next month, call it Universal Rajma Day, and be filled with pride, like we are every other day, about something we can take zero credit for. The next day, as is our duty, we will go back to trolling all unsansakari women who need to be taught a lesson. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-universe-conspires/article37989454.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A view from ‘Rapylon’||The lone male common kestrel would be pugnacious in the defence of its territory, at the Siruthavur lake, intrepidly flinging itself into the arena, even taking on raptors many times its size. “We have seen the common kestrel mobbing the resident red-necked falcon and the short-toed snake eagle, which is five to six times bigger,” recalls eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. Known in the local birding circles for his keen eye for raptors, Ganaskandan has a reliable theory explaining the dynamics of how the underdog triumphs in this unequal match-up. “Due to their agility, all these smaller raptors have an upper hand over the large raptors, which cannot manoeuvre so quickly in the air,” notes Gnanaskandan. However, despite the explanation, he cannot help chuckle at the memory of the kestrel launching itself into a short-toed snake eagle. From 2009 to 2014, the male common kestrel would be in attendance during the winter, sticking to the same perches, hardly budging an inch from it. “It would come by the end of October or early November and would be around until March. Based on the perches it would take, I could tell from a distance it is that bird. Similarly, its hunting territory was restricted; it would not allow itself to go beyond a certain place. If I had to show a common kestrel to someone who had never seen one before, I could safely take them to the spot, trusting the bird to be in the same spot — and it would not disappoint me,” he remarks. “As a result of this consistency, around 50 per cent of the Madras Naturalists’ Society crowd knew the bird in person, and were even on first-name terms with it.” With so much familiarity between raptor and birder, it would have been a shame not to give it a name. MNS members christened it Ceaser. “When anyone mentioned Ceaser the common kestrel, the others would know that it is the common kestrel from Siruthavur.” Gnanaskandan and his birder-friends used to be on the trail of a wintering peregrine falcon pair. It was a trail that was predictable the peregrines showed their claws, and did nothing to put their admirers off the scent. “This pair of peregrine falcons would winter at Perumbakkam wetland — and we have been seeing them for quite a few years. They would be drawn to a particular pylon, one found close to the road.” Gnanskandan notes that the spot on the pylon where each of the peregrines would roost can be pinpointed with decimal-point accuracy. “When active and hunting — the peregrines chose a bigger pylon in the middle of the marsh, where an osprey also used to roost. The Osprey would be at the base; and the peregrines would be sitting above, on a triangle. It would not choose the apex, but the triangle right below it. For two years, we saw the pair. For three years, I am seeing only one bird — the male — probably the other bird is roosting a little further away. For the last two years — due to unpredictable rain patterns, even the male is not staying back. Usually, the bird would be around from November to March, and during the weeks when it rains, it would temporarily retreat from the scene and promptly come back when the weather returns to normality. However, in 2019, 2020 and now in 2021, due to the unpredictable weather patterns, I notice that the bird is not staying back as long as it used to.” The Shaheen falcon — the resident Indian cousin of the peregrine falcon — would begin its sojourn at the Perumbakkam wetland in May or June. “The Shaheen falcon would come by May or June during the south-west monsoon. They are probably coming down because they want to skip the monsoon on the western side. Where they come from is an unanswered question, but whenever they arrive, it is usually May or June; and when they leave, October. There was one season when we saw the Shaheen roosting at a particular spot on a pylon — and the same year, in November and December, we noticed a peregrine flacon roosting at the same spot. Probably from that spot, they are getting a better view of the lake — or it could be some other favourable factor. “ Preference for a particular pylon at the Perumbakkam wetland gave it a character and a name. “There is one specific pylon that would be occupied by every other raptor that we have seen in the vicinity— so much so that we named it Rapylon (raptor pylon). That was the closest pylon which was near the water and where the dry lake bed starts.” All the raptors were on the same page that it was a pylon with a view.  When active and hunting, the peregrines chose a bigger pylon in the middle of the marsh, where an osprey also used to roost||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-view-from-rapylon/article37988969.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Indira Nagar residents take up the issue of tree felling||On the morning of November 23, the residents of Indira Nagar in Adyar were shocked to find the tree on the premises of the Greater Chennai Corporation’s shopping complex at Third Avenue in Indira Nagar were felled. “On November 22, we saw a few people surveying the trees. When we asked them about it, they replied that they want to prune the branches as they were obstructing the view of the surveillance cameras. But to our dismay, around seven trees, 15 to 20 years old, were felled the next day. We believe the trees were felled without obtaining permission from the Corporation,” says G Ramanathan, a resident. Ramanathan along with A Kumaran and a few other residents decided to take up the issue. “First, we approached the staff of the firm regarding felling of trees. It ended up in altercation and the staff downed the shutters. Our attempt to contact the GCC officials also failed. Hence, we contacted Mr. T D Babu, trustee of Nizhal, a non-governmental organisation which works for conservation of trees. As per his advice, a police complaint was filed with the J6 Thiruvanmiyur Police Station. Meanwhile, Mr. Babu also took up the issue with with Mr. N Thirumurugan, Zonal Officer, Zone 13 Adyar of the Greater Chennai Corporation. The Zonal officer deputed Mr. Murugan, an overseer from the park’s department,” says A. Kumaran, another resident of Indira Nagar. According to residents, violators dumped rubbles on the stump of the trees (before the arrival of the park overseer) to claim that there were no trees. “Violators made an attempt to eliminate the trace of the existence of trees. So, we told the park official to remove the debris and see for himself. He found the stumps and realised that the trees were felled without GCC’s permission,” says Ramanathan. The residents are also unhappy that a Community Service Register number for their complaint was not provided by the J6 Thiruvanmiyur Police Station “The police have issued the CSR number to the GCC as the shopping complex comes under its jurisdiction and instructed us to contact GCC for the number. But we are not able get the CSR number from the GCC. It is still not known if the officials had taken action against the violator,” adds Ramanathan.  Around seven trees, 15 to 20 years old, were felled in November, say residents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/indira-nagar-residents-take-up-the-issue-of-tree-felling/article37988945.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteers from a neighbourhood match steps with the law keepers||The traffic on Kutchery Road has thinned down, and there is a sense of a neighbourhood winding down. A clutch of residents is out to buck the overpowering lethargy, and their uniform reflects their intent. On Friday and Saturday, their day is double-layered, rising afresh from the embers in the late hours. It is a quarter past ten in the night, and there is a lot ahead of them. They are assembled at the E1 Police Station for another Friday of night patrolling. Members of Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — Mylapore division, they would fan into various neighbourhoods, along with patrol teams from seven stations under Mylapore police jurisdiction. They assist the police personnel in workaday patrolling, which includes flipping through vehicle documents. Shankar KS checks the SVC’s WhatsApp group to ascertain how many volunteers could be expected to hit the road today. Seven had expressed willingness to join the night patrol and therefore, they would be operating in three areas only — Mylapore (around Luz signal), Abhiramapuram and Santhome. He reveals that SVC Mylapore division has 52 active members with the overall count somewhere around 80. “Night patrolling work is not for everyone and the older among us might be volunteering for temple work.” SVC volunteers are acclaimed for their work during the annual Panguni festival in crowd control. “Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month. This year we have already completed 5,000 man hours and the remaining major interventions required of us are the Christmas and New Year eve, when we would be out around midnight regulating vehicle movement.” Usually, the New Year’s eve brings out the bonhomie the SVC volunteers share with the Mylapore police personnel. “Last year, on New Year, after finishing our work, we assembled along with the teams from 7 stations. A cake was cut in a gesture of honour that was extended to our team,” recalls Shankar, adding that SVC has earned a lot of goodwill across the neighbourhood, which is reflected in the fact that though like K Viswanathan for Mylapore Residents Welfare Association are associated with it. The SVC convenor notes that challenges of the pandemic have caused the SVC volunteers and the police personnel to work more closely. ’In 2020, when S Nelson sir was the ACP, during the first lockdown, they wanted us to distribute groceries and vegetables. Though the funds flowed in, there was a clear dearth of people who could take the grocery and vegetable kits to beneficiaries on time — we filled that void. I selected 15 youngsters from our team for this work. My notion of youngsters includes those in their late 40s — I was 47 at that point in time,” he chuckles. “Every day, in the morning we would head to the station and on the verandah, groceries and vegetables would be laid out. On an average, we would pack 150 to 200 grocery and vegetable kits. For 28 days, we carried out this service. The area behind Citi Centre had reported the earliest Coronavirus breakouts, and we worked for a week at that place, distributing kits. None of the team members got Covid-19 during the first wave. During the second wave, some of us were infected with Covid-19, and we quarantined and recovered. Team members advised how they should take care of themselves,” says Shankar. He remarks that SVC volunteers also did more than what was expected of them by roping in a voluntary organisation Chakra Foundation for sponsorship and also passed the hat around among friends and family towards meeting the expenses for a few days of procuring vegetables and groceries. Shankar explains that the profile of the SVC volunteers is impressive. To give an idea, “there is a high-ranking official from the Airport Authority of India; two high-flying chartered accountants; two doctors; a couple of entrepreneurs and someone who has a doctorate in astrology; I have a doctorate in psychology.” He states that the volunteers leave outside the gates of the police station, any professional pride they may have, and submit themselves unconditionally to the rules binding them. Every month, we document our duty hours in digital format and a the end of the month, we take a printout of it and give it to the jurisdictional officer, having it signed and sealed. We do the same at the end of the year. Though the volunteers are concentrated in and around the Mylapore region, the call of duty can come from anywhere and they have to respond to it enthusiastically. “Our SVC may belong to the Mylapore division, but our work is not circumscribed by geography. We have worked in Besant Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur and other places outside the Mylapore area.. When the Marudeeswarar temple kumbabishekam happened, being the ACP covering that area, M Visveswaraya sir called, ‘Shankar, bring your team.’ We went.” A noticeable part of their volunteering has to do with the Kapalaeshwarar temple, and this includes attending to protocols relating to temple visits by VIPs.  Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteers-from-a-neighbourhood-match-steps-with-the-law-keepers/article37988955.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Where have those oxygen concentrators gone?||One of the most poignant images of the second wave was of COVID-19 positive people struggling to get medical oxygen. Non-governmental organisations, service groups, corporates and many individuals chipped in to procure oxygen cylinders/concentrators that became a life-saver for many. Remember the price of these devices had also skyrocketed due to the demand. Where are these equipment now? Greater Chennai Corporation has sent the devices that it received through donations to its various Urban Primary Health Centres. “We received 760 devices from various groups including corporates, social groups and individuals and they are kept safe at our UPHCs,” says S Banumati, joint director/ additional city medical officer, Medical Service Department, Greater Chennai Corporation. She says a few of them are being used at these centres depending on the need. Members of Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) ran various initiatives to ensure people got oxygen including deploying buses fitted with oxygen cylinders. In May, it had procured more than 40 oxygen concentrators and had even set up its own ‘Oxygen Concentrator Bank’. The organisation, however, is yet to take a final decision on these concentrators but plans to give them away to the government or a charitable hospital. Another initiative had devices used by scuba drivers sourced to help those in dire need. “These are high-grade medical oxygen used by scuba drivers and instructors. When they were not need we returned the devices to them. The rest, around 10, are placed at an IT company’s data centre,” says a volunteer. He says these machines have to be sanitised and kept away from dust and sun rays; so, an air-conditioned space where servers are stored takes cares of these cylinders. Kadamai Education and Social Welfare Trust’s fitted autorickshaws with oxygen cylinder and arrived at the door step of homes. The Trust had sourced 48 cylinders of 10 litre and 47 litre capacity and ferried them in autorickshaws across the city. They returned 18 to the medical equipment company they sourced it from and the rest are kept at a room near the Trust’s office in North Chennai. G Sripriya, founder, Gold Heart Foundation, which coordinated with a network of NGOs during the crisis, says a few organisations have given it to private hospitals so that it can be put to use. “They plan to take it back if a need for them arises, which is a better plan than keeping them unused in a corner,” says Sripriya, adding that they have around six cylinders that are circulated among homes of senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/where-have-those-oxygen-concentrators-gone/article37988937.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Station Vigilance Committee: A movement that still throbs in Mylapore||To any superficial ear, it would have sounded like an oral history project. But it was collecting voices not to enhance an existing, neatly-documented chronicle, but to put one together — almost from the scratch. Though history was being built account by account, history was not the primary goal. The exercise was seeking to recreate a whole voluntary organisation whose spirit had been hollowed out by time’s underhand stab, oblivion. Station Vigilance Committees (SVC) were born within a handful of years from Indian Independence, and would function as a prop to local police stations to keep the order. A Mylapore division of SVC had been in existence since the early 1950s, first having been registered with the Teynampet station, according to Shankar KS, who got on its trail and seems to have recaptured its essence with a reasonable degree of success. “Even as late as 2016, the true significance of SVC eluded us. I was part of SVC Mylapore Division, and with a handful of other members, would go to the Panguni festival for crowd management. That was just about it. There was certainly more to it, and I started looking for the missing pieces that would give a complete and meaningful picture of the voluntary group,” discloses Shankar, who operates as a convenor of SVC Mylapore Division. Shankar and the similarly curious found themselves on a circuitous route, one that required them to back out of cul-de-sacs. Information was as hard to crack as igneous rock, as the organisation had fallen into a soporific lull for decades. Scraps of information included the fact that a resident of the locality Marthandam was helming the voluntary group for many years, after he passed on, there was no one to take the baton and run the good run. The persistent search led them to one Raghavan, an ex-general secretary of SVC. “Raghavan had been associated with the pioneers of the SVC movement; and we learnt from Raghavan that after the 1980s, they had brought out a souvenir to mark a milestone year. For two months, Raghavan would keep me on a wild goose chase for the documents and other material that would lay bare a substantial period of SVC’s history — all the while sussing out if we were sincere about running the SVC or had been taken up with it as a passing fancy. “He would ask me to come to Mylapore to discuss SVC. The meeting would have been fixed for 10 a.m., and I would show up at 9.45 a.m., but he would have arrived at 9.30 a.m., just to see how sincere I was about the cause. I would not know him by sight. After doing this multiple times, one day, he asked me to come to Sai Baba temple at 7 p.m., and handed over a couple of documents, which gave us the confidence to wipe off the dust that had accumulated on SVC and make if functional again, in a meaningful manner. We realised what was at the heart of this organisation,” says Shankar. “We learnt that during the 1980s and 1990s, at Panguni Utsavam in Mylapore, a camp would set up. Two shamianas would be pitched, one for the police department and the other for SVC. The Commissioner of Police would inaugurate the camp. At that time, the size of the SVC team was 123 members, and they were equipped with walkie-talkies. Even jeeps would be extended to SVC members to enable them carry out their assistive role effectively.” There is not much documentation about the early years of SVC — not that there was much later — but history about the voluntary exercise handed down to the current generation has it that PG Gopalakrishnan, an ex-army man who had served in the military under the British, was a pioneer in the movement, having served as president of SVC Madras & Chingelpet. Shankar notes that that when he started out, Gopalakrishnan had the counsel of a five-member core team. From handed-down accounts and slim documentation, it is said that the Mylapore division had first been registered with the Teynampet police station. Besides, there is evidence that in 1980, the division had received a camp number. As the division had been running in fits and starts, and considerable time had elapsed since the last time it was active, and details about its registration were hazy, the current crop of SVC volunteers decided to have it registered afresh. They had it done last year under the Society’s Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/station-vigilance-committee-a-movement-that-still-throbs-in-mylapore/article37988961.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Waiting for a permanent solution||Despite Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board engaging workers to clear the blocks in the underground pipeline, residents of some quarters have found no respite fom the problem. Residents of 68th Cross Street and Third Main Road at Tsunami Slum Clearance Board Quarters in Semmanchery are tired looking for a long-term solution to the blocks on Seventh Avenue. For three months, due to blocks in the Semmanchery sewage treatment system plant and in the pipelines on Seventh Avenue, the sewage outflow from more than 6,000 houses in the quarters is not draining into the plant. However, the blocks in the plant have been cleared. Residents say pipelines were dug to check the blocks as this was seen as the reason for the blockage, but the problem continues. After repeated complaints, steps were taken to remove the stagnant sewage on the stretches through sewage sucker tankers twice. T. V. R. Agnisekaran, a resident of 8th Avenue, says the area presents a dirty picture with mosquitoes breeding and stench all over the place. After clearing the blocks in the pipelines, steps should be taken to check for faulty lines. “If found, the lines should be replaced. Further, 68th Street is a low-lying area, the pipelines are located at a higher level. The level of the manholes and the pipelines should be equalled,” says Agnisekaran.  The quarters falls under Ward 200, Zone 15 Sholinganallur Zone of Greater Chennai Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/waiting-for-a-permanent-solution/article37988947.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||MTC restores 5B||Two weeks ago, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation restored its 5B service which was withdrawn a few years ago. The service connects T Nagar and Mylapore via CIT Nagar, Saidapet, Sardar Patel Road, Adyar, and Mandaveli. According to an official from the MTC, the frequency of the service is once an hour. This service benefits residents of T. Nagar, especially those living in lanes abutting South Usman Road which includes Motilal Street, Natesan Street, Ranganthan Street, Mangaiyar Street, Rangan Street, Ramanathan Street, Sarojini Street, and Madley Road. “Ever since, this service was stopped, I had go up to Pangal Park to board 12G or 12M that comes from K.K. Nagar to reach Mylapore. Even though it is a relief to find this service back, it’s frequency should be increased. One hour is a long wait,” says V.S. Jayaraman, a resident of Motilal Street. En route, many educational institutions are located including IIT – Madras, Anna University, Dr. MGR-Janaki College of Arts and Science for Women, and Rani Meyyammai Girls Higher Secondary School. For T. Nagar residents, 5B is a direct service to access Kapaleeshwar temple in Mylapore. T. Nagar being a shopping hub, residents of Mylapore and Adyar use this service. Hence, this service receives good patronage. “I’m a resident of Adyar and prefer 5B to go to Mylapore. Because by the time, it reaches Adyar, the service has reached the fag end of its journey with just a few stops to cover. Hence, the bus will be sparsely occupied. Thereby, I avoid other services 29C and A1 to reach Mylapore, as they are crowded during peak hours,” says H. Vembu. Residents of T. Nagar also suggest that MTC should restore its service to Kacheepuram from T.Nagar bus stand. “Earlier, air-conditioned buses were operated to Kancheepuram from T. Nagar. The route number is 576. A few years ago, this service was also withdrawn. This route should also be restored. Ordinary non – AC buses can be operated,” adds Jayaraman.  “Even though it is a relief to find this service back, it’s frequency should be increased”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-restores-5b/article37988951.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Voices from the neighbourhood||N Balachander:  “A neighbour to Shankar KS, I was aware of his volunteering initiative with Station Vigilance Committee. Prior to joining SVC in 2018, I was associated with the activities at the Kapaleeshwarar temple, particularly the festivals. Volunteering with SVC over the last three years has left me with a trove of memories. The most recent one has to do with a case of drunken driving by two youngsters, near Thanithurai Market. Both the youngsters were badly injured but without any threat to the lives. They had hit a speed breaker and had a fall. We promptly called for an ambulance, simultaneously called the team from the police and boys’ respective parents. We followed through with the case to find out how they boys were doing in hospital. Another incident was at Pattinapakkam, where the police patrol team we were with had to give a vehicle a chase and bring the occupants to book. SVC volunteers primarily assist the police by looking through the documents — if there is anything suspect, we immediately tell the police and they would detain the vehicle. Inspecting the documents relating to insurance, licence, vehicle RC book and asking the relevant questions — Where are you going? Why are you out travelling at this hour? — are what we routinely do. If there is anything suspicious, we immediately inform the Inspector or SI who would be nearby and they will decide whether to file a case. The police would ask us to be with them, to the maximum extent possible, and advise us against going it alone in the night, for our safety. I am working in a corporate house and Saturday and Sunday are my days off, and after the shift is over on Friday, I go on patrolling work.  A Elangovan:  Besides the deep sense of satisfaction that can come only from service without any expectations, this weekend night patrolling work eases jangled nevers, relaxing us after a week’s work. A friend had been telling me about SVC, but I was not going to act on his suggession. I joined nine months ago, after finding out for myself what it was all about. There are so many people who want to join SVC, but we are selective about who we take on board, as we do not want its name to be spoilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/voices-from-the-neighbourhood/article37988956.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Two initiatives to spread the Christmas cheer||The staff and management at CURI Hospital on Rajiv Gandhi Salai are getting ready for a busy week. They are going to spend some extra hours, beyond the regular hospital work, to spread the Christmas cheer by delivering special meals cooked from the hospital canteen. For the second year, the team lead by chefs Sathish, Partha and Somnath and dietician Vidya and Sivasankari are going to cook an extra meal for every order placed with them. “Order your Christmas lunch and we will deliver with it lunch for another family. It could be your maid, driver, iron man or the lady selling vegetables in the corner,” reads a note circulated on WhatsApp. Gayathri Ananthakrishnan, managing director, CURI Hospital, says the initiative is aimed at spreading the festive cheer and instill the value of empathy in the staff. “As our canteen only caters to hospital patients and guests, our staff raise their bar for the Christmas lunch where the menu includes an array of vegetarian and non-vegetarian options,” says Gayathri. The staff are involved in taking orders, cooking, packing and delivering food. “Last year, we handed over 350 meals,” says Gayathri, adding that the staff spread the word. She says people chose to give those working for them, some wanted a surprise meal sent to a friend/senior citizen; and many others were specific that it be shared with a needy person. There is a dietician that can be consulted over the phone for those with a diet restriction and the meal is accordingly customised. Each of these meal packs are delivered with a personalised message, again to ring in the spirit of the season. The Christmas lunch will be delivered on December 19, 24 and 25. To place an order and for other details, contact 8838093097 / 8778125395   More than 30 volunteers gathered at Urban Desi House in Perungudi on Saturday for a gift-wrapping activity. The objective of wrapping presents in colourful papers is to bring a smiles to underprivileged children whose hands they would be placed in. The smiles will grow wider when the child unwraps the present as each of them is chosen with a lot of love and care by our team, says Sunitha Vikram and Subha Pandian of Agua Women Foundation. They along with a clutch of volunteers have been driving an initiative for the last five years called ‘Gifting Smiles’, where funds collected from well-wishers are used to buy age-appropriate gifts to be distributed on December 26. “This is our sixth year and the initiative has grown with the support of many volunteers,” says Sunitha. One important task after wrapping the gifts is to colour and gender-code gifts like toys, stationery, books and sports kits so that they go to the right age group. Every year, the gifts are given in a different locality. Last year, 2000 gifts were distributed with the help of 150 volunteers. “Our drive starts in October and so far we have collected a few lakh of rupees. New toys are bought at wholesale rates and brought to a common point for packing,” says Subha. She says they have volunteers spread across various zones in Chennai who collect these gifts and distribute them in the respective areas. “In the previous editions, we covered nine neighbourhoods where teams would launch out after Christmas. Due to the pandemic, this time, we are planning to divide into four teams and we will be restricting the work to areas on ECR, especially where fishermen hamlets  are located,” says Subha. Gifting Smiles also collects new toys from well-wishers. “One could even volunteer for distribution,” says Subha. For details, contact Subha at 9790907817.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-initiatives-to-spread-the-christmas-cheer/article37988965.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A platform for unsung artistes||While engaging her one-and-a-half year-old son, Batchu Mahathi Rao sings Srimannarayana Srimannarayana hymn composed by the 15th-century saint poet Annamacharya. And while cooking she again sings the same song. This way the 31-year-old, a mother of two children, tries to take out time to practise for the Marghazhi music and dance festival, organised by the Federation of Radial Road Residents’ Associations (FORRRA). FORRRA is organising the Margazhi classical music and dance festival for the first time. Events will be held every Sunday evening through the month of Margazhi. Adults and children above 10 years of age from any part of Chennai can take part in the event. “After my college days, I have got an opportunity to sing. I have sung during Navarathri and Vinayakar Chathurthi celebrations held in our apartment in front of our neighbours. But, I am excited about this Margazhi festival because this event is going to witness a larger audience and not just our neighbours alone,” says Mahathi, a participant. Nithya K was eagerly looking forward to this year’s Margazhi festival to be an audience in any one of the events happening in Mylapore or T Nagar which is far away from her home, which is in Pallikaranai. But she never thought that she would be performing this Margazhi. “I’m not a professional singer. As a child, I have been part of groups singing bhajans in temples back in my hometown Palakkad. Later, I had performed during my college days. Marriage and career pushed music to the back seat. Now, after a long break, I have got an opportunity to perform before a wider audience. My 10-year-old son is also participating. Earlier, he was part of group performances at events organised by his music school. FORRRA's will be the first event where he will be giving a solo performance. While I am planning to render Maithreem Bhajatha, composed by Sri Chandrasekharendra Saraswathi Swamigal fondly known as Maha Periyava, my son will be rendering from Thiruppavai or Thiruvembavai or Thirupugazh ,”  says 34-year-old Nithya who works as an electronics engineer in the automotive industry. Pavithra Subhash, a coordinator of this programme, says: “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But this time, FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising this Marghazhi festival,” says G. Amrithavalli, a resident of Kovilambakkam who have also enrolled for the festival. “As there are no sabhas in and around Pallikaranai, FORRRA thought of hosting a festival of this kind that will entertain its residents and provide a platform for both budding and unknown artists to showcase their talent,” says B. Vijayalakshm, FORRRA president. Ever since FORRRA announced its plan to organise the Margazhi festival the response has been good. Music schools are also participating. “So far, 40 have registered for the event. Some are practising for 15 years. They include teachers of music schools. Certainly, this event will serve as a bond-building exercise among the residents of Pallikaranai and nearby areas,” says S.K. Shankar, secretary, FORRRA. FORRRA comprises the following gated communities located along the Pallavaram Thoraipakkam 200 Feet Radial Road — S&S Sarvam, Jones Sigiriya, Tranquil Acres Phase One, Tranquil Acres Phase Two, and Ramaniyam Ocean Dew. The events will be held on the premises of any one of these gated-communities. Participation fee is Rs. 250. To register for the event, call 044 – 4952 1397. FORRRA can be reached at forrra.2020@gmail.com  “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising a music event to mark the Margazhi season.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-platform-for-unsung-artistes/article37988967.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Birds’ site fidelity can work for you||Desultory birders may blame it on their luck: others’ is always better. Birding is not about lucking out, but looking out for avians all the time. There is no telling what feathers would pop in round the corner — it does not matter where your turf is. Even with a scattering of greenery, nature has a way of breaking through, and bringing unusual feathers one’s way. Recently, birder Rama Neelamegam had a closer view of a winter visitor, an Asian brown flycatcher, that had been haunting her busy neighbourhood, D’Silva Raad, for four winter seasons, if not more. From the terrace of her first-floor home, she had been training her binoculars on the weeny little bird, certain that it was a flycatcher from its call and flight pattern. The bird would check into an Indian almond tree ( terminalia catappa ) on the opposite side of the road, three buildings away. Slipped in between two houses, the Indian almond tree underwent some significant chopping to keep its nosey branches out of windows, notes Rama. The Asian brown flycatcher did not take this unfriendliness to heart, and has made a mango tree bang opposite Rama’s homestead its new home. “It resides on the mango tree, where it also hunts for prey. It sunbathes on a mast tree nearby when the sun is high, usually around 7.30 a.m.,” notes Rama. As her new neighbour prefers the upper and lower canopies — as a species, the Asian brown flycatcher would instinctively reach for the top of a tree — Rama is now spared the effort of having to climb on to the terrace, binoculars tucked in an arm. Just one seed dropped to the ground can make a difference to the migratory season: a nugget of wisdom birder and photographer Leo Vino has discovered parked in his living room. He has raised a fig tree in the vacant plot adjacent to his home in Sembakkam, obtaining permission from the plot owner who lives abroad. As a result of this prudent move, uninvited visitors have been bringing chirps and cheer into his life. There are birds that display site loyalty, returning to the tree season after season. The loyalists include an Asian brown flycatcher and an orange-headed thrush. Common hawk-cuckoo and Indian Cuckoo invited themselves to the party three seasons ago when many worms and caterpillars were found on the fig tree, notes Leo. One paradise flyctacher has a look-in in the first week of December, but has not put in an appearance yet this season. “This tree is my bird hide.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/birds-site-fidelity-can-work-for-you/article37988970.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteers invited for beach clean-up initiative||G-Square Group Presents Team up to Clean Up, My City, My Coast, My Environment powered by The Hindu is Calling for volunteers to be a part of the massive beach clean-up in 10 major hotspots on the ECR stretch on 26 December from 7 to 9 AM. The locations are: 1. Broken bridge to Olcott Kuppam; 2. Ashtalakshmi temple beach; 3. Arupadai Murugan temple beach; 4. 4th seward road beach Thiruvanmiyur; 5. Palavakkam beach; 6. Beach Road Neelankarai; 7. Injambakkam North beach (North of VGP); 8. Injamabakkam South beach (South of VGP); 9. Akkarai beach; 10. Panaiyur beach To volunteer register at: https://bit.ly/G2BEA or scan the QR Code. For queries, call: 9841962820 The knowledge partner for this initiative is Environmentalist Foundation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteers-invited-for-beach-clean-up-initiative/article37988942.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Sale at Adyar||Maybell, an apparel store for women, is organising a sale at Andal Kalyana Mandapam, L.B Road, Adyar. Time: From 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. According to a press release, the discount is offered up to 50 per cent. The sale ends on December 23. Ethnic wears such as Anarkali, kurtas, skirts, and nightwears are available, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sale-at-adyar/article37988935.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Gita classes at Madipakkam||Vanitha Sathyanarayanan is conducting Gita classes at Sundara Vinayakar temple at No: 19, Aishwarya Street, Sheela Nagar in Madipakkam. According to a press release, classes will be held on Saturdays from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. The session was inaugurated by Poojya Guruji Swami Brahmayogananda on December 14, adds the release. For details, call 97910 19514.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gita-classes-at-madipakkam/article37988936.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural Information & Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on December 23. The session is open to all. For registration and other details, call 044 - 2953 0048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mushroom-cultivation/article37988939.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a pandemic||For everyone, the challenges that began in 2020 have continued to this day in one form or the other. Without exception, everyone has had to revisit time-tested models of executing things, and that includes how residents' welfare associations (RWAs) run their neighbourhoods. As The Hindu Downtown covers the activities and initiatives of RWAs extensively, on the occasion of its 23rd anniversary, the supplement invites them to share with us what they think the pandemic has taught them. The RWAs can send in their write-ups to downtownfeedback@thehindu.co.in. Submissions with perspicacious observations will be featured in the pages of The Hindu Downtown in the first few editions of year 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lessons-from-a-pandemic/article37988949.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Home Guards and SVCs||Home Guards and SVCs are geared towards service, both assisting the police. There are points of divergence, a remarkable one having to do with remuneration. While Home Guards have a form of remuneration, SVCs have none. Says Shankar KS, convenor of the Mylapore division of SVC: “When we go on night duty, I have to quench my thrist myself with water I had brought from home. If we want to have tea — we take turns to buy it for each other. Whenever the team has done something exemplary, we woukd tell the respective ACP about it, and they night issue a certificate of appreciation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/home-guards-and-svcs/article37988957.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hitting new ground||The pandemic had led them to step into fresh areas of volunteering, one that entails helping the police personnel run Coronavirus campaigns. Shankar KS, convenor, Station Vigilance Committee — Mylapore division, touches upon recent campaigns. “On November 28, 2021, SVC volunteers had gone on a tour of the neighbourhood, the traffic team i tow. “Dressed up as Yamadarmaraja and Chitraguptan, the volunteers headed to the Mylapore signal. A stage had been erected at what is popularly called Sangeetha point. We even hopped on a couple of buses, and spoke to the passengers. We took a stroll for 10 to 15 minutes, and using mikes, stressed upon the Coronavirus protocols to be followed. Following this, Gautaman sir who heads the L&O team, sought that the SVC team take out a rally. From his desk, I made a call to a young volunteer in the group who is a part of a Jawa motorcycles club. The next day, we lined up 15 Jawa enthusiasts with their machines. Members of SVC brought around 10 Bullets. Those who had neither, brought along their 100 cc motorcycles — and I brought my scooter, and took out a rally. Our programme started at Sangeetha point, did two rounds of the Mada streets — and we would stop and make announcements about masking up, maintaining social distancing, hand-washing. Besides, as recently as December 12, SVC volunteers, togged in their khaki trousers and white shirt, rode bicycles along with police personnel from seven police stations for a campaign against child abuse and drugs. There were 52 participants. Mylapore DCP Disha Mittal madam flagged off the rally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hitting-new-ground/article37988959.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||From the archives||The role of a Village Vigilance Committe (VVC) — the precursor of the Station Vigilance Committe, a modern example of which throbs to this day in Mylapore — is somewhat evident from its self-explanatory name. However, the finer features of the entity are largely lost on us. Pages out of The Hindu Archives travel some distance towards spotlighting the significance of VVCs by preserving anecdotes of how members of VVCs assisted the police in crime prevention and detection, during the British era. A report dated May 30, 1936 from Trichinopoly, pictures V. Rajagopala Thamban, District Superintendent of Police addressing a gathering of members from 36 VVCs at a theatre. Through the theatre was hosting just a meeting, it did come alive on account of the DSP’s speech, punctuated as it was with accounts of derring-dos by ordinary citizens. He recalled the “brave capture of a desperate criminal by a woman of Uppidimangalam while in the act of committing robbery”. The singular act by a regular citizen had “led to the unravelling of the activities of a gang of about 75 desperate criminals who had ravaged the district.” An account of a meeting at a Corporation school in Choolai (April 29, 1952) presents a snapshot of a post-independence Madras and an era when the VVCs had shed their old skin — a fact reflected in its new nomenclature, Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — and slipped into another that sported almost identical scales. Under its new name, the entity was doing what it was known to do best: work alongside the police. Sub-Inspector Dhanraj of the Vepery Police was cheerful about “the increasing co-operation” extended by the Vepery division of Station Vigilance Committee to them. Memebers of the Vepery SVC would not leave the meeing without scooping rewards — given away by J. Devasagayam, Commisaioner of Police — for cracking crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-archives/article37988962.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Where have those oxygen concentrators gone?||One of the most poignant images of the second wave was of COVID-19 positive people struggling to get medical oxygen. Non-governmental organisations, service groups, corporates and many individuals chipped in to procure oxygen cylinders/concentrators that became a life-saver for many. Remember the price of these devices had also skyrocketed due to the demand. Where are these equipment now? Many organisations The Hindu Downtown spoke to said they had kept it safely for use in the eventuality of another medical crisis. Greater Chennai Corporation has sent the devices that it received through donations to its various Urban Primary Health Centres. “We received 760 devices from various groups including corporates, social groups and individuals and they are kept safe at our UPHCs,” says S Banumati, joint director/ additional city medical officer, Medical Service Department, Greater Chennai Corporation. She says a few of them are being used at these centres depending on the need. Members of Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) ran various initiatives to ensure people got oxygen including deploying buses fitted with oxygen cylinders. In May, it had procured more than 40 oxygen concentrators and had even set up its own ‘Oxygen Concentrator Bank’. The concentrators were being lent to people on a no-cost basis. The organisation, however, is yet to take a final decision on these concentrators but plans to give them away to the government or a charitable hospital. The initiative ‘O2 for Oxygen’ had devices used by scuba drivers sourced to help those in dire need. “These are high-grade medical oxygen used by scuba drivers and instructors. When they were not need we returned the devices to them. The rest, around 10, are placed at an IT company’s data centre,” says a volunteer. He says these machines have to be sanitised and kept away from dust and sun rays; so, an air-conditioned space where servers are stored takes cares of these cylinders. Kadamai Education and Social Welfare Trust’s fitted autorickshaws with oxygen cylinder and arrived at the door step of homes. The Trust had sourced 48 cylinders of 10 litre and 47 litre capacity and ferried them in autorickshaws across the city. They returned 18 to the medical equipment company they sourced it from and the rest are kept at a room near the Trust’s office in North Chennai. “The pandemic is not over yet and some emergency cases needing oxygen do come up once in a while, which is why we decided to keep 30 equipment with us,” says C. Vasantha Kumar, founder-secretary of the trust. G Sripriya, founder, Gold Heart Foundation, which coordinated with a network of NGOs during the crisis, says a few organisations have given it to private hospitals so that it can be put to use. “They plan to take it back if a need for them arises, which is a better plan than keeping them unused in a corner,” says Sripriya, adding that they have around six cylinders that are circulated among homes of senior citizens. C.J. Zeba, who had turned his Maruti Omni into a makeshift ambulance, complete with an oxygen dispensing arrangement to ferry people to hospitals for free, says his vehicle remains the same. “I started with one 10-litre cylinder and added five other during the course of the months. Two are still fitted in the vehicle and is supplied to people. The others are given to homes of people,” says Zeba. He says there are people who do not want to be treated in a hospital and those requiring the oxygen gas reach out to him. “Recently, a family in Red Hills called for the cylinder as the patient did not want hospitalisation and only after I was convinced that they got consent from the doctor did I deliver it to them,” says Zeba. Some groups bought the equipment from medical equipment companies to return after the demand for oxygen starting falling in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/where-have-those-oxygen-concentrators-gone/article37988987.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteers from a neighbourhood match steps with the law keepers||The traffic on Kutchery Road has thinned down, and there is a sense of a neighbourhood winding down. A clutch of residents is out to buck the overpowering lethargy, and their uniform reflects their intent. On Friday and Saturday, their day is double-layered, rising afresh from the embers in the late hours. It is a quarter past ten in the night, and there is a lot ahead of them. They are assembled at the E1 Police Station for another Friday of night patrolling. Members of Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — Mylapore division, they would fan into various neighbourhoods, along with patrol teams from seven stations under Mylapore police jurisdiction. They assist the police personnel in workaday patrolling, which includes flipping through vehicle documents. Shankar KS checks the SVC’s WhatsApp group to ascertain how many volunteers could be expected to hit the road today. Seven had expressed willingness to join the night patrol and therefore, they would be operating in three areas only — Mylapore (around Luz signal), Abhiramapuram and Santhome. He reveals that SVC Mylapore division has 52 active members with the overall count somewhere around 80. “Night patrolling work is not for everyone and the older among us might be volunteering for temple work.” SVC volunteers are acclaimed for their work during the annual Panguni festival in crowd control. “Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month. This year we have already completed 5,000 man hours and the remaining major interventions required of us are the Christmas and New Year eve, when we would be out around midnight regulating vehicle movement.” Usually, the New Year’s eve brings out the bonhomie the SVC volunteers share with the Mylapore police personnel. “Last year, on New Year, after finishing our work, we assembled along with the teams from 7 stations. A cake was cut in a gesture of honour that was extended to our team,” recalls Shankar, adding that SVC has earned a lot of goodwill across the neighbourhood, which is reflected in the fact that though like K Viswanathan for Mylapore Residents Welfare Association are associated with it. The SVC convenor notes that challenges of the pandemic have caused the SVC volunteers and the police personnel to work more closely. ’In 2020, when S Nelson sir was the ACP, during the first lockdown, they wanted us to distribute groceries and vegetables. Though the funds flowed in, there was a clear dearth of people who could take the grocery and vegetable kits to beneficiaries on time — we filled that void. I selected 15 youngsters from our team for this work. My notion of youngsters includes those in their late 40s — I was 47 at that point in time,” he chuckles. “Every day, in the morning we would head to the station and on the verandah, groceries and vegetables would be laid out. On an average, we would pack 150 to 200 grocery and vegetable kits. For 28 days, we carried out this service. The area behind Citi Centre had reported the earliest Coronavirus breakouts, and we worked for a week at that place, distributing kits. None of the team members got Covid-19 during the first wave. During the second wave, some of us were infected with Covid-19, and we quarantined and recovered. Team members advised how they should take care of themselves,” says Shankar. He remarks that SVC volunteers also did more than what was expected of them by roping in a voluntary organisation Chakra Foundation for sponsorship and also passed the hat around among friends and family towards meeting the expenses for a few days of procuring vegetables and groceries. Shankar explains that the profile of the SVC volunteers is impressive. To give an idea, “there is a high-ranking official from the Airport Authority of India; two high-flying chartered accountants; two doctors; a couple of entrepreneurs and someone who has a doctorate in astrology; I have a doctorate in psychology.” He states that the volunteers leave outside the gates of the police station, any professional pride they may have, and submit themselves unconditionally to the rules binding them. Every month, we document our duty hours in digital format and a the end of the month, we take a printout of it and give it to the jurisdictional officer, having it signed and sealed. We do the same at the end of the year. Though the volunteers are concentrated in and around the Mylapore region, the call of duty can come from anywhere and they have to respond to it enthusiastically. “Our SVC may belong to the Mylapore division, but our work is not circumscribed by geography. We have worked in Besant Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur and other places outside the Mylapore area.. When the Marudeeswarar temple kumbabishekam happened, being the ACP covering that area, M Visveswaraya sir called, ‘Shankar, bring your team.’ We went.” A noticeable part of their volunteering has to do with the Kapalaeshwarar temple, and this includes attending to protocols relating to temple visits by VIPs.  Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteers-from-a-neighbourhood-match-steps-with-the-law-keepers/article37988976.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Station Vigilance Committee: A movement that still throbs in Mylapore||To any superficial ear, it would have sounded like an oral history project. But it was collecting voices not to enhance an existing, neatly-documented chronicle, but to put one together — almost from the scratch. Though history was being built account by account, history was not the primary goal. The exercise was seeking to recreate a whole voluntary organisation whose spirit had been hollowed out by time’s underhand stab, oblivion. Station Vigilance Committees (SVC) were born within a handful of years from Indian Independence, and would function as a prop to local police stations to keep the order. A Mylapore division of SVC had been in existence since the early 1950s, first having been registered with the Teynampet station, according to Shankar KS, who got on its trail and seems to have recaptured its essence with a reasonable degree of success. “Even as late as 2016, the true significance of SVC eluded us. I was part of SVC Mylapore Division, and with a handful of other members, would go to the Panguni festival for crowd management. That was just about it. There was certainly more to it, and I started looking for the missing pieces that would give a complete and meaningful picture of the voluntary group,” discloses Shankar, who operates as a convenor of SVC Mylapore Division. Shankar and the similarly curious found themselves on a circuitous route, one that required them to back out of cul-de-sacs. Information was as hard to crack as igneous rock, as the organisation had fallen into a soporific lull for decades. Scraps of information included the fact that a resident of the locality Marthandam was helming the voluntary group for many years, after he passed on, there was no one to take the baton and run the good run. The persistent search led them to one Raghavan, an ex-general secretary of SVC. “Raghavan had been associated with the pioneers of the SVC movement; and we learnt from Raghavan that after the 1980s, they had brought out a souvenir to mark a milestone year. For two months, Raghavan would keep me on a wild goose chase for the documents and other material that would lay bare a substantial period of SVC’s history — all the while sussing out if we were sincere about running the SVC or had been taken up with it as a passing fancy. “He would ask me to come to Mylapore to discuss SVC. The meeting would have been fixed for 10 a.m., and I would show up at 9.45 a.m., but he would have arrived at 9.30 a.m., just to see how sincere I was about the cause. I would not know him by sight. After doing this multiple times, one day, he asked me to come to Sai Baba temple at 7 p.m., and handed over a couple of documents, which gave us the confidence to wipe off the dust that had accumulated on SVC and make if functional again, in a meaningful manner. We realised what was at the heart of this organisation,” says Shankar. “We learnt that during the 1980s and 1990s, at Panguni Utsavam in Mylapore, a camp would set up. Two shamianas would be pitched, one for the police department and the other for SVC. The Commissioner of Police would inaugurate the camp. At that time, the size of the SVC team was 123 members, and they were equipped with walkie-talkies. Even jeeps would be extended to SVC members to enable them carry out their assistive role effectively.” There is not much documentation about the early years of SVC — not that there was much later — but history about the voluntary exercise handed down to the current generation has it that PG Gopalakrishnan, an ex-army man who had served in the military under the British, was a pioneer in the movement, having served as president of SVC Madras & Chingelpet. Shankar notes that that when he started out, Gopalakrishnan had the counsel of a five-member core team. From handed-down accounts and slim documentation, it is said that the Mylapore division had first been registered with the Teynampet police station. Besides, there is evidence that in 1980, the division had received a camp number. As the division had been running in fits and starts, and considerable time had elapsed since the last time it was active, and details about its registration were hazy, the current crop of SVC volunteers decided to have it registered afresh. They had it done last year under the Society’s Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/station-vigilance-committee-a-movement-that-still-throbs-in-mylapore/article37988980.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Voices from the neighbourhood||N Balachander:  “A neighbour to Shankar KS, I was aware of his volunteering initiative with Station Vigilance Committee. Prior to joining SVC in 2018, I was associated with the activities at the Kapaleeshwarar temple, particularly the festivals. Volunteering with SVC over the last three years has left me with a trove of memories. The most recent one has to do with a case of drunken driving by two youngsters, near Thanithurai Market. Both the youngsters were badly injured but without any threat to the lives. They had hit a speed breaker and had a fall. We promptly called for an ambulance, simultaneously called the team from the police and boys’ respective parents. We followed through with the case to find out how they boys were doing in hospital. Another incident was at Pattinapakkam, where the police patrol team we were with had to give a vehicle a chase and bring the occupants to book. SVC volunteers primarily assist the police by looking through the documents — if there is anything suspect, we immediately tell the police and they would detain the vehicle. Inspecting the documents relating to insurance, licence, vehicle RC book and asking the relevant questions — Where are you going? Why are you out travelling at this hour? — are what we routinely do. If there is anything suspicious, we immediately inform the Inspector or SI who would be nearby and they will decide whether to file a case. The police would ask us to be with them, to the maximum extent possible, and advise us against going it alone in the night, for our safety. I am working in a corporate house and Saturday and Sunday are my days off, and after the shift is over on Friday, I go on patrolling work.  A Elangovan:  Besides the deep sense of satisfaction that can come only from service without any expectations, this weekend night patrolling work eases jangled nevers, relaxing us after a week’s work. A friend had been telling me about SVC, but I was not going to act on his suggession. I joined nine months ago, after finding out for myself what it was all about. There are so many people who want to join SVC, but we are selective about who we take on board, as we do not want its name to be spoilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/voices-from-the-neighbourhood/article37988977.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Two initiatives to spread the Christmas cheer||The staff and management at CURI Hospital on Rajiv Gandhi Salai are getting ready for a busy week. They are going to spend some extra hours, beyond the regular hospital work, to spread the Christmas cheer by delivering special meals cooked from the hospital canteen. For the second year, the team lead by chefs Sathish, Partha and Somnath and dietician Vidya and Sivasankari are going to cook an extra meal for every order placed with them. “Order your Christmas lunch and we will deliver with it lunch for another family. It could be your maid, driver, iron man or the lady selling vegetables in the corner,” reads a note circulated on WhatsApp. Gayathri Ananthakrishnan, managing director, CURI Hospital, says the initiative is aimed at spreading the festive cheer and instill the value of empathy in the staff. “As our canteen only caters to hospital patients and guests, our staff raise their bar for the Christmas lunch where the menu includes an array of vegetarian and non-vegetarian options,” says Gayathri. The staff are involved in taking orders, cooking, packing and delivering food. “Last year, we handed over 350 meals,” says Gayathri, adding that the staff spread the word. She says people chose to give those working for them, some wanted a surprise meal sent to a friend/senior citizen; and many others were specific that it be shared with a needy person. There is a dietician that can be consulted over the phone for those with a diet restriction and the meal is accordingly customised. Each of these meal packs are delivered with a personalised message, again to ring in the spirit of the season. The Christmas lunch will be delivered on December 19, 24 and 25. To place an order and for other details, contact 8838093097 / 8778125395   More than 30 volunteers gathered at Urban Desi House in Perungudi on Saturday for a gift-wrapping activity. The objective of wrapping presents in colourful papers is to bring a smiles to underprivileged children whose hands they would be placed in. The smiles will grow wider when the child unwraps the present as each of them is chosen with a lot of love and care by our team, says Sunitha Vikram and Subha Pandian of Agua Women Foundation. They along with a clutch of volunteers have been driving an initiative for the last five years called ‘Gifting Smiles’, where funds collected from well-wishers are used to buy age-appropriate gifts to be distributed on December 26. “This is our sixth year and the initiative has grown with the support of many volunteers,” says Sunitha. One important task after wrapping the gifts is to colour and gender-code gifts like toys, stationery, books and sports kits so that they go to the right age group. Every year, the gifts are given in a different locality. Last year, 2000 gifts were distributed with the help of 150 volunteers. “Our drive starts in October and so far we have collected a few lakh of rupees. New toys are bought at wholesale rates and brought to a common point for packing,” says Subha. She says they have volunteers spread across various zones in Chennai who collect these gifts and distribute them in the respective areas. “In the previous editions, we covered nine neighbourhoods where teams would launch out after Christmas. Due to the pandemic, this time, we are planning to divide into four teams and we will be restricting the work to areas on ECR, especially where fishermen hamlets  are located,” says Subha. Gifting Smiles also collects new toys from well-wishers. “One could even volunteer for distribution,” says Subha. For details, contact Subha at 9790907817.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-initiatives-to-spread-the-christmas-cheer/article37988982.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A platform for unsung artistes||While engaging her one-and-a-half year-old son, Batchu Mahathi Rao sings Srimannarayana Srimannarayana hymn composed by the 15th-century saint poet Annamacharya. And while cooking she again sings the same song. This way the 31-year-old, a mother of two children, tries to take out time to practise for the Marghazhi music and dance festival, organised by the Federation of Radial Road Residents’ Associations (FORRRA). FORRRA is organising the Margazhi classical music and dance festival for the first time. Events will be held every Sunday evening through the month of Margazhi. Adults and children above 10 years of age from any part of Chennai can take part in the event. “After my college days, I have got an opportunity to sing. I have sung during Navarathri and Vinayakar Chathurthi celebrations held in our apartment in front of our neighbours. But, I am excited about this Margazhi festival because this event is going to witness a larger audience and not just our neighbours alone,” says Mahathi, a participant. Nithya K was eagerly looking forward to this year’s Margazhi festival to be an audience in any one of the events happening in Mylapore or T Nagar which is far away from her home, which is in Pallikaranai. But she never thought that she would be performing this Margazhi. “I’m not a professional singer. As a child, I have been part of groups singing bhajans in temples back in my hometown Palakkad. Later, I had performed during my college days. Marriage and career pushed music to the back seat. Now, after a long break, I have got an opportunity to perform before a wider audience. My 10-year-old son is also participating. Earlier, he was part of group performances at events organised by his music school. FORRRA's will be the first event where he will be giving a solo performance. While I am planning to render Maithreem Bhajatha, composed by Sri Chandrasekharendra Saraswathi Swamigal fondly known as Maha Periyava, my son will be rendering from Thiruppavai or Thiruvembavai or Thirupugazh ,”  says 34-year-old Nithya who works as an electronics engineer in the automotive industry. Pavithra Subhash, a coordinator of this programme, says: “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But this time, FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising this Marghazhi festival,” says G. Amrithavalli, a resident of Kovilambakkam who have also enrolled for the festival. “As there are no sabhas in and around Pallikaranai, FORRRA thought of hosting a festival of this kind that will entertain its residents and provide a platform for both budding and unknown artists to showcase their talent,” says B. Vijayalakshm, FORRRA president. Ever since FORRRA announced its plan to organise the Margazhi festival the response has been good. Music schools are also participating. “So far, 40 have registered for the event. Some are practising for 15 years. They include teachers of music schools. Certainly, this event will serve as a bond-building exercise among the residents of Pallikaranai and nearby areas,” says S.K. Shankar, secretary, FORRRA. FORRRA comprises the following gated communities located along the Pallavaram Thoraipakkam 200 Feet Radial Road — S&S Sarvam, Jones Sigiriya, Tranquil Acres Phase One, Tranquil Acres Phase Two, and Ramaniyam Ocean Dew. The events will be held on the premises of any one of these gated-communities. Participation fee is Rs. 250. To register for the event, call 044 – 4952 1397. FORRRA can be reached at forrra.2020@gmail.com  “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising a music event to mark the Margazhi season.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-platform-for-unsung-artistes/article37988983.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A new skill for a life with dignity||Destitute women sent to Surabi Home in Shenoy Nagar are ensured they pick up a skill or two during their stay at the shelter. This place, run in association with the Greater Chennai Corporation, started to offer training in sanitary pad-making early this year, offering women a new vocational skill that they can make a living out of once they leave the place. This is apart from tailoring that has always been on offer. Started by five friends in 2008 who come from different professions, the non-profit Surabi Trust renders various services to the under-privileged sections of society. The women’s shelter has been running since 2013 and has the police department, Chennai Corporation, NGOs and other individuals referring destitutes to the place. “A resident can spend between six and eight months at the shelter and during exceptional cases a year, so we play an important role to counsel and upskill them during their stay,” says D.Radhakrishnamurthy, founder-trustee. After a preliminary examination, women are taken into the shelter. “A majority are victims of domestic violence or have been abandoned by their husbands. Our objective is to transform them to lead a new life, so apart from occupational therapy they are encouraged to pick a skill,” says Radhakrishnamurthy, a recipient of the President’s award in Scouting. Currently, the shelter has 25 women. The training in sanitary pad making was possible thanks to a women’s club who sponsored the machine. “It’s a team work where they take up tasks like measuring, cutting, stitching and packing,” says Radhakrishnamurthy. More than 6000 pads have been manufactured so far from the unit that is sold to members of various social clubs for their initiatives. He says that they pay the women a small stipend.  Since 2019, the Trust has been running a special shelter for patient attendees visiting the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Contact the trust at 044 - 26181920.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-skill-for-a-life-with-dignity/article37988975.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Christmas cakes at Ajantha||Ajantha Bakers is all set for the Christmas season. The 49-year-old outlet opened its first unit at Perambur and since then has expanded to open 15 branches in North Chennai. Christmas is the time when it gets a number of orders. “We follow an old recipe in our plum cake preparation where various ingredients are soaked three months in advance,” says Satish Kumar, manager. They also specialise in ghee cake, praline cake, dundee cake and birthday cakes. For advanced bookings and orders, call 044-26702216.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/christmas-cakes-at-ajantha/article37988984.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Broadband wires on the lamppost||This is a picture of a lampost covered with broadband wires at Medawakkam Tank Road in Kilpauk. Recently, the electrical team of the Greater Chennai Corporation had a tough time reaching the top of the lamppost for replacing a fused bulb. This is a problem seen at many lamp posts in Chennai, and that also poses a threat on one’s safety, especially pedestrians and motorists. There must be rules to regulate the broadband wires. D. Radhakrishnan Kilpauk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/broadband-wires-on-the-lamppost/article37988972.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer -writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37988973.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a pandemic||For everyone, the challenges that began in 2020 have continued to this day in one form or the other. Without exception, everyone has had to revisit time-tested models of executing things, and that includes how residents' welfare associations (RWAs) run their neighbourhoods. AsThe Hindu Downtowncovers the activities and initiatives of RWAs extensively, on the occasion of its 23rd anniversary, the supplement invites them to share with us what they think the pandemic has taught them. The RWAs can send in their write-ups todowntown feedback@ thehindu.co.in.Submissions with perspicacious observations will be featured in the pages of The Hindu Downtown in the first few editions of year 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lessons-from-a-pandemic/article37988974.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Home Guards and SVCs||Home Guards and SVCs are geared towards service, both assisting the police. There are points of divergence, a remarkable one having to do with remuneration. While Home Guards have a form of remuneration, SVCs have none. Says Shankar KS, convenor of the Mylapore division of SVC: “When we go on night duty, I have to quench my thrist myself with water I had brought from home. If we want to have tea — we take turns to buy it for each other. Whenever the team has done something exemplary, we woukd tell the respective ACP about it, and they night issue a certificate of appreciation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/home-guards-and-svcs/article37988978.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hitting new ground||The pandemic had led them to step into fresh areas of volunteering, one that entails helping the police personnel run Coronavirus campaigns. Shankar KS, convenor, Station Vigilance Committee — Mylapore division, touches upon recent campaigns. “On November 28, 2021, SVC volunteers had gone on a tour of the neighbourhood, the traffic team i tow. “Dressed up as Yamadarmaraja and Chitraguptan, the volunteers headed to the Mylapore signal. A stage had been erected at what is popularly called Sangeetha point. We even hopped on a couple of buses, and spoke to the passengers. We took a stroll for 10 to 15 minutes, and using mikes, stressed upon the Coronavirus protocols to be followed. Following this, Gautaman sir who heads the L&O team, sought that the SVC team take out a rally. From his desk, I made a call to a young volunteer in the group who is a part of a Jawa motorcycles club. The next day, we lined up 15 Jawa enthusiasts with their machines. Members of SVC brought around 10 Bullets. Those who had neither, brought along their 100 cc motorcycles — and I brought my scooter, and took out a rally. Our programme started at Sangeetha point, did two rounds of the Mada streets — and we would stop and make announcements about masking up, maintaining social distancing, hand-washing. Besides, as recently as December 12, SVC volunteers, togged in their khaki trousers and white shirt, rode bicycles along with police personnel from seven police stations for a campaign against child abuse and drugs. There were 52 participants. Mylapore DCP Disha Mittal madam flagged off the rally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hitting-new-ground/article37988979.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||From the archives||The role of a Village Vigilance Committe (VVC) — the precursor of the Station Vigilance Committe, a modern example of which throbs to this day in Mylapore — is somewhat evident from its self-explanatory name. However, the finer features of the entity are largely lost on us. Pages out of The Hindu Archives travel some distance towards spotlighting the significance of VVCs by preserving anecdotes of how members of VVCs assisted the police in crime prevention and detection, during the British era. A report dated May 30, 1936 from Trichinopoly, pictures V. Rajagopala Thamban, District Superintendent of Police addressing a gathering of members from 36 VVCs at a theatre. Through the theatre was hosting just a meeting, it did come alive on account of the DSP’s speech, punctuated as it was with accounts of derring-dos by ordinary citizens. He recalled the “brave capture of a desperate criminal by a woman of Uppidimangalam while in the act of committing robbery”. The singular act by a regular citizen had “led to the unravelling of the activities of a gang of about 75 desperate criminals who had ravaged the district.” An account of a meeting at a Corporation school in Choolai (April 29, 1952) presents a snapshot of a post-independence Madras and an era when the VVCs had shed their old skin — a fact reflected in its new nomenclature, Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — and slipped into another that sported almost identical scales. Under its new name, the entity was doing what it was known to do best: work alongside the police. Sub-Inspector Dhanraj of the Vepery Police was cheerful about “the increasing co-operation” extended by the Vepery division of Station Vigilance Committee to them. Memebers of the Vepery SVC would not leave the meeing without scooping rewards — given away by J. Devasagayam, Commisaioner of Police — for cracking crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-archives/article37988981.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Art worskshop||Global Art is a centre that offers courses aimed at developing the creative skills of children through painting and colouring. Its programmes are meant for children from five to 15 years of age, says a press release. This December, it is conducting a free workshop. It will held both online and offline. E certificates will be issued to the participants, adds the release. Global Art has 130 centres in India. Last date for registration is December 22. For details, call 95662 62366 / 95001 69017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/art-worskshop/article37988985.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||New luxury hotel at Vanagaram||Kay-Em Spectra, a hotel under the flagship of Kay-Em Luxury Hotels And Resorts Private Limited, has come up at Vanagaram. It has 84 elegantly designed rooms including suites furnished with ergonomic features, says a press release. The hotel also has two exclusive halls — Zircon and Opel — meant for events. Each has a capacity to accommodate a minimum of 700 guests, says the release. Other facilities include pool overlooking the rooftop restaurant, gym, and spa. New Year eve celebrations will be held at the hotel. The hotel can be reached at fnb@kayemspectra.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-luxury-hotel-at-vanagaram/article37988989.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural Information & Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on December 23. The session is open to all. For registration and other details, call 044 - 2953 0048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mushroom-cultivation/article37988990.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A view from ‘Rapylon’||The lone male common kestrel would be pugnacious in the defence of its territory, at the Siruthavur lake, intrepidly flinging itself into the arena, even taking on raptors many times its size. “We have seen the common kestrel mobbing the resident red-necked falcon and the short-toed snake eagle, which is five to six times bigger,” recalls eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. Known in the local birding circles for his keen eye for raptors, Ganaskandan has a reliable theory explaining the dynamics of how the underdog triumphs in this unequal match-up. “Due to their agility, all these smaller raptors have an upper hand over the large raptors, which cannot manoeuvre so quickly in the air,” notes Gnanaskandan. However, despite the explanation, he cannot help chuckle at the memory of the kestrel launching itself into a short-toed snake eagle. From 2009 to 2014, the male common kestrel would be in attendance during the winter, sticking to the same perches, hardly budging an inch from it. “It would come by the end of October or early November and would be around until March. Based on the perches it would take, I could tell from a distance it is that bird. Similarly, its hunting territory was restricted; it would not allow itself to go beyond a certain place. If I had to show a common kestrel to someone who had never seen one before, I could safely take them to the spot, trusting the bird to be in the same spot — and it would not disappoint me,” he remarks. “As a result of this consistency, around 50 per cent of the Madras Naturalists’ Society crowd knew the bird in person, and were even on first-name terms with it.” With so much familiarity between raptor and birder, it would have been a shame not to give it a name. MNS members christened it Ceaser. “When anyone mentioned Ceaser the common kestrel, the others would know that it is the common kestrel from Siruthavur.” Gnanaskandan and his birder-friends used to be on the trail of a wintering peregrine falcon pair. It was a trail that was predictable the peregrines showed their claws, and did nothing to put their admirers off the scent. “This pair of peregrine falcons would winter at Perumbakkam wetland — and we have been seeing them for quite a few years. They would be drawn to a particular pylon, one found close to the road.” Gnanskandan notes that the spot on the pylon where each of the peregrines would roost can be pinpointed with decimal-point accuracy. “When active and hunting — the peregrines chose a bigger pylon in the middle of the marsh, where an osprey also used to roost. The Osprey would be at the base; and the peregrines would be sitting above, on a triangle. It would not choose the apex, but the triangle right below it. For two years, we saw the pair. For three years, I am seeing only one bird — the male — probably the other bird is roosting a little further away. For the last two years — due to unpredictable rain patterns, even the male is not staying back. Usually, the bird would be around from November to March, and during the weeks when it rains, it would temporarily retreat from the scene and promptly come back when the weather returns to normality. However, in 2019, 2020 and now in 2021, due to the unpredictable weather patterns, I notice that the bird is not staying back as long as it used to.” The Shaheen falcon — the resident Indian cousin of the peregrine falcon — would begin its sojourn at the Perumbakkam wetland in May or June. “The Shaheen falcon would come by May or June during the south-west monsoon. They are probably coming down because they want to skip the monsoon on the western side. Where they come from is an unanswered question, but whenever they arrive, it is usually May or June; and when they leave, October. There was one season when we saw the Shaheen roosting at a particular spot on a pylon — and the same year, in November and December, we noticed a peregrine flacon roosting at the same spot. Probably from that spot, they are getting a better view of the lake — or it could be some other favourable factor. “ Preference for a particular pylon at the Perumbakkam wetland gave it a character and a name. “There is one specific pylon that would be occupied by every other raptor that we have seen in the vicinity— so much so that we named it Rapylon (raptor pylon). That was the closest pylon which was near the water and where the dry lake bed starts.” All the raptors were on the same page that it was a pylon with a view.  When active and hunting, the peregrines chose a bigger pylon in the middle of the marsh, where an osprey also used to roost||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-view-from-rapylon/article37989013.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Where have those oxygen concentrators gone?||One of the most poignant images of the second wave was of COVID-19 positive people struggling to get medical oxygen. Non-governmental organisations, service groups, corporates and many individuals chipped in to procure oxygen cylinders/concentrators that became a life-saver for many. Remember the price of these devices had also skyrocketed due to the demand. Where are these equipment now? Many organisations The Hindu Downtown spoke to said they had kept it safely for use in the eventuality of another medical crisis. Greater Chennai Corporation has sent the devices that it received through donations to its various Urban Primary Health Centres. “We received 760 devices from various groups including corporates, social groups and individuals and they are kept safe at our UPHCs,” says S Banumati, joint director/ additional city medical officer, Medical Service Department, Greater Chennai Corporation. She says a few of them are being used at these centres depending on the need. Members of Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) ran various initiatives to ensure people got oxygen including deploying buses fitted with oxygen cylinders. In May, it had procured more than 40 oxygen concentrators and had even set up its own ‘Oxygen Concentrator Bank’. The concentrators were being lent to people on a no-cost basis. The organisation, however, is yet to take a final decision on these concentrators but plans to give them away to the government or a charitable hospital. The initiative ‘O2 for Oxygen’ had devices used by scuba drivers sourced to help those in dire need. “These are high-grade medical oxygen used by scuba drivers and instructors. When they were not need we returned the devices to them. The rest, around 10, are placed at an IT company’s data centre,” says a volunteer. He says these machines have to be sanitised and kept away from dust and sun rays; so, an air-conditioned space where servers are stored takes cares of these cylinders. Kadamai Education and Social Welfare Trust’s fitted autorickshaws with oxygen cylinder and arrived at the door step of homes. The Trust had sourced 48 cylinders of 10 litre and 47 litre capacity and ferried them in autorickshaws across the city. They returned 18 to the medical equipment company they sourced it from and the rest are kept at a room near the Trust’s office in North Chennai. “The pandemic is not over yet and some emergency cases needing oxygen do come up once in a while, which is why we decided to keep 30 equipment with us,” says C. Vasantha Kumar, founder-secretary of the trust. G Sripriya, founder, Gold Heart Foundation, which coordinated with a network of NGOs during the crisis, says a few organisations have given it to private hospitals so that it can be put to use. “They plan to take it back if a need for them arises, which is a better plan than keeping them unused in a corner,” says Sripriya, adding that they have around six cylinders that are circulated among homes of senior citizens. C.J. Zeba, who had turned his Maruti Omni into a makeshift ambulance, complete with an oxygen dispensing arrangement to ferry people to hospitals for free, says his vehicle remains the same. “I started with one 10-litre cylinder and added five other during the course of the months. Two are still fitted in the vehicle and is supplied to people. The others are given to homes of people,” says Zeba. He says there are people who do not want to be treated in a hospital and those requiring the oxygen gas reach out to him. “Recently, a family in Red Hills called for the cylinder as the patient did not want hospitalisation and only after I was convinced that they got consent from the doctor did I deliver it to them,” says Zeba. Some groups bought the equipment from medical equipment companies to return after the demand for oxygen starting falling in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/where-have-those-oxygen-concentrators-gone/article37988991.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteers from a neighbourhood match steps with the law keepers||The traffic on Kutchery Road has thinned down, and there is a sense of a neighbourhood winding down. A clutch of residents is out to buck the overpowering lethargy, and their uniform reflects their intent. On Friday and Saturday, their day is double-layered, rising afresh from the embers in the late hours. It is a quarter past ten in the night, and there is a lot ahead of them. They are assembled at the E1 Police Station for another Friday of night patrolling. Members of Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — Mylapore division, they would fan into various neighbourhoods, along with patrol teams from seven stations under Mylapore police jurisdiction. They assist the police personnel in workaday patrolling, which includes flipping through vehicle documents. Shankar KS checks the SVC’s WhatsApp group to ascertain how many volunteers could be expected to hit the road today. Seven had expressed willingness to join the night patrol and therefore, they would be operating in three areas only — Mylapore (around Luz signal), Abhiramapuram and Santhome. He reveals that SVC Mylapore division has 52 active members with the overall count somewhere around 80. “Night patrolling work is not for everyone and the older among us might be volunteering for temple work.” SVC volunteers are acclaimed for their work during the annual Panguni festival in crowd control. “Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month. This year we have already completed 5,000 man hours and the remaining major interventions required of us are the Christmas and New Year eve, when we would be out around midnight regulating vehicle movement.” Usually, the New Year’s eve brings out the bonhomie the SVC volunteers share with the Mylapore police personnel. “Last year, on New Year, after finishing our work, we assembled along with the teams from 7 stations. A cake was cut in a gesture of honour that was extended to our team,” recalls Shankar, adding that SVC has earned a lot of goodwill across the neighbourhood, which is reflected in the fact that though like K Viswanathan for Mylapore Residents Welfare Association are associated with it. The SVC convenor notes that challenges of the pandemic have caused the SVC volunteers and the police personnel to work more closely. ’In 2020, when S Nelson sir was the ACP, during the first lockdown, they wanted us to distribute groceries and vegetables. Though the funds flowed in, there was a clear dearth of people who could take the grocery and vegetable kits to beneficiaries on time — we filled that void. I selected 15 youngsters from our team for this work. My notion of youngsters includes those in their late 40s — I was 47 at that point in time,” he chuckles. “Every day, in the morning we would head to the station and on the verandah, groceries and vegetables would be laid out. On an average, we would pack 150 to 200 grocery and vegetable kits. For 28 days, we carried out this service. The area behind Citi Centre had reported the earliest Coronavirus breakouts, and we worked for a week at that place, distributing kits. None of the team members got Covid-19 during the first wave. During the second wave, some of us were infected with Covid-19, and we quarantined and recovered. Team members advised how they should take care of themselves,” says Shankar. He remarks that SVC volunteers also did more than what was expected of them by roping in a voluntary organisation Chakra Foundation for sponsorship and also passed the hat around among friends and family towards meeting the expenses for a few days of procuring vegetables and groceries. Shankar explains that the profile of the SVC volunteers is impressive. To give an idea, “there is a high-ranking official from the Airport Authority of India; two high-flying chartered accountants; two doctors; a couple of entrepreneurs and someone who has a doctorate in astrology; I have a doctorate in psychology.” He states that the volunteers leave outside the gates of the police station, any professional pride they may have, and submit themselves unconditionally to the rules binding them. Every month, we document our duty hours in digital format and a the end of the month, we take a printout of it and give it to the jurisdictional officer, having it signed and sealed. We do the same at the end of the year. Though the volunteers are concentrated in and around the Mylapore region, the call of duty can come from anywhere and they have to respond to it enthusiastically. “Our SVC may belong to the Mylapore division, but our work is not circumscribed by geography. We have worked in Besant Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur and other places outside the Mylapore area.. When the Marudeeswarar temple kumbabishekam happened, being the ACP covering that area, M Visveswaraya sir called, ‘Shankar, bring your team.’ We went.” A noticeable part of their volunteering has to do with the Kapalaeshwarar temple, and this includes attending to protocols relating to temple visits by VIPs.  Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteers-from-a-neighbourhood-match-steps-with-the-law-keepers/article37989005.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Station Vigilance Committee: A movement that still throbs in Mylapore||To any superficial ear, it would have sounded like an oral history project. But it was collecting voices not to enhance an existing, neatly-documented chronicle, but to put one together — almost from the scratch. Though history was being built account by account, history was not the primary goal. The exercise was seeking to recreate a whole voluntary organisation whose spirit had been hollowed out by time’s underhand stab, oblivion. Station Vigilance Committees (SVC) were born within a handful of years from Indian Independence, and would function as a prop to local police stations to keep the order. A Mylapore division of SVC had been in existence since the early 1950s, first having been registered with the Teynampet station, according to Shankar KS, who got on its trail and seems to have recaptured its essence with a reasonable degree of success. “Even as late as 2016, the true significance of SVC eluded us. I was part of SVC Mylapore Division, and with a handful of other members, would go to the Panguni festival for crowd management. That was just about it. There was certainly more to it, and I started looking for the missing pieces that would give a complete and meaningful picture of the voluntary group,” discloses Shankar, who operates as a convenor of SVC Mylapore Division. Shankar and the similarly curious found themselves on a circuitous route, one that required them to back out of cul-de-sacs. Information was as hard to crack as igneous rock, as the organisation had fallen into a soporific lull for decades. Scraps of information included the fact that a resident of the locality Marthandam was helming the voluntary group for many years, after he passed on, there was no one to take the baton and run the good run. The persistent search led them to one Raghavan, an ex-general secretary of SVC. “Raghavan had been associated with the pioneers of the SVC movement; and we learnt from Raghavan that after the 1980s, they had brought out a souvenir to mark a milestone year. For two months, Raghavan would keep me on a wild goose chase for the documents and other material that would lay bare a substantial period of SVC’s history — all the while sussing out if we were sincere about running the SVC or had been taken up with it as a passing fancy. “He would ask me to come to Mylapore to discuss SVC. The meeting would have been fixed for 10 a.m., and I would show up at 9.45 a.m., but he would have arrived at 9.30 a.m., just to see how sincere I was about the cause. I would not know him by sight. After doing this multiple times, one day, he asked me to come to Sai Baba temple at 7 p.m., and handed over a couple of documents, which gave us the confidence to wipe off the dust that had accumulated on SVC and make if functional again, in a meaningful manner. We realised what was at the heart of this organisation,” says Shankar. “We learnt that during the 1980s and 1990s, at Panguni Utsavam in Mylapore, a camp would set up. Two shamianas would be pitched, one for the police department and the other for SVC. The Commissioner of Police would inaugurate the camp. At that time, the size of the SVC team was 123 members, and they were equipped with walkie-talkies. Even jeeps would be extended to SVC members to enable them carry out their assistive role effectively.” There is not much documentation about the early years of SVC — not that there was much later — but history about the voluntary exercise handed down to the current generation has it that PG Gopalakrishnan, an ex-army man who had served in the military under the British, was a pioneer in the movement, having served as president of SVC Madras & Chingelpet. Shankar notes that that when he started out, Gopalakrishnan had the counsel of a five-member core team. From handed-down accounts and slim documentation, it is said that the Mylapore division had first been registered with the Teynampet police station. Besides, there is evidence that in 1980, the division had received a camp number. As the division had been running in fits and starts, and considerable time had elapsed since the last time it was active, and details about its registration were hazy, the current crop of SVC volunteers decided to have it registered afresh. They had it done last year under the Society’s Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/station-vigilance-committee-a-movement-that-still-throbs-in-mylapore/article37989009.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||MTC restores 5B||Recently, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation restored its 5B service which was withdrawn a few years ago. The service connects T Nagar and Mylapore via CIT Nagar, Saidapet, Sardar Patel Road, Adyar, and Mandaveli. According to an official from the MTC, the frequency of the service is once an hour.  En route, many educational institutions are located including IIT – Madras, Anna University, Dr. MGR-Janaki College of Arts and Science for Women, and Rani Meyyammai Girls Higher Secondary School. For T. Nagar residents, 5B is a direct service to access Kapaleeshwar temple in Mylapore. T. Nagar being a shopping hub, residents of Mylapore and Adyar use this service. Hence, this service receives good patronage. “I’m a resident of Adyar and prefer 5B to go to Mylapore. Because by the time, it reaches Adyar, the service has reached the fag end of its journey with just a few stops to cover. Hence, the bus will be sparsely occupied. Thereby, I avoid other services 29C and A1 to reach Mylapore, as they are crowded during peak hours,” says H. Vembu. Residents of T. Nagar also suggest that MTC should restore its service to Kacheepuram from T.Nagar bus stand. “Earlier, air-conditioned buses were operated to Kancheepuram from T. Nagar. The route number is 576. A few years ago, this service was also withdrawn. This route should also be restored. Ordinary non – AC buses can be operated,” adds Jayaraman.  “Even though it is a relief to find this service back, it’s frequency should be increased”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-restores-5b/article37989003.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Voices from the neighbourhood||N Balachander:  “A neighbour to Shankar KS, I was aware of his volunteering initiative with Station Vigilance Committee. Prior to joining SVC in 2018, I was associated with the activities at the Kapaleeshwarar temple, particularly the festivals. Volunteering with SVC over the last three years has left me with a trove of memories. The most recent one has to do with a case of drunken driving by two youngsters, near Thanithurai Market. Both the youngsters were badly injured but without any threat to the lives. They had hit a speed breaker and had a fall. We promptly called for an ambulance, simultaneously called the team from the police and boys’ respective parents. We followed through with the case to find out how they boys were doing in hospital. Another incident was at Pattinapakkam, where the police patrol team we were with had to give a vehicle a chase and bring the occupants to book. SVC volunteers primarily assist the police by looking through the documents — if there is anything suspect, we immediately tell the police and they would detain the vehicle. Inspecting the documents relating to insurance, licence, vehicle RC book and asking the relevant questions — Where are you going? Why are you out travelling at this hour? — are what we routinely do. If there is anything suspicious, we immediately inform the Inspector or SI who would be nearby and they will decide whether to file a case. The police would ask us to be with them, to the maximum extent possible, and advise us against going it alone in the night, for our safety. I am working in a corporate house and Saturday and Sunday are my days off, and after the shift is over on Friday, I go on patrolling work.  A Elangovan:  Besides the deep sense of satisfaction that can come only from service without any expectations, this weekend night patrolling work eases jangled nevers, relaxing us after a week’s work. A friend had been telling me about SVC, but I was not going to act on his suggession. I joined nine months ago, after finding out for myself what it was all about. There are so many people who want to join SVC, but we are selective about who we take on board, as we do not want its name to be spoilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/voices-from-the-neighbourhood/article37989006.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Two initiatives to spread the Christmas cheer||The staff and management at CURI Hospital on Rajiv Gandhi Salai are getting ready for a busy week. They are going to spend some extra hours, beyond the regular hospital work, to spread the Christmas cheer by delivering special meals cooked from the hospital canteen. For the second year, the team lead by chefs Sathish, Partha and Somnath and dietician Vidya and Sivasankari are going to cook an extra meal for every order placed with them. “Order your Christmas lunch and we will deliver with it lunch for another family. It could be your maid, driver, iron man or the lady selling vegetables in the corner,” reads a note circulated on WhatsApp. Gayathri Ananthakrishnan, managing director, CURI Hospital, says the initiative is aimed at spreading the festive cheer and instill the value of empathy in the staff. “As our canteen only caters to hospital patients and guests, our staff raise their bar for the Christmas lunch where the menu includes an array of vegetarian and non-vegetarian options,” says Gayathri. The staff are involved in taking orders, cooking, packing and delivering food. “Last year, we handed over 350 meals,” says Gayathri, adding that the staff spread the word. She says people chose to give those working for them, some wanted a surprise meal sent to a friend/senior citizen; and many others were specific that it be shared with a needy person. There is a dietician that can be consulted over the phone for those with a diet restriction and the meal is accordingly customised. Each of these meal packs are delivered with a personalised message, again to ring in the spirit of the season. The Christmas lunch will be delivered on December 19, 24 and 25. To place an order and for other details, contact 8838093097 / 8778125395   More than 30 volunteers gathered at Urban Desi House in Perungudi on Saturday for a gift-wrapping activity. The objective of wrapping presents in colourful papers is to bring a smiles to underprivileged children whose hands they would be placed in. The smiles will grow wider when the child unwraps the present as each of them is chosen with a lot of love and care by our team, says Sunitha Vikram and Subha Pandian of Agua Women Foundation. They along with a clutch of volunteers have been driving an initiative for the last five years called ‘Gifting Smiles’, where funds collected from well-wishers are used to buy age-appropriate gifts to be distributed on December 26. “This is our sixth year and the initiative has grown with the support of many volunteers,” says Sunitha. One important task after wrapping the gifts is to colour and gender-code gifts like toys, stationery, books and sports kits so that they go to the right age group. Every year, the gifts are given in a different locality. Last year, 2000 gifts were distributed with the help of 150 volunteers. “Our drive starts in October and so far we have collected a few lakh of rupees. New toys are bought at wholesale rates and brought to a common point for packing,” says Subha. She says they have volunteers spread across various zones in Chennai who collect these gifts and distribute them in the respective areas. “In the previous editions, we covered nine neighbourhoods where teams would launch out after Christmas. Due to the pandemic, this time, we are planning to divide into four teams and we will be restricting the work to areas on ECR, especially where fishermen hamlets  are located,” says Subha. Gifting Smiles also collects new toys from well-wishers. “One could even volunteer for distribution,” says Subha. For details, contact Subha at 9790907817.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-initiatives-to-spread-the-christmas-cheer/article37989011.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A platform for unsung artistes||While engaging her one-and-a-half year-old son, Batchu Mahathi Rao sings Srimannarayana Srimannarayana hymn composed by the 15th-century saint poet Annamacharya. And while cooking she again sings the same song. This way the 31-year-old, a mother of two children, tries to take out time to practise for the Marghazhi music and dance festival, organised by the Federation of Radial Road Residents’ Associations (FORRRA). FORRRA is organising the Margazhi classical music and dance festival for the first time. Events will be held every Sunday evening through the month of Margazhi. Adults and children above 10 years of age from any part of Chennai can take part in the event. “After my college days, I have got an opportunity to sing. I have sung during Navarathri and Vinayakar Chathurthi celebrations held in our apartment in front of our neighbours. But, I am excited about this Margazhi festival because this event is going to witness a larger audience and not just our neighbours alone,” says Mahathi, a participant. Nithya K was eagerly looking forward to this year’s Margazhi festival to be an audience in any one of the events happening in Mylapore or T Nagar which is far away from her home, which is in Pallikaranai. But she never thought that she would be performing this Margazhi. “I’m not a professional singer. As a child, I have been part of groups singing bhajans in temples back in my hometown Palakkad. Later, I had performed during my college days. Marriage and career pushed music to the back seat. Now, after a long break, I have got an opportunity to perform before a wider audience. My 10-year-old son is also participating. Earlier, he was part of group performances at events organised by his music school. FORRRA's will be the first event where he will be giving a solo performance. While I am planning to render Maithreem Bhajatha, composed by Sri Chandrasekharendra Saraswathi Swamigal fondly known as Maha Periyava, my son will be rendering from Thiruppavai or Thiruvembavai or Thirupugazh ,”  says 34-year-old Nithya who works as an electronics engineer in the automotive industry. Pavithra Subhash, a coordinator of this programme, says: “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But this time, FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising this Marghazhi festival,” says G. Amrithavalli, a resident of Kovilambakkam who have also enrolled for the festival. “As there are no sabhas in and around Pallikaranai, FORRRA thought of hosting a festival of this kind that will entertain its residents and provide a platform for both budding and unknown artists to showcase their talent,” says B. Vijayalakshm, FORRRA president. Ever since FORRRA announced its plan to organise the Margazhi festival the response has been good. Music schools are also participating. “So far, 40 have registered for the event. Some are practising for 15 years. They include teachers of music schools. Certainly, this event will serve as a bond-building exercise among the residents of Pallikaranai and nearby areas,” says S.K. Shankar, secretary, FORRRA. FORRRA comprises the following gated communities located along the Pallavaram Thoraipakkam 200 Feet Radial Road — S&S Sarvam, Jones Sigiriya, Tranquil Acres Phase One, Tranquil Acres Phase Two, and Ramaniyam Ocean Dew. The events will be held on the premises of any one of these gated-communities. Participation fee is Rs. 250. To register for the event, call 044 – 4952 1397. FORRRA can be reached at forrra.2020@gmail.com  “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising a music event to mark the Margazhi season.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-platform-for-unsung-artistes/article37989012.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||It is never too late to read and write||Recently, St Lazarus Church Hall in Pattinapakkam was witness to an unusual graduation ceremony. Twenty senior citizens dressed in convocation robes walked the red carpet to be awarded medals and certificates following which they tossed their hats. These are among the 82 senior citizens enrolled with Dignity Foundation’s day care centre at Mullima Nagar in Pattinapakkam, a settlement close to the beach. These seniors had successfully enrolled and completed a read and write programme. The convocation function was a celebration of the journey these unlettered men and women took over the last eight to 10 months at the centre. “The biggest success story to emerge from this initiative is that many of those who could not even sign their name were taught through the literacy sessions,” says Auxilia M. Christina, administrative officer of the Centre. Around 3 p.m. every day, these sessions would be held for at least an hour. While those who never went to school were trained in the Tamil alphabet, others who had studied till class V were introduced to words and sentences. “Some students can remember what they have learnt, others find it hard to remember new topics taught the next day, but a majority show up on time and are eager to learn,” says Christina. Amsa Kuppan is a sincere student who would be the first to come to class and start writing. Before she used her thumb impression to get her pension. Now, she signs on the paper. Thaiyammal Selvaraj also has a similar tale to say. Christina says the literacy training is an ongoing programme at the day care centre where the plan is to make as many senior citizens lettered so that they can carry out some of the basic tasks without depending on others. This apart, the Centre that started in January 2020 also engages with the seniors in activities like newspaper reading, yoga and meditation and recreational activities. P.R Athreyen, president of Rotary Club of Madras Downtown and Joseph Noel Nehru were among the guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/it-is-never-too-late-to-read-and-write/article37989001.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Birds’ site fidelity can work for you||Desultory birders may blame it on their luck: others’ is always better. Birding is not about lucking out, but looking out for avians all the time. There is no telling what feathers would pop in round the corner — it does not matter where your turf is. Even with a scattering of greenery, nature has a way of breaking through, and bringing unusual feathers one’s way. Recently, birder Rama Neelamegam had a closer view of a winter visitor, an Asian brown flycatcher, that had been haunting her busy neighbourhood, D’Silva Raad, for four winter seasons, if not more. From the terrace of her first-floor home, she had been training her binoculars on the weeny little bird, certain that it was a flycatcher from its call and flight pattern. The bird would check into an Indian almond tree ( terminalia catappa ) on the opposite side of the road, three buildings away. Slipped in between two houses, the Indian almond tree underwent some significant chopping to keep its nosey branches out of windows, notes Rama. The Asian brown flycatcher did not take this unfriendliness to heart, and has made a mango tree bang opposite Rama’s homestead its new home. “It resides on the mango tree, where it also hunts for prey. It sunbathes on a mast tree nearby when the sun is high, usually around 7.30 a.m.,” notes Rama. As her new neighbour prefers the upper and lower canopies — as a species, the Asian brown flycatcher would instinctively reach for the top of a tree — Rama is now spared the effort of having to climb on to the terrace, binoculars tucked in an arm. Just one seed dropped to the ground can make a difference to the migratory season: a nugget of wisdom birder and photographer Leo Vino has discovered parked in his living room. He has raised a fig tree in the vacant plot adjacent to his home in Sembakkam, obtaining permission from the plot owner who lives abroad. As a result of this prudent move, uninvited visitors have been bringing chirps and cheer into his life. There are birds that display site loyalty, returning to the tree season after season. The loyalists include an Asian brown flycatcher and an orange-headed thrush. Common hawk-cuckoo and Indian Cuckoo invited themselves to the party three seasons ago when many worms and caterpillars were found on the fig tree, notes Leo. One paradise flyctacher has a look-in in the first week of December, but has not put in an appearance yet this season. “This tree is my bird hide.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/birds-site-fidelity-can-work-for-you/article37989016.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Planning to shop this season?||Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Artisans Welfare Association is organising a sale of brass and bronze artefacts at Srushti Handicrafts Emporium, Sudarshan Building, No: 86, Chamiers Road, Alwarpet. According to a press release, Tanjore paintings, stone jewellery, and wooden carvings are also available. The sale ends on December 31. Time: From 10.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. For details, call 044 - 4206 0730 / 9444 233066. *** Another handicrafts sale is being held at Sri Sankara Hall, TTK Road, Alwarpet. It is organised by Artisans & Weavers Association. According to a press release, saris, such as Jamdhani, Bengal, Odisha Ikkat and Chettinadu are available. The collection also includes bedsheets, furniture, jewellery, paintings, brass idols, and dolls are also available. The sale ends on December 26. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. For details, call 95511 56290 / 63831 26587 / 98844 46747.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/planning-to-shop-this-season/article37988992.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a pandemic||For everyone, the challenges that began in 2020 have continued to this day in one form or the other. Without exception, everyone has had to revisit time-tested models of executing things, and that includes how residents' welfare associations (RWAs) run their neighbourhoods. As The Hindu Downtown covers the activities and initiatives of RWAs extensively, on the occasion of its 23rd anniversary, the supplement invites them to share with us what they think the pandemic has taught them. The RWAs can send in their write-ups to downtownfeedback@thehindu.co.in. Submissions with perspicacious observations will be featured in the pages of The Hindu Downtown in the first few editions of year 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lessons-from-a-pandemic/article37988998.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||December art worskshop||Global Art is a centre that offers courses aimed at developing the creative skills of children through painting and colouring. Its programmes are meant for children from five to 15 years of age, says a press release. This December, it is conducting a free workshop. It will held both online and offline. E certificates will be issued to the participants, adds the release. Global Art has 130 centres in India. Last date for registration is December 22. For details, call 95662 62366 / 95001 69017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/december-art-worskshop/article37989004.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Home Guards and SVCs||Home Guards and SVCs are geared towards service, both assisting the police. There are points of divergence, a remarkable one having to do with remuneration. While Home Guards have a form of remuneration, SVCs have none. Says Shankar KS, convenor of the Mylapore division of SVC: “When we go on night duty, I have to quench my thrist myself with water I had brought from home. If we want to have tea — we take turns to buy it for each other. Whenever the team has done something exemplary, we woukd tell the respective ACP about it, and they night issue a certificate of appreciation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/home-guards-and-svcs/article37989007.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hitting new ground||The pandemic had led them to step into fresh areas of volunteering, one that entails helping the police personnel run Coronavirus campaigns. Shankar KS, convenor, Station Vigilance Committee — Mylapore division, touches upon recent campaigns. “On November 28, 2021, SVC volunteers had gone on a tour of the neighbourhood, the traffic team i tow. “Dressed up as Yamadarmaraja and Chitraguptan, the volunteers headed to the Mylapore signal. A stage had been erected at what is popularly called Sangeetha point. We even hopped on a couple of buses, and spoke to the passengers. We took a stroll for 10 to 15 minutes, and using mikes, stressed upon the Coronavirus protocols to be followed. Following this, Gautaman sir who heads the L&O team, sought that the SVC team take out a rally. From his desk, I made a call to a young volunteer in the group who is a part of a Jawa motorcycles club. The next day, we lined up 15 Jawa enthusiasts with their machines. Members of SVC brought around 10 Bullets. Those who had neither, brought along their 100 cc motorcycles — and I brought my scooter, and took out a rally. Our programme started at Sangeetha point, did two rounds of the Mada streets — and we would stop and make announcements about masking up, maintaining social distancing, hand-washing. Besides, as recently as December 12, SVC volunteers, togged in their khaki trousers and white shirt, rode bicycles along with police personnel from seven police stations for a campaign against child abuse and drugs. There were 52 participants. Mylapore DCP Disha Mittal madam flagged off the rally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hitting-new-ground/article37989008.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||From the archives||The role of a Village Vigilance Committe (VVC) — the precursor of the Station Vigilance Committe, a modern example of which throbs to this day in Mylapore — is somewhat evident from its self-explanatory name. However, the finer features of the entity are largely lost on us. Pages out of The Hindu Archives travel some distance towards spotlighting the significance of VVCs by preserving anecdotes of how members of VVCs assisted the police in crime prevention and detection, during the British era. A report dated May 30, 1936 from Trichinopoly, pictures V. Rajagopala Thamban, District Superintendent of Police addressing a gathering of members from 36 VVCs at a theatre. Through the theatre was hosting just a meeting, it did come alive on account of the DSP’s speech, punctuated as it was with accounts of derring-dos by ordinary citizens. He recalled the “brave capture of a desperate criminal by a woman of Uppidimangalam while in the act of committing robbery”. The singular act by a regular citizen had “led to the unravelling of the activities of a gang of about 75 desperate criminals who had ravaged the district.” An account of a meeting at a Corporation school in Choolai (April 29, 1952) presents a snapshot of a post-independence Madras and an era when the VVCs had shed their old skin — a fact reflected in its new nomenclature, Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — and slipped into another that sported almost identical scales. Under its new name, the entity was doing what it was known to do best: work alongside the police. Sub-Inspector Dhanraj of the Vepery Police was cheerful about “the increasing co-operation” extended by the Vepery division of Station Vigilance Committee to them. Memebers of the Vepery SVC would not leave the meeing without scooping rewards — given away by J. Devasagayam, Commisaioner of Police — for cracking crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-archives/article37989010.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteers invited for beach clean-up initiative||G-Square Group Presents Team up to Clean Up, My City, My Coast, My Environment powered by The Hindu is Calling for volunteers to be a part of the massive beach clean-up in 10 major hotspots on the ECR stretch on 26 December from 7 to 9 AM. The locations are: 1. Broken bridge to Olcott Kuppam 2. Ashtalakshmi temple beach 3. Arupadai Murugan temple beach 4. 4th seward road beach Thiruvanmiyur 5. Palavakkam beach 6. Beach Road Neelankarai 7. Injambakkam North beach (North of VGP) 8. Injamabakkam South beach (South of VGP) 9. Akkarai beach 10. Panaiyur beach To volunteer register at: https://bit.ly/G2BEA or scan the QR Code For queries, call: 9841962820 The knowledge partner for this initiative is Environmentalist Foundation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteers-invited-for-beach-clean-up-initiative/article37988995.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural Information & Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on December 23. The session is open to all. For registration and other details, call 044 - 2953 0048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mushroom-cultivation/article37988996.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer -writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37988997.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||MTC restores 5B||Two weeks ago, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation restored its 5B service which was withdrawn a few years ago. The service connects T Nagar and Mylapore via CIT Nagar, Saidapet, Sardar Patel Road, Adyar, and Mandaveli. According to an official from the MTC, the frequency of the service is once an hour. This service benefits residents of T. Nagar, especially those living in lanes abutting South Usman Road which includes Motilal Street, Natesan Street, Ranganthan Street, Mangaiyar Street, Rangan Street, Ramanathan Street, Sarojini Street, and Madley Road. “Ever since, this service was stopped, I had go up to Pangal Park to board 12G or 12M that comes from K.K. Nagar to reach Mylapore. Even though it is a relief to find this service back, it’s frequency should be increased. One hour is a long wait,” says V.S. Jayaraman, a resident of Motilal Street. En route, many educational institutions are located including IIT – Madras, Anna University, Dr. MGR-Janaki College of Arts and Science for Women, and Rani Meyyammai Girls Higher Secondary School. For T. Nagar residents, 5B is a direct service to access Kapaleeshwar temple in Mylapore. T. Nagar being a shopping hub, residents of Mylapore and Adyar use this service. Hence, this service receives good patronage. “I’m a resident of Adyar and prefer 5B to go to Mylapore. Because by the time, it reaches Adyar, the service has reached the fag end of its journey with just a few stops to cover. Hence, the bus will be sparsely occupied. Thereby, I avoid other services 29C and A1 to reach Mylapore, as they are crowded during peak hours,” says H. Vembu. Residents of T. Nagar also suggest that MTC should restore its service to Kacheepuram from T.Nagar bus stand. “Earlier, air-conditioned buses were operated to Kancheepuram from T. Nagar. The route number is 576. A few years ago, this service was also withdrawn. This route should also be restored. Ordinary non – AC buses can be operated,” adds Jayaraman.  “Even though it is a relief to find this service back, it’s frequency should be increased”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-restores-5b/article37989065.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteers from a neighbourhood match steps with the law keepers||The traffic on Kutchery Road has thinned down, and there is a sense of a neighbourhood winding down. A clutch of residents is out to buck the overpowering lethargy, and their uniform reflects their intent. On Friday and Saturday, their day is double-layered, rising afresh from the embers in the late hours. It is a quarter past ten in the night, and there is a lot ahead of them. They are assembled at the E1 Police Station for another Friday of night patrolling. Members of Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — Mylapore division, they would fan into various neighbourhoods, along with patrol teams from seven stations under Mylapore police jurisdiction. They assist the police personnel in workaday patrolling, which includes flipping through vehicle documents. Shankar KS checks the SVC’s WhatsApp group to ascertain how many volunteers could be expected to hit the road today. Seven had expressed willingness to join the night patrol and therefore, they would be operating in three areas only — Mylapore (around Luz signal), Abhiramapuram and Santhome. He reveals that SVC Mylapore division has 52 active members with the overall count somewhere around 80. “Night patrolling work is not for everyone and the older among us might be volunteering for temple work.” SVC volunteers are acclaimed for their work during the annual Panguni festival in crowd control. “Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month. This year we have already completed 5,000 man hours and the remaining major interventions required of us are the Christmas and New Year eve, when we would be out around midnight regulating vehicle movement.” Usually, the New Year’s eve brings out the bonhomie the SVC volunteers share with the Mylapore police personnel. “Last year, on New Year, after finishing our work, we assembled along with the teams from 7 stations. A cake was cut in a gesture of honour that was extended to our team,” recalls Shankar, adding that SVC has earned a lot of goodwill across the neighbourhood, which is reflected in the fact that though like K Viswanathan for Mylapore Residents Welfare Association are associated with it. The SVC convenor notes that challenges of the pandemic have caused the SVC volunteers and the police personnel to work more closely. ’In 2020, when S Nelson sir was the ACP, during the first lockdown, they wanted us to distribute groceries and vegetables. Though the funds flowed in, there was a clear dearth of people who could take the grocery and vegetable kits to beneficiaries on time — we filled that void. I selected 15 youngsters from our team for this work. My notion of youngsters includes those in their late 40s — I was 47 at that point in time,” he chuckles. “Every day, in the morning we would head to the station and on the verandah, groceries and vegetables would be laid out. On an average, we would pack 150 to 200 grocery and vegetable kits. For 28 days, we carried out this service. The area behind Citi Centre had reported the earliest Coronavirus breakouts, and we worked for a week at that place, distributing kits. None of the team members got Covid-19 during the first wave. During the second wave, some of us were infected with Covid-19, and we quarantined and recovered. Team members advised how they should take care of themselves,” says Shankar. He remarks that SVC volunteers also did more than what was expected of them by roping in a voluntary organisation Chakra Foundation for sponsorship and also passed the hat around among friends and family towards meeting the expenses for a few days of procuring vegetables and groceries. Shankar explains that the profile of the SVC volunteers is impressive. To give an idea, “there is a high-ranking official from the Airport Authority of India; two high-flying chartered accountants; two doctors; a couple of entrepreneurs and someone who has a doctorate in astrology; I have a doctorate in psychology.” He states that the volunteers leave outside the gates of the police station, any professional pride they may have, and submit themselves unconditionally to the rules binding them. Every month, we document our duty hours in digital format and a the end of the month, we take a printout of it and give it to the jurisdictional officer, having it signed and sealed. We do the same at the end of the year. Though the volunteers are concentrated in and around the Mylapore region, the call of duty can come from anywhere and they have to respond to it enthusiastically. “Our SVC may belong to the Mylapore division, but our work is not circumscribed by geography. We have worked in Besant Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur and other places outside the Mylapore area.. When the Marudeeswarar temple kumbabishekam happened, being the ACP covering that area, M Visveswaraya sir called, ‘Shankar, bring your team.’ We went.” A noticeable part of their volunteering has to do with the Kapalaeshwarar temple, and this includes attending to protocols relating to temple visits by VIPs.  Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteers-from-a-neighbourhood-match-steps-with-the-law-keepers/article37989054.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Station Vigilance Committee: A movement that still throbs in Mylapore||To any superficial ear, it would have sounded like an oral history project. But it was collecting voices not to enhance an existing, neatly-documented chronicle, but to put one together — almost from the scratch. Though history was being built account by account, history was not the primary goal. The exercise was seeking to recreate a whole voluntary organisation whose spirit had been hollowed out by time’s underhand stab, oblivion. Station Vigilance Committees (SVC) were born within a handful of years from Indian Independence, and would function as a prop to local police stations to keep the order. A Mylapore division of SVC had been in existence since the early 1950s, first having been registered with the Teynampet station, according to Shankar KS, who got on its trail and seems to have recaptured its essence with a reasonable degree of success. “Even as late as 2016, the true significance of SVC eluded us. I was part of SVC Mylapore Division, and with a handful of other members, would go to the Panguni festival for crowd management. That was just about it. There was certainly more to it, and I started looking for the missing pieces that would give a complete and meaningful picture of the voluntary group,” discloses Shankar, who operates as a convenor of SVC Mylapore Division. Shankar and the similarly curious found themselves on a circuitous route, one that required them to back out of cul-de-sacs. Information was as hard to crack as igneous rock, as the organisation had fallen into a soporific lull for decades. Scraps of information included the fact that a resident of the locality Marthandam was helming the voluntary group for many years, after he passed on, there was no one to take the baton and run the good run. The persistent search led them to one Raghavan, an ex-general secretary of SVC. “Raghavan had been associated with the pioneers of the SVC movement; and we learnt from Raghavan that after the 1980s, they had brought out a souvenir to mark a milestone year. For two months, Raghavan would keep me on a wild goose chase for the documents and other material that would lay bare a substantial period of SVC’s history — all the while sussing out if we were sincere about running the SVC or had been taken up with it as a passing fancy. “He would ask me to come to Mylapore to discuss SVC. The meeting would have been fixed for 10 a.m., and I would show up at 9.45 a.m., but he would have arrived at 9.30 a.m., just to see how sincere I was about the cause. I would not know him by sight. After doing this multiple times, one day, he asked me to come to Sai Baba temple at 7 p.m., and handed over a couple of documents, which gave us the confidence to wipe off the dust that had accumulated on SVC and make if functional again, in a meaningful manner. We realised what was at the heart of this organisation,” says Shankar. “We learnt that during the 1980s and 1990s, at Panguni Utsavam in Mylapore, a camp would set up. Two shamianas would be pitched, one for the police department and the other for SVC. The Commissioner of Police would inaugurate the camp. At that time, the size of the SVC team was 123 members, and they were equipped with walkie-talkies. Even jeeps would be extended to SVC members to enable them carry out their assistive role effectively.” There is not much documentation about the early years of SVC — not that there was much later — but history about the voluntary exercise handed down to the current generation has it that PG Gopalakrishnan, an ex-army man who had served in the military under the British, was a pioneer in the movement, having served as president of SVC Madras & Chingelpet. Shankar notes that that when he started out, Gopalakrishnan had the counsel of a five-member core team. From handed-down accounts and slim documentation, it is said that the Mylapore division had first been registered with the Teynampet police station. Besides, there is evidence that in 1980, the division had received a camp number. As the division had been running in fits and starts, and considerable time had elapsed since the last time it was active, and details about its registration were hazy, the current crop of SVC volunteers decided to have it registered afresh. They had it done last year under the Society’s Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/station-vigilance-committee-a-movement-that-still-throbs-in-mylapore/article37989058.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Two initiatives to spread the Christmas cheer||The staff and management at CURI Hospital on Rajiv Gandhi Salai are getting ready for a busy week. They are going to spend some extra hours, beyond the regular hospital work, to spread the Christmas cheer by delivering special meals cooked from the hospital canteen. For the second year, the team lead by chefs Sathish, Partha and Somnath and dietician Vidya and Sivasankari are going to cook an extra meal for every order placed with them. “Order your Christmas lunch and we will deliver with it lunch for another family. It could be your maid, driver, iron man or the lady selling vegetables in the corner,” reads a note circulated on WhatsApp. Gayathri Ananthakrishnan, managing director, CURI Hospital, says the initiative is aimed at spreading the festive cheer and instill the value of empathy in the staff. “As our canteen only caters to hospital patients and guests, our staff raise their bar for the Christmas lunch where the menu includes an array of vegetarian and non-vegetarian options,” says Gayathri. The staff are involved in taking orders, cooking, packing and delivering food. “Last year, we handed over 350 meals,” says Gayathri, adding that the staff spread the word. She says people chose to give those working for them, some wanted a surprise meal sent to a friend/senior citizen; and many others were specific that it be shared with a needy person. There is a dietician that can be consulted over the phone for those with a diet restriction and the meal is accordingly customised. Each of these meal packs are delivered with a personalised message, again to ring in the spirit of the season. The Christmas lunch will be delivered on December 19, 24 and 25. To place an order and for other details, contact 8838093097 / 8778125395   More than 30 volunteers gathered at Urban Desi House in Perungudi on Saturday for a gift-wrapping activity. The objective of wrapping presents in colourful papers is to bring a smiles to underprivileged children whose hands they would be placed in. The smiles will grow wider when the child unwraps the present as each of them is chosen with a lot of love and care by our team, says Sunitha Vikram and Subha Pandian of Agua Women Foundation. They along with a clutch of volunteers have been driving an initiative for the last five years called ‘Gifting Smiles’, where funds collected from well-wishers are used to buy age-appropriate gifts to be distributed on December 26. “This is our sixth year and the initiative has grown with the support of many volunteers,” says Sunitha. One important task after wrapping the gifts is to colour and gender-code gifts like toys, stationery, books and sports kits so that they go to the right age group. Every year, the gifts are given in a different locality. Last year, 2000 gifts were distributed with the help of 150 volunteers. “Our drive starts in October and so far we have collected a few lakh of rupees. New toys are bought at wholesale rates and brought to a common point for packing,” says Subha. She says they have volunteers spread across various zones in Chennai who collect these gifts and distribute them in the respective areas. “In the previous editions, we covered nine neighbourhoods where teams would launch out after Christmas. Due to the pandemic, this time, we are planning to divide into four teams and we will be restricting the work to areas on ECR, especially where fishermen hamlets  are located,” says Subha. Gifting Smiles also collects new toys from well-wishers. “One could even volunteer for distribution,” says Subha. For details, contact Subha at 9790907817.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-initiatives-to-spread-the-christmas-cheer/article37989060.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A platform for unsung artistes||While engaging her one-and-a-half year-old son, Batchu Mahathi Rao sings Srimannarayana Srimannarayana hymn composed by the 15th-century saint poet Annamacharya. And while cooking she again sings the same song. This way the 31-year-old, a mother of two children, tries to take out time to practise for the Marghazhi music and dance festival, organised by the Federation of Radial Road Residents’ Associations (FORRRA). FORRRA is organising the Margazhi classical music and dance festival for the first time. Events will be held every Sunday evening through the month of Margazhi. Adults and children above 10 years of age from any part of Chennai can take part in the event. “After my college days, I have got an opportunity to sing. I have sung during Navarathri and Vinayakar Chathurthi celebrations held in our apartment in front of our neighbours. But, I am excited about this Margazhi festival because this event is going to witness a larger audience and not just our neighbours alone,” says Mahathi, a participant. Nithya K was eagerly looking forward to this year’s Margazhi festival to be an audience in any one of the events happening in Mylapore or T Nagar which is far away from her home, which is in Pallikaranai. But she never thought that she would be performing this Margazhi. “I’m not a professional singer. As a child, I have been part of groups singing bhajans in temples back in my hometown Palakkad. Later, I had performed during my college days. Marriage and career pushed music to the back seat. Now, after a long break, I have got an opportunity to perform before a wider audience. My 10-year-old son is also participating. Earlier, he was part of group performances at events organised by his music school. FORRRA's will be the first event where he will be giving a solo performance. While I am planning to render Maithreem Bhajatha, composed by Sri Chandrasekharendra Saraswathi Swamigal fondly known as Maha Periyava, my son will be rendering from Thiruppavai or Thiruvembavai or Thirupugazh ,”  says 34-year-old Nithya who works as an electronics engineer in the automotive industry. Pavithra Subhash, a coordinator of this programme, says: “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But this time, FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising this Marghazhi festival,” says G. Amrithavalli, a resident of Kovilambakkam who have also enrolled for the festival. “As there are no sabhas in and around Pallikaranai, FORRRA thought of hosting a festival of this kind that will entertain its residents and provide a platform for both budding and unknown artists to showcase their talent,” says B. Vijayalakshm, FORRRA president. Ever since FORRRA announced its plan to organise the Margazhi festival the response has been good. Music schools are also participating. “So far, 40 have registered for the event. Some are practising for 15 years. They include teachers of music schools. Certainly, this event will serve as a bond-building exercise among the residents of Pallikaranai and nearby areas,” says S.K. Shankar, secretary, FORRRA. FORRRA comprises the following gated communities located along the Pallavaram Thoraipakkam 200 Feet Radial Road — S&S Sarvam, Jones Sigiriya, Tranquil Acres Phase One, Tranquil Acres Phase Two, and Ramaniyam Ocean Dew. The events will be held on the premises of any one of these gated-communities. Participation fee is Rs. 250. To register for the event, call 044 – 4952 1397. FORRRA can be reached at forrra.2020@gmail.com  “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising a music event to mark the Margazhi season.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-platform-for-unsung-artistes/article37989061.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Parking woes on New Boag Road||Parking of vehicles on New Boag Road in T Nagar is causing a lot of inconvenience to the residents. Mainly because, the vehicles do not belong to the residents of the road. They park blocking the gates of the houses and residents are unable to bring out their vehicles. We request the Greater Chennai Corporation and Greater Chennai Traffic Police to attend to this issue. Mahesh Kumar is a resident of New Boag Road||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/parking-woes-on-new-boag-road/article37989063.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Where have those oxygen concentrators gone?||One of the most poignant images of the second wave was of COVID-19 positive people struggling to get medical oxygen. Non-governmental organisations, service groups, corporates and many individuals chipped in to procure oxygen cylinders/concentrators that became a life-saver for many. Remember the price of these devices had also skyrocketed due to the demand. Where are these equipment now? Many organisations The Hindu Downtown spoke to said they had kept it safely for use in the eventuality of another medical crisis. Greater Chennai Corporation has sent the devices that it received through donations to its various Urban Primary Health Centres. “We received 760 devices from various groups including corporates, social groups and individuals and they are kept safe at our UPHCs,” says S Banumati, joint director/ additional city medical officer, Medical Service Department, Greater Chennai Corporation. She says a few of them are being used at these centres depending on the need. Members of Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) ran various initiatives to ensure people got oxygen including deploying buses fitted with oxygen cylinders. In May, it had procured more than 40 oxygen concentrators and had even set up its own ‘Oxygen Concentrator Bank’. The concentrators were being lent to people on a no-cost basis. The organisation, however, is yet to take a final decision on these concentrators but plans to give them away to the government or a charitable hospital. The initiative ‘O2 for Oxygen’ had devices used by scuba drivers sourced to help those in dire need. “These are high-grade medical oxygen used by scuba drivers and instructors. When they were not need we returned the devices to them. The rest, around 10, are placed at an IT company’s data centre,” says a volunteer. He says these machines have to be sanitised and kept away from dust and sun rays; so, an air-conditioned space where servers are stored takes cares of these cylinders. Kadamai Education and Social Welfare Trust’s fitted autorickshaws with oxygen cylinder and arrived at the door step of homes. The Trust had sourced 48 cylinders of 10 litre and 47 litre capacity and ferried them in autorickshaws across the city. They returned 18 to the medical equipment company they sourced it from and the rest are kept at a room near the Trust’s office in North Chennai. “The pandemic is not over yet and some emergency cases needing oxygen do come up once in a while, which is why we decided to keep 30 equipment with us,” says C. Vasantha Kumar, founder-secretary of the trust. G Sripriya, founder, Gold Heart Foundation, which coordinated with a network of NGOs during the crisis, says a few organisations have given it to private hospitals so that it can be put to use. “They plan to take it back if a need for them arises, which is a better plan than keeping them unused in a corner,” says Sripriya, adding that they have around six cylinders that are circulated among homes of senior citizens. C.J. Zeba, who had turned his Maruti Omni into a makeshift ambulance, complete with an oxygen dispensing arrangement to ferry people to hospitals for free, says his vehicle remains the same. “I started with one 10-litre cylinder and added five other during the course of the months. Two are still fitted in the vehicle and is supplied to people. The others are given to homes of people,” says Zeba. He says there are people who do not want to be treated in a hospital and those requiring the oxygen gas reach out to him. “Recently, a family in Red Hills called for the cylinder as the patient did not want hospitalisation and only after I was convinced that they got consent from the doctor did I deliver it to them,” says Zeba. Some groups bought the equipment from medical equipment companies to return after the demand for oxygen starting falling in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/where-have-those-oxygen-concentrators-gone/article37989050.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Voices from the neighbourhood||N Balachander:  “A neighbour to Shankar KS, I was aware of his volunteering initiative with Station Vigilance Committee. Prior to joining SVC in 2018, I was associated with the activities at the Kapaleeshwarar temple, particularly the festivals. Volunteering with SVC over the last three years has left me with a trove of memories. The most recent one has to do with a case of drunken driving by two youngsters, near Thanithurai Market. Both the youngsters were badly injured but without any threat to the lives. They had hit a speed breaker and had a fall. We promptly called for an ambulance, simultaneously called the team from the police and boys’ respective parents. We followed through with the case to find out how they boys were doing in hospital. Another incident was at Pattinapakkam, where the police patrol team we were with had to give a vehicle a chase and bring the occupants to book. SVC volunteers primarily assist the police by looking through the documents — if there is anything suspect, we immediately tell the police and they would detain the vehicle. Inspecting the documents relating to insurance, licence, vehicle RC book and asking the relevant questions — Where are you going? Why are you out travelling at this hour? — are what we routinely do. If there is anything suspicious, we immediately inform the Inspector or SI who would be nearby and they will decide whether to file a case. The police would ask us to be with them, to the maximum extent possible, and advise us against going it alone in the night, for our safety. I am working in a corporate house and Saturday and Sunday are my days off, and after the shift is over on Friday, I go on patrolling work.  A Elangovan:  Besides the deep sense of satisfaction that can come only from service without any expectations, this weekend night patrolling work eases jangled nevers, relaxing us after a week’s work. A friend had been telling me about SVC, but I was not going to act on his suggession. I joined nine months ago, after finding out for myself what it was all about. There are so many people who want to join SVC, but we are selective about who we take on board, as we do not want its name to be spoilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/voices-from-the-neighbourhood/article37989055.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Art worskshop||Global Art is a centre that offers courses aimed at developing the creative skills of children through painting and colouring. Its programmes are meant for children from five to 15 years of age, says a press release. This December, it is conducting a free workshop. It will held both online and offline. E certificates will be issued to the participants, adds the release. Global Art has 130 centres in India. Last date for registration is December 22. For details, call 95662 62366 / 95001 69017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/art-worskshop/article37989071.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural Information & Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on December 23. The session is open to all. For registration and other details, call 044 - 2953 0048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mushroom-cultivation/article37989049.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Birds’ site fidelity can work for you||Desultory birders may blame it on their luck: others’ is always better. Birding is not about lucking out, but looking out for avians all the time. There is no telling what feathers would pop in round the corner — it does not matter where your turf is. Even with a scattering of greenery, nature has a way of breaking through, and bringing unusual feathers one’s way. Recently, birder Rama Neelamegam had a closer view of a winter visitor, an Asian brown flycatcher, that had been haunting her busy neighbourhood, D’Silva Raad, for four winter seasons, if not more. From the terrace of her first-floor home, she had been training her binoculars on the weeny little bird, certain that it was a flycatcher from its call and flight pattern. The bird would check into an Indian almond tree ( terminalia catappa ) on the opposite side of the road, three buildings away. Slipped in between two houses, the Indian almond tree underwent some significant chopping to keep its nosey branches out of windows, notes Rama. The Asian brown flycatcher did not take this unfriendliness to heart, and has made a mango tree bang opposite Rama’s homestead its new home. “It resides on the mango tree, where it also hunts for prey. It sunbathes on a mast tree nearby when the sun is high, usually around 7.30 a.m.,” notes Rama. As her new neighbour prefers the upper and lower canopies — as a species, the Asian brown flycatcher would instinctively reach for the top of a tree — Rama is now spared the effort of having to climb on to the terrace, binoculars tucked in an arm. Just one seed dropped to the ground can make a difference to the migratory season: a nugget of wisdom birder and photographer Leo Vino has discovered parked in his living room. He has raised a fig tree in the vacant plot adjacent to his home in Sembakkam, obtaining permission from the plot owner who lives abroad. As a result of this prudent move, uninvited visitors have been bringing chirps and cheer into his life. There are birds that display site loyalty, returning to the tree season after season. The loyalists include an Asian brown flycatcher and an orange-headed thrush. Common hawk-cuckoo and Indian Cuckoo invited themselves to the party three seasons ago when many worms and caterpillars were found on the fig tree, notes Leo. One paradise flyctacher has a look-in in the first week of December, but has not put in an appearance yet this season. “This tree is my bird hide.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/birds-site-fidelity-can-work-for-you/article37989066.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteer for a beach clean up initiative||G-Square Group Presents Team up to Clean Up, My City, My Coast, My Environment powered by The Hindu is Calling for volunteers to be a part of the massive beach clean-up in 10 major hotspots on the ECR stretch on 26 December from 7 to 9 AM. The locations are: 1. Broken bridge to Olcott Kuppam 2. Ashtalakshmi temple beach 3. Arupadai Murugan temple beach 4. 4th seward road beach Thiruvanmiyur 5. Palavakkam beach 6. Beach Road Neelankarai 7. Injambakkam North beach (North of VGP) 8. Injamabakkam South beach (South of VGP) 9. Akkarai beach 10. Panaiyur beach To volunteer register at: https://bit.ly/G2BEA or scan the QR Code For queries, call: 9841962820 The knowledge partner for this initiative is Environmentalist Foundation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteer-for-a-beach-clean-up-initiative/article37989053.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||New luxury hotel at Vanagaram||Kay-Em Spectra, a hotel under the flagship of Kay-Em Luxury Hotels And Resorts Private Limited, has come up at Vanagaram. It has 84 elegantly designed rooms including suites furnished with ergonomic features, says a press release. The hotel also has two exclusive halls — Zircon and Opel — meant for events. Each has a capacity to accommodate a minimum of 700 guests, says the release. Other facilities include pool overlooking the rooftop restaurant, gym, and spa. New Year eve celebrations will be held at the hotel. The hotel can be reached at fnb@kayemspectra.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-luxury-hotel-at-vanagaram/article37989068.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Escalator at Mambalam station awaits mending||Senior-citizens and the differently-abled are put to inconvenience as the escalator at Mambalam railway station is out of order. Therefore, they have no other option but to climb the staircase at the footover bridge. The escalator is located on Railway Border Road. According to a few regular commuters at the station, the escalator is not functioning for the past three weeks. As the footover bridge connects Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar and West Mambalam, the public other than the commuters also it. “There is a market near by. Hence, vendors frequent the station carrying sacks of fruits and vegetables. Now, they all have to climb the staircase. Therefore, the escalator needs to be repaired at the earliest,” says P. Manimekalai, a commuter at the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/escalator-at-mambalam-station-awaits-mending/article37989070.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a pandemic||For everyone, the challenges that began in 2020 have continued to this day in one form or the other. Without exception, everyone has had to revisit time-tested models of executing things, and that includes how residents' welfare associations (RWAs) run their neighbourhoods. As The Hindu Downtown covers the activities and initiatives of RWAs extensively, on the occasion of its 23rd anniversary, the supplement invites them to share with us what they think the pandemic has taught them. The RWAs can send in their write-ups todowntown feedback@ thehindu.co.in.Submissions with perspicacious observations will be featured in the pages of The Hindu Downtown in the first few editions of year 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lessons-from-a-pandemic/article37989047.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Humour club meet today||Humour Club of T Nagar is organising its monthly meeting on December 19 at The Stenographers Guild, T nagar. Time: At 4 p.m. According to a press release, the chief guest will be serial and cinema artiste Nithya Ravindran. The programme is open to all. No fee will be charged to attend the event, adds the release. For details, call S Sekar at 979077557||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/humour-club-meet-today/article37989048.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Home Guards and SVCs||Home Guards and SVCs are geared towards service, both assisting the police. There are points of divergence, a remarkable one having to do with remuneration. While Home Guards have a form of remuneration, SVCs have none. Says Shankar KS, convenor of the Mylapore division of SVC: “When we go on night duty, I have to quench my thrist myself with water I had brought from home. If we want to have tea — we take turns to buy it for each other. Whenever the team has done something exemplary, we woukd tell the respective ACP about it, and they night issue a certificate of appreciation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/home-guards-and-svcs/article37989056.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hitting new ground||The pandemic had led them to step into fresh areas of volunteering, one that entails helping the police personnel run Coronavirus campaigns. Shankar KS, convenor, Station Vigilance Committee — Mylapore division, touches upon recent campaigns. “On November 28, 2021, SVC volunteers had gone on a tour of the neighbourhood, the traffic team i tow. “Dressed up as Yamadarmaraja and Chitraguptan, the volunteers headed to the Mylapore signal. A stage had been erected at what is popularly called Sangeetha point. We even hopped on a couple of buses, and spoke to the passengers. We took a stroll for 10 to 15 minutes, and using mikes, stressed upon the Coronavirus protocols to be followed. Following this, Gautaman sir who heads the L&O team, sought that the SVC team take out a rally. From his desk, I made a call to a young volunteer in the group who is a part of a Jawa motorcycles club. The next day, we lined up 15 Jawa enthusiasts with their machines. Members of SVC brought around 10 Bullets. Those who had neither, brought along their 100 cc motorcycles — and I brought my scooter, and took out a rally. Our programme started at Sangeetha point, did two rounds of the Mada streets — and we would stop and make announcements about masking up, maintaining social distancing, hand-washing. Besides, as recently as December 12, SVC volunteers, togged in their khaki trousers and white shirt, rode bicycles along with police personnel from seven police stations for a campaign against child abuse and drugs. There were 52 participants. Mylapore DCP Disha Mittal madam flagged off the rally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hitting-new-ground/article37989057.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||From the archives||The role of a Village Vigilance Committe (VVC) — the precursor of the Station Vigilance Committe, a modern example of which throbs to this day in Mylapore — is somewhat evident from its self-explanatory name. However, the finer features of the entity are largely lost on us. Pages out of The Hindu Archives travel some distance towards spotlighting the significance of VVCs by preserving anecdotes of how members of VVCs assisted the police in crime prevention and detection, during the British era. A report dated May 30, 1936 from Trichinopoly, pictures V. Rajagopala Thamban, District Superintendent of Police addressing a gathering of members from 36 VVCs at a theatre. Through the theatre was hosting just a meeting, it did come alive on account of the DSP’s speech, punctuated as it was with accounts of derring-dos by ordinary citizens. He recalled the “brave capture of a desperate criminal by a woman of Uppidimangalam while in the act of committing robbery”. The singular act by a regular citizen had “led to the unravelling of the activities of a gang of about 75 desperate criminals who had ravaged the district.” An account of a meeting at a Corporation school in Choolai (April 29, 1952) presents a snapshot of a post-independence Madras and an era when the VVCs had shed their old skin — a fact reflected in its new nomenclature, Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — and slipped into another that sported almost identical scales. Under its new name, the entity was doing what it was known to do best: work alongside the police. Sub-Inspector Dhanraj of the Vepery Police was cheerful about “the increasing co-operation” extended by the Vepery division of Station Vigilance Committee to them. Memebers of the Vepery SVC would not leave the meeing without scooping rewards — given away by J. Devasagayam, Commisaioner of Police — for cracking crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-archives/article37989059.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A view from ‘Rapylon’||The lone male common kestrel would be pugnacious in the defence of its territory, at the Siruthavur lake, intrepidly flinging itself into the arena, even taking on raptors many times its size. “We have seen the common kestrel mobbing the resident red-necked falcon and the short-toed snake eagle, which is five to six times bigger,” recalls eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. Known in the local birding circles for his keen eye for raptors, Ganaskandan has a reliable theory explaining the dynamics of how the underdog triumphs in this unequal match-up. “Due to their agility, all these smaller raptors have an upper hand over the large raptors, which cannot manoeuvre so quickly in the air,” notes Gnanaskandan. However, despite the explanation, he cannot help chuckle at the memory of the kestrel launching itself into a short-toed snake eagle. From 2009 to 2014, the male common kestrel would be in attendance during the winter, sticking to the same perches, hardly budging an inch from it. “It would come by the end of October or early November and would be around until March. Based on the perches it would take, I could tell from a distance it is that bird. Similarly, its hunting territory was restricted; it would not allow itself to go beyond a certain place. If I had to show a common kestrel to someone who had never seen one before, I could safely take them to the spot, trusting the bird to be in the same spot — and it would not disappoint me,” he remarks. “As a result of this consistency, around 50 per cent of the Madras Naturalists’ Society crowd knew the bird in person, and were even on first-name terms with it.” With so much familiarity between raptor and birder, it would have been a shame not to give it a name. MNS members christened it Ceaser. “When anyone mentioned Ceaser the common kestrel, the others would know that it is the common kestrel from Siruthavur.” Gnanaskandan and his birder-friends used to be on the trail of a wintering peregrine falcon pair. It was a trail that was predictable the peregrines showed their claws, and did nothing to put their admirers off the scent. “This pair of peregrine falcons would winter at Perumbakkam wetland — and we have been seeing them for quite a few years. They would be drawn to a particular pylon, one found close to the road.” Gnanskandan notes that the spot on the pylon where each of the peregrines would roost can be pinpointed with decimal-point accuracy. “When active and hunting — the peregrines chose a bigger pylon in the middle of the marsh, where an osprey also used to roost. The Osprey would be at the base; and the peregrines would be sitting above, on a triangle. It would not choose the apex, but the triangle right below it. For two years, we saw the pair. For three years, I am seeing only one bird — the male — probably the other bird is roosting a little further away. For the last two years — due to unpredictable rain patterns, even the male is not staying back. Usually, the bird would be around from November to March, and during the weeks when it rains, it would temporarily retreat from the scene and promptly come back when the weather returns to normality. However, in 2019, 2020 and now in 2021, due to the unpredictable weather patterns, I notice that the bird is not staying back as long as it used to.” The Shaheen falcon — the resident Indian cousin of the peregrine falcon — would begin its sojourn at the Perumbakkam wetland in May or June. “The Shaheen falcon would come by May or June during the south-west monsoon. They are probably coming down because they want to skip the monsoon on the western side. Where they come from is an unanswered question, but whenever they arrive, it is usually May or June; and when they leave, October. There was one season when we saw the Shaheen roosting at a particular spot on a pylon — and the same year, in November and December, we noticed a peregrine flacon roosting at the same spot. Probably from that spot, they are getting a better view of the lake — or it could be some other favourable factor. “ Preference for a particular pylon at the Perumbakkam wetland gave it a character and a name. “There is one specific pylon that would be occupied by every other raptor that we have seen in the vicinity— so much so that we named it Rapylon (raptor pylon). That was the closest pylon which was near the water and where the dry lake bed starts.” All the raptors were on the same page that it was a pylon with a view.  When active and hunting, the peregrines chose a bigger pylon in the middle of the marsh, where an osprey also used to roost||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-view-from-rapylon/article37989045.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteers from a neighbourhood match steps with the law keepers||The traffic on Kutchery Road has thinned down, and there is a sense of a neighbourhood winding down. A clutch of residents is out to buck the overpowering lethargy, and their uniform reflects their intent. On Friday and Saturday, their day is double-layered, rising afresh from the embers in the late hours. It is a quarter past ten in the night, and there is a lot ahead of them. They are assembled at the E1 Police Station for another Friday of night patrolling. Members of Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — Mylapore division, they would fan into various neighbourhoods, along with patrol teams from seven stations under Mylapore police jurisdiction. They assist the police personnel in workaday patrolling, which includes flipping through vehicle documents. Shankar KS checks the SVC’s WhatsApp group to ascertain how many volunteers could be expected to hit the road today. Seven had expressed willingness to join the night patrol and therefore, they would be operating in three areas only — Mylapore (around Luz signal), Abhiramapuram and Santhome. He reveals that SVC Mylapore division has 52 active members with the overall count somewhere around 80. “Night patrolling work is not for everyone and the older among us might be volunteering for temple work.” SVC volunteers are acclaimed for their work during the annual Panguni festival in crowd control. “Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month. This year we have already completed 5,000 man hours and the remaining major interventions required of us are the Christmas and New Year eve, when we would be out around midnight regulating vehicle movement.” Usually, the New Year’s eve brings out the bonhomie the SVC volunteers share with the Mylapore police personnel. “Last year, on New Year, after finishing our work, we assembled along with the teams from 7 stations. A cake was cut in a gesture of honour that was extended to our team,” recalls Shankar, adding that SVC has earned a lot of goodwill across the neighbourhood, which is reflected in the fact that though like K Viswanathan for Mylapore Residents Welfare Association are associated with it. The SVC convenor notes that challenges of the pandemic have caused the SVC volunteers and the police personnel to work more closely. ’In 2020, when S Nelson sir was the ACP, during the first lockdown, they wanted us to distribute groceries and vegetables. Though the funds flowed in, there was a clear dearth of people who could take the grocery and vegetable kits to beneficiaries on time — we filled that void. I selected 15 youngsters from our team for this work. My notion of youngsters includes those in their late 40s — I was 47 at that point in time,” he chuckles. “Every day, in the morning we would head to the station and on the verandah, groceries and vegetables would be laid out. On an average, we would pack 150 to 200 grocery and vegetable kits. For 28 days, we carried out this service. The area behind Citi Centre had reported the earliest Coronavirus breakouts, and we worked for a week at that place, distributing kits. None of the team members got Covid-19 during the first wave. During the second wave, some of us were infected with Covid-19, and we quarantined and recovered. Team members advised how they should take care of themselves,” says Shankar. He remarks that SVC volunteers also did more than what was expected of them by roping in a voluntary organisation Chakra Foundation for sponsorship and also passed the hat around among friends and family towards meeting the expenses for a few days of procuring vegetables and groceries. Shankar explains that the profile of the SVC volunteers is impressive. To give an idea, “there is a high-ranking official from the Airport Authority of India; two high-flying chartered accountants; two doctors; a couple of entrepreneurs and someone who has a doctorate in astrology; I have a doctorate in psychology.” He states that the volunteers leave outside the gates of the police station, any professional pride they may have, and submit themselves unconditionally to the rules binding them. Every month, we document our duty hours in digital format and a the end of the month, we take a printout of it and give it to the jurisdictional officer, having it signed and sealed. We do the same at the end of the year. Though the volunteers are concentrated in and around the Mylapore region, the call of duty can come from anywhere and they have to respond to it enthusiastically. “Our SVC may belong to the Mylapore division, but our work is not circumscribed by geography. We have worked in Besant Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur and other places outside the Mylapore area.. When the Marudeeswarar temple kumbabishekam happened, being the ACP covering that area, M Visveswaraya sir called, ‘Shankar, bring your team.’ We went.” A noticeable part of their volunteering has to do with the Kapalaeshwarar temple, and this includes attending to protocols relating to temple visits by VIPs.  Annually, as a group, we put in 4,000 to 5,000 man hours, with every volunteer expected to complete at least 15 hours of volunteering every month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteers-from-a-neighbourhood-match-steps-with-the-law-keepers/article37989037.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Wait for the bus seems endless||For commuters waiting to board MTC buses along Thiruneermalai Main Road, Chennai Outer Ring Road, Thirumudivakkam and Pazhanthandalam Road, the wait seems endless. The number of routes can be counted on the fingers of one hand. Currently, only route number 55A (Pazhanthandalam to Pallavaram) and 155A (Pazhanthandalam to Broadway) ply through Thiruneermalai Main Road, Chennai Outer Ring Road and Pazhanthandalam Road. B Saravanan, a resident of Saraswathypuram Extension, Thiruneermalai, says, “55A plies once in 30 minutes and 155A every two hours.” For residents of these areas to reach the city, the nearest railway station, bus stop and metro station are Pallavaram and Chennai International Airport metro station, says V. Santhanam, a social activist and resident of Chromepet. As a result, commuters have to depend either on private modes of transport or commute using share autorickshaws. The packed autorickshaws is proof that these areas need better MTC connectivity. From Thiruneemalai to Pallavaram, a passenger has to pay Rs. 50 in an auto. “The frequency of the bus services should be increased. Also, a new route number plying between Chennai International Airport and Thirumudivakkam should be introduced at the earliest,” says Saravanan. ‘Restore small bus’ Residents of Thiruneermalai have requested the MTC to restore the services of small buses route numbers S80 and S94. While S80 plies between Chromepet and Pammal, S94 plies between Durga Nagar, Tambaram Sanatorium and Thirumidivakkam Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wait-for-the-bus-seems-endless/article37989036.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Station Vigilance Committee: A movement that still throbs in Mylapore||To any superficial ear, it would have sounded like an oral history project. But it was collecting voices not to enhance an existing, neatly-documented chronicle, but to put one together — almost from the scratch. Though history was being built account by account, history was not the primary goal. The exercise was seeking to recreate a whole voluntary organisation whose spirit had been hollowed out by time’s underhand stab, oblivion. Station Vigilance Committees (SVC) were born within a handful of years from Indian Independence, and would function as a prop to local police stations to keep the order. A Mylapore division of SVC had been in existence since the early 1950s, first having been registered with the Teynampet station, according to Shankar KS, who got on its trail and seems to have recaptured its essence with a reasonable degree of success. “Even as late as 2016, the true significance of SVC eluded us. I was part of SVC Mylapore Division, and with a handful of other members, would go to the Panguni festival for crowd management. That was just about it. There was certainly more to it, and I started looking for the missing pieces that would give a complete and meaningful picture of the voluntary group,” discloses Shankar, who operates as a convenor of SVC Mylapore Division. Shankar and the similarly curious found themselves on a circuitous route, one that required them to back out of cul-de-sacs. Information was as hard to crack as igneous rock, as the organisation had fallen into a soporific lull for decades. Scraps of information included the fact that a resident of the locality Marthandam was helming the voluntary group for many years, after he passed on, there was no one to take the baton and run the good run. The persistent search led them to one Raghavan, an ex-general secretary of SVC. “Raghavan had been associated with the pioneers of the SVC movement; and we learnt from Raghavan that after the 1980s, they had brought out a souvenir to mark a milestone year. For two months, Raghavan would keep me on a wild goose chase for the documents and other material that would lay bare a substantial period of SVC’s history — all the while sussing out if we were sincere about running the SVC or had been taken up with it as a passing fancy. “He would ask me to come to Mylapore to discuss SVC. The meeting would have been fixed for 10 a.m., and I would show up at 9.45 a.m., but he would have arrived at 9.30 a.m., just to see how sincere I was about the cause. I would not know him by sight. After doing this multiple times, one day, he asked me to come to Sai Baba temple at 7 p.m., and handed over a couple of documents, which gave us the confidence to wipe off the dust that had accumulated on SVC and make if functional again, in a meaningful manner. We realised what was at the heart of this organisation,” says Shankar. “We learnt that during the 1980s and 1990s, at Panguni Utsavam in Mylapore, a camp would set up. Two shamianas would be pitched, one for the police department and the other for SVC. The Commissioner of Police would inaugurate the camp. At that time, the size of the SVC team was 123 members, and they were equipped with walkie-talkies. Even jeeps would be extended to SVC members to enable them carry out their assistive role effectively.” There is not much documentation about the early years of SVC — not that there was much later — but history about the voluntary exercise handed down to the current generation has it that PG Gopalakrishnan, an ex-army man who had served in the military under the British, was a pioneer in the movement, having served as president of SVC Madras & Chingelpet. Shankar notes that that when he started out, Gopalakrishnan had the counsel of a five-member core team. From handed-down accounts and slim documentation, it is said that the Mylapore division had first been registered with the Teynampet police station. Besides, there is evidence that in 1980, the division had received a camp number. As the division had been running in fits and starts, and considerable time had elapsed since the last time it was active, and details about its registration were hazy, the current crop of SVC volunteers decided to have it registered afresh. They had it done last year under the Society’s Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/station-vigilance-committee-a-movement-that-still-throbs-in-mylapore/article37989041.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Where have those oxygen concentrators gone?||One of the most poignant images of the second wave was of COVID-19 positive people struggling to get medical oxygen. Non-governmental organisations, service groups, corporates and many individuals chipped in to procure oxygen cylinders/concentrators that became a life-saver for many. Remember the price of these devices had also skyrocketed due to the demand. Where are these equipment now? Many organisations The Hindu Downtown spoke to said they had kept it safely for use in the eventuality of another medical crisis. Greater Chennai Corporation has sent the devices that it received through donations to its various Urban Primary Health Centres. “We received 760 devices from various groups including corporates, social groups and individuals and they are kept safe at our UPHCs,” says S Banumati, joint director/ additional city medical officer, Medical Service Department, Greater Chennai Corporation. She says a few of them are being used at these centres depending on the need. Members of Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) ran various initiatives to ensure people got oxygen including deploying buses fitted with oxygen cylinders. In May, it had procured more than 40 oxygen concentrators and had even set up its own ‘Oxygen Concentrator Bank’. The concentrators were being lent to people on a no-cost basis. The organisation, however, is yet to take a final decision on these concentrators but plans to give them away to the government or a charitable hospital. The initiative ‘O2 for Oxygen’ had devices used by scuba drivers sourced to help those in dire need. “These are high-grade medical oxygen used by scuba drivers and instructors. When they were not need we returned the devices to them. The rest, around 10, are placed at an IT company’s data centre,” says a volunteer. He says these machines have to be sanitised and kept away from dust and sun rays; so, an air-conditioned space where servers are stored takes cares of these cylinders. Kadamai Education and Social Welfare Trust’s fitted autorickshaws with oxygen cylinder and arrived at the door step of homes. The Trust had sourced 48 cylinders of 10 litre and 47 litre capacity and ferried them in autorickshaws across the city. They returned 18 to the medical equipment company they sourced it from and the rest are kept at a room near the Trust’s office in North Chennai. “The pandemic is not over yet and some emergency cases needing oxygen do come up once in a while, which is why we decided to keep 30 equipment with us,” says C. Vasantha Kumar, founder-secretary of the trust. G Sripriya, founder, Gold Heart Foundation, which coordinated with a network of NGOs during the crisis, says a few organisations have given it to private hospitals so that it can be put to use. “They plan to take it back if a need for them arises, which is a better plan than keeping them unused in a corner,” says Sripriya, adding that they have around six cylinders that are circulated among homes of senior citizens. C.J. Zeba, who had turned his Maruti Omni into a makeshift ambulance, complete with an oxygen dispensing arrangement to ferry people to hospitals for free, says his vehicle remains the same. “I started with one 10-litre cylinder and added five other during the course of the months. Two are still fitted in the vehicle and is supplied to people. The others are given to homes of people,” says Zeba. He says there are people who do not want to be treated in a hospital and those requiring the oxygen gas reach out to him. “Recently, a family in Red Hills called for the cylinder as the patient did not want hospitalisation and only after I was convinced that they got consent from the doctor did I deliver it to them,” says Zeba. Some groups bought the equipment from medical equipment companies to return after the demand for oxygen starting falling in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/where-have-those-oxygen-concentrators-gone/article37989017.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Adding colour to life||At Easwaran Koil Street in Urapakkam, a name board with ‘Ramya Gifts’ hung on the gates of an apartment is a gentle reminder to neighbours and friends to practise inclusiveness. This humble enterprise is run on the name of G Ganesh Kumar, an intellectually challenged adult, with his mother and sister playing big roles in it. Those who have shopped from here probably know that every item ordered from here goes a long way in making Ganesh self-reliant and independent. Since 2018, this unit has been taking up orders for sublimation printing, which is a method of printing customised images on tee-shirts, mugs, pillow covers and other souvenirs. “Until the pandemic began, the business did somewhat well. We even got a few corporate orders for gifting,” says Ramya Meenakshi, Ganesh’s sister. Diagonised with cerebral palsy with intellectual disability, Ganesh has improved a lot over the years, say family members. “In the early years, he would only sit in a place. Through various interventions, he now does the packing part of the business, which is a big step towards engaging him as he communicates most of the information through facial expressions,” says Ramya. All through these years, Saradha Devi, Ganesh’s mother, has upskilled herself by taking up a course in caretaker training and as special educator. In 2016, the mother and son underwent a six-month skill training programme at the Department of Adult Independent Living at NIEPMD in “sublimation printing”. “This was a turning point for Ganesh as post the training, the Leonard Cheshire Project and European Union Livelihood Project, under the theme ‘Parent Child Supported Employment Initiatives’ helped set up this unit by giving us a machine, printer, name board and even our first order,” says Ramya. While Ramya helps with the design, Saradha is responsible for printing and Ganesh takes care of the packing. “Ganesh likes working with colours, so he fixes the background of the pictures,” she says. Ganesh has a few awards to his credit. Recently, on December 3, he received the State Award for 2021 under the category of “Best Self-Employed with Disability” – Male (Multiple Disabilities) by the Office of State Commissionerate for Welfare of the Differently Abled, Govt. of Tamil Nadu. In 2019, he received National Award under the category of “Best Self-Employment with Disability”– Male (Multiple Disabilities) from the Government of India. His mother is a recipient of Best Special Mom instituted by Aronadaya Trust in 2018. “The best support we can give those with multiple disabilities is networking with various support groups so that the best can be offered to the child,” says Saradha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/adding-colour-to-life/article37989029.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Voices from the neighbourhood||N Balachander:  “A neighbour to Shankar KS, I was aware of his volunteering initiative with Station Vigilance Committee. Prior to joining SVC in 2018, I was associated with the activities at the Kapaleeshwarar temple, particularly the festivals. Volunteering with SVC over the last three years has left me with a trove of memories. The most recent one has to do with a case of drunken driving by two youngsters, near Thanithurai Market. Both the youngsters were badly injured but without any threat to the lives. They had hit a speed breaker and had a fall. We promptly called for an ambulance, simultaneously called the team from the police and boys’ respective parents. We followed through with the case to find out how they boys were doing in hospital. Another incident was at Pattinapakkam, where the police patrol team we were with had to give a vehicle a chase and bring the occupants to book. SVC volunteers primarily assist the police by looking through the documents — if there is anything suspect, we immediately tell the police and they would detain the vehicle. Inspecting the documents relating to insurance, licence, vehicle RC book and asking the relevant questions — Where are you going? Why are you out travelling at this hour? — are what we routinely do. If there is anything suspicious, we immediately inform the Inspector or SI who would be nearby and they will decide whether to file a case. The police would ask us to be with them, to the maximum extent possible, and advise us against going it alone in the night, for our safety. I am working in a corporate house and Saturday and Sunday are my days off, and after the shift is over on Friday, I go on patrolling work.  A Elangovan:  Besides the deep sense of satisfaction that can come only from service without any expectations, this weekend night patrolling work eases jangled nevers, relaxing us after a week’s work. A friend had been telling me about SVC, but I was not going to act on his suggession. I joined nine months ago, after finding out for myself what it was all about. There are so many people who want to join SVC, but we are selective about who we take on board, as we do not want its name to be spoilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/voices-from-the-neighbourhood/article37989038.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Two initiatives to spread the Christmas cheer||The staff and management at CURI Hospital on Rajiv Gandhi Salai are getting ready for a busy week. They are going to spend some extra hours, beyond the regular hospital work, to spread the Christmas cheer by delivering special meals cooked from the hospital canteen. For the second year, the team lead by chefs Sathish, Partha and Somnath and dietician Vidya and Sivasankari are going to cook an extra meal for every order placed with them. “Order your Christmas lunch and we will deliver with it lunch for another family. It could be your maid, driver, iron man or the lady selling vegetables in the corner,” reads a note circulated on WhatsApp. Gayathri Ananthakrishnan, managing director, CURI Hospital, says the initiative is aimed at spreading the festive cheer and instill the value of empathy in the staff. “As our canteen only caters to hospital patients and guests, our staff raise their bar for the Christmas lunch where the menu includes an array of vegetarian and non-vegetarian options,” says Gayathri. The staff are involved in taking orders, cooking, packing and delivering food. “Last year, we handed over 350 meals,” says Gayathri, adding that the staff spread the word. She says people chose to give those working for them, some wanted a surprise meal sent to a friend/senior citizen; and many others were specific that it be shared with a needy person. There is a dietician that can be consulted over the phone for those with a diet restriction and the meal is accordingly customised. Each of these meal packs are delivered with a personalised message, again to ring in the spirit of the season. The Christmas lunch will be delivered on December 19, 24 and 25. To place an order and for other details, contact 8838093097 / 8778125395   More than 30 volunteers gathered at Urban Desi House in Perungudi on Saturday for a gift-wrapping activity. The objective of wrapping presents in colourful papers is to bring a smiles to underprivileged children whose hands they would be placed in. The smiles will grow wider when the child unwraps the present as each of them is chosen with a lot of love and care by our team, says Sunitha Vikram and Subha Pandian of Agua Women Foundation. They along with a clutch of volunteers have been driving an initiative for the last five years called ‘Gifting Smiles’, where funds collected from well-wishers are used to buy age-appropriate gifts to be distributed on December 26. “This is our sixth year and the initiative has grown with the support of many volunteers,” says Sunitha. One important task after wrapping the gifts is to colour and gender-code gifts like toys, stationery, books and sports kits so that they go to the right age group. Every year, the gifts are given in a different locality. Last year, 2000 gifts were distributed with the help of 150 volunteers. “Our drive starts in October and so far we have collected a few lakh of rupees. New toys are bought at wholesale rates and brought to a common point for packing,” says Subha. She says they have volunteers spread across various zones in Chennai who collect these gifts and distribute them in the respective areas. “In the previous editions, we covered nine neighbourhoods where teams would launch out after Christmas. Due to the pandemic, this time, we are planning to divide into four teams and we will be restricting the work to areas on ECR, especially where fishermen hamlets  are located,” says Subha. Gifting Smiles also collects new toys from well-wishers. “One could even volunteer for distribution,” says Subha. For details, contact Subha at 9790907817.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-initiatives-to-spread-the-christmas-cheer/article37989043.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A platform for unsung artistes||While engaging her one-and-a-half year-old son, Batchu Mahathi Rao sings Srimannarayana Srimannarayana hymn composed by the 15th-century saint poet Annamacharya. And while cooking she again sings the same song. This way the 31-year-old, a mother of two children, tries to take out time to practise for the Marghazhi music and dance festival, organised by the Federation of Radial Road Residents’ Associations (FORRRA). FORRRA is organising the Margazhi classical music and dance festival for the first time. Events will be held every Sunday evening through the month of Margazhi. Adults and children above 10 years of age from any part of Chennai can take part in the event. “After my college days, I have got an opportunity to sing. I have sung during Navarathri and Vinayakar Chathurthi celebrations held in our apartment in front of our neighbours. But, I am excited about this Margazhi festival because this event is going to witness a larger audience and not just our neighbours alone,” says Mahathi, a participant. Nithya K was eagerly looking forward to this year’s Margazhi festival to be an audience in any one of the events happening in Mylapore or T Nagar which is far away from her home, which is in Pallikaranai. But she never thought that she would be performing this Margazhi. “I’m not a professional singer. As a child, I have been part of groups singing bhajans in temples back in my hometown Palakkad. Later, I had performed during my college days. Marriage and career pushed music to the back seat. Now, after a long break, I have got an opportunity to perform before a wider audience. My 10-year-old son is also participating. Earlier, he was part of group performances at events organised by his music school. FORRRA's will be the first event where he will be giving a solo performance. While I am planning to render Maithreem Bhajatha, composed by Sri Chandrasekharendra Saraswathi Swamigal fondly known as Maha Periyava, my son will be rendering from Thiruppavai or Thiruvembavai or Thirupugazh ,”  says 34-year-old Nithya who works as an electronics engineer in the automotive industry. Pavithra Subhash, a coordinator of this programme, says: “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But this time, FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising this Marghazhi festival,” says G. Amrithavalli, a resident of Kovilambakkam who have also enrolled for the festival. “As there are no sabhas in and around Pallikaranai, FORRRA thought of hosting a festival of this kind that will entertain its residents and provide a platform for both budding and unknown artists to showcase their talent,” says B. Vijayalakshm, FORRRA president. Ever since FORRRA announced its plan to organise the Margazhi festival the response has been good. Music schools are also participating. “So far, 40 have registered for the event. Some are practising for 15 years. They include teachers of music schools. Certainly, this event will serve as a bond-building exercise among the residents of Pallikaranai and nearby areas,” says S.K. Shankar, secretary, FORRRA. FORRRA comprises the following gated communities located along the Pallavaram Thoraipakkam 200 Feet Radial Road — S&S Sarvam, Jones Sigiriya, Tranquil Acres Phase One, Tranquil Acres Phase Two, and Ramaniyam Ocean Dew. The events will be held on the premises of any one of these gated-communities. Participation fee is Rs. 250. To register for the event, call 044 – 4952 1397. FORRRA can be reached at forrra.2020@gmail.com  “Residents’ associations generally stay focussed on civic issues plaguing their locality and also conduct celebrations within their own community. But FORRRA has taken a big leap by involving the whole of Chennai in organising a music event to mark the Margazhi season.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-platform-for-unsung-artistes/article37989044.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizens’ group seesk regular cleaning of Chitlapakkam lake||Chitlapakkam Rising, a citizens group, wants the Tambaram Corporation to make arrangements to clean the walkway around the Chilapakkam lake every day. With restoration of Chitlapakkam lake nearing completion, the waterbody and the area around it is becoming a happening place which is already drawing a good number of visitors. Years of concerted efforts by the citizens’ group to see a fresh lease of life to the lake has begun to yield fruits. On account of which, volunteers of the citizens group, has embarked on a cleaning exercise which is aimed at creating awareness among the visitors that they do not litter the waterbody and the area around it. “The challenge now is maintaining the lake for which we need to educate and sensitise the visitors. Therefore, every weekend the cleaning drive is held where volunteers of the group collect plastic waste such as wrappers, bottles and other kinds of trash. As there were no dustbins in place, members of the group pooled in money and bought 13 dustbins. Children painted them and wrote on the bins "use me." We made children to go and advise other children visiting the lake to keep it clean and should abstain from throwing anything into the lake. We targeted children because a change can be effected easily through them than making adults understand,” says Jai Kumar Dhanasekaran, a volunteer of the group. Another volunteer of the group, Dayanand Krishnan took this to the notice of Commissioner of the Tambaram Corporation. “For days, the bins were not cleared. Therefore, I had to escalate the issue to the Commissioner. He has assured to do the needful. At least on alternative days, the walkway should be cleaned,” says Dayanand. The group also planted tree saplings of native species. “There are some spots around the lake with no trees. There, saplings have been planted a few months ago. They were planted when they were nine inches but now they are close to two feet,” says Sunil Jayaram, another volunteer of the group. The citizens group also wants the Corporation to complete the pending restoration work at the earliest which includes fencing of the waterbody and installation of lights.  “As there were no dustbins in place, members of the group pooled in money and bought 13 dustbins”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizens-group-seesk-regular-cleaning-of-chitlapakkam-lake/article37989027.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Birds’ site fidelity can work for you||Desultory birders may blame it on their luck: others’ is always better. Birding is not about lucking out, but looking out for avians all the time. There is no telling what feathers would pop in round the corner — it does not matter where your turf is. Even with a scattering of greenery, nature has a way of breaking through, and bringing unusual feathers one’s way. Recently, birder Rama Neelamegam had a closer view of a winter visitor, an Asian brown flycatcher, that had been haunting her busy neighbourhood, D’Silva Raad, for four winter seasons, if not more. From the terrace of her first-floor home, she had been training her binoculars on the weeny little bird, certain that it was a flycatcher from its call and flight pattern. The bird would check into an Indian almond tree ( terminalia catappa ) on the opposite side of the road, three buildings away. Slipped in between two houses, the Indian almond tree underwent some significant chopping to keep its nosey branches out of windows, notes Rama. The Asian brown flycatcher did not take this unfriendliness to heart, and has made a mango tree bang opposite Rama’s homestead its new home. “It resides on the mango tree, where it also hunts for prey. It sunbathes on a mast tree nearby when the sun is high, usually around 7.30 a.m.,” notes Rama. As her new neighbour prefers the upper and lower canopies — as a species, the Asian brown flycatcher would instinctively reach for the top of a tree — Rama is now spared the effort of having to climb on to the terrace, binoculars tucked in an arm. Just one seed dropped to the ground can make a difference to the migratory season: a nugget of wisdom birder and photographer Leo Vino has discovered parked in his living room. He has raised a fig tree in the vacant plot adjacent to his home in Sembakkam, obtaining permission from the plot owner who lives abroad. As a result of this prudent move, uninvited visitors have been bringing chirps and cheer into his life. There are birds that display site loyalty, returning to the tree season after season. The loyalists include an Asian brown flycatcher and an orange-headed thrush. Common hawk-cuckoo and Indian Cuckoo invited themselves to the party three seasons ago when many worms and caterpillars were found on the fig tree, notes Leo. One paradise flyctacher has a look-in in the first week of December, but has not put in an appearance yet this season. “This tree is my bird hide.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/birds-site-fidelity-can-work-for-you/article37989046.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural Information & Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on December 23. The session is open to all. For registration and other details, call 044 - 2953 0048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mushroom-cultivation/article37989033.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Art worskshop for children||Global Art is a centre that offers courses aimed at developing the creative skills of children through painting and colouring. Its programmes are meant for children from five to 15 years of age, says a press release. This December, it is conducting a free workshop. It will held both online and offline. E certificates will be issued to the participants, adds the release. Global Art has 130 centres in India. Last date for registration is December 22. For details, call 95662 62366 / 95001 69017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/art-worskshop-for-children/article37989030.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Gita classes at Madipakkam||Vanitha Sathyanarayanan is conducting Gita classes at Sundara Vinayakar temple at No: 19, Aishwarya Street, Sheela Nagar in Madipakkam. According to a press release, classes will be held on Saturdays from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. The session was inaugurated by Poojya Guruji Swami Brahmayogananda on December 14, adds the release. For details, call 97910 19514.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gita-classes-at-madipakkam/article37989031.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a pandemic||For everyone, the challenges that began in 2020 have continued to this day in one form or the other. Without exception, everyone has had to revisit time-tested models of executing things, and that includes how residents' welfare associations (RWAs) run their neighbourhoods. As The Hindu Downtown covers the activities and initiatives of RWAs extensively, on the occasion of its 23rd anniversary, the supplement invites them to share with us what they think the pandemic has taught them. The RWAs can send in their write-ups to downtownfeedback@thehindu.co.in. Submissions with perspicacious observations will be featured in the pages of The Hindu Downtown in the first few editions of year 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lessons-from-a-pandemic/article37989034.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Home Guards and SVCs||Home Guards and SVCs are geared towards service, both assisting the police. There are points of divergence, a remarkable one having to do with remuneration. While Home Guards have a form of remuneration, SVCs have none. Says Shankar KS, convenor of the Mylapore division of SVC: “When we go on night duty, I have to quench my thrist myself with water I had brought from home. If we want to have tea — we take turns to buy it for each other. Whenever the team has done something exemplary, we woukd tell the respective ACP about it, and they night issue a certificate of appreciation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/home-guards-and-svcs/article37989039.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hitting new ground||The pandemic had led them to step into fresh areas of volunteering, one that entails helping the police personnel run Coronavirus campaigns. Shankar KS, convenor, Station Vigilance Committee — Mylapore division, touches upon recent campaigns. “On November 28, 2021, SVC volunteers had gone on a tour of the neighbourhood, the traffic team i tow. “Dressed up as Yamadarmaraja and Chitraguptan, the volunteers headed to the Mylapore signal. A stage had been erected at what is popularly called Sangeetha point. We even hopped on a couple of buses, and spoke to the passengers. We took a stroll for 10 to 15 minutes, and using mikes, stressed upon the Coronavirus protocols to be followed. Following this, Gautaman sir who heads the L&O team, sought that the SVC team take out a rally. From his desk, I made a call to a young volunteer in the group who is a part of a Jawa motorcycles club. The next day, we lined up 15 Jawa enthusiasts with their machines. Members of SVC brought around 10 Bullets. Those who had neither, brought along their 100 cc motorcycles — and I brought my scooter, and took out a rally. Our programme started at Sangeetha point, did two rounds of the Mada streets — and we would stop and make announcements about masking up, maintaining social distancing, hand-washing. Besides, as recently as December 12, SVC volunteers, togged in their khaki trousers and white shirt, rode bicycles along with police personnel from seven police stations for a campaign against child abuse and drugs. There were 52 participants. Mylapore DCP Disha Mittal madam flagged off the rally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hitting-new-ground/article37989040.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||From the archives||The role of a Village Vigilance Committe (VVC) — the precursor of the Station Vigilance Committe, a modern example of which throbs to this day in Mylapore — is somewhat evident from its self-explanatory name. However, the finer features of the entity are largely lost on us. Pages out of The Hindu Archives travel some distance towards spotlighting the significance of VVCs by preserving anecdotes of how members of VVCs assisted the police in crime prevention and detection, during the British era. A report dated May 30, 1936 from Trichinopoly, pictures V. Rajagopala Thamban, District Superintendent of Police addressing a gathering of members from 36 VVCs at a theatre. Through the theatre was hosting just a meeting, it did come alive on account of the DSP’s speech, punctuated as it was with accounts of derring-dos by ordinary citizens. He recalled the “brave capture of a desperate criminal by a woman of Uppidimangalam while in the act of committing robbery”. The singular act by a regular citizen had “led to the unravelling of the activities of a gang of about 75 desperate criminals who had ravaged the district.” An account of a meeting at a Corporation school in Choolai (April 29, 1952) presents a snapshot of a post-independence Madras and an era when the VVCs had shed their old skin — a fact reflected in its new nomenclature, Station Vigilance Committee (SVC) — and slipped into another that sported almost identical scales. Under its new name, the entity was doing what it was known to do best: work alongside the police. Sub-Inspector Dhanraj of the Vepery Police was cheerful about “the increasing co-operation” extended by the Vepery division of Station Vigilance Committee to them. Memebers of the Vepery SVC would not leave the meeing without scooping rewards — given away by J. Devasagayam, Commisaioner of Police — for cracking crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-archives/article37989042.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer- writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37989018.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Volunteers invited for beach clean-up initiative||G-Square Group Presents Team up to Clean Up, My City, My Coast, My Environment powered by The Hindu is Calling for volunteers to be a part of the massive beach clean-up in 10 major hotspots on the ECR stretch on 26 December from 7 to 9 AM. The locations are: 1. Broken bridge to Olcott Kuppam 2. Ashtalakshmi temple beach 3. Arupadai Murugan temple beach 4. 4th seward road beach Thiruvanmiyur 5. Palavakkam beach 6. Beach Road Neelankarai 7. Injambakkam North beach (North of VGP) 8. Injamabakkam South beach (South of VGP) 9. Akkarai beach 10. Panaiyur beach To volunteer register at: https://bit.ly/G2BEA or scan the QR Code For queries, call: 9841962820 The knowledge partner for this initiative is Environmentalist Foundation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/volunteers-invited-for-beach-clean-up-initiative/article37989021.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||RWA pays tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rwa-pays-tribute/article37989023.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||This moment in time||What did the virus look like,” Matangi-Ma, the eponymous blind matriarch of Namita Gokhale’s novel, wonders. “Did the virus have feelings? Was it angry with the world?” As we grapple with the uncertainties created by yet another variant of the coronavirus, her questions seem apposite. The pandemic has warped our sense of time and space. While the days drag, months fly by. The holiday paradox explains this distortion in time perception — the fewer the memories from a period, the shorter its remembered duration. The scant number of experiences during the lockdowns has made us think of them as mere interludes, brief periods of inconvenience to be skimmed over.    The Blind Matriarch stops us in our tracks. It is a reminder of the human cost of the last two years, lest we forget. At its centre is C100, a bustling four-storey house in a lush Delhi locality. It occupants have been forced into spatial proximity by the pandemic and nurtured by a resilient Matangi-Ma, who lives on the top floor with her domestic help, Lali. She enjoys TV serials and fancies herself as Ba from Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi . The re-runs of Mahabharata on Doordarshan, though, are like a “stab in her heart”, as Dhritarashtra and Gandhari remind her of the gradual onset of her own blindness. She wills herself to darkness, resolving never to see her husband’s face again. Meet the family In the floor below lives her youngest son, Satish, with his wife Ritika and son Rahul. TISS and SOAS-graduate Shanta, a social worker and Matangi-Ma’s daughter, lives on the ground floor with Trump, her cat, and Munni, her help. Suryaveer and his son Samir occupy the first floor of the house. While 18-year-old Samir compares life “that gave him an abundance of parents” to a Terry Pratchett novel, Suryaveer is “a lapsed communist, a sceptical mystic, belonging neither to the right [n]or the left, still searching for his centre.” As we spend a little more than a year with the family, we get to know each member intimately. “I am large — I contain multitudes” — Suryaveer reads Walt Whitman to Matangi-Ma. Gokhale makes us comprehend the multitudes within all the characters she creates. For Matangi-Ma, her daughter-in-law is a voice and a clattering of heels that always take Rahul away. For Ritika, her mother-in-law is a lunatic who sings to a moon she cannot see. And when they converse, each gets a whole new persona. C100 accommodates its inhabitants with all their foibles, just like our families did during the long periods of lockdown. In the novel, the pandemic becomes a disease of remembering, as characters find themselves enslaved to their past and try to break free, one memory at a time. Meticulous record One of the first literary responses in India to the pandemic, The Blind Matriarch meticulously records the turbulent events that unfolded in the country from early 2020. From “A riot. A bye-election. The China virus” to the Janata Curfew and taali-thali appreciation of healthcare workers; from the frenzied hoarding that preceded the lockdown to the crisis of migrant labourers; from work-from-home travails to the death of Irrfan Khan; from the collective gasp for oxygen to hazmat-suit funerals in parking lots — the novel reminds us of it all. In an interview, Gokhale said she was writing in real time, observing and responding to things around her during the isolation of the lockdowns. This gives the novel a piquant honesty, which can unnerve a reader looking at the lived immediate past as immortalised in fiction. Gokhale’s gift lies in effortlessly weaving political commentary into the fabric of her stories. For instance, the master-servant relationships in C100 can be seen as an instance of the problematic gaze of ‘progressive’ savarnas. The house-helps are always smelly, garrulous and gossip-hungry. Lali hasn’t had a day off in months, and even though it’s Munni who makes the delicious kadhi-rajma-chawal , Shanta, her employer, is called the charitable Ma Annapurna. However, The Blind Matriarch isn’t flawless: some of the dialogues jar, such as when a police officer says “Cheerio” while bidding goodbye. And then there are some unfortunate editing errors. Shanta becomes “Sharda” at one place — a typo that should have been corrected. C100 gives you the impression that life is a mosaic of time — parts of it expanding, contracting, disappearing and some staying on as memories. It perhaps makes as much sense as little Rahul’s haiku: “Lockdown, lockup, lock lock, lock; Shutdown, shutdown, shut, shut, shut; Duck down, duck down, duck, duck, duck.” The reviewer is a freelance journalist based in Bengaluru.  The Blind Matriarch Namita Gokhale Penguin Viking  Rs. 599    In the novel, the pandemic becomes a disease of remembering, as characters find themselves enslaved to their past and try to break free, one memory at a time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/this-moment-in-time/article37989086.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Mark his words||Marcus Tullius Cicero was one of the most famous men of his time. Born a century before Christ, he was a participant in events that are metaphors for democratic politics even today. As a partisan of the Roman Senate, he opposed the capture of the Roman state by Julius Caesar around 50 BC. He was also a terrific writer — the reason why his works on a range of subjects have survived the centuries, nourishing generations of Europeans. He was a fine orator and many of his speeches have come down to us in full. Cicero was a great correspondent as well: it is said that his letters contain more details about the people and events of his time than any history book. Fleshed out One of his correspondents was Titus Pomponius ‘Atticus’ (so named because he liked Athens or Attica). The letters are written in a mix of Latin and Greek, which was the language of high culture for the Romans, in a chatty, conversational manner. A letter from 65 BC opens: “I beg to inform you that on the very day that Julius Caesar and Marcius Figulus were elected to the consulship I was blessed with a baby boy.” The letters are often long and contain a lot of details. This is interesting because correspondence was rare in that period, when paper or papyrus (which was exported from Egypt to Rome) would be in relatively short supply and expensive. And, of course, writing would require penmanship. Even so, hundreds of letters were exchanged over the decades, taking up 16 ‘books’ in all. Much of what we know about the period (and indeed much of what Shakespeare would use in his plays) comes from this correspondence. Facing Caesar at the Battle of Pharsalus in 48 BC, Cicero quotes Pompey (the general who was fighting the dictator on behalf of the Senate) as saying, “Let us hope for victory, or death with freedom.” Of course, Pompey loses and flees, instead of dying. Such revelations put flesh on the bones of figures we know merely as names or busts. Birth of July On March 15 (the ‘ides’), 44 BC, Caesar is knifed near the theatre built by Pompey. Cicero writes to Atticus: “Good god, the tyranny lives on, though the tyrant is dead.” He looked forward to the letters of Atticus, who was four years older to him. We know this because Cicero writes: “You fear I may think you a gas-bag [but] the longest letter of yours ever seems the best to me.” Many interesting bits of information emerge. For instance, in July of the same year that Caesar is killed, Cicero writes to Atticus using the name, July, for the month, which had recently been renamed after the dead dictator from the original Quintilis. Caesar was succeeded by the triumvirate that continued its domination over the state instead of the Republic. Cicero would fall foul of it, leading to his death. Cicero fought tyranny and dictatorship to his last day. After he was hunted down and killed on Mark Antony’s orders, his hands were cut off and put on display. Antony’s wife Fulvia took Cicero’s head, pulled out his tongue, and stabbed it repeatedly with her hairpin as revenge against Cicero’s power of speech. But of course the power of his written word has far outlived him.  The letters are written in a mix of Latin and Greek, which was the language of high culture for the Romans, in a chatty, conversational manner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mark-his-words/article37989083.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Exploding myths of prehistory||Grand narratives may no longer be in fashion in the social sciences. That doesn’t mean that they are out of circulation. Epic forays into the past have continued to flourish, yielding an influential harvest of bestsellers, ranging from Jared Diamond’s Guns, Germs and Steel (1997) and Steven Pinker’s The Better Angels of our Nature (2011) to Yuval Noah Harari’s Sapiens (2014). The diverse backgrounds of the authors notwithstanding, all these books share a common paradigm: an evolutionary approach to history. No holding back This approach presents the social history of humanity as a linear progression through different stages, starting from the simplest (primitive) to the most complex (advanced). In this schema, after Homo sapiens emerged 200,000 years ago, they spent the bulk of this period as small, egalitarian bands of hunter-gatherers. About 10,000 years ago, they discovered agriculture, which ushered in settled communities, a surplus, and a hierarchy to protect the surplus. As agriculture expanded, cities developed, and so did a non-farming class that specialised in arts, crafts and trade, leading eventually to state formation, because you needed state-like structures — including an administrative and warrior elite — to manage the scale and complexity of humans living together in large numbers. This story has the ring of common sense. It not only explains the past, it also makes the present, and all its ills — inequality, violence, endless toil — look inevitable, if not palatable. But this seemingly rational explanation, argue David Graeber and David Wengrow in The Dawn of Everything , is only a myth, and a rather uninteresting one that holds us back from exploring our full potential as political beings. Over 700 pages of expository prose spanning six continents and 30,000 years, Graeber, an anthropologist, and Wengrow, an archaeologist, obliterate the patchwork of untested assumptions that undergird the evolutionary paradigm of human history. Drawing on recent archaeological findings and obscure historical texts in different languages, they amass evidence that human beings were making conscious political and cultural choices way before conventional markers of civilisation — such as kings, money, agriculture, social stratification — became common. Farming as gardening For instance, the notion that cities can’t be run without top-down governance is busted via numerous examples to the contrary, with the most spectacular one being the Mesoamerican city of Teotihuacan, which had extensive social housing but shows no evidence of having had a king or a governing elite. The myth that the discovery of cereal cultivation sparked the ‘Agriculture Revolution’ is exploded by Neolithic settlements such as Catalhoyuk (dated 7,400 BC), which conceived of farming as playful gardening rather than cultivation of food staples. That so many Neolithic communities stayed committed to foraging even after the acquisition of agricultural knowhow demonstrates, write Graeber and Wengrow, that there was nothing inevitable or automatic about humanity’s drift toward agriculture, inequality, or state-formation. Two thematic strands run through the book: the consolidation of a corpus of archaeological evidence, and a history of ideas. While the archaeological expeditions — be it to Minoan Crete, ruled by a collegium of priestesses, or Tlaxcala, an indigenous republic governed by a democratic council — are fascinating, readers will find the voyage of ideas a bracing joyride. For instance, what we call the Enlightenment, argue the authors, is not a legacy of Europe’s rediscovery of its ancient intellectual glory but a reaction to the searing critique of European civilisation made by Native American intellectuals. Foremost among them was the 17th century Wendat statesman Kandiaronk, a sceptical rationalist who held a mirror to European society, depicting it as a hell hole of greed, misery, and despotism, in contrast to indigenous cultures where mutual aid was the highest value. European intellectual response to the indigenous critique found expression along the Hobbes-Rousseau spectrum which held, at the Hobbesian end, that primitive life was “nasty, brutish and short” or that it was a ‘Garden of Eden’ populated by ‘noble savages’ from which humanity ‘fell’ to the ‘chains’ of civilisation (Rousseau). Regardless of their different starting points and political effects, both perspectives, argue Graeber and Wengrow, served to erase Native American intellectual traditions, setting the stage for the propaganda that modernity and all its ideals — democracy, rationality, reasoned debate, equality — are a bequest of the West (the white race). The erasure and the claim together also supplied the ideological ballast for the ‘civilising’ genocides of European colonialism. Three freedoms Graeber and Wengrow identify three freedoms as fundamental to the cultural universe of pre-agricultural, forager communities: freedom to move, freedom to disobey, and freedom to transform social relationships. They also lay down three criteria for a political formation to be deemed a ‘state’: control over violence, (standing army, police), control over information (bureaucracy), and competition for leadership based on charisma (a political class). The dominant consensus is that a dilution of our freedoms is the price we pay for the goodies of modern civilisation, such as tap water, democracy, and paracetamol. But then, ask Graeber and Wengrow, is a market society where inequality is a given, and a democracy where the majority are onlookers, the end point of humanity’s ‘social evolution’? Or, inspired by the rediscovery of an unknown past, can humanity imagine a future that’s more worthy of itself? Read this extraordinary book and make up your own mind.  The Dawn of Everything: A New History of Humanity David Graeber, David Wengrow Penguin Random House  Rs. 2,515||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/exploding-myths-of-prehistory/article37989103.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Imagined intimacies||There is this recurring image in Selma Carvalho’s Sisterhood of Swans — man leaves woman for another woman and their new baby. In the life of Anna-Marie, a girl of Goan descent growing up in a small English town, this experience starts with Daddy leaving Mummy to go live with pregnant Martha and her teenage son. The event is repeated again and again till you feel you’re looking into a hallway of facing mirrors, at an infinity of couples joining and rejoining. Still, even at this very first abandonment, Anna-Marie feels she is invisibly wired to the father, from whom she is in reality divided, and to his new wife, and to their coming baby. She sees a metal cutter at work clipping away at all that wiring. She is repulsed by her father, and at the same time wants to bury herself in his chest, as she used to in her childhood. Expose the kernel The sisterhood in the story is that of women searching for that elusive, probably non-existent thing called a soulmate, the man for always. Anna-Marie’s search begins with Daniel, her dad’s new stepson, and we follow her subsequent couplings and uncouplings in this slim novel. But each relationship impinges on the life of the other woman — and every woman is the ‘other’ in someone else’s story. Anna-Marie confesses to peddling stereotypes in her understanding of some of these men, but she is actually better than that, as is Carvalho herself. “Every face bears a story,” she writes. “Crack open the surface, rend the skin, expose the kernel.” In her wanderings, Anna-Marie does expose the kernel, looking deep into the Punjabi with the neatly labelled spice bottles, the Indian writing Tory fiscal policy and ready to “ship off all the poor to a penal colony”, even her beery father. Her honesty is what makes this slight novel a work of literature we won’t forget in a hurry. She unabashedly acknowledges that men wield power and that they take advantage of the attention they get. That seems to hold even when the handsome teenager has become the hairy middle-aged man walking into the unemployment benefit office. Haiku-like elegance Even while a new relationship is forming, Anna-Marie looks squarely at its hollowness, at its “imagined intimacy” inscribed in telling words — “contrived”, “collapse”, “illusion”. Her courage consists in her very neediness — “I want, I desire, I am vulnerable, ... I am a woman floundering.” In that small interval between infatuation and disgust, each relationship weaves in more of that wiring referred to earlier — ties that may not bind for long but will certainly tug and constrict when you least expect them to. Honesty is not all it takes to hold a reader, and Carvalho has the writerly chops to back up her story. It’s rare nowadays to find evocative, imaginative chapter headings, but each chapter in this novel opens with an almost haiku-like elegance. It is not a book to be rushed through. The sentences are powerful. They make us despair, they make us squirm, they make us want to pull back this girl from the brink. Actual sisterhood is thin on the ground in Anna-Marie’s world. She and her best friend, Sujata, have many gaps in their knowledge of each other’s history, and they have been on two sides of the same man. And then, no sisterhood is possible with Mummy, a woman way before her time who is also somehow a “bastion of parochial Goan prudery”. Anna-Marie charges that her mother is the kind of feminist who idolises women she doesn’t know and scorns the “lesser women” she does know — a strange mother who accuses her daughter of taking the cause backward, and yet encourages her to go out and find another man to replace the one who has left her pregnant and alone. Of course, it’s a daughter Anna-Marie gives birth to. She too will struggle as a single mother, with disconnected help from her own mother, occasionally her cranky aunt, a neighbour, her father, her child’s father. This is the reality of motherhood in our time. Even when Ines is a baby, Anna-Marie is being warned that soon her daughter will not want to know her. Old lovers are revisited, old relationships re-examined, their histories rewritten. We can see that Anne-Marie’s story will be rewritten even after we have finished reading it. The writer is author ofThree Seasons: Notes from a Country Year.  Sisterhood of Swans Selma Carvalho Speaking Tiger  Rs. 499     The sentences make us despair, they make us squirm, they make us want to pull back this girl from the brink||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/imagined-intimacies/article37989088.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A milestone in the Indian diaspora’s larger America connect||The nomination of Kamala Harris as the Democrats’ candidate for vice-president and her election to the august office last year has been cleverly used as the peg to publish an interesting collection of articles that shed new light on the Indian-American community in the U.S. today. Harris and her sister were raised by Shyamala Gopalan, their mother, as black girls, given her marriage to a Jamaican academic. The family, however, remained deeply conscious of their Indian heritage. Harris leveraged it to good effect in her march towards victory. But the Indian diaspora’s America connect is a much bigger saga. As Maina Chawla Singh, a contributor, puts it, “Harris’s story is only a milestone in that journey, not a destination.” The diversity, strengths and vulnerabilities of the community have been captured and showcased creatively by writers that include former diplomats Shashi Tharoor and T.P. Sreenivasan, journalists Aziz Hanifa and Tarun Basu (who excels as editor), and successful figures of the community such as M.R. Rangaswami, Pradeep K. Khosla, Bijal Patel and Laxmi Parthasarathy. Arun K. Singh, a former ambassador to the U.S., provides a crisp ‘Epilogue’. Shining segment This theme is of immense interest to audiences in India, the U.S. and beyond due to three reasons. First, the Indian-American community, now estimated to be over four million, has relatives, friends and contacts spread all across India. Second, it represents the most shining segment of India’s global diaspora, now numbered to be 32 million, according to the Ministry of External Affairs. Third, a close linkage exists between the positive trajectory of India-U.S. relations and the rise of Indians in the U.S. in the past two decades. Closer bilateral ties will lead to more Indian students and H1B workers. “Growing numbers of the Indian-origin community in the U.S. would incentivize U.S. elected representatives to be sensitive also to India’s concerns,” writes Arun Singh. Indian-Americans are not “a monolith”; they are of different religions, classes and linguistic affinities. A major division can be noticed between the parent-generation — those born in India who migrated in the 1960s or thereafter — and those born in the U.S. The latter are perhaps more confident, ready to experiment with lifestyles and career choices, and better integrated with the local society, while still being driven by Indian values that put a premium on hard work and strong family ties. They are also alive to the struggles and sacrifices of their parents, grateful that the latter gave them ‘a leg-up.’ Essays, portraits The 16 articles bring out details of the success stories of Indian Americans in diverse fields such as politics and administration, corporate world, science, medicine, academia, hotel industry, entertainment and civil society. Writing styles vary: some are scholarly essays, others journalistic takes, and yet others autobiographical in nature or pen-portraits of real people who toiled and are still engaged in securing their goals. The volume refers more than once to the 630,000 Indians who live as “undocumented immigrants” in the U.S. One wishes that a chapter had been devoted to their plight and concerns. A table or infographic showing the state-wise break-up of the community would have enhanced the book’s value for future researchers. As someone who served in Indian diplomatic missions in five countries hosting large diasporic communities, this reviewer found the book a fertile source of insights. While working in Toronto, I often pondered if Indians in the U.S. were different from their counterparts in Canada. They are, asserts Laxmi Parthasarathy, adding, “America is truly a melting pot, while Canada is a tossed salad.” But her husband disagreed! Books of this genre that enlighten us about contemporary situations of the Indian diaspora in various regions and countries deserve to be welcomed.  The reviewer is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House, and a former Ambassador.  Kamala Harris and the Rise of Indian Americans Edited by Tarun Basu Wisdom Tree  Rs. 895||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-milestone-in-the-indian-diasporas-larger-america-connect/article37989100.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Petrozavodsk||Mosquitoes and heat. Not what you’d expect when you picture Russia, but the country has been struck by a record heatwave. I’m in Petrozavodsk, the capital of the Republic of Karelia, in the north of Russia. The ‘republic’ denotes what in our parlance would be a State, slightly smaller than Karnataka. It stretches along the border with Finland, hanging onto the Arctic Circle. The city itself is sweltering, with the locals unused to such extremities. As a man tells me “For us, it is better for it to be -30 than +30”. The heat doesn’t bother me but the ceaseless light does. Like all Indians, I’m so used to the order imposed by the sun that I’m quite discombobulated by the Arctic summer. At eight in the evening, it feels like late afternoon, with the sun blazing. The sun begins to set around half past 10 but is up and about by 3 a.m. The border between night and day, so irrevocable in India are blurred here. I’m here as part of a writer’s residency conducted by a local cultural organisation that aims to bring Russian and foreign artists together. For nearly a month I have a three-storeyed, 18th century mansion all to myself, overlooking the heart of the city. Gavrila Derzhavin, the most famous Russian poet prior to Pushkin once lived here, which puts pressure on me whenever I’m checking Twitter instead of writing. Lenin’s hat The mansion overlooks a square presided over by a monumental statue of Lenin. The first day it is rainy, a chill introduced by the severny veter (north wind) blowing all the way from the Pole. With a touristic eagerness I step into the drizzle, looking for Instagram-worthy angles of the leader of the world proletariat. Lenin leans forward, endowed with chthonic energy, seemingly emerging from the stone through sheer willpower. “He should have kept his hat on,” a bystander says in Russian. He points to the side of the statue where a shapka (fur hat) has been intricately carved. The duration of the residency means it not enough for me to become an insider, but yet I’m more than a mere tourist — I’m here long enough to discern the hidden rhythm that every city has. For instance I notice quite a few ‘Tsvety 24 Chasa’ shops — flower shops open 24 hours. I ask a friend, do men in Petrozavodsk fight a lot with their wives or girlfriends? She embarks on a long explanation, the gist of which is “yes”. She explains that when men arrive home late, it is absolutely essential that they bring flowers for mollification purposes; the business model upon which these shops stand. Petrozavodsk is on a neck of land between two huge bodies of water, Ladoga and Onega, the largest and second largest lakes in Europe respectively. Summer cheer The city hugs the edge of a narrow bay, a tongue of water that detaches from the main body of lake Onega. The architecture is a melding of different styles and epochs, from picturesque log houses framed in the rioting purple of Ivanchai or willowherb that grows everywhere, as well as monumental Soviet architecture, laid out in methodical grids. This orderly layout allows me to soon find my way around intuitively. From the railway station topped by a defiant red star, the main boulevard called Ulitsa Lenina (their equivalent of our MG roads) descends to the lakefront, while being intercepted by avenues running perpendicularly.  As I take long walks, I begin to follow the varying moods of the Onega — sometimes the lake is content to merely reflect the sky while at others it seems to it hoard light, radiating a reddish-orange glow that seems to emerge from its depths. The embankment is crowded with young folks zipping about on e-scooters, couples leaning into each other, teenage girls striking goofy poses for their socials, dog owners briskly walking their pets. Petrozavodskites are out in force, making the best of their brief summer, before the long polar night descends. A man walks up to the battered public piano in the rotunda and tickles the ivory, coaxing a plaintive  sonata. The music drifts across the water, contrapuntal to the plash of waves on rocks and the desolate cries of seagulls high above. It is a perfect frame but even as I take my phone out I realise how beyond that instrument it would be to capture it. There is nothing I have to do except simply appreciate that unrepeatable moment. The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-petrozavodsk/article37989118.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On December 19, 1924, the last ever 40/50 hp car from Rolls-Royce was sold in England. This was the car that was the origin of the ‘best car in the world’ phrase, bestowed on the company by Autocar magazine. Although RR called it the 40/50, public and journalists had a nickname for the car based on its bright metallic colour and the fact that it was eerily quiet. What was the name given to the car, which is now valued at US $35 million? 2 The Morris Oxford Series III was a popular model built by Morris Motors in the U.K. from 1913-53. Its elegant flowing design, bench seats and independent front suspension promised a comfortable ride. In 1957, this car served as a template for another model, which was specifically made for the Indian market. The result was a highly successful car that was the highest-selling till the mid-80s after which it declined. Nowadays it is mostly seen as taxis (especially in Kolkata) or as official government vehicles. What car is this, which makes Indian families nostalgic? 3 This car was commissioned in the 1930s by the then leader of the National Socialist German Workers’ Party as the ‘people’s car’. He wanted a practical, reliable and good-looking car, and designer Ferdinand Porsche came up with the now iconic design. It was called ‘der Käfer’ in German referring to its curvy shape; in 1968, Disney released a string of movies featuring the vehicle as ‘Herbie the Love Bug’. What vehicle is this that never fails to attract attention on the road? 4 Lamborghini has a tradition of naming its supercars after famous bulls, but what is considered by many as the most iconic car of theirs is the Countach. When launched in 1975, it went on to be the most sought-after for car lovers around the world. Its futuristic looks and shape prompted one of its designers to just exclaim ‘Countach’ in his native language of Piedmontese. What does Countach mean? 5 The Alfa Romeo 1900 C52 ‘Disco Volante’ was an experimental sports car built in 1952 built on an all-new tubular space-frame. It was designed in a wind tunnel and could attain a top-speed of 220 km/hr. Owing to its almost unearthly look and speed, it earned its name. What does Disco Volante mean in Italian, which makes it seem that the car ran on alien technology? 6 Plymouth built a performance car in the 1970s with a 330hp V8 engine. They had the perfect name for the car, but to use it they had to pay $50,000 to Warner Bros. Once they had permission, they used the name, a logo, and a characteristic ‘beep, beep’ sound for the horn. What is the name of this car that could easily out-race a wily coyote? 7 The Vauxhall Victor FE was a large family car from the English manufacturer produced in the 50s. Based on its success, Hindustan Motors procured the technology and design, and introduced it in India. The result was a car introduced in 1984, with a 1970 body and a 1950s engine and gearbox. This led to it being extremely roomy and comfortable but with a sluggish engine. Named after the Anglo-French word for ‘wife of an earl’, which still good-looking car is this? 8 This particular model was the high-performance version of the GMC Sonoma pickup truck. It was the quickest production truck when released in 1991 being able to get to 60 mph in under six seconds. The power is attributed to the rotation in the turbocharger, and hence the name of the model is a reference to a natural phenomenon, which gets its power from rotation as well. Two models were produced, one named after the entity when it appears in the Pacific, and the other when in Indian Ocean (with a small spelling change). What are the names of these models? 9 The 1955 Citroen DS was a drop-dead gorgeous car which till this day draws attention to its beautiful design. Its name ‘DS’ is also one of the coolest and cleverest. When the French company launched it, they named it Déesse, but since English speakers would have trouble pronouncing it, they called it ‘DS’, which is how one would actually pronounce the word. What does Déesse mean which puts it in the pantheon of immortal beautiful beings? 10 De Tomaso was an Italian car maker who offered to help American Carrol Shelby develop his now iconic race car. When Shelby shelved De Tomaso, he got enraged and went about creating his own supercar to rival Shelby’s. The 5L V8 engine beauty was named ‘Mangusta’, which is Italian for ‘mongoose’ and was highly coveted. What is the name of Shelby’s car, which the Mangusta was designed to hunt and overpower (on track)? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37989120.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Goodness by the ladle||Back in school, we were dubbed the “curd rice brigade” because the last layer of our tiffin-box was always filled with this dish. We wore the label like a badge of honour! Folks from other parts of the country wonder about this fixation with curd rice among South Indians. The culinary preference is both cultural and influenced by geography. Most parts of the south are sweltering hot throughout the year. Only a person in these climes will know the solace in a food that is cool and agreeable. Curd rice’s appeal is in its simplicity. All you need is rice and curd. That is enough for a complete meal that is filling, tasty and easy on the stomach. When it comes to add-ons with curd rice, there is an entire platter. It can be as basic as a pinch of salt set aside on the plate. With each fistful, you dab a bit of salt, for that added relish! Curd rice with pickle is a South Indian’s comfort food! While some insist “lemon pickle” goes best with it, others vote for gongura . And some drool the moment they think of avakai . How do you explain vadu-maanga to someone outside the country? Maybe, you can say, you marinate tiny raw mangoes in a spicy syrup for months and what emerges is vadu-maanga ! And when you take a bite of this raw mango and top it with copious curd rice, you will be in seventh heaven! Curd rice is often dressed with a tempering of oil, mustard and slivers of chilli. With a sprinkling of coriander, pomegranate and grapes, it is a sure-shot success in any potluck event! When packed in lotus-leaf bowls, it gets an added aura and is called Daddhyonnam ! You may have a gourmet meal in a five-star restaurant. The South Indian’s meal is incomplete till he comes home and ends with his curd rice. The craving for curd rice sometimes assumes extreme proportions. Indian students in the western world used to struggle to find authentic curd rice. The closest was fruit-yogurt sold in tiny boxes in the college-vending machine. On one occasion, I emptied a dozen yogurt boxes from the vending machine. Watching this spectacle, a woman could not contain her curiosity. “What are you trying to do,” she questioned, all puzzled! I mumbled, “This just happens to be my dinner,” and shot out of the place! We have no doubt that curd rice has its pride of place in world cuisine. It can hold its head high, compete and win many a culinary battle. shankar.ccpp@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/goodness-by-the-ladle/article37989078.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Pursuit of sustainability||Sustainability needs to be a habit rather than a project. When I returned to Delhi from my hometown after three months, I was looking forward to having my favourite cold coffee from a particular joint. I went to the cafeteria in Connaught Place but ended up not having it because they refused to serve me the coffee in a glass cup but only in a plastic takeaway cup. At that moment, it was a spontaneous choice, but it was rooted in my larger passion, which was rather an accidental discovery of the pleasure and joy in sustainable living. I wasn’t willing to forgo that deeper joy in favour of the momentary sensual pleasure of having my favourite beverage. Often, as most people, I would reason that one cup won’t make a difference to the environment, and I have been craving this coffee for so long and therefore I deserve to have it. After all, it’s just one cup and just one time. However, in that moment, it was a very effortless decision. Introspection helped me realise that I could do it because I was not giving up on something without any returns. If you see, the pursuit of sustainability is selfish both emotionally and materially. Resources are limited; therefore, consuming higher than our quota of today is eating away from our own quota of tomorrow. But getting what we want today is always more effective than the promise of a better future. My joy and satisfaction served as my instant gratification rather than the taste of the coffee I missed. Appreciation from whomever I have mentioned this story continues to drive me towards similar pursuits. The difference between those who haven’t given up on the plastic cup and myself, is that they haven’t felt the instant self-gratification or the appreciation that follows sustainable practices. Once they discover the joy in sustainable consumption, they will not need environmental activists to constantly police them about carrying water bottles and shopping bags, about waste segregation and local consumption. Collective sustainability is going on at institutional and policy levels, both globally and nationally. But sustainability needs to be a habit rather than a project. It should be promoted and talked of as one of the virtues of human society at par with love, kindness and honesty. It should be placed on the moral high ground. Once recognised thus, it will automatically become commonplace and is sure to bring instant gratification in lives of people who practice it. That's how people will discover the joy in sustainable living and consumption and practise it without coercion, not for others but themselves. trinayanakaushik@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pursuit-of-sustainability/article37989076.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||On the line||Indian tennis is currently trapped in a vicious circle of poor results and low expectations. There isn’t a singles player, male or female, among the top 150 in the world. In the last eight years, Indians have won a grand total of two singles matches on the Grand Slam stage. The country is no longer a force to reckon with even in the Davis Cup, once a source of great national pride. But the situation was markedly different a few decades ago. Indians frequented the business end of tournaments, won titles, especially in doubles, and made their presence felt among the best in the sport by reaching the final of Davis Cup thrice. First champion It is this history that Anindya Dutta seeks to chronicle in Advantage India: The Story of Indian Tennis , a much-needed addition to a rather empty cupboard of books written on the premier racquet sport. Tennis, like cricket, was bequeathed to the sub-continental elite by imperial Britain. Dutta begins his narration by describing the “carnival-like atmosphere” that heralded the inaugural Punjab Lawn Tennis Championships in Lahore in 1885. Trevor Douglas David Berrington, a 26-year-old civil servant, became pre-independence India’s first tennis champion. The book then paints vivid portraits of Mohammed Sleem, the first native Indian to win a major tennis tournament in India (1915, Lahore), Sydney Montague Jacob, a Grand Slam singles semifinalist at the 1925 French Championship, a first for someone representing India, and Ghaus Mohammad Khan, the most famous Indian player around the time of World War II. A team with Sleem and Sydney Jacob even reached the semifinals of the Davis Cup in 1921 and tales of their frequent run-ins with France’s popular ‘Four Musketeers’ (Jean Borotra, Jacques Brugnon, Henri Cochet and Rene Lacoste) bring to life a past not many know. The post-Independence descriptions centre around the legendary Ramanathan Krishnan, Premjit Lall, Jaideep Mukherjea and Naresh Kumar. The wry humourist and fantastic raconteur in Kumar come alive in these pages, so does the sharp, almost matter-of-fact personality of Krishnan. Anyone who has conversed with the duo, in their nineties and eighties respectively now, will attest to this. Star gallery There isn’t much that is revelatory or eye-popping in the sections dealing with the Amritraj brothers, Ramesh Krishnan, Leander Paes, Mahesh Bhupathi and Sania Mirza, for their careers have mostly played out in front of the public eye. But one area where Dutta could have made a real difference, but inexplicably doesn’t, is in detailing at length India’s withdrawal from the 1974 Davis Cup final against South Africa on account of the latter’s apartheid policies. A monumental and historic dissent, which displayed India’s moral courage but at the same time might have contributed to setting the sport back in the country, deserved more than just a few paragraphs. But for that, and a few factual errors and odd juxtapositions, the book is a creditable attempt at documenting Indian tennis’ fine past. It is by no means definitive, but can surely spur further retellings. It ends on a hopeful note, of India unearthing a Major singles champion in the near future. It sounds outlandish, considering the current state of the sport. But the successful dare to dream, something Dutta has also done with the book.    Advantage India: The Story of Indian Tennis Anindya Dutta Westland Sport  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/on-the-line/article37989098.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a mug’s game||Dear Agony Akka,  It’s that time of the year and I am in a panic. Everybody is sending Christmas gifts and I don’t know what to send in return. I am very anxious. I want to give clever gifts to everyone but everything I see is either too expensive or too commonplace and now what shall I do? Also please tell me what to do with all the gifts I get. I don’t have the heart to throw them, but I am running out of storage space. It’s all very confusing. Please help. — Got Exhausted Thinking    Dear GET,  I cansee that you have been attacked by SAS or Seasonal Anxiety Syndrome. First of all, climb up to the loft and bring down all the gifts you have accumulated. Dust them and put new wrapping paper and re-gift them. Avoid giving A’s gift back to A. You might lose friends. Also avoid giving A’s gift to B if they know each other. They will compare notes. You might lose friends. If A and B will never meet, then gift A’s 2019 stole to B and B’s 2018 notebook to A. You might get away. Corona is nothing compared to the dangerous gifting virus that is slowly spreading across India. It has now reached alarming proportions. People are giving gifts for Christmas, Valentine, Mother’s Day, Boss Day, Gifting Day. One time, we sent plates of sweets for Diwali, now people are sending lamps and idols and knick-knacks. In my housing colony, some people’s flats are having 5-6 clocks and 10-12 artefacts on each and every tabletop and no place to rest one cup of tea even. But gifting is easy once you get the hang of it. The first step is to identify what I call the ‘re-givable’ gifts among the gifts we receive. Leading this list are candles and coffee mugs. The candles look pretty, smell nice, and are supremely useless. The mugs are large, with funny words or cartoons, every family has three dozen such mugs, but nobody uses them because everyone uses hand-thrown pottery mugs from Pondicherry anyway. I strongly believe that the only reason people gift candles and mugs is to help the giftee so that he or she can gift it to someone else. If our eyesight ever manages to pierce through the dimensions, we will see endless chains of such items going around in circles — mugs and candles and scarves and table napkins following each other and forming a sort of Saturn’s ring around the earth. Gifting is like karmic cycle — you give what you get. It is part of glorious Indian heritage. Once upon a time, all newlyweds would get 5-6 milk cookers, 7-9 lemonade sets, 12 clocks and 15 trays. Parents would collect these zealously and stow them away in a Godrej almirah. Then, for every wedding or grihapravesham, one of these would be duly unearthed and re-gifted. In turn, that family would gift it at the next wedding. This is what the ‘Circle of Life’ song from Lion King movie means. Of course, if you were Turkish, it would be much easier. Apparently, everybody gifts everybody else red underwear. Wearing these at midnight is supposed to bring good luck for the new year. Which gives red letter days a whole new meaning.  — AA    agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/its-a-mugs-game/article37989111.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Hard to see||South won the opening spade lead with dummy’s ace, led a diamond to his ace, and ruffed a diamond. A trump back to his hand revealed the disappointing fact that he had a trump loser. South led the king of hearts, which West ducked. South led his last heart, but West won with the ace and led a diamond to South’s king. South tried to end-play West by leading the queen and another spade, but he had trouble discarding from dummy. Should dummy keep all three clubs and one heart, West could exit with a heart and wait for two club tricks. Instead, South discarded a low club from dummy. West countered this by cashing the ace of clubs and continuing with the queen of clubs. Declarer won with his king, but East’s nine of clubs became the setting trick. Declarer could have prevailed with a slight change in his play. Can you spot it? Had South cashed his king of diamonds before leading a second heart, there would be nothing West could do to defeat the contract. A spade, a heart, or any club from West and South would end up with 10 tricks. Hard to see and not clearly indicated, but it would have been a lovely play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hard-to-see/article37989114.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Letters||There is a magnetic power in regional cinema that attracts people. (‘Local, vocal and in demand’; Dec. 12) These films portray raw emotions and are full of local flavour. The cover story does a good job of highlighting them. Praveen Babu nHindi and English language cinema suffer from an inherent weakness when it comes to focusing on local issues. M.V. Nagavender Rao nCan it be truly claimed that Indian cinema has global audiences in the same sense as Hollywood movies? The audiences for Indian films abroad are mainly the diaspora spread across the world. Exceptions are films of Raj Kapoor, Aamir Khan or Rajinikanth, and the recent Bahubali series. Indian cinema has a long way to go. Kosaraju Chandramouli nUnsurprisingly, regional movies, with their myriad themes mostly reflecting indigenous cultures and marked by conspicuous brilliance, have struck a chord with audiences beyond their borders. Cinema is not merely for entertainment, rather it’s a potent tool to be leveraged more effectively to shed light on and create awareness about issues affecting the marginalised. M. Jeyaram   The love story of Vibhu Prakash and vultures is an interesting one. (‘Don’t play dead with a vulture’; Dec. 12) Such stories must be shared with all students so as to inculcate an interest in environmental science. Atheerath Naineni nI vividly remember The Hindu reporting on the death of thousands of vultures who fed on buffalo carcasses contaminated with Diclofenac. After the timely news, steps were taken to bury the carcasses. This article by Janaki Lenin is also timely in that sense and one hopes the Rajasthan government will act fast to save the birds. A.M.N. Pandian   Having felt Agony Akka’s conspicuous absence for the past few weeks, her reappearance was with a bang. (‘Takes two to tango’; Dec. 12) ‘The dog and the lamp post’ metaphor was perhaps the unkindest cut of all for lovelorn ni(twit)s to make peace with! Ayyasseri Raveendranath   Water is the source of all life, and one of the most threatened commodities. (‘The poor pay the most for water’; Dec. 12) The tiny nation of Singapore harvests two thirds of the rainfall it receives and recycles 40%. Singapore treats sewage and transforms it into clean and high-quality reclaimed water. One way to get past the aversion to treated water is to mix recycled water with fresh water and filter it. H.N. Ramakrishna nThe interview brings out the truth about the lackadaisical approach of politicians in managing drinking water. R.V. Baskaran nHeavy rainfall for days on end followed by long dry spells has become a common phenomenon in many parts of the country. But we seem to ignore these signs of peril. It is time to act fast. Prajeet Dev Boinapally   Rustom Bharucha brought out the extraordinary qualities of theatre artist Alakananda Samarth. (‘Tribute to an actor’; Dec. 12) Obituary writers alone know the delicate task of avoiding excessive praise while pointing to the achievements of the departed. Sri Vrinda N. nThe artist was not well known outside the theatre circuit, but her body of work indicates her prolific contribution. Her demise is a loss to the performing arts. C.V. Aravind||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/letters/article37989074.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Do Not Go to The Jungle||Shihabuddin Poithumkadavu,   trs J. Devika  Eka Rs. 350 These macabre ‘socio-horror’ stories dissect manipulations of power. Moving between the real and the surreal, they shine light on the anxieties of the disenfranchised. Shihabuddin Poithumkadavu is one of Malayalam’s leading fiction writers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/do-not-go-to-the-jungle/article37989080.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Geeta Rahman at Championship Point||Saskya Jain  Simon & Schuster India Rs. 599 This is the story of 12-year-old Geeta Rahman, a badminton prodigy on one hand and an aspiring government servant on the other, set at the time of the Babri Masjid demolition. Weaving together the personal and the political, the novel is as much about Geeta as about post-liberalisation India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/geeta-rahman-at-championship-point/article37989090.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Dava Shastri’s Last Day||Kirthana Ramisetti  Grand Central Publishing Rs. 699 A dying billionaire matriarch leaks the news of her death early so she can examine her legacy. As someone who dedicated her life to the arts and women’s empowerment, Dava expects to read articles lauding her. Instead, her ‘death’ reveals secrets and bitter truths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dava-shastris-last-day/article37989092.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The Greatest Assamese Stories Ever Told||Selected and edited by Mitra Phukan  Aleph Rs. 699 The storytellers here range from masters such as Lakhminath Bezbaroa, Mamoni Raisom Goswami, to contemporary writers like Harekrishna Deka. Among the gems are Homen Borgohain’s ‘Looking for Ismael Sheikh’ and Sheelabhadra’s ‘Sweet Acacia.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-greatest-assamese-stories-ever-told/article37989094.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The Beauty Paradigm: Gender Discourse in Indian Advertising||Jaishri Jethwaney  Sage Rs. 550 Drawn from empirical data, and research carried through extensive field survey, in-depth interviews with the top management of ad agencies, and chairs of professional bodies, Jethwaney offers an overview of Indian advertising.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-beauty-paradigm-gender-discourse-in-indian-advertising/article37989096.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Book Culture in Tamil: Essays in Memory of CreA Ramakrishnan||CreA Publishers Rs. 795 This is a volume of essays in English and Tamil, published to honour the memory of scholar-publisher S. Ramakrishnan on his first death anniversary. Ramakrishnan, who founded Cre-A publishing house, strove to develop cultural attitudes of an entire linguistic community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/book-culture-in-tamil-essays-in-memory-of-crea-ramakrishnan/article37989105.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The Invisible Majority: India’s Abled Disabled||C.K. Meena, V.R. Ferose  Hachette Rs. 699 Navigating a range of topics from history, laws to social attitudes, this volume records voices of persons with disabilities. It turns its gaze on those linked to their well-being like health professionals, educators, trainers, employers, caregivers and activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-invisible-majority-indias-abled-disabled/article37989107.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Childbirth in South Asia: Old Challenges and New Paradoxes||Edited by Clemence Jullien,   Roger Jeffery  Oxford University Press Rs. 1,795 The Millennium Development Goals prompted important new Government schemes across Southeast Asia to address the issues of safe motherhood. Two researchers report on the key implications of the goals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/childbirth-in-south-asia-old-challenges-and-new-paradoxes/article37989109.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3181||Across  1 Bay’s home, standing firm (6) 4 Clots in kitchens, cooking (8) 9 Communist, English, ultimately smitten with posh ladies (6) 10 Cave in, having consumed most of ale, in resort port on the Med (8) 12 Up to cultivate the land (4) 13 What moon reveals after autumn in Oregon Trail (4,6) 15 With no humility, half of mum’s brothers advanced (11) 18 Pulling muscles earlier in inattentive state (11) 21 ‘Pudding!’ announced by footballer in glad rags (6,4) 22 By sound of it, put up with a swine (4) 24 Arrest, finding weapon in bibliophiles’ association (4,4) 25 Trained gudong, one working with hunters (3,3) 26 Stir herb stews; they’re regenerative (8) 27 Fancy: ‘Prussia’ contains name of another country (6)  Down  1 Range small, not large – pick! (8) 2 Perhaps Merkel’s eaten 40% of icing that’s used on cakes (8) 3 Flower, gilt edges removed, clutched by gutted lady (4) 5 Old range destroyed in quiet stampede (8,4) 6 Smarty-pants, cold, the French musician, vacuous crook (6,4) 7 Setter had cryptic clue earlier: ‘father of geometry?’ (6) 8 ‘How do you spell “shy”?’ That’s pretty light stuff (6) 11 Silly, stupid, bad: a fast scramble (4,2,1,5) 14 Primarily modernized African democracy, although governor’s a strongman called Andry Rajoelina? (10) 16 Incomplete romantic gift Everyman had offered up in muddle (8) 17 Perhaps krypton might make you angriest? (5,3) 19 Weatherman’s line: ‘I weep over a drop of rain’ (6) 20 A little belligerent ombudsman in Bury (6) 23 Report of low reef in wharf (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3181/article37989117.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article37989073.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Is testing, sequencing strategy used missing Omicron?||Over 100 Omicron variant cases have been detected so far in 11 States in India. Except for one case of a medical doctor in Bengaluru who has been confirmed to be infected with the Omicron variant, the remaining have been detected in international passengers arriving in India and their contacts. A November 30, 2021 circular from the health ministry clearly mentions that effective December 1, all passengers arriving from specified “at-risk” countries will be required to undergo an RT-PCR test on arrival. And random testing is to be done on 2% of the total flight passengers arriving from other countries. Incidentally, the at-risk countries list has not been updated since the circular was sent on November 30; it includes only Europe, the U.K. and 11 other countries. While all positive samples are to be sent for genome sequencing, passengers arriving from at-risk countries will have to undergo home quarantine for seven days, retest on the eighth day of arrival in India and if negative, further self-monitor their health for the next seven days. The testing strategy adopted now looks quite similar to the one put in place early last year when testing was confined to international passengers and their contacts if the index case tests positive. While over 80 countries have confirmed Omicron variant, the testing in India is confined to international passengers. Positive samples sent for genome sequencing to confirm for the Omicron variant are almost primarily restricted to international passengers. Is India missing to identify the Omicron variant in the community by not at least randomly sequencing a few positive samples? Absence of evidence is surely not evidence of absence. Limited testing “This depends on the extent to which we believe the Omicron variant has already spread in the country. Levels of overall testing are currently fairly low, at the level of 1-3 million daily but the problem is that most of these tests are being done in a small number of States, mainly Kerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Because of this, it is hard to figure out to what extent silent spread has already begun in other parts of the country or whether cases are picking up,” says Dr. Gautam Menon, Professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University. Based on the speed at which the Omicron variant spreads, scientists have said one infected person can spread it to three or more people. Scientifically speaking, the R0 of the Omicron variant is over 3. The Omicron variant has been found to spread two-three times faster than the highly transmissible Delta variant. As a result, in other countries, Omicron cases are doubling every two to four days, which is far shorter time frame compared with the Delta variant. Since the variant spreads faster than the Delta variant, there would have been a surge in cases in India if it is already present in the community. “For now, we have nothing that suggests a large-scale rise in cases so far, which might have been a consequence of Omicron,” Dr. Menon says in an email to The Hindu . Incorrect test kits used Not only are the testing rates across India low, most of the RT-PCR test kits used in many States do not have a S-gene target in the primer. The S-gene dropout in the BA.1 sub-lineage is used as a proxy for identifying the Omicron variant. In the absence of test kits with a S-gene target, only genome sequencing can identify the variant. “We need more random testing to detect community spread in those States which are not already testing well, and we need to sequence some fraction of the positive cases, both symptomatic and random, on a priority basis to look for Omicron. Right now, we don't have any evidence of large-scale transmission of Omicron but that could simply be an artefact of lack of testing,” he says. In the absence of increased testing and genome sequencing, another layer of complexity in noticing a surge in cases might be related to the mild nature of the disease caused by the variant in those who are already protected. While the Omicron variant can cause reinfections in people who have been previously infected and cause breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated people and even among those who have received a booster shot, the cases mostly have only mild disease. Missing the mild cases? With a large percentage of the population in India being naturally infected, over 57% fully vaccinated and over 87% having received the first dose, most of the cases caused by Omicron may be mild, thus not being tested. A significant number of people who have been vaccinated might have been previously infected during the deadly second wave. This combination of infection plus vaccination produces hybrid immunity, which is more protective than just vaccination or infection alone. This could be another reason why cases in the community might have been missed. One of the first Omicron positive cases detected in India on November 22 was a medical doctor in Bengaluru who had no travel history or contact with any international passenger. This suggests that the possibility of the variant already being present in the community cannot be completely ruled out. “That [case] is certainly evidence for some degree of community transmission, since there is no apparent connection to a case of international travel. However, not all such infections will necessarily lead to an explosion in cases and it is possible that this was a one-off event,” Dr. Menon says. “I personally think it is just a matter of time till we see Omicron cases rising, perhaps by January. There is some level of protection, one assumes, from the fact that many Indians have sustained a recent Delta infection and many are now vaccinated as well. This may lead to overall milder cases, which might be one reason why we have not seen any sizeable jump in hospital admissions,” he adds. Kerala health secretary Dr. Rajan Khobragade says that besides sequencing positive cases of international passengers, Kerala will sequence positive cases from huge clusters and superspreader events to rule out the Omicron variant in the State. But Dr. Menon feels it might be necessary to sequence some fraction of symptomatic COVID-19 patients across the country to assess the presence of COVID-19 and this specific variant in the population, and also test randomly, looking for the presence of Omicron in a fraction of those that test positive. “Only then can we assess the extent of community spread,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/is-testing-sequencing-strategy-used-missing-omicron/article37988729.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Inescapable risks of mandatory iron fortification||Many things have been said about the necessity for mandatory iron fortification of foods in India. That it is a ‘necessity’, ‘complementary strategy’ to dietary diversity, ‘effective’ and more loudly now, that it is ‘safe’. Given what we now know, and are uncovering, about the risks associated with too much iron, particularly in children, the proclamation of safety must be made carefully. The simple fact is that iron is not safe in excess; it is an oxidant with a variety of ill-effects. Just because a ‘tolerable upper limit was proposed for its intake, any intake less than this was thought to be safe. But no longer. We must think of the long-term risk for other diseases, not the toxicological approach of looking at acute clinical symptoms, like stomach pain. This is because we now know that iron increases the risk for many non-communicable diseases like diabetes, hypertension and even high blood cholesterol. What is the evidence? Take diabetes: what happens when body iron stores, measured by serum ferritin concentration, increase? In the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey of a healthy U.S. population, those with high ferritin level had a four-fold higher risk of having diabetes. In India, our team recently analysed a national, quality-controlled survey (Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey) of Indian adolescents, to evaluate the risk of high blood sugar, high blood lipids and high blood pressure as their serum ferritin increased. The results were scary; there was a clear and significant risk for each of these conditions as serum ferritin increased. Note that fortification of any one staple (rice, wheat, or salt) will increase serum ferritin, without necessarily changing the haemoglobin level. When provided together, the increased iron intake could be 20- 30 mg/day. We also modelled the risk when an additional 10 mg of iron/day (single staple fortification) was present: this increased high blood sugar prevalence by 2-14% across States of India, with similar findings for high blood pressure and high lipids. Risk already high If that is not sobering enough- another of our published analyses of the same national survey, showed that no less than 50% of Indian children, aged 5-19 years, already had a biomarker of either high blood sugar or high blood lipids, even when thin or stunted. Thus, the risk of chronic disease is already very high in our children, and we will implement this veiled threat of risk magnification by mandatory cereal fortification. Cereal intake is already too high, and should be replaced by more quality foods like pulses, fruits and vegetables, etc. We should be straining every sinew to prevent the high burden of chronic disease with life-long and intergenerational consequences, starting with our children. Remember- India is already called the world capital of diabetes and hypertension: what next? There are also other simple truths, that should give us pause before we rush to mandatory iron fortification. First, we do not even know if anaemia is as rampant to warrant such mandatory measures. The WHO is having a consultation this year to evaluate if haemoglobin diagnostic cut-offs for anaemia should be lowered in different geographies, one of which is India. This is partly based on a recent paper in The Lancet by us, that showed that the cut-offs were likely lower than the WHO cut-off in Indian children. This lowering has been also confirmed in a study of no less than 32 countries worldwide, as well as another in pregnant women. A lower cut-off will mean a lower (halved) anemia prevalence. Choices removed Second, when mandatory fortification is enforced in parts of the population that do not need this, it removes their choice of foods, or autonomy, and could even be unethical if the risk of other morbidities is increased. Third, iron deficiency in the Indian diet is not a universal problem: the Indian requirement for iron has been lowered by half to two-thirds in 2020. Fourth, rice fortification has not been shown to work in a combined analysis, by the respectable Cochrane group, of all available and rigorous studies. It is misleading to dismiss this analysis, and instead quote sporadic Indian studies purporting to show that fortification is successful, since these are either not published, or ‘quasi experimental’, sometimes without randomization or even a true measurement of blood haemoglobin. Pragmatism demands that we await the forthcoming WHO haemoglobin cut-offs to get to the true anaemia burden and only rely on gold-standard venous blood haemoglobin in future surveys. Dietary modification strategies should be the preferred solutions; they are not impossible to achieve, as studies in rural India show. With the ever-expanding health care infrastructure (Ayushmaan Bharat and associated clinics), we need to move to equity for all in precision treatment: here, we should evaluate the cause of anaemia and prescribe treatment accordingly. Experience from Covid testing shows that India can do it! ( Anura Kurpad is Professor of Physiology and Nutrition in St John’s Medical College, Bengaluru, and Harshpal Singh Sachdev is a senior consultant in Paediatrics and Clinical Epidemiology, Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research, New Delhi )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/inescapable-risks-of-mandatory-iron-fortification/article37988730.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Early signs of worsening air emerge in Northeast India||Air quality in India’s northeast States is worsening and while still much better than pollution hotspots in other parts of the country, appear to be under threat by the same sources — vehicles, industry and urbanisation — that have soiled the air elsewhere, according to an analysis of air quality by the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment. So far air pollution is largely seen as a crisis of the Indo Gangetic plains, particularly in winter when Delhi and several cities in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana find themselves in lists of the world’s most polluted cities. Air in the northeast States, in the popular imagination, is less befouled due to the region's topography that is less conducive to fossil-fuel led industrialisation and geographical isolation. CSE analysed concentrations of PM 2.5, particulate matter sized 2.5 micron or less, from January 1, 2019 to December 7, 2021 in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland, Mizoram, and Arunachal Pradesh over annual and seasonal periods. They relied on live data available from seven continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) spread across six cities in five States: two stations in Guwahati and one station each in Shillong (Meghalaya), Agartala (Tripura), Kohima (Nagaland), Aizawl (Mizoram) and Naharlagun (Arunachal Pradesh). The number of air quality monitors in the Northeast are few and have been installed in the last two years unlike those in many cities in India. This, therefore, gives only a limited picture of the variability and scale of air pollution. What CSE found was that the annual, average PM 2.5 levels of Guwahati in 2021 (as of November 30) was 60 microgram per cubic metre (μg/m3) which was less than that in 2020 (62 μg/m3) but more than in 2019 (56 μg/m3). India's upper limit for PM 2.5 is 40 μg/m3. Agartala, readings for which were available only for 2021, had an annual concentration of 45 μg/m3 whereas Shillong, Kohima and Naharlagun were below the 40-mark. Shillong was the only other city in the region with a station generating data for over two years but “due to poor data availability its annual averages could not be considered credible,” the researchers noted, “Aizawl and Naharlagun do not meet the minimum data availability requirement but the limited data available indicates that these two would most probably be meeting the annual standard.” These air quality figures are a far cry from those recorded in cities in the Indo Gangetic Plains, where annual concentrations are in triple digits but Guwahati has increasingly been sending concerning signals. Until November end, the number of days with air quality in ‘very poor’ or ‘severe’ category stands at 54 days in Guwahati city which is “comparable to cities of North India” and in other cities 'good' and 'satisfactory' days dominate but poor and very poor days had begun to emerge. Agartala registered 10 ‘very poor’ days while Kohima had two ‘very poor’ days. Good, satisfactory and very poor refer to degrees of PM 2.5 concentrations. Except Guwahati, rest of the cities in the States in the Northeast have low annual PM2.5 levels but during winter, episodes of high pollution were common, the study noted. Weekly PM2.5 levels could go as high as 189 μg/m3 in Guwahati. This winter, so far, the highest weekly level has been reported from Agartala when it hit 91 μg/m3. Last winter it had gone up to 112 μg/m3. Similarly, high pollution has been recorded in Aizawl and Kohima. “The current obsession with high pollution concentration in the Indo-Gangetic Plain and in overall northern India overshadows and side-lines the early signs of the crisis in our north-eastern states in the national discourse on air pollution and public health. Weak and inadequate air quality monitoring and paucity of data do not allow proper assessment of the risk. But even the limited evidence shows several cities — especially the state capitals — are already vulnerable to poor air quality and winter smog,” Anumita Roychowdhury, Executive director, Research and Advocacy, CSE, said in a statement. “Cities of north-eastern states need urgent attention...to cut pollution from growing motorisation and congestion, use of solid fuels and open burning, and dispersed industrial sources at the early stages to prevent worsening of the public health crisis in this ecologically vulnerable region.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/early-signs-of-worsening-air-emerge-in-northeast-india/article37988732.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Jaw strengthening||How did theropod dinosaur jaws become stronger as they evolved? Theropod dinosaurs evolved more robust jaws through time allowing them to consume tougher food, a new study ( Current Biology ) reveals. Theropod dinosaurs underwent some of the most remarkable dietary changes. They started off as carnivores and then shifted to more specialised carnivores, omnivores and herbivores, with some taxa eventually reverting to become carnivores. The mandible had to adapt to changing feeding modes and diets. A team led by University of Birmingham researchers uncovered a common trend of jaw strengthening in theropods lineages. Carnivores like tyrannosaurus had a relatively slender and straight jaw. But Tarbosaurus and Tyrannosaurus evolved deeper jaws with the front portion bending upward, which increased jaw strength. Having a strengthened jaw is important to herbivorous theropods, as their jaws experience considerable stress from repetitive plant cropping. Herbivores like Erlikosaurus and Caudipteryx have extremely downward-bending jaws that could help dissipate such stress. In effect, theropod dinosaurs evolved different strategies to increase jaw stability depending on their diet, and this was achieved through bone remodelling. Bone remodelling is a mechanism where bone is deposited in regions of the jaw that experience high stresses during feeding, Dr Stephan Lautenschlager of University of Birmingham and a senior author of the paper said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/jaw-strengthening/article37988734.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Biodiversity hotspot||Researchers created the most detailed distribution map to date of butterflies in the American tropics, showing that areas of highest diversity coincide with regions most threatened by deforestation and development. The study focused on glasswing butterflies, a large group with nearly 400 species that occur throughout much of Central and South America.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/biodiversity-hotspot/article37988736.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Early inhabitants||New evidence from the bottom of a lake in the remote North Atlantic Faroe Islands indicates that an unknown band of humans settled there around 500 AD — some 350 years before the Vikings, who up until recently have been thought to have been the first human inhabitants. The settlers may have been Celts who crossed seas from what are now Scotland or Ireland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/early-inhabitants/article37988738.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Tone of voice||Researchers have found that baby seals can adapt their voices to sounds. The pups lowered the pitch of their voice when they heard louder noises. Only a few species may be capable of changing the pitch of their voice, which is a crucial element of human speech. This makes seals an excellent animal model for studying the evolution of human speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/tone-of-voice/article37988740.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Carbon sink||New research reveals how old-growth forests have been recycling and storing carbon: treetop soils. Branches in forest canopies can hold caches of soil that may store substantially more carbon than soils on the ground beneath them. Scientists are just beginning to understand how much carbon canopy soils could store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/carbon-sink/article37988742.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Breaking the mould in Benares||Prayers are answered in Benaras, and souls liberated on its ghats . I’m not sure if couturier Tarun Tahiliani had this in mind when planning to launch his premium men’s label, Tasva — his first salvo with Aditya Birla Fashion Retail Ltd (ABFRL) that acquired a stake in Tahiliani’s business in February this year. At the fabled Brijrama Palace — originally built for the Maharaja of Darbhanga in the early 19th century — models dressed in finely-fashioned ethnic wear mingled with guests and members of the press in the early afternoon glow. The clothes they wore carried all the hallmarks of Tahiliani’s attention to detail, drape, and design. “The kurtas begin at Rs. 1,599,” said Tahiliani, sinking into a couch on the terrace overlooking the Ganga. In my personal conversations with him over the past few years, he had often talked about a well-priced and accessible label. Tasva, launched a few months after the ABFRL deal, then, makes sense. “It is the right time; I want Indian men to be able to dress well in clothes that are made in India with Indian textiles, clothes that are comfortable and make them look good.” Separately, I asked Ashish Dikshit, ABFRL’s managing director, if this label intended to cater to the rapidly growing (and marrying) young population of India. Dikshit immediately outlined the brand’s strategy: “We’re looking at opening 70 stores across the country in 2022 alone.” Over our conversation, I find that the soft-spoken Dikshit is serious about, and committed to, the cause. “At Aditya Birla, we’ve been in the business of clothes for a long time. We recognised the opportunity and wanted to take Tarun’s design and fashion sensibility to the country in a big way.”  By the hand and powerloom   As the afternoon progressed and the models changed and came back to mingle with us, they wore a variety of textiles ranging from khadi to machine-woven jacquards, cotton slub to viscose-infused staple, cotton velvet to silk kataan . To me, this is where the soul of Tasva lies: in embracing and innovating with the kind of textiles being produced in a historic place like Benaras today, and not just a venerated fantasy of what Benarasi textiles should be. Tahiliani has embraced both the hand and powerloom, and worked with the weavers to ensure the kind of supply, and price points, that wouldn’t be possible had everything been handwoven or hand-embroidered. Many Tasva designs use hand-made fabrics, but not all. This direct form of collaboration and design intervention also sets Tasva apart and above the label’s closest competitors — Fabindia and Manyavar, two labels that own the lion’s share of the men’s ethnic wear market in India. At the studio of award-winning textile artist Vakil Ahmed, we meet his son, Salman, an English-speaking Delhi University graduate who came back to his family business and helped to modernise it. He was proud to show us around his various weaving facilities: one of them in his ancestral maternal haveli where artisans sit on handlooms producing fine Benarasi brocade taking days, and another, a mechanized affair where humongous powerlooms churn out textiles at the rate of tens of meters every few hours. Along with Ahmed and Salman, and many like them, Tahiliani has accepted and decided to work with the reality of what Benaras is today: a hybrid creature of the past and present, living simultaneously in both timelines.  Design led  In connecting with the real Benaras through Tasva, Tahiliani has freed the tormented soul of ethnic wear design that, till now, was held captive in the snobbish diktat that anything ‘ethnic’ has to be made with handwoven cloth and embellished with hand-embroideries only. On the flip side, hundreds of labels big and small ride on the ‘ethnic’ bandwagon without so much as a nod to the work of master craftspeople working in textile centres like Benaras, using cheap materials to offer low prices. Tahiliani’s approach is as fresh as it is needed. I asked him how it all began. “ABFRL had been looking for someone to get into this category, and decided that they’d be better off working with an owner-designer who could bring in a consistent point of view. If I’m doing it, I would do it while fully embracing new technologies and techniques.” His 25 years in fashion, he added, have taught him to look at clothes as representations of the times in which they are made, and as vehicles for change and expression. Later that evening, on a boat ride to take in the spectacle of the aarti on the ghats , I mused on the resilience of Benaras —a centre of both spiritual and fiscal pursuits housing temples and traders in equal numbers — and how Tahiliani is perhaps best placed to access this metaphor through fashion and design. A men’s label in a market that’s thirsting for well-designed solutions for a people who have always loved and understood good fabrics, comfort, and style, and who have been stuck with a Bollywood fantasy promoted by its biggest stars — not on the strength of design, but by outmoded ad campaigns that sell a dream. On the ghats of Benaras, Tarun Tahiliani has perhaps answered that prayer. The year 2022 will tell us how well he and ABFRL have answered it. Kurtas from Rs. 1,599, and  banghgalas and sherwanis from Rs. 12,999, on tasva.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/breaking-the-mould-in-benares/article37989453.ece
19 December 2021||Kalaburagi,||CUK Registrar’s letter to RSS chief triggers a controversy||A letter written on the Central University of Karnataka (CUK) letterhead by Registrar (In-charge) Basavaraj Donur seeking an appointment with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sarsangchalak (chief) Mohan Bhagwat has triggered a controversy in the university and the academic circles. In the letter dated December 9, 2021, Mr. Donur has, as the Registrar of the university, introduced himself as a professor of English and a bilingual writer and sought appointment with the RSS chief. Mentioning that he has been invited to an event at Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University in Ramtek on January 8, 2022, he has said in the letter, “With high spirits and humbleness, I am approaching you through this letter... As I am in this holy town of Ramtek, which also is the birthplace of revered late Shri Golwalkar Guruji, I would like to pay a courtesy visit to you in the RSS headquarters, Nagpur, on the 8th or 9th of January, 2022. I know, you have been extremely busy travelling across the nation for attending to different sections of society through RSS. In your hectic schedule, if possible, kindly confirm my appointment with you.” Criticism on social media Some activists took to social media to criticise Mr. Donur for his desire to meet the RSS chief as Registrar of the university. Activist and writer K. Neela held CUK Vice-chancellor Battu Satyanarayana responsible for Mr. Donur’s letter. “As head of the university, Vice-chancellor should take the responsibility. Mr. Satyanarayana himself had termed progressive intellectuals and democratic people as pseudo-secularists in one of the meetings recently,” she said. ‘Will do needful’ However, Mr. Satyanarayana told The Hindu that he has not instructed Mr. Donur to meet the RSS chief. “I came to know about the letter, purportedly written by Mr. Donur to Mr. Bhagwat, only through the media. Will check and do the needful,” he said. ‘Tarnish image’ Mr. Donur justified his action. “There is no rule that I should not use my letterhead when I write a letter. It is a courtesy visit and there is nothing controversial about it... I personally believe that for building a strong nation and all tolerant people representing all faiths should come together... A twist is being given to a simple, courtesy letter,” he said, alleging that it was an attempt to tarnish his image and that of the university. Mr. Donur warned of filing a criminal case against people who have made “baseless allegations” against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cuk-registrars-letter-triggers-a-row/article37989155.ece
19 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Kurubas, Marathas protest against desecration of statues||Members of the Kuruba and Maratha communities took out separate protest marches and staged demonstrations in Dharwad on Saturday seeking stern action against those involved in desecration of the statues of Shivaji Maharaj and Sangolli Rayanna. Beginning from different locations, the protesters marched to the office of the Deputy Commissioner in Dharwad and staged a demonstration outside the office seeking stringent action. Members of the Kuruba community alleged that to disturb peace and tranquillity in society, miscreants had desecrated the statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna at Angol in Belagavi. Rayanna, being a household name in the State for his valour, had fought bravely against the British. However, some mischief-mongers had damaged the statue just to create trouble and they should be penalised immediately. Members of the Maratha community demanded arrest of all those involved in defacing the Shivaji statue in Bengaluru. They said that it was an attempt to divide society and spread hatred. Such acts should be contained and all those indulged in vandalism should be brought to book, they said. Members of the Maratha community also condemned the burning of Kannada flag by activists of the Maharashtra Ekikarana Samiti and demanded action against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kurubas-marathas-protest-against-desecration-of-statues/article37989334.ece
19 December 2021||KALABURAGI,||100-bed hospital to come up in Jewargi||Congress leader and Opposition Chief Whip in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly Ajay Singh has said that a 100-bed motherand children hospital will shortly come up at Katti Sangavi village, about 1.5 km from Jewargi town in Kalaburagi district. Addressing a media conference at his residence here on Saturday, Mr. Singh said Dharam Singh Foundation would provide 2.5 acres of land for free to the Government to construct the hospital, which would be named after his father, late N. Dharam Singh, former Chief Minister. “It is one of the steps that we are taking to realise my father’s tradition to serve the people. The Dharma Singh Foundation is giving 2.5 acres of land for free to the Government of Karnataka to build and operate the hospital which would be named after my father. The foundation would hand over the land to the Government on December 25 at a simple programme,” Mr. Singh said. As part of the several initiatives that the foundation has taken to realise the dreams of the former Chief Minister, Mr. Singh said the foundation would also build a Kalyana Mantap in the adjacent premises and put it for the service of the poor for free. “We have about 25 acres of land off the main road at Katti Sangavi on the outskirts of Jewargi town. The plot measuring 2.5 acres would be handed over to the Government for building the hospital. Adjacent to it, we are going to build a Kalyana Mantap so that the poor people could use it for functions such as marriages and birthday parties for free. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge would lay the foundation stone for the project. It is because of Jewargi people that my father could become the Chief Minister of Karnataka and it is a small initiative to serve those people,” Mr. Singh said. He added that the foundation would also build a library on the same premises to help rural students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/100-bed-hospital-to-come-up-in-jewargi/article37989329.ece
19 December 2021||YADGIR,||‘Jowar will be purchased at procurement centres’||R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner, has said Jowar will be purchased under Minimum Supportive Price (MSP) scheme for the khariff season of 2021-22 and therefore, procurement centres are opened in the district. In a release on Friday, she said that farmers should sell jowar at the procurement centres by registering within the date stipulated. “20 quintals of jowar (10 quintals per acre) from each farmer will be purchased as Rs. 2,738 for Hybrid Jowar and Rs. 2,758 for M 35-1 Jowar, which is also called as Maldandi jowar in the local language, was fixed,” Dr Ragapriya said. The procurement centres are opened at APMC yard in Yadgir (contact number - 7760826959 ), APMC Yard in Shorapur (contact number - 9972522793), Taluk Agricultural Products Marketing Cooperative Society (TAPCMS) Yard in Shahapur (contact number - 7483719938), TAPCMS Yard in Hunsagi (contact number - 7975114798) and Agricultural Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. in Naikal (contact number – 9036935603). Farmers should sell their produce at the particular centres, the Deputy Commissioner advised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jowar-will-be-purchased-at-procurement-centres/article37989330.ece
19 December 2021||Yadgir,||KPSC exam: Tight security at centres||Adequate police security has been provided to centres where the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) is going to conduct examinations for the group C posts, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy has said. In a press release on Saturday, Dr. Vedamurthy said 27 examination centres — 25 in Yadgir and two in Shahapur — have been established and adequate police security had been deployed at the centres. “As many as 6,937 candidates are schedule to take the examination and the first paper will be at 10 a.m. and second at 2 p.m.,” he added. Dr. Vedamurthy said that to ensure fair and proper conduct of the examination, two Deputy Superintendents of Police, eight police inspectors, 20 sub-inspectors, and 100 constables would be deployed. “There will be no opportunity for any malpractice and action will be taken if such activities are found,” he warned. As a precautionary measure, photocopy shops and internet cafes near the exam centres have been asked to close during the time of the examination, he said. In Raichur, Deputy Commissioner Avinash Rajendran Menon has imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC within 200 metre radius from the examination centres. As many as 44 centres have been established and of them 37 are in Raihcur, five in Manvi, and two in Sindhanur. Bringing notes, cell phones, calculators, and books inside the examination centres is prohibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kpsc-exam-tight-security-at-centres/article37989335.ece
19 December 2021||December 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Highways in the hills||The story so far : On December 14, modifying its previous order, the Supreme Court upheld the Government’s mandate to widen three Himalayan highways - Rishikesh to Mana, Rishikesh to Gangotri and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh - as part of the Char Dham Pariyojna of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), in the interest of national security. They will now be developed as per the double lane with paved shoulder (DLPS) system. However, the Supreme Court has also directed the Government to address the environmental concerns raised by the High Powered Committee (HPC), constituted on its order in August 2019. What is the Char Dham project? The Rs. 12,000 crore project was announced on December 23, 2016. It aims at broadening the roads of about 900 km of national highways for safer, smoother and faster traffic movement. They connect the holy shrines in Uttarakhand: Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath. The project also includes the Tanakpur-Pithoragarh stretch of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra route. Who challenged its development? Environmentalist groups led by Dehradun-based Citizens for Green Doon filed an application on February 27, 2018, in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), challenging construction of the project on the ground that the development activity would have a negative impact on the Himalayan ecosystem. The applicants submitted that the project would result in deforestation, excavation of hills and dumping of muck, which would lead to further landslides and soil erosion, in an already fragile environment. The NGT, on September 26, 2018, observed that the length of each of these projects was less than 100 km and therefore, they did not require environmental clearance. However, it directed constitution of an ‘Oversight Committee’ to monitor environmental safeguards. The order was challenged in the Supreme Court. What happened in the Supreme Court? On August 8, 2019, the Supreme Court modified the NGT order and constituted the HPC with certain terms of reference, including the responsibility to consider the project’s cumulative and independent impact on the entire Himalayan valley. Taking note of an HPC report, the Supreme Court on September 8, 2020, directed the Government to adhere to an MoRTH circular of March 2018 that advised against building full-fledged roads in hilly areas. It allowed 5.5 metres width with two-lane structures. That circular was later amended by MoRTH on December 15, 2020, based on MoD views, given that the stretches in question acted as feeder roads to the India-China border. This enabled 7 metres width with 1.5 metres paved shoulder on either side. The Government, through MoD, moved an application in the Supreme Court seeking modification of the September 2020 order and direction that the three stretches be developed to a two-lane configuration in the interest of the security of the nation and for the defence of its borders. What did respondents argue? They argued that the HPC was not allowed to function independently and was given inadequate assistance by the Government; that no concrete action was taken on concerns related to slope stabilisation, muck disposal, restoration of damaged slopes and hill-cutting activities; that MoRTH violated its 2018 circular and the Supreme Court’s September 2020 directive; and that the fragile environment of the Himalayas would be severely damaged if the DLPS standard was adopted. The Government submitted that the stretches acted as feeder roads to the India-China border and were of strategic importance; that with the increase in defence capability, the nature of weapons, tanks and machinery, and the conditions at the border, wider roads were required; and that the Court’s directive was complied with. It also listed a series of mitigation steps taken to ensure that the project caused the least environmental and ecological damage. The Supreme Court’s approval is conditional upon MoRTH and MoD implementing the HPC recommendations. An Oversight Committee, which will assess their implementation, has been set up by the Supreme Court. As directed, the Government will issue a formal notification in terms of the Supreme Court’s directions within two weeks and thereafter, MoRTH and MoD will place before the Committee the steps taken to adhere to the recommendations, along with a projected timeline for complying with the remaining suggestions.  The Government says the stretches act as feeder roads to the India-China border and are of strategic importance; environmentalists argue that the Himalayan ecosystem will be damaged if a double lane is built||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/highways-in-the-hills/article37988673.ece
19 December 2021||Yadgir,||31,301 cases settled at Lok Adalat||Mallikarjun Gowda, principal district and sessions judge and chairman of the District Legal Services Authority, has said that 31,301 cases, which were pending before various courts in the district at different stages, were settled amicably at the Lok Adalat held on Saturday. At a press meet in Raichur on Saturday, he said that out of 58,696 cases, 34,419 had been identified for the settlement and of them, 31,301 cases had been settled and Rs. 15,99,71,253 had been paid to the litigants concerned. “As many as 342 pre-dispute cases were identified for settlement at the Adalat and of them 75 cases were settled,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/31301-cases-settled-at-lok-adalat/article37989332.ece
