21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Lok Sabha passes Bill to link electoral rolls with Aadhaar||Amid vociferous protests by Opposition members, the Lok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill to link electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem without any substantial discussion. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, while moving the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, told the House that the linking of the electoral roll with a person’s Aadhaar was “voluntary”, but went on to quote a report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Law and Justice to assert that the process would “purify” the rolls. The manner of passing the Bill, barely two hours after it was introduced in the Lok Sabha and in the midst of an uproar, led Opposition members to accuse the Narendra Modi government of “compromising” the authority of Parliament. In a departure from the norm, even Congress leader in the House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was seen throwing bits of papers towards the Well of the House in protest. BJP member Nishikant Dubey alleged that the Congress and Trinamool Congress members were opposing the Bill as they relied on “illegal Bangladeshis” as their vote banks. Hitting back at Mr. Dubey, NCP member Supriya Sule said the BJP should first clarify the allegation about a Minister in the present Council of Ministers being a Bangladeshi national. Opposing the passage of the Bill, Mr. Chowdhury said, “What is the tearing hurry to pass the Bill? It should be sent to the Standing Committee.” Responding to him, the Law Minister said the provisions were extensively discussed by the parliamentary panel on law and justice and it also gave a unanimous report. “We have not brought this in a dictatorial way,” Mr. Rijiju told the Opposition members. While Trinamool members Kalyan Banerjee and Mahua Moitra were agitated over the government pushing through the Bill, parties that are friendly to the government — the Biju Janata Dal and the YSR Congress — also urged it not to pass the Bill in the din.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-link-electoral-rolls-with-aadhaar/article38001355.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,||High Court declares ‘nokkukooli’ illegal||The Kerala High Court on Monday declared unconstitutional the demand for ‘nokkukooli’ by trade unions or registered headload workers or any person in any form and manner. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while dealing with a writ petition seeking police protection from the threat of headload workers, ordered that the practice of demanding nokkukooli be banned. The court made it clear that if a police officer of the jurisdiction concerned received any complaint regarding a demand for nokkukooli, the officer should register an FIR under Sections 383 (extortion) and 503 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Amendment The court directed the State government to carry out the proposed amendment to the Kerala Headload Workers Act in a time-bound manner. The government had earlier submitted that it was bringing in an amendment that would penalise workers who demanded nokkukooli and the worker concerned would be expelled from the welfare board. The Headload Workers Welfare Board was also directed to devise a method of modernising the workforce and equip the workers with scientific and mechanical support to carry out their duties. The court said the headload workers must be given technical assistance which would put an end to the practice of them carrying heavy loads on their heads or body. Carrying heavy load on their head or body regularly would cause irreversible musculoskeletal cervical problems. Time had come to modernise the workforce by giving them the technical assistance to do the loading and unloading works, it said. The court observed that the State needs to recover from the unfortunate reputation of not being so very investor-friendly on account of militant trade unions. In fact, such a reputation had its edifice on the deleterious tendencies such as nokkukooli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-court-declares-nokkukooli-illegal/article38001637.ece
21 December 2021||Khammam,||Three from Kerala drown in TS canal||An evening stroll along the NSP canal at Danavaigudem in the town turned tragic for three Ayurveda therapists from Kerala on Sunday evening as they were swept away by swirling waters in the canal. The trio were feared drowned in the irrigation canal. They were identified as Sony Parakal, 35, who originally hails from Kerala but settled in Khammam, Abhay, 25, a native of Kandanattu in Alappuzha district and Vivek, 22, of Kanchiyar panchayat in Idukki district. Sources said that Sony, who is a manager of the Khammam main branch of an Ayurveda hospital with its branches in Suryapet and Kodad, along with his 11-year-old son Sharon and five others had gone to the NSP canal site on a weekend picnic. The incident occurred when Sharon accidentally slipped into the canal while three others were swimming in the swirling waters a few metres away. Sony, Abhay and Vivek rushed to his rescue but the trio drowned one after another. Sony, who himself is a good swimmer, was swept away by the strong undercurrents while trying to save his son. Pradeep, an Ayurveda therapist from Kerala, who accompanied the father-son duo to the canal on a weekend picnic, rescued Sharon by bringing him out of the gushing waters to the shore safely. “Sony’s last words “please save my son” still ring in my ears,” Pradeep said while recounting the tragic incident. Alerted by the locals, the Khanapuram Haveli police reached the spot and launched a search operation but could not trace the trio. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Vijayawada joined the search operation on Monday afternoon. The trio could not be traced till reports last came in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-from-kerala-drown-in-ts-canal/article38001598.ece
21 December 2021||Vijayawada,||Make payment within 21 days of procuring paddy: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to take necessary measures to ensure payment within 21 days of procurement of paddy. The officials have to lay a special emphasis on payments to farmers, he said. The Chief Minister held a review meeting on procurement of paddy with the officials of the Agriculture and Civil Supplies department on Monday. He said there was no involvement of millers in procurement of paddy. The scope for cheating farmers under the pretext of quality check should be eliminated. The rice exports to other countries need to be done by the State government directly. In a way, it would help the farmers as well, he said. Minimum support price Stressing the need for ensuring Minimum Support Price (MSP) to farmers, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the aim of the State government was to see that every farmer got MSP for his produce. The Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBKs) should play an active role in the procurement of crops. He told the officials to set up a helpline number in every RBK for complaints and petitions on issues related to procurement of farm produce. The Rythu Bharosa Kendras should designate at least five people, including technical assistants and data entry operators, irrespective of their category for procurement operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/make-payment-within-21-days-of-procuring-paddy-jagan/article38001337.ece
21 December 2021||Srinagar,||Six additional seats for Jammu, one for Kashmir proposed||The Jammu and Kashmir Delimitation Commission on Monday proposed to increase six seats for the Jammu division and one for the Kashmir division, besides reserving 16 seats for the Scheduled Castes (SC) and the Scheduled Tribes in the Union Territory, triggering sharp reactions from the regional parties. The Kashmir division now has 46 seats and Jammu 37. The commission, headed by Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd.), met the five associate members — two MPs from the BJP and three from the National Conference — in New Delhi on Monday. The National Conference had earlier boycotted the commission. The commission has not specified the districts where the SC and ST seats would be reserved. It suggested to the associate members that the 2011 census, with the Jammu division having 53.5 lakh population and the Kashmir division 68.8 lakh, had been considered as the basis to carve out the new seats. The draft proposal also suggested that nine seats would be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes and seven for the Scheduled Castes. Jammu and Kashmir will now have a 90-member Legislative Assembly, up from the 87 prior to the Centre’s decision to end the special constitutional position of the erstwhile State. Unacceptable: Masoodi NC MP Hasnain Masoodi, who attended the meeting, termed the proposal “unacceptable”. “It is a matter of concern. We will submit our report in detail very soon, as the proposal is not acceptable at all,” he said. “There is already a Supreme Court ruling granting a status quo regarding delimitation, if the commission prepares the draft based on 2011 census. It will be unconstitutional. The commission assured the exercise will be carried out as per the ruling,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-additional-seats-for-jammu-one-for-kashmir-proposed/article38001353.ece
21 December 2021||Ahmedabad,||Heroin worth Rs. 400 crore seized from Pak. boat||In yet another major drug haul, 77 kg of heroin worth Rs. 400 crore was seized from a Pakistani fishing boat off the Gujarat coast late on Sunday. Six crew members of the boat were arrested in a joint operation by the Indian Coast Guard and the Gujarat Anti Terrorist Squad. “The @IndiaCoastGuard in a joint Ops with ATS #Gujarat has apprehended one Pak Fishing Boat ‘Al Huseini’ with 06 crew in Indian waters carrying 77 kgs #heroin worth approx 400 cr,” Gujarat’s defence PRO said in a tweet. The boat was later brought to the Jakhau fishing harbour in Kutch for further investigation, he added. Past seizures In November, the ATS also seized a heroin consignment worth about Rs. 600 crore from an under-construction house in Morbi district. It said the consignment had been sent by Pakistani drug dealers via the Arabian Sea. In September, in the single largest heroin haul in India, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized around 3,000 kg of the drug worth around Rs. 21,000 crore at the Adani-owned Mundra port in Kutch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heroin-worth-rs-400-crore-seized-from-pak-boat/article38001351.ece
21 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||2 RSS activists arrested for SDPI leader’s murder||The Kerala Police on Monday arrested two persons in connection with the murder of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) State secretary K.S. Shan in Alappuzha on Saturday. The arrested have been identified as RSS activists Prasad of Mannancherry and Ratheesh of Mararikulam South. The police said the duo actively participated in the conspiracy and planning to kill the SDPI leader. Prasad hatched the plot and organised attackers and vehicle, said an official. Following the murder of the SDPI leader, a gang hacked Ranjith Sreenivas, BJP OBC Morcha State secretary, to death in his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha on Sunday morning. A special investigation team led by Vijay Sakhare, Additional Director-General of Police, Law and Order, is probing the twin political murders. Mr. Sakhare said the police had identified 10 people involved in the murder of Shan and efforts were on to nab the eight other accused. At least 12 assailants were involved in the murder of Sreenivas, the ADGP said. The police were also probing the larger conspiracy angle behind the murders, he added. The car that hit the two-wheeler of Shan was found at Kanichukulangara near Cherthala on Monday. Meanwhile, an all-party meeting scheduled to take place at Alappuzha District Collectorate on Monday afternoon to defuse political tension in the district was postponed. The meeting will now be held on Tuesday afternoon. BJP leaders had informed of their inability to attend the meeting due to the funeral of Sreenivas. Sreenivas was laid to rest at Valiyazheekkal. His body was kept at Alappuzha District Court compound, BJP office and his house at Vellakinar for the public and relatives to pay their last respects before being taken to his native place Valiyazheekkal. Paying respect Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai, BJP national executive member P.K. Krishnadas, BJP State president K. Surendran, BJP Alappuzha District president M.V. Gopakumar and others paid their respects to the slain leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-rss-activists-arrested-for-sdpi-leaders-murder/article38001357.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Foxconn stir: YouTuber arrested||The Tiruvallur police arrested YouTuber Sattai Durai Murugan alias Murugan, for spreading rumours about the health of the Foxconn factory workers in the social media, leading to a massive protest. In a late night operation on Sunday, a special team of the Tiruvallur district police arrested the YouTuber, who is a member of the Naam Tamilar Katchi, in Tiruchi and was brought to Tiruvallur where he was produced before the judicial magistrate on Monday. He has been remanded in judicial custody till January 3. A senior police officer said the accused was arrested based on a complaint filed by Poonamallee tahsildar Shankar for spreading false information on social media stating that nine workers of FoxConn workers had died of food poisoning. Following this, nearly 2,000 women workers of the company blocked the Chengaluru-National Highway on Friday midnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/foxconn-stir-youtuber-held/article38001455.ece
21 December 2021||MANGALURU,||City advocate surrenders in court||Two months after he went absconding following a complaint of sexual harassment meted out to a law intern at his office, advocate K.S.N. Rajesh on Monday surrendered before a magistrate court here. He was remanded in judicial custody by the court. He is said to have arrived on an ambulance and presented himself before the III Judicial Magistrate First Class Court. Rajesh’s regular bail application is expected to be heard by the court on Tuesday. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here that the police will seek his police custody when the bail application comes up for hearing. Besides investigation of the charge of sexual harassment, allegations of obtaining signatures on documents and thumb impressions made by the victim too need to be probed into, he said. Soon after the victim lodged a complaint with the women’s police station in Pandeshwar on October 18, Rajesh absconded and remained at large. The victim’s friend too lodged another complaint against him and a woman activist stating that both had forced her to sign a statement denying the victim’s charge. Rajesh unsuccessfully approached the District and Sessions Court in Mangaluru and then the High Court of Karnataka seeking advance bail. After his petitions were rejected, he remained at large. The woman activist and three others, including his wife, were arrested by the police on the charge of abetment and helping the accused to evade legal course of action. They have been subsequently released on bail. To a question whether another case of sexual harassment was registered against the accused on a complaint by his colleague, the commissioner answered it in the negative. There were rumours that some other women were allegedly harassed by the accused while videos and pictures of these incidents were doing the rounds. However, no one has approached the police so far with this grievance, Mr. Kumar said and added that if anybody was subjected to harassment, they may approach the police. Mr. Kumar said that a senior officer, Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Bandaru, has been made the investigating officer, given the sensitive nature of the case. The police will also probe into who had arranged for Rajesh’s arrival in court. The police had, on November 9, issued a lookout notice against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-advocate-surrenders-in-court/article38001750.ece
21 December 2021||GUNTUR,||Shree Cement to set up factory in Guntur dist.||A delegation of Shree Cement led by its MD H.M. Bangur and JMD Prasanth Bangur called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday and held discussions on setting up a greenfield cement plant at Pedagarlapadu village in Dachepalli mandal of Guntur district with an estimated investment of Rs. 1,500 crore. Mr. Jagan said Andhra Pradesh is the best destination for investments Shree Cement has cement manufacturing and allied sector plants in nine States and will be setting up its first plant in Andhra Pradesh. It has been planned to complete the project in 24 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shree-cement-to-set-up-factory-in-guntur-dist/article38001347.ece
21 December 2021||MUMBAI,||SEBI halts futures trading in key crops||Market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on Monday issued an order suspending futures trading in paddy (non-basmati), wheat, Bengal gram (chana dal), mustard seeds and its derivatives, soyabean and its derivatives, crude palm oil and green gram (moong dal) for a year, in a move believed to be an attempt at stemming rising prices. SEBI directed stock exchanges in commodity derivatives segment not to undertake any trading in derivative contracts in these key farm commodities with immediate effect. For a year “No new contract shall be launched till further orders. In respect of running contracts, no new position will be allowed to be taken. Only squaring up of position will be allowed,” the regulator said in its order. “These directions will be implemented with immediate effect. The above-mentioned directions are applicable, for a period of one year,” it added. The government and the Reserve Bank of India are struggling to hold down the prices of food items to curb inflation and Monday’s measures are believed to be a step in this direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sebi-halts-futures-trading-in-key-crops/article38001349.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea seeking possession of Red Fort||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by the widow of the great-grandson of last Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, seeking possession of the Red Fort. The court said Sultana Begum has not been able to give any “justifiable explanation” for the delay in filing her case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-plea-seeking-possession-of-red-fort/article38001502.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. prepared to fight Omicron: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said there is no need to panic about the Omicron variant of COVID-19. Speaking at a meeting of the DDMA, Mr. Kejriwal said his government is fully prepared for the fight with adequate beds, oxygen and medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-prepared-to-fight-omicron-cm/article38001504.ece
21 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad district reports first Omicron case||With a 54-year-old woman, who has no travel history, testing positive for the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, Dharwad district has reported its first such case. Her condition is stable and she has recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharwad-district-reports-first-omicron-case/article38001577.ece
21 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab seeks nod for tough laws on sacrilege||The Punjab government has asked the Centre to give approval to the Code of Criminal Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 and the Indian Penal Code (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 to ensure stringent punishment to those perpetrating the heinous crime of sacrilege of holy books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-seeks-nod-for-tough-laws-on-sacrilege/article38001682.ece
21 December 2021||Srinagar,||Will restore 100% power supply: J&K L-G||J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said that 60% of electricity supply has been restored in the UT and promised to restore 100% supply by Tuesday, as protests by around 20,000 employees of the power department continued for the third straight day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-restore-100-power-supply-jk-l-g/article38001683.ece
21 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland Assembly calls for repeal of AFSPA||The Nagaland Assembly has demanded the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act from the State and elsewhere in the Northeast and an apology from the “appropriate authority” for the botched Army operation that led to the death of 14 civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nagaland-assembly-calls-for-repeal-of-afspa/article38001501.ece
21 December 2021||Mysuru,||Pourakarmika dies of asphyxiation||A pourakarmika who entered a manhole to clean the UGD died of suffocation while two others fell sick in Periyapatna, on Monday. The victim was identified as Madhu (27).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pourakarmika-dies-of-asphyxiation/article38001766.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Centre blinks, sends two Bills for review||The government on Monday referred the Biological Diver- sity (Amendment) Bill and the Mediation Bill for scrutiny by parliamentary committees. The Opposition has also demanded that the “Prohibition of Child Marriage (A) Bill” be referred to a standing committee.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-blinks-sends-two-bills-for-review/article38001340.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre not allowing any debate, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused the government of not allowing a discussion on important issues in Parliament. “They are attacking democracy. There is a non-stop attack on democracy and that is why we are fighting here,” Mr. Gandhi said.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-not-allowing-any-debate-says-rahul/article38001341.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 13,109 cr. recovered from fugitives, says Nirmala||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said banks had recovered Rs. 13,109.17 crore by selling the assets of fugitives such as Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi. She said Rs. 792 crore were recovered by selling the assets of Mr. Mallya and others on July 16.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-13109-cr-recovered-from-fugitives-says-nirmala/article38001342.ece
21 December 2021||HONG KONG,||Pradeep Rawat to take over as next Ambassador to China||The Ministry of External Affairs on Monday said Pradeep Kumar Rawat, a Mandarin-speaking career diplomat, will take over as envoy in Beijing. Mr. Rawat, Ambassador to the Netherlands, will replace Vikram Misri, who completed a close to three-year term earlier this month. The next envoy will take charge amid the worst phase in relations since the normalisation of ties in the 1980s, with a crisis along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), triggered by transgressions by the Chinese military starting in April 2020, as yet unresolved and thousands of troops of both sides still deployed in forward areas. Mr. Rawat is no stranger to the border tensions, having dealt with China in various capacities including as one of the senior-most officials in New Delhi handling China policy as the Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the MEA from 2014 to 2017. Having joined the foreign service in 1990, Mr. Rawat chose Mandarin as his foreign language and first served in Hong Kong, and then in Beijing, between 1992 and 1997, according to an official profile. He continued to deal with China after his first stints there, returning to work in the East Asia Division for three years. Mr. Rawat had a second four-year term in Beijing in 2003, initially as counsellor and then as the Deputy Chief of Mission, during a phase that coincided with two breakthroughs on the boundary question with the appointment of Special Representatives in 2003 and an agreement on political parameters and guiding principles in 2005. Border crisis The border talks haven’t made discernible progress since, while past understandings on the boundary have now been cast in doubt following the more than 18-month-long border crisis. Mr. Misri called on Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on December 6, a week before he returned to New Delhi. In the meeting, Mr. Misri “noted that our relations comprised both opportunities and challenges, and even though certain challenges since last year had overpowered the vast opportunities in the relationship, he was hopeful that with continued communication at all levels — political, diplomatic and military, the two sides would be able to resolve the current difficulties and take the relationship forward in a positive direction”, a statement from the Indian Embassy said. The Chinese Foreign Minister put forward “three dos and three don’ts” for the relations, according a readout from the Foreign Ministry in Beijing, saying both sides needed to “not misunderstand and misjudge”, to take a long-term view and “build each other up and don’t wear each other out”. Both sides have, however, differed on the way forward, with China dragging its feet on continuing the disengagement process, continuing a build-up of infrastructure along the border, and saying the boundary should be kept in an “appropriate place” in the relationship.  Mr. Wang said in a speech on Monday that both sides “have maintained dialogue through diplomatic and military channels, and effectively managed and controlled frictions in certain border areas, under a shared commitment to improving and developing the bilateral relations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pradeep-rawat-to-take-over-as-next-ambassador-to-china/article38001250.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. blinks, sends two Bills for review||Hours after leaders of the five Opposition parties snubbed the government’s belated attempt at resolving the row over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members by skipping the meeting with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, the government on Monday referred two Bills to parliamentary committees. However, the demand to send the Election Laws (amendment) Bill to a standing committee was ignored. Opposition’s demands The Opposition has also demanded that the “Prohibition of Child Marriage (A) Bill” that seeks to increase the legal age for marriage for women from 18 to 21 years be referred to a standing committee. As per informal conversations between Opposition leaders and the government managers, the latter may be favourably inclined to the demand, but there is so far no official word on it. Despite demands, the government did not send the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to link voter IDs with Aadhaar cards. As with several laws, the Bill was passed on Monday by the Lok Sabha amid sharp protests from the Opposition. “The way the Union government rushed through the Election Laws Bill once again shows that they are undemocratic and authoritarian. Despite our demands, the Bill was not sent to a parliamentary committee,” Congress whip in the Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore said. Investment in research The two Bills sent for scrutiny are the Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill and the Mediation Bill. The first will allow for foreign investment in research in biodiversity but this investment will necessarily have to be made through Indian companies involved in biodiversity research. The Mediation Bill seeks to promote and facilitate mediation, especially institutional mediation, for resolution of disputes, commercial or otherwise and enforce mediated settlement agreements. Mr. Joshi on Sunday evening had written to five Opposition parties to which the 12 suspended MPs belong, inviting them for a meeting. However, all five parties — the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, CPI and CPI(M) — declined the invitation. The Opposition also skipped the Business Advisory Committee meeting for the Rajya Sabha called by the government at 5 p.m, with information about the meeting sent out at 4.45 p.m., just 15 minutes before the meet. At a meeting on Monday morning, Opposition leaders decided to carry on with their protest against the suspension of Rajya Sabha members till the end of the winter session December 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-blinks-sends-two-bills-for-review/article38001267.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Report on vaccine effectiveness against Omicron in a week: govt.||A report on the effectiveness of the vaccines available in the country against the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 will be available in a week, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday. He was replying to a “short-duration discussion” on the situation arising in India out of the Omicron variant of the virus causing COVID-19. So far, 161 cases of Omicron have been detected in the country and while 14% cases were mild, nearly 80% were asymptomatic. The treatment protocol for Omicron remains the same as in the case of the Delta, Alpha and other variants. The Minister noted that 88% of the eligible population had received their first dose of vaccine and 58% were fully vaccinated. “The Omicron variant was first detected in Africa on November 24; we have made adequate arrangements to fight the virus. At present, there are 38 genome sequencing laboratories in the country. We are culturing the virus strain to see if our vaccines are working on that variant or not, its impact is still being studied, will get the report in a week,” he said. During the second wave, it was observed that many complained about a shortage of medical oxygen, and the manufacturing capacity was increased overnight but the problem of logistics remained. The Indian Air Force was roped in and special tankers to ferry oxygen were imported. “However, it was seen that many [hospitals] got oxygen quota allocated through courts. It was found that when oxygen reached them, they had no space to keep it. The situation was politicised, it should not be done,” he said. As of now, 48,000 ventilators had been given to the States. “During the second wave, we received complaints that ventilators are not working. We have now made the States responsible for checking the fitness of the machines and only they can further allot the ventilators to hospitals,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/report-on-vaccine-effectiveness-against-omicron-in-a-week-govt/article38001287.ece
21 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab seeks nod for tough laws on sacrilege||Amid recent sacrilege incidents in Punjab, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday urged the Union government to give nod to the State’s suggested amendments to law for including stringent provisions. The Punjab government has asked the Centre to give approval to the Code of Criminal Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 and the Indian Penal Code (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 to ensure stringent punishment to those perpetrating the heinous crime of sacrilege of holy books. In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Mr. Randhawa said, “I want to bring to your notice that sacrilege of holy books is becoming a major issue in Punjab. Shri Guru Granth Sahib is considered a living Guru and not an object by the Sikhs and it is accorded respect according to Sikh maryada. In this context, it was felt that the existing provisions of Section 295 and 295-A of the Indian Penal Code-1860, which provide for a punishment of up to three years are inadequate to deal with this situation. So, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha passed ‘The Indian Penal Code (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2018 and The Code of Criminal Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill 2018’, which provide for punishment up to life imprisonment for whoever causing damage or sacrilege to Shri Guru Granth Sahib, Srimad Bhagavad Gita, the Holy Koran and the Holy Bible with the intention to hurt the religious feelings of the people.” “These Bills were given assent by the Governor on 12-09-2018. However these Bills are pending for the assent of the President since October 2018. Punjab being a border State, it is extremely necessary to maintain communal harmony in Punjab. For this, deterrent punishment is a must for those trying to disturb communal harmony by indulging in sacrileges. So, I again request that the Presidential assent for the said Bills may kindly be obtained and conveyed to the State government at the earliest possible,” he added. ‘Cong. playing politics’ Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Congress government was playing politics on the sensitive issue of sacrilege. “The very fact that the Congress government had not proceeded to bring the sacrilege perpetrators to book had emboldened them and this was why more such incidents were happening. The Congress has not learnt any lesson. Even now it has ordered a police inquiry into the recent incidents of sacrilege instead of giving the case to a sitting high court judge [judicial probe] to get to the bottom of the entire conspiracy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-seeks-nod-for-tough-laws-on-sacrilege/article38001258.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aishwarya Rai appears before ED||Bollywood actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan on Monday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for recording her statement in connection with a “Panama Papers” related probe. Ms. Bachchan joined the investigation in response to the third summons from the agency under the Foreign Exchange Management Act. On previous occasions, Ms. Bachchan had sought more time. She is learnt to have submitted the documents sought by the ED. Taking note of the “Panama Papers” leaked in 2016, the ED is conducting the inquiry to determine the facts related to foreign remittances under the Reserve Bank of India’s Liberalised Remittance Scheme made since 2004. The papers comprising records of the Panama-based legal firm Mossack Fonseca were made public by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. They contained details pertaining to many prominent personalities across the world, who were ostensibly part of the companies opened in tax havens over the years. One British Virgin Islands-based company was set up in 2005. As alleged, Ms. Bachchan was a director of the offshore entity. The company was dissolved in 2008. Earlier this month, the Finance Ministry informed the Rajya Sabha that as on October 1, 2021, the total undisclosed credits amounting to Rs. 20,353 crore had been detected with respect to 930 India-linked entities in the Panama and Paradise Paper Leaks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aishwarya-rai-appears-before-ed/article38001252.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 13,109 cr. recovered from fugitives, says FM||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday informed the Lok Sabha that banks have recovered Rs. 13,109.17 crore by selling the assets of fugitives like Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The Minister’s comments came during her reply to a discussion on the second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants which was passed by the Lok Sabha by a voice vote. The discussion on the Supplementary Demands for Grants, authorising the government to spend an additional Rs. 3.73 lakh crore during the current fiscal, concluded last week. Talking about the recovery of Rs. 13,109.17 crore from the sale of assets of wilful defaulters, who have now fled the country, the Finance Minister said Rs. 792 crore were earned from the sale of assets belonging to Mr. Mallya and others on July 16, 2021. “Public sector banks together have effected a recovery of about Rs. 5.49 lakh crore over the last seven financial years. So, these people who are defaulters, who have fled the country, we have got their money back and put it to the public sector banks and therefore the banks are safer today,” she said, adding that depositors’ money was safe in public sector banks. Responding to various issues including price rise, earlier raised by the Opposition members, the Finance Minister assured that steps are being taken to cool down prices of edible oil and other essential commodities. The Finance Minister said the Centre in the first eight months of the fiscal has already transferred 86.4% of what was provided in the full year 2019-20. From the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), funds are being provided with an extra Rs. 15,000 crore for emergency COVID-19 response. “The financial position of the States is also reflected in the fact that the overall cash balance of States as on November 30, 2021 was Rs. 3.08 lakh crore approximately, fairly comfortable positions,” she said. Out of 28 States, she said, only two States have a negative cash balance. Talking about the additional expenditure of Rs. 3.73 lakh crore, she said Rs. 2.99 lakh crore is the additional cash outgo because of big ticket expenditure going for Air India and rise in fertilizer subsidy due to increase in international prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-13109-crore-recovered-from-fugitives-fm/article38001255.ece
21 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Naga House calls for repeal of AFSPA||The Nagaland Assembly has demanded the repeal of the contentious Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act from the State and elsewhere in the northeast and an apology from the “appropriate authority” for the botched Army operation that led to the death of 14 civilians at Oting in in Mon district a fortnight ago. Solution for Naga issue The demands were among five resolutions the 60-member House adopted at a day-long special session on Monday. Among the other resolutions was strengthening the ongoing efforts to find a peaceful solution to the protracted “Naga political issue”. The Assembly condemned the massacre of 13 people by the “21 Para Special Forces” on December 4 and the killing of another person by the security forces in the district headquarters Mon the next day. At least 35 people were injured in the two incidents. The House demanded an apology from the appropriate authority along with an assurance that justice would be delivered by applying the laws of the land upon those who had perpetrated the “inhuman massacre”. It also appealed to the citizens, civil societies and mass-based organisations to cooperate with the government in their collective efforts to demand justice and restore normality. Appreciating support “The House appreciates and supports citizens and civil society organisations in their demand for repealing of the AFSPA and delivery of justice, while appealing to all sections to follow democratic norms and non-violence in our collective endeavour towards the realisation of peace and delivery of justice,” the resolution said. The Assembly said the Naga people were crying for peace and an early solution to the long-pending Naga political issue and it was thus necessary to hear and respect the people’s voice. “The House, therefore, once again appeals to the negotiating parties of the Indo-Naga political dialogue to bring the talks to its logical conclusion by reaching a settlement that is honourable and inclusive at the earliest,” the resolution said. Konyak Union’s appeal The Konyak Union appealed to all Naga political groups (read extremist organisations) to avoid movement with arms within its jurisdiction. The Konyak Union is the apex body of the Konyak Naga community that dominates the Mon district. “Any group that disrupts the situation shall be considered as the enemy of the Konyaks,” a statement issued by the union on Monday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-assembly-calls-for-repeal-of-afspa/article38001264.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Open letter from girls seeks right to decide when to marry||Hundreds of girls and young women have written an open letter to parliamentarians urging them to vote against the government’s proposal to raise the age of marriage for women to 21 and have demanded that their agency to take decisions about their lives is not taken away. The girls also want the elected representatives to pursue policies that ensure gender equality. “It is of course true that many girls among us and our sisters from across the country desire to get married at the age of 21 years or even after that. There are also sisters who desire to get married around 18 years; it is informed by their lived realities and contexts. What is critical for all of us is the right to take this decision ourselves. We believe that girls have complete freedom to choose if, when, who and how to marry,” said the open letter drafted by 2,500 people who are part of the Young Voices National Movement. Last year, representatives of this campaign appeared before the task force headed by Jaya Jaitly and submitted a detailed report opposing raising the age of marriage. It is based on this task force’s recommendations that the Cabinet last week approved a proposal to raise the legal age of marriage for women to 21. The letter stated that problems in accessing education forced girls to drop out of school and get married. The girls therefore want MPs to focus on the root causes instead of bringing a blanket ban. “Social norms and practices, poverty, economic pressures, lack of suitable opportunities for education or training for girls, the continued spate of violence against women and girls, the pressures of increasing living costs and migration are some of the core driving factors why many girls are being pushed into marriage while very young,” they write. They want parliamentarians to bring policies that ensure work, equal wages and safe workplaces as well as comprehensive measures to arrest violence against women which is one of the biggest roadblocks in accessing education and jobs. The group also conducted a Twitter storm on Monday and demanded that the proposed Bill be sent to a parliamentary committee.  Lack of suitable opportunities for education and the violence against women and girls are some of the factors why many girls are pushed into marriage||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/open-letter-from-girls-seeks-right-to-decide-when-to-marry/article38001278.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects petition by Mughal descendant to possess Red Fort||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a petition from the wife of the late Mirza Mohammed Bedar Bakht, the great-grandson of the last Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, to hand over to her the possession of the Red Fort. Justice Rekha Palli rejected the petition, noting that Sultana Begum had not been able to give any “justifiable explanation” for filing her case after a delay of over 150 years. Ms. Begum, in her plea, said she was “the rightful owner of the Red Fort as she inherited this property from her ancestor Bahadur Shah Zafar II, the king of Delhi, and the Government of India is the illegal occupant of such property”. In her petition, filed through advocate Vivek More, the 68-year-old said she currently resided in a slum in Howrah of West Bengal “in very unhygienic conditions”. Ms. Begum said she was illiterate and her family was deprived of ancestral property, which was taken forcibly by the British East India Company in 1857, without any compensation. Justice Palli, however, questioned why Ms. Begum or other descendants of Bahadur Shah Zafar had not raised the issue till today. Everybody knows that Bahadur Shah Zafar was exiled by the British, the judge said. “Why was nothing filed in time? If her ancestors didn’t do it, can she do it now?”. When Mr. More tried to justify the delay in filing the petition as Ms Begum was illiterate, the court rejected it saying that this was not a valid justification for why steps were not taken in this regard at relevant time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-petition-by-mughal-descendant-to-possess-red-fort/article38001334.ece
21 December 2021||Patna,||Manjhi remarks on priests spark row||Days after former Bihar Chief Minister and president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM), a constituent of the ruling NDA, Jitan Ram Manjhi, made disparaging remarks against the Brahmin community, a complaint was filed against him on Monday in West Champaran. Different organisations of the Brahmin community in Bihar and Jharkhand too protested against Mr. Manjhi’s remark and sought a public apology from him. While addressing an event organised by the Bhuiyan-Musahar (Dalit) community in Patna on Saturday, Mr. Manjhi had made derogatory remarks against priests. “Earlier, we [people from the Dalit community] even did not know the name of or do puja of Lord Satyanarayan but these days in every hamlet we worship Satyanarayan Bhagwan. And besides this, we further do not feel humiliation when (expletive) priests come and say they will not eat anything at our households but take money instead,” said Mr. Manjhi. His remarks have since gone viral on social media triggering widespread criticism and protest. Later, Mr. Manjhi said his remarks were aimed at his own Dalit community and not Brahmins. “I did not use disparaging remarks against Brahmin community but to people of my own community. If the Brahmin community people have got hurt over my remarks, then I apologise,” he said on Sunday. He added that he “does not believe in the caste system which was evolved to destroy society”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manjhi-remarks-on-priests-spark-row/article38001248.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Ajay Mishra Teni replaced as chief guest at SSB Raising Day parade||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni was replaced as chief guest at the Raising Day parade of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) with his colleague Nisith Pramanik on Monday at the eleventh hour. An official confirmed that the Union Minister will not be the chief guest at the event. Though Mr. Ajay Mishra attended office at North Block last week and continued with his official engagements, the reasons that led to him being dropped as chief guest is not known. Unlike in the past, the annual parade was closed to mediapersons this year. Mr. Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the October 3 incident where four farmers were killed and several others injured after they were run over by a car that was part of the convoy of the Union Minister in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. Kheri is Mr. Ajay Mishra’s Lok Sabha constituency. The son of one of the killed farmers, Nacchatar Singh, is posted with the SSB. In a viral video last week, Mr. Ajay Mishra was seen abusing and lunging at a journalist in Uttar Pradesh when asked about a Special Investigation Team report, which said that the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri incident was a ‘pre-planned conspiracy’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ajay-mishra-teni-replaced-as-chief-guest-at-ssb-raising-day-parade/article38001271.ece
21 December 2021||Madurai,||Let’s learn to laugh, says Madras High Court judge||Perhaps it is time India amended its Constitution mandating that every citizen also has a “duty to Laugh”, suggested Justice G.R. Swaminathan of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, while quashing a case against a man whose attempt at word play landed him in trouble with the Tamil Nadu Police. Well, that’s what Justice G R Swaminathan foresaw satirists and cartoonists such as Jug Suraiya, Bachi Karkaria, E.P. Unny and G Samapth (of The Hindu) prescribing if they were to hypothetically author a judgment on a petition filed by a man whose attempt at humour landed him in trouble. Listing out the duties of every citizen under Article 51-A of the Constitution, the judge said, “To this [list], the hypothetical author would have added one more fundamental duty — the duty to laugh. The correlative right to be funny can be mined in Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution of India (the use of crypto vocabulary to be forgiven). Being funny is one thing and poking fun at another is different altogether.” The plea was filed by Mathivanan of Madurai, an office bearer of the CPI (ML). On September 16, Mr Mathivanan went on a sightseeing trip to Sirumalai hills with his daughter and son-in-law. Later, he uploaded the photographs of the visit on Facebook, captioning them ‘Trip to Sirumalai for shooting practice’. The Vadipatti police in Madurai however, saw the post as a threat to “wage war” and booked him under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code. Quashing the FIR, Justice Swaminathan observed: “‘Laugh at what?’ is a serious question. This is because we have holy cows grazing all over from Varanasi to Vadipatti. One dare not poke fun at them. There is however no single catalogue of holy cows. It varies from person to person and from region to region. A real cow, even if terribly underfed and emaciated, shall be holy in Yogi’s terrain. In West Bengal, Tagore is such an iconic figure that Khushwant Singh learnt the lesson at some cost. Coming to my own Tamil Desh, the all-time iconoclast ‘Periyar’ Shri E.V. Ramasamy is a super-holy cow. In today’s Kerala, Marx and Lenin are beyond the bounds of criticism or satire. Chhatrapati Shivaji and Veer Savarkar enjoy a similar immunity in Maharashtra. But all over India, there is one ultimate holy cow and that is ‘national security’,” he said. The Vadipatti Police thought the petitioner was making preparations to wage war against the State. They registered a case against the petitioner, arrested him and produced him before the jurisdictional magistrate for remanding him in custody. Mercifully, M.C. Arun, the Judicial Magistrate, Vadipatti, had the good sense to refuse remand, the judge said. To wage war would require several steps . There has to be a mobilisation of men as well as accumulation of arms and ammunition. That would require a concerted effort, the judge said. “The petitioner is aged 62 years. His daughter is standing next to him. His son-in-law is also seen in the photograph. Four other photographs capturing the scenic beauty of the place have also been posted. No weapon or proscribed material was recovered from the petitioner. The petitioner neither intended to wage war nor did he commit any act towards preparation.. The very registration of the FIR is absurd and an abuse of the legal process, the judge said and quashed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lets-learn-to-laugh-says-madras-hc-judge/article38001285.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||2 RSS activists arrested for SDPI leader’s murder||Meanwhile, an all-party meeting scheduled to take place at Alappuzha District Collectorate on Monday afternoon to defuse political tension in the district was postponed. The meeting will now be held on Tuesday afternoon. BJP leaders had informed of their inability to attend the meeting due to the funeral of Sreenivas. Sreenivas was laid to rest at Valiyazheekkal. His body was kept at Alappuzha District Court compound, BJP office and his house at Vellakinar for the public and relatives to pay their last respects before being taken to his native place Valiyazheekkal. Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai, BJP national executive member P.K. Krishnadas, BJP State president K. Surendran, BJP Alappuzha District president M.V. Gopakumar and others paid their respects to the slain leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-rss-activists-arrested-for-sdpi-leaders-murder/article38001246.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Sengar discharged in Unnao car accident case||A Delhi court on Monday discharged former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar and five co-accused in the 2019 car accident case in which the Unnao rape survivor and her lawyer sustained injuries and two of her aunts were killed. The order was passed by Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey, who noted that there was no prima facie evidence against all the six persons. The magistrate, however, went on to frame charges against four other accused persons. The court posted the matter for Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sengar-discharged-in-unnao-car-accident-case/article38001329.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Bill to link electoral rolls with Aadhaar passed||Opposing the passage of the Bill, Mr. Chowdhury said, “What is the tearing hurry to pass the Bill? It should be sent to the Standing Committee.” Responding to him, the Law Minister said the provisions were extensively discussed by the parliamentary panel on law and justice and it also gave a unanimous report. “We have not brought this in a dictatorial way,” Mr. Rijiju told the Opposition members. While Trinamool members Kalyan Banerjee and Mahua Moitra were agitated over the government pushing through the Bill, parties that are friendly to the government — the Biju Janata Dal and the YSR Congress — also urged it not to pass the Bill in the din. At the time of introduction, several members, including Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor of the Congress, Asaduddin Owaisi of the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen and N.K. Premachandran of the Revolutionary Socialist Party, opposed the Bill. The Bill allows electoral registration officers to ask for Aadhaar numbers of applicants who want to register as voters to establish the identity of the applicant. It also seeks to allow the officers to ask for the Aadhaar number from “persons already included in the electoral roll for the purposes of authentication of entries in electoral roll, and to identify registration of name of the same person in the electoral roll of more than one constituency or more than once in the same constituency”. At the same time, the Bill makes it clear that “no application for inclusion of name in the electoral roll shall be denied and no entries in the electoral roll shall be deleted for inability of an individual to furnish or intimate Aadhaar number due to such sufficient cause as may be prescribed”. People who cannot furnish their Aadhaar numbers will be allowed to present other documents to establish identity. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill states that Section 23 of the Representation of People Act, 1950, will be amended to allow linking of the electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem “to curb the menace of multiple enrolment of the same person in different places”. Qualifying dates The amendment to Section 14 of the RP Act, 1950, will allow to have four “qualifying” dates for eligible people to register as voters. As of now, January 1 of every year is the sole qualifying date. People who turn 18 on or before January 1 can register as voters. Those turning 18 after that have to wait for a whole year to register as voters. Now, “January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in a calendar year” will be the qualifying dates in relation to the preparation or revision of the rolls. The amendment to Section 20 of the RP Act, 1950, and Section 60 of the RP Act, 1951, will allow the elections to become gender neutral for service voters. It will also help replace the word “wife” with “spouse”, making the statutes “gender neutral”. This seeks to redress any discrimination against male spouses of women armed services employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bill-to-link-electoral-rolls-with-aadhaar-passed/article38001260.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Nine BJP MPs decline to put forth questions in LS||For the third time in its history, the Lok Sabha on Monday took up 20 starred questions during Question Hour but nine BJP MPs whose questions were listed and had their names called did not rise to put their questions. This, despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi admonishing MPs at the BJP parliamentary party meet last week to “mend their ways” otherwise changes would be effected. BJP chief whip Rakesh Singh, Bangalore (South) MP Tejasvi Surya, Pashchim Champaran (Bihar) MP Sanjay Jaiswal, Kaushambi (Uttar Pradesh) MP Vinod Kumar, Balurghat (West Bengal) MP and State party president Sukanta Majumdar and Pali (Rajasthan) MP P.P. Chaudhary were among the nine MPs who did not raise their questions. ‘Satisfied with answers’ Sources in the BJP said some MPs did not ask their questions as they were satisfied with the answer provided and did not feel the need to go ahead with supplementaries. A senior BJP MP, however, said that even if the MPs did not want to ask supplementaries, “the convention is to stand up when your name is called and state that you don’t want to put your supplementary. These MPs did not do that either.” The last two times that the Lok Sabha had taken up 20 starred questions during Question Hour had been on March 14, 1972 and on November 27, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-bjp-mps-decline-to-put-forth-questions-in-ls/article38001265.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Jaya Bachchan riled by ‘personal remark’||The Rajya Sabha witnessed disruption and adjournment on Monday after Samajwadi Party member Jaya Bachchan said the bad days of government were here. Ms. Bachchan, who rose to speak on the Narcotics and Drugs Psychotropic Susbtances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 objected to a “personal remark” made by one of the members of the Treasury benches against her. Initiating the speech, Ms. Bachchan accused Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was in the chair, of being partisan. “I don’t want to thank you. I don’t know if I should recall the days when you used to sit here [Opposition bench] and troop into the well shouting slogans against the government or now when you are sitting in that chair,” she said. Bhubaneswar Kalita, a former Congress member, resigned and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last year. “We want justice. We don’t expect justice from there [pointing to Treasury benches], but can we expect it from you? How are you protecting the members of this House or the 12 members sitting outside?” she charged at Mr. Kalita adding that though there were many pressing issues, four hours were allotted to discuss a Bill that seeks to rectify a clerical error.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaya-bachchan-riled-by-personal-remark/article38001270.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||BIMSTEC working on joint disaster relief plans||The COVID-19 pandemic had been a “black swan” event that overwhelmed national capacities, disrupted supply chains and brought people back to the drawing board, Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Monday at the inaugural event of PANEX-21, a disaster management exercise of the multilateral grouping Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC). “PANEX 21, therefore, is unique as it is for the first time that an exercise of this magnitude involving multiple agencies from multiple countries is being undertaken to review our Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief mechanism and streamline our response strategy in the backdrop of a pandemic,” he said, virtually addressing the event. “We have realised that our standard operating procedures, which had worked well in the past, are no longer effective, and would need transformative changes,” Gen. Naravane said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bimstec-working-on-joint-disaster-relief-plans/article38001276.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to study plea against maintenance for parent||The Supreme Court has decided to examine an appeal filed by siblings from Tamil Nadu against a Madras High Court order directing them to pay monthly maintenance of Rs. 2,500 to their father who had abandoned them as children. The sister and brothers complained that their father drank, had illicit relationships and cared nothing for them when they were children. It was their mother, with her meagre earnings, who kept the family afloat after the father abandoned the family, the siblings said. The siblings, represented by advocate Haris Beeran, said they “surmounted all the obstacles in life and completed their studies with the help of various education loans”. The sister is a government schoolteacher and the brother is pursuing his doctoral studies. “Is a father, who has failed to carry out parental obligations and matrimonial duties, leading a wayward life, abandoning for several years, eligible to claim maintenance under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) from his children after he became a senior citizen,” the siblings asked the Supreme Court in their appeal. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana issued notice to the father. The Bench stayed the High Court order of January 19, 2021 directing the siblings to pay the monthly maintenance amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-study-plea-against-maintenance-for-parent/article38001280.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||6 additional seats for Jammu, one for Kashmir proposed||“There is already a Supreme Court ruling granting a status quo regarding delimitation, if the commission prepares the draft based on 2011 census. It will be unconstitutional. The commission assured the exercise will be carried out as per the ruling,” he said. NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said the distribution of newly created Assembly constituencies, with six going to Jammu and only one to Kashmir was not justified by the data of the 2011 census. “It is deeply disappointing that the commission appears to have allowed the political agenda of the BJP to dictate its recommendations rather than the data which should have been it’s only consideration. Contrary to the promised ‘scientific approach’, it’s a political approach,” he stated. Mehbooba’s charge Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said her apprehensions about the Commission weren’t misplaced. “They want to pitch people against each other by ignoring the population census and preposing six seats for one region and only one for Kashmir,” she observed. The Commission had been created simply to serve the BJP’s political interests by dividing people along religious and regional lines. The real game plan was to install a government in J&K that would legitimise the illegal and unconstitutional decisions of August 2019, she noted. Sajad Lone, who heads the Peoples Conference, remarked, “The recommendations of the delimitation commission are totally unacceptable. They reek of bias. What a shock for those who believe in democracy”. CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami termed it “unacceptable”. “It’s another step to further disempower Kashmiris politically. Despite the matter of Reorganisation Act being sub judice , the Government of India is taking irreversible steps, which are harmful to the interests of J&K people,” he said. The three-member commission was constituted on March 6, 2020, specifically for J&K by virtue of the Parliament Act under the provisions of Part V of J&K Reorganization Act, 2019 and its term will end in March next. In a statement, the Delimitation Commission said the Monday meeting was attended by all five associate members of the panel as well as the Chief Electoral Officer of J&K. Commission member and Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra shared the commission’s experiences of interacting with people during its visit to J&K.  The commission had categorised the districts into three categories. “The Commission has also, for some districts, proposed carving out of an additional constituency to balance the representation for geographical areas having inadequate communication and lack of public conveniences. For the first time, in Jammu and Kashmir, nine seats are proposed to be allocated for Scheduled Tribes out of 90 seats on the basis of population. Seven seats are proposed for Scheduled Castes,” it stated. ( With inputs from Damini Nath )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-additional-seats-for-jammu-one-for-kashmir-proposed/article38001259.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||RSS chief Bhagwat calls on Dalai Lama||Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Monday called on the Dalai Lama at the latter’s residence at Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh. The RSS, considered the ideological mothership of the BJP, released pictures of Mr. Bhagwat greeting the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader and posing for pictures with Ministers of the Tibetan government in exile. Speaking to The Hindu , RSS’s ‘prachar pramukh’ and spokesperson Sunil Ambekar said it was a “courtesy call” by Mr. Bhagwat as he was in the State to address meetings of various groups. The meeting, however, assumes significance against the backdrop of a continuing border face-off between China and India. The RSS has been hawkish on China. As far back as 2012, its Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal (ABKM), one of its highest decision- making bodies, passed a resolution cautioning the then government that “It (China) continues to nibble away our territory through endless incursions along all the three sectors of the Bharat-Tibet border.” The year before, in 2011, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha passed a resolution, again on China and on the need for a comprehensive policy on national security with China in mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-chief-bhagwat-calls-on-dalai-lama/article38001253.ece
21 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Congress cautious on Sidhu’s stand||Congress leaders on Monday took a cautious approach on Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s endorsement of “public hanging” of culprits of sacrilege. Party sources said the All India Congress Committee had decided not to participate in any television debate on the issue. Ahead of the Punjab Assembly election, due in early 2022, the issue surrounding sacrilege is set to become a flash-point in the political arena. In 2015, after the incident of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari village, widespread protests were witnessed in the State and it remained a key political issue in the 2017 Assembly polls. To a question on Mr. Sidhu’s remark, former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said sacrilege is a heinous crime, which reflects malicious intent, and the serial nature of these incidents points towards a large conspiracy. “I strongly believe the very idea of the sacrilege acts is to inflame passions and by reacting the way the perpetrator of these acts wants us to do, it would be falling in their trap. Restraint should be exercised, though it is difficult as one reacts instinctively,” he told The Hindu . At a rally on December 19, Mr. Sidhu said those involved in sacrilege should be awarded the maximum punishment. If any incident of sacrilege takes place, be it of the Bhagavad Gita, the Koran Sharif or the Guru Granth Sahib, the guilty should be publicly hanged, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-cautious-on-sidhus-stand/article38001256.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article38001262.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||36 dance teams to take part in R-Day||In a break from the usual selection process, 36 teams of dancers were selected through a nationwide competition to perform during the Republic Day parade 2022, the Union Culture Ministry said on Monday. The finale of the competition, Vande Bharatam, was held here on Sunday. Among the winners were Delhi’s International Academy of Mohiniyattam, Jai Ghosh Dance Group and Rekha Dance Group, the Ministry said. At the finale on Sunday, Minister of State for Culture Meenakshi Lekhi said it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s wish to have such a competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/36-dance-teams-to-take-part-in-r-day/article38001330.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre not allowing any debate: Rahul||Accusing the government of not allowing a discussion on important issues, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Union government is responsible to run Parliament and not the Opposition. “They are attacking democracy. There is a non-stop attack on democracy and that is why we are fighting here,” Mr. Gandhi told reporters, adding that the Narendra Modi government was not allowing any debate on price rise, Ladakh, minimum support price (MSP), Lakhimpur Kheri violence and other issues. Mr. Gandhi had given a notice for an adjournment motion to discuss the issue of the “statehood and inclusion of Ladakh in Schedule VI of Consitution”. However, the issue could not be taken up as the Lok Sabha witnessed multiple adjournments over the Opposition’s demand to sack Minister of State Ajay Mishra Teni because of his alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. When pointed out that the government is blaming the Opposition for not allowing the House to function, Mr. Gandhi hit back saying it’s the government’s responsibility. “It is the responsibility of the government to run Parliament. It is also the government’s responsibility to allow a debate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-not-allowing-any-debate-rahul/article38001268.ece
21 December 2021||Pune,||Another jolt to Goa Cong. as Lourenco quits||The Congress received another jolt ahead of the coming Goa Assembly election, with three-time MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco from Curtorim in south Goa resigning on Monday from the party and the Assembly. This leaves Congress with just two MLAs in its fold. It’s a major comedown from 2017 when the party emerged as the single largest party with 17 legislators in the 40-seat Assembly. Speculation is rife that Mr. Lourenco may join the Trinamool Congress, which has been on hectic headhunting for the past few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-jolt-to-goa-cong-as-lourenco-quits/article38001269.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Modi, Putin hold talks over phone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a telephone conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The conversation came days after a high-level official of Kremlin announced that a trilateral meeting of Mr. Putin, Mr. Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping was expected soon. “Vladimir Putin warmly thanked Narendra Modi for the hospitality extended to the Russian delegation during the high-level visit to New Delhi on December 6. They discussed practical aspects of implementing the agreements reached at the talks and expressed mutual intent for the further multifaceted development of relations of the special and privileged strategic partnership between Russia and India,” a government release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-putin-hold-talks-over-phone/article38001279.ece
21 December 2021||Srinagar,||Will restore 100% power supply, says J&K L-G Sinha||J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said 60% of electricity supply had been restored in the Union Territory (UT) and promised to restore 100% supply by Tuesday, as protests by 20,000 employees of the Power Development Department (PDD) continued for the third day and affected university examinations and the tourism sector. He accused the previous regimes of not intending “to better the system to bring qualitative change in people’s lives”. The L-G said personnel from the REC, the NTPC and the NHPC, and officers from the Army Engineering Corps, have joined in efforts to restore power supply. Meanwhile, hundreds of employees of the Power Employees and Engineers Coordination Committee held demonstrations and stayed away from work protesting against the proposed merger of PDD with Power Grid Corporation of India (PGCI) in the Union Territory. The J&K officials failed to reach any settlement with the protesters till Monday evening. Regional parties, including the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, have supported the protesters in their demands. Meanwhile, several under-graduate and post-graduate examinations were cancelled by the Jammu varsity in the face of power crisis. The crisis has hit both the capitals of Jammu and Srinagar, besides remote villages in the Union Territory, with people left in darkness as temperatures plunged. J&K Hoteliers Club chairman Mushtaq Chaya also expressed concern over the erratic power supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-restore-100-power-supply-says-jk-l-g-sinha/article38001282.ece
21 December 2021||Mumbai,||Comedian Faruqui gets back on stage||After 16 cancellations of his shows, comedian Munawar Faruqui was back on stage with a sell-out show in Mumbai. The Mumbai event was held with the support of the All India Professional Congress (AIPC), a wing of the Congress. Talking to The Hindu , Mathew Anthony, president of AIPC, said, “We met him on November 29 and we had a very clear political stand that we are not sponsoring the show. We are only upholding fundamental rights guaranteed under the Indian Constitution. We are only standing for the fundamental rights of performers (right to livelihood) and rights of the audience.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/comedian-faruqui-gets-back-on-stage/article38001283.ece
21 December 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Special health camp for cattle held||The first of the 220 special health and awareness camps for cattle planned in the district was held at Kullur Santhai on Monday. Inaugurating the camp, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said the camps would be held across the 11 blocks till March 2022. He distributed fodder and mineral mixture. Regional Joint Director (Animal Husbandry) Ravichandran and Deputy Director Kovilraja were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-health-camp-for-cattle-held/article38001564.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nippy weather to prevail over many parts of T.N. this week||Nippy weather is set to prevail in several parts of the State, particularly over the Western Ghats and interior districts where the minimum temperature is likely to drop below normal. As Northeast monsoon is in its last leg, a dry weather may continue until Thursday. On Monday, Chennai woke up to a relatively clement weather as a shallow fog engulfed the city. Both the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a minimum temperature of 21.7 degree Celsius and 21 degree Celsius, nearly one degree below average for the day. Officials of the Meteorological department said the visibility level was around 1,600 metre at 7.30 a.m. over Meenambakkam as the fog covered Chennai’s skyline. However, it improved to 2,000 metre by 9 a.m. as wind speed had increased. The Meteorological department has forecast partly cloudy sky in coastal areas during morning hours. Interior parts and districts along the Western Ghats will experience a clear sky condition and the minimum temperature may drop by two to three degree Celsius below normal on Tuesday. The minimum temperature over coastal region may dip by 1-2 degree Celsius. As there are no active weather systems impacting the State, a dry weather is likely to prevail over the State and Puducherry until Friday. On Monday, several districts were in the grip of chill. Udhagamandalam experienced 6 degree Celsius), Kodaikanal 8.5 degree Celsius, Coonoor 9.5 degree Celsius and Valparai 10.5 degree Celsius, remained the coldest places in the State as per the observations made at 5.30 p.m. on Monday. There was no rainfall recorded. The department has also predicted a shallow fog at a few places over the Western Ghats and interior districts on Tuesday. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said clear sky, cold air advection from the north had led to such conditions. Dry northerly winds at lower level and less moisture contributed to the shallow fog too. Moreover, a high wind pressure also indicated cold winds. Cool, moist Northeasterly winds are expected to blow in another two or three days. With no major weather system, the State may end up with 60% excess rains this Northeast monsoon, Mr. Balachandran said. Meanwhile, Chennai may continue to experience a minimum temperature of around 20 degree Celsius until Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nippy-weather-to-prevail-over-many-parts-of-tn-this-week/article38001457.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC launches mass cleaning drive||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Monday launched a five-day mass cleaning drive. Although the Corporation had taken similar initiatives in recent months, this time the focus would be on clearing the garbage that had accumulated during last month’s heavy rain last month and to remove building debris. Spots identified The civic body has identified 358 places and plans to remove 831 tonnes of garbage and 1,512 tonnes of building debris, the officials said. Priority would be given to removing garbage near waterbodies and low-income neighbourhoods. On Wednesday, all Corporation schools, hospitals, crematoriums and burial grounds would be covered, the officials added. A total of 4,493 conservancy workers, 109 compactors, 253 earthmoving equipment, 308 trucks and 537 battery-operated vehicles had been deployed for the purpose, a release by the Corporation said. Officials said that any particular spot that the residents wanted to be cleaned could be brought to the notice of the Corporation through the helpline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-launches-mass-cleaning-drive/article38001451.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Houses demolished to build flyover near Villivakkam railway station||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started demolition of houses constructed on poromboke land in Kolathur for the construction of a flyover near Villivakkam railway station. The flyover, which will eliminate the first level-crossing on the stretch from Central Railway Station, is expected to be completed in eight months. Residents, who have been protesting against the demolition, were asked to vacate. Over 60 buildings have been demolished so far. P. Ramadas, 65, a resident of Avvai Nagar First Street, said on Monday that his house was originally not marked for demolition as the officials wanted only 11 metres on either side of the bridge. Many such residents had been demanding patta for the land on which their houses had been built. “Some residents got patta in the area. So, we were expecting the government to give us patta. But the officials have decided to demolish all the houses on poromboke land. We have been living in the area for 58 years. We had built houses on 1,200 sq ft of land. We request the government to give us proper compensation and alternative accommodation. Officials have not informed us about the alternative housing for us,” said Mr. Ramdas. Deva Jawahar, former councillor, said the bridge was expected to provide road connectivity between Anna Nagar and Kolathur. “A few political party functionaries spoke to the residents and instigated them to oppose the project, misleading them,” Mr. Jawhar said. “The residents, whose houses had been demolished, will receive compensation. The houses were built on poromboke land. But the government will give alternative housing for the residents. The bridge infrastructure projects in addition to the hospitals and colleges will transform Kolathur,” he said. “We have urged residents to support the infrastructure projects,” he said. The civic body planned to beautify the area in the vicinity of the new bridge, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/houses-demolished-to-build-flyover-near-villivakkam-railway-station/article38001446.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Music Academy’s 95th annual concerts commence in Chennai||The 95th Annual Concerts (Digital) of The Music Academy commenced here on Monday with Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist of World Health Organisation, calling for support to artists and artisans who could not embrace the digital medium. Addressing the online audience at the inaugural event, Dr. Swaminathan said such artists were as vulnerable as informal workers. She said one of the aspects of a normal life that COVID-19 took away was the enjoyment of live music and dance performances. The Renaissance was a case study about how a society changed after a pandemic, which in this case was the black plague, she said. “The plague almost ravaged 30-60% of the European population at that time. When it arrived in England in the mid-1300s, it had sparked many societal changes that helped spur the Renaissance movement,” she said. “Looking forward to our post-pandemic life, will it be as marked by creativity like the Renaissance that followed the plague? There may be similar opportunities for a soul-searching creativity to emerge from our time of solitude imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic,” she said. On the pandemic, she said, “The emergence of the Omicron variant is clearly telling us that the virus is not done with us. We may be tired, we may be fatigued, we may be done with the virus. But as long as it can find opportunities to transmit itself, to continue to multiply and to replicate, it keeps looking for more people to infect. And the more it multiplies, it will mutate and change. That is just the nature of the virus and so we need to be able to live with the virus at some point and not allow it to take over our lives,” Dr. Swaminathan said. Shorter durations Earlier in his welcome address, President of the Music Academy N. Murali said as the pandemic still raged on, the executive committee decided not to take any chances, given the uncertainty of its trajectory, related restrictions and regulations from time to time. The music concerts will be for a duration of 12 days with 48 concerts in all and four concerts a day. Senior concerts are ticketed. Concerts will be of shorter duration. There would be also one morning academic session or lec-dem from December 21 onwards. Additionally they will have a three-day dance festival from January 2. The recitals would be confined to solo and Bharathanatyam, he said. The talks were followed by the nadaswaram concert by S. Kasim and S. Babu (Nadaswaram); G.Rajan and M.Vijaykumar (Thavil).  The emergence of the Omicron variant is clearly telling us that the virus is not done with us. We may be tired, we may be fatigued, we may be done with the virus. Dr. Sowmya Swaminathan Chief Scientist, World Health Organisation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/music-academys-95th-annual-concerts-commence-in-city/article38001460.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors asked to improve vaccination, contact tracing||All district administrations have been told to focus on improving vaccination coverage, especially for the elderly and immunocompromised individuals, and to ensure that there is 100% tracing of contacts and extended contacts for those testing positive for COVID-19. In a letter to all the Collectors and the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said despite awareness on COVID-19, including the latest variant of concern, Omicron, a lot of necessary constructive contribution and cooperation from the public, especially in the adoption of prevention and control measures, was mostly lacking. He urged the officials to lead the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour campaigns by involving people from all walks of life. They should increase the monitoring and enforcement drives in addition to strictly enforcing the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for permitted activities. The focus has to be on increased surveillance, continuing the aggressive and increased testing, tracking and treatment and complete adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and vaccination. On vaccinations, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the coverage of the elderly and immunocompromised individuals should be improved. He said proper protocols should be followed for cases detected in international travellers and from localised clusters, and that 100% tracing of contacts and extended contacts should be carried out. Those with S-gene dropout should be identified and treated. Mr. Radhakrishnan said travellers from countries-at-risk, who test negative on arrival, should be placed under home quarantine for seven days and should be tested again on the eighth day. People, including those travelling from not-at-risk countries and those who have not travelled, should get themselves tested at the first sign of symptoms and self-isolate to avoid any localised clusters of Delta or Omicron variants, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-asked-to-improve-vaccination-contact-tracing/article38001433.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State registers 605 new COVID-19 cases, six deaths||On a day when 605 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, three districts — Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam and Tenkasi — had nil fresh cases. While Chennai logged 126 new cases and no COVID-19 deaths, the number of persons who tested positive for the infection stayed below 100 for the second day in a row in Coimbatore. Among the remaining districts, 21 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. Of this, Ariyalur, Kallakurichi, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Ranipet and Theni had a single case each. Coimbatore logged 97 cases, while there were 51 cases in Erode and 43 in Chengalpattu. A total of 42 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur, while Namakkal and Salem recorded 35 and 33 cases each. Among those who tested positive for COVID-19 in the State were four passengers who returned from other countries — three from UAE and one each from Ghana and the United Kingdom. The fresh cases pushed the State’s overall tally to 27,40,411. Another six persons succumbed to the infection, taking the State’s toll to 36,686. This included a 22-day old baby, who was pre-term and of low birth weight. The boy was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore on December 17 with complaints of difficulty in breathing and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Chennai did not report any deaths due to COVID-19 for the second day in a row. Apart from Chennai, there were no COVID-19 fatalities in a total of 32 districts. There were two deaths in Coimbatore and one each in Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Salem and Tiruppur. As many as 697 persons were discharged after treatment. This included 131 persons in Chennai and 109 in Coimbatore. The active caseload stood at 7,172. Of this, Chennai accounted for 1,335 active cases, while Coimbatore had 1,110. A total of 1,01,237 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,63,16,308.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-registers-605-new-covid-19-cases-six-deaths/article38001435.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS’ remark triggers talk of reconciliation with Sasikala||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam’s observation about “forgiving those who repent their past actions” triggered talks on reconciliation with former interm general secretary V K Sasikala. However, it sparked a quick response from the party’s organisation secretary D. Jayakumar, who said the remarks on “forgiving” would not be applicable to her. Addressing an event organised by the AIADMK in Chennai on Monday to mark the Christmas festival, Mr. Panneerselvam, who narrated an anecdote from the life of Jesus Christ, said that “it behoves a good leadership to forgive those who are repentant of their mistakes”. Former Chief Minister and the party co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, was among those present at the function. The two leaders gave away gifts to inmates of the home for elders, ‘Little Sisters of the Poor’, in Chetpet. ‘Not relevant’ Later, when presspersons asked Mr. Jayakumar whether the AIADMK coordinator’s words were applicable to Ms. Sasikala, he replied in the negative and clarified that Mr. Panneerselvam’s observations were relevant to the common man and not to her. Terming Ms. Sasikala as an “unwanted force” and the one who had “failed” in her bid to capture the party, Mr. Jayakumar said all office bearers and members were of the view that there was no relationship between her and the party. Meanwhile, Mr. Panneerselvam, in a letter, sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in securing the release of 55 fishermen hailing from Tamil Nadu. In a statement, he urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to follow up the matter with the External Affairs Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-remark-triggers-talk-of-reconciliation-with-sasikala/article38001436.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves verdict on AIADMK’s appeal against acquisition of Veda Nilayam||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday reserved its judgment on appeals preferred by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and former Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam. They had challenged a single judge’s November 24 order quashing proceedings initiated by the State Government, during the AIADMK regime, to acquire former Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence and convert it into a memorial. The Bench of Justices Paresh Upadhyay and Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup deferred its verdict after hearing day-long arguments by senior counsel A.L. Somayaji for the appellants, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram for the government, senior counsel A.R.L. Sundaresan for Jayalalithaa’s nephew J. Deepak and senior counsel Satish Parasan for her niece J. Deepa, who had been declared as the legal heirs entitled to inherit all her properties. Assailing the single judge’s order, Mr. Somayaji contended that the judge had discussed many things in his verdict though the legal heirs had not raised any such pleadings in their writ petitions. “First, there should be a plea, and then it should be supported by proof. In this case, there was neither plea nor proof. There was nothing in the pleadings to show that the acquisition was a colourable exercise of power, yet the judge had held so,” he said. He said whether the acquisition was for a public purpose or not had to be decided by the Government and not the court. Stating that Jayalalithaa had been a Chief Minister for six terms and had introduced several novel schemes, such as Amma Canteens, nutritious meal for schoolchildren, cradle baby scheme to take care of abandoned children and so on, he said she richly deserved a memorial. The A-G told the court that it was not just the single judge but also a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and Abdul Quddhose, who declared the legal heirs of Jayalalithaa in May 2020, felt that acquiring the residence and converting it into a memorial was a waste of public funds. That was precisely the reason why the State Government decided not to appeal against the single judge’s verdict, he said. Mr. Sundaresan and Mr. Parasaran denied the charge that the affidavits filed by their clients were bereft of necessary pleadings. The senior counsel pointed out that their clients had categorically contended that the entire acquisition was arbitrary, and hence liable to be quashed. “I may not have used the same words ‘colourable exercise of power’ as they were used by the learned single judge, but I have certainly pleaded the arbitrariness,” Mr. Sundaresan said. He brought it to the notice of the court that it had been the consistent stand of the legal heirs that there was no public purpose behind the acquisition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-verdict-on-aiadmks-appeal-against-acquisition-of-veda-nilayam/article38001437.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t be dismissive of alternative medicine: Governor||Calling upon medicos not to be dismissive of alternative systems of medicine, Governor R.N. Ravi on Monday called upon them to be open-minded and try to evaluate it scientifically and validate it. He urged them to guard against over-commercialisation of healthcare. Presiding over the 34th convocation of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University (TNMGRMU) in Chennai, Mr. Ravi said some doctors of modern medicine sometimes were dismissive of alternative systems of medicine although humans have lived for thousands of years before the advent of modern medicine. “The modern medicine had done wonders, there is no doubt about it. But people have learned to deal with the sickness and situation through their traditional wisdom, through their experiments, through their observations. Try to evaluate it scientifically and validate it,” he said and asked them to be “open-minded.” Describing M.K. Stalin as the “most dynamic Chief Minister,” the Governor congratulated the State Government for doing very well in containing the COVID-19. “I am glad and proud that Tamil Nadu has been leading the country in health services,” he said. A total of 12,814 candidates were awarded post-doctoral, doctoral, postgraduate, undergraduate degrees and diplomas under the faculties of medical, dental, AYUSH, nursing, pharmacy, physiotherapy, occupational therapy and allied health science courses. In his convocation address, the Chief Minister called upon medical graduates to equip themselves like Dr. Upendranath Brahmachari, Dr. Arthur Saravanamuthu Thambiah, Dr. Kamalam, Dr. Srinivasan (also known as writer Charvakan). He pointed out that Dr. B.C. Roy’s birth anniversary is being celebrated as Doctors’ Day only because of his dedication to service of the people. “I request you to focus on rural areas. Please realise it is your duty to serve the people in rural areas,” he said. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian cited The Hindu report  to say Tamil Nadu had spent Rs. 16,493.37 crore till October 2021 towards capital expenditure, which led to the creation of assets such as schools, hospitals, roads and bridges. Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Vice-Chancellor Sudha Seshayyan and senior officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-be-dismissive-of-alternative-medicine-governor/article38001463.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court comes to the rescue of differently abled women athletes||The Madras High Court on Monday played messiah to differently abled women athletes, who suffer from intersectionality, by issuing a set of 12 directions to the Centre and the State Governments. The orders were passed to streamline the policy on allowing participation of such athletes in State, national and international events. Justice R. Mahadevan directed both the Governments to prevent/prohibit unfair discrimination of differently abled women athletes on one or more grounds, including race, gender, sex, marital status, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, conscience, belief, culture, language and birth. The judge directed the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports and Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu to provide adequate financial assistance and all other requisites to differently abled women athletes and follow a proper selection process so that eligible participants get selected for every event. They were ordered to provide necessary training and free medical facilities to all differently abled women athletes who achieve laurels in international events. They must be given all possible things required to realise their fullest potential to achieve success in sporting events, the court said. The directions were issued while allowing a writ petition filed by M. Sameeha Barvin, a Chennai-based athlete with hearing difficulties. The judge held she had been subjected to blatant discrimination, cloaked in protectionism and not allowed to participate in the fourth World Deaf Athletics Championship held in Poland this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-comes-to-the-rescue-of-differently-abled-women-athletes/article38001438.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Beach clean-up drive along East Coast Road on December 26||G-Square Group along with The Hindu will host a beach clean-up activity at 10 hotspots on East Coast Road from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m on Sunday. Volunteers may take part in the massive event, “Team up to Clean Up, My City, My Coast, My Environment”. Environmentalist Foundation of India is the knowledge partner for this initiative. The event will be held at Broken Bridge to Olcott Kuppam, Ashtalakshmi temple beach, Arupadai Murugan temple beach, 4th Seaward Road beach Tiruvanmiyur, Palavakkam beach, Beach Road Neelankarai, Injambakkam north beach (north of VGP), Injamabakkam south beach (south of VGP), Akkarai beach and Panaiyur beach. To volunteer, register at: https://bit.ly/G2BEA or scan the QR Code. For details, call 9841962820.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beach-clean-up-drive/article38001449.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special buses for Pongal festival||The Transport Department has proposed to operate 10,300 buses from Chennai, including 4,000 special buses, to various destinations in the State to clear the rush between January 11 and 13 in connection with the Pongal festival. This was decided at a special meeting chaired by Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan at the Secretariat on Monday. In all, 16,768 buses comprising regular and special buses to various parts of the city and the State would be operated. A press release said the buses would be operated from the five bus termini, including Madhavaram (for Andhra Pradesh bound buses), K.K. Nagar (ECR route to Puduchery, Cuddalore and Chidambaram), Tambaram MEPZ (for Thindivanam, Vikravandi, Kumbakonam and Thanjavur), Poonamallee (for Vellore, Arani, Arcot and Hosur) and Koyambedu (Mayiladhuthurai, Nagapattinam, Velankanni, Tiruchi, Madurai, Thirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari). In the return direction, the department would run 16,709 special buses between January 16 and 18. A total of 12 ticket booking counters have been opened at Koyambedu and Tambaram MEPZ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-for-pongal-festival/article38001480.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bring down raw material prices, say MSMEs||Representatives of MSMEs, who had gathered in Chennai to protest against the rising raw material prices, said that if the cost did not come down, it would not be possible for them to continue in business. They requested the Centre to take steps to bring down the prices of raw material to April 2020 levels. They pointed out that steel manufacturers should reserve 40% of their capacity for MSMEs and supply the goods at concessional prices. The price of key raw material like copper, engineering plastic and kraft paper had doubled over the last one year burdening the MSME units. MSMEs suggested that the government should allow the import of all raw material such as steel, aluminium, and copper at nil customs duty. They said that anti-dumping duty should be abolished for steel. Members of the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate said that sustaining the business had become a concern due to erosion of working capital on account of rise in raw material prices. Representatives from all the industrial estates have sent a letter to the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bring-down-raw-material-prices-say-msmes/article38001464.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Search on for accused in student’s murder||The police have launched a search for Ashok, the prime accused in the murder of a college student of Manivakkam near Vandalur. The body of the student, Premkumar, 23, was found buried at Eechankadu Medu in Arambakkam police station limits in Gummidipoondi on Saturday. The police suspect that the murder was committed by a gang of three or four persons. The police said Premkumar had befriended two schoolgirls residing in Otteri near Vandalur through social media. He had allegedly taken some obscene photographs of the girls and blackmailed them. The girls sought the help of Ashok to get the photographs from Premkumar and delete them. The girls brought Premkumar to Red Hills toll gate at the behest of Ashok and his friends and left the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-on-for-accused-in-students-murder/article38001453.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||College student arrested for schoolgirl’s death||A college student was arrested on Monday in Mangadu police station limits in connection with the suicide of a 17-year-old girl. The accused was produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison. A police officer of Mangadu station said the girl, who was studying in a government school, died by suicide on Saturday alleging sexual harassment by a few persons. Based on a complaint filed by the girl’s parents and the suicide note left by her, the police registered a case and found that the victim had taken the step due to sexual harassment by the accused who befriended her while attending tuition classes. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-arrested-for-schoolgirls-death/article38001454.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fill Tamil faculty posts in DU, says Kanimozhi||DMK Member of Parliament (MP) Kanimozhi Karunanidhi on Monday wrote to Union Minister for Education Dharmendra Pradhan, urging the Union Government to direct the University of Delhi to take proactive steps to make appointments to faculty positions in the Tamil Departments of the various colleges. She said the university was not appointing faculty for Tamil Departments, the posts of which had been vacant for the past 10 years. “This inevitably threatens these courses and can lead to the closure of the Tamil Departments,” she said. Ms. Kanimozhi said all the faculty positions of a professor, two associate professors and two assistant professors were vacant in the Delhi University’s Tamil Department. At the Central Institute of Education, the Tamil B.Ed course had been inactive for four years, citing non-availability of faculty, while at the Miranda House College and Lady Shri Ram College, the positions were vacant and no steps had been taken to fill them, she added.  This inevitably threatens these courses and can lead to the closure of the Tamil Departments Kanimozhi Karunanidhi DMK Member of Parliament||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fill-tamil-faculty-posts-in-du-says-kanimozhi/article38001440.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Union Finance Secy. Geethakrishnan dead||K.P. Geethakrishnan, former Union Finance Secretary, died at his residence in Chennai on Monday afternoon. He was 86 and is survived by his wife, Renuka and two daughters. S. Krishnan, Additional Chief Secretary (Industries) in the State Government, is his son-in-law. He was a key member of the team led by the then Finance Minister Manmohan Singh, which oversaw the introduction of economic reforms in the country. His funeral is expected to take place on Tuesday morning at the Velankadu Crematorium, New Avadi Road, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-union-finance-secy-passes-away/article38001461.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Nalini’s leave plea under consideration’||The State on Monday told the High Court that a representation seeking a month’s ordinary leave for former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case life convicts S. Nalini and her husband Murugan alias Sriharan was under consideration and a decision would be taken soon. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha, State Public Prosecutor Hasan Mohammed Jinnah sought time till Thursday to report the progress. The judges accepted the request and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nalinis-leave-plea-under-consideration/article38001439.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mohamed Abdulla elected to waqf board||M. Mohamed Abdulla, Member of Parliament, has been elected as Member of Tamil Nadu Waqf Board, the State Government announced on Monday. Mr. Mohamed Abdulla was the lone candidate for the seat and was declared elected, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elected-to-waqf-board/article38001562.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Highways to prepare DPR for 2.4 k.m. flyover at Kallar||The National Highways wing of the State Highways Department will prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) at a cost of Rs. 1 crore for the proposed 2.4 k.m. flyover for vehicular movement at Kallar near Mettupalayam to facilitate free movement of wild elephants. Minister for Public Works and Highways E.V. Velu and Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran inspected the 2.4 km stretch of the Mettupalayam – Udhagamandalam road, a part of the Nagapattinam-Gudalur-Mysore highway or NH 67, on Monday and discussed about the project with the Highways officials. Senior officials from the Highways explained the Ministers about the proposed plan for the flyover for which a DPR will be prepared soon. Mr. Velu told reporters that a part of the highway at Kallar was ecologically important as the road passes through an elephant corridor. He said that the stretch between the second hairpin bend of the ghat section and Kallar village is used by elephants for movement between Coimbatore Forest Division and Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. The corridor connects the Brahmagiri-Nilgiri-Eastern ghats elephant population with the Coimbatore-Nilambur elephant population, he said. According to him, around 10,000 vehicles were passing through the ghat section which was affecting free movement of elephants. The disturbances posed to the elephants could be avoided by constructing a flyover for 2.4 km for vehicular movement. The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has allotted Rs. 1 core for the DPR. After the completion of the DPR for the flyover, the State government will press the Union government for the construction of the same, he said. The Highways officials said that based on the traffic movement and location, the design of the flyover will be finalised. The plan is to prepare the DPR in four to six months. And if constructed, this will be first such project in the State. Vehicle warning system Mr. Velu, along with Mr. Ramachandran, inaugurated a vehicle warning system on the ghat section of Mettupalayam – Udhagamandalam road which will give warning to motorists about vehicle movement at hairpin bends where chances of accidents are high. The warning system, which according to the Ministers was first of its kind, will generate audio warning in Tamil and English. Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran, District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar, and Highways Chief Engineer N. Balamurugan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highways-to-prepare-dpr-for-24-km-flyover-at-kallar/article38001475.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs demand measures to control raw material prices||Over 90 % of Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore district stopped production for a day on Monday, resulting in a loss of nearly Rs. 1,500 crore. The unit owners and workers also staged a protest here against the rising prices of raw materials. Responding to the strike call given by the All India Council of Associations of MSMEs, over 90 % of the MSMEs here and some of the large-scale industries and traders too participated in the protest and strike. M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said apart from the MSMEs in the city, the units in rural areas and industrial estates too downed shutters on Monday. Representatives of the industry associations later submitted a memorandum of their demands to Collector G.S. Sameeran. The government should remove the anti-dumping duty on some of the raw materials. The public sector enterprises and government agencies should revise the prices for the orders given to MSMEs so that the units were able to complete the works. According to K.V. Karthik, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association, the response from the pumpset sector was total with the larger manufacturers also stopping production. The price rise was steep for almost all the raw materials used by the industries and frequent too. The prices rose steeply in October and November affecting production in MSMEs. In the recent days, there was a small reduction in prices. What the industries need was stability in prices of raw materials, he said. President of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, C. Balasubramanian said several traders, who were dealing with industrial products such as textile machinery and electrical items, participated in the demonstration. The industry had sought the intervention of the government to stop export of raw materials, waive import duty on raw materials for a specific period and formation of a price monitoring committee. “The government should intervene,” he said. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said the response from the micro units for the strike and protest was spontaneous and total because the unit owners were hit by raw material prices. They were finding it difficult to continue work. According to C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tirupur District Tiny and Micro Enterprises Association, all the micro units took part as they were unable to take up orders and execute the works because of the high prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-demand-measures-to-control-raw-material-prices/article38001487.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Houses demolished for construction of flyover||Coimbatore Corporation on Monday demolished houses inside the Ukkadam Dhobikana to facilitate the construction of Ukkadam-Athupalam flyover. A team led by Assistant Town Planning Officer A. Babu, with assistance from the Coimbatore City Police personnel, went to the spot to demolish the 96 houses that were inside the Dhobikana and also the washing tanks. Mr. Babu said the Corporation under instruction from Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara went into the Dhobikana and started demolishing the houses. The residents, to whom the Corporation had given alternative accommodation through the then Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, had resisted shifting from the place. Their new houses were ready three months ago, but the residents cited one excuse or the other to not move there. Once the Corporation went in with the men and machinery, the residents began shifting to the new location. In Ukkadam Pullukadu, the Board had constructed a house for each of the 96 families and the State Highways Department had helped the construction of washing and rinsing tanks and installation of washing stones. Mr. Babu said the residents would have as many facilities in the new location, Pullukadu, as they had in Dhobikana. With the completion of the demolition work, the Corporation would be able to hand over 1.82 acre Dhobikana land to the Department. The next on the list of structures to be removed for facilitating the flyover construction was the retail fish market. The Corporation would start the demolition in the immediate future, Mr. Babu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dhobikana-houses-demolished/article38001482.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Single-window system for building plan approval soon||The State government would soon launch a single-window system to approve housing site and building plan, said Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy at a grievances redress meeting here on Monday. A release quoting Mr. Muthusamy said the Chief Minister had asked the Department officials to put in place a system wherein people could apply for housing site and building plan approval from their homes. Based on the Chief Minister’s suggestion, the Department was studying what needed to be done to launch the single-window system and the infrastructure required, the release said. Documents The public should submit all the required documents at one-go for officials to quickly process their applications. And, the officials also should check if the applicants had furnished all relevant documents. This way, the officials could quickly process applications and the public get early approval. The release also quoted the Minister as having said that such grievances redress camps were necessary to understand the changes the Department should bring about. Department Secretary Hitesh Kumar S. Makhwana, Director, Town and Country Planning, Saravanavelraj, Collector G.S. Sameeran and Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara were present at the meeting. Tiruppur In Tiruppur, Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan accompanied Mr. Muthusamy at a meeting held at the Local Planning Authority office there. Tiruppur Collector S. Vineeth and Corporation Commissioner Kranthi Kumar Pati were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/single-window-clearance-of-building-plan-soon/article38001484.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Protest on December 27||Various political parties and organisations have decided to stage a protest on Huzur Road on December 27, condemning the Railways for not operating more trains to southern districts via Pollachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-on-december-27/article38001476.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Field survey workers demand wages||Field survey workers (FSWs), who the Coimbatore Corporation had engaged during the COVID-19 lockdown period, had petitioned the district administration seeking wages. In their petition submitted at the weekly grievances redress meeting on Monday, the FSWs said the Corporation had terminated their services on October 31 without paying wages for the month. The last wages they received was the 45-day period starting August 15. At the time of engaging them on contract, the Corporation had promised to pay Rs. 15,000 a worker a month at Rs. 500 a day for carrying out door-to-door survey to check if residents showed fever symptoms, had chronic ailments, and had taken vaccination. This was during the second wave of the pandemic this year. Though the Corporation had recruited 40 workers a ward for the 20 wards in the East Zone, it terminated a number of people saying they were underperformers. At the time of termination, around 100 of them were on the Corporation’s payroll, the petitioners said and sought wages for having worked in October this year. ‘Act against cattle smugglers’ Hindustan Makkal Seva Iyakkam petitioned the district administration seeking action against those who smuggled cattle to Kerala. The outfit said, in violation of rules, native species cattle was smuggled in containers for beef to Kerala. In its estimate, 10 lakh to 15 lakh cattle was being smuggled a month. Though the rules stipulate transporting not more than five animals in a vehicle, the smugglers usually carried upto 40 animals. The administration should rope in the Coimabtore Rural police personnel, Animal Husbandry Department and Transport Department officials to check the illegal transportation, the outfit appealed and sought invocation of the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. ‘Remove encroachments’ The Coimbatore unit of the Communist Party of India appealed to the district administration to remove encroachments on footpath. In a petition, the party said encroachment by shopkeepers on footpath on commercial streets had resulted in pedestrians walking on the street. This led to traffic congestion and accidents. It also appealed to the administration to ask the Corporation to construct an urban primary health centre on Ramar Kovil Street in Ukkadam and dredge the canal in Ward 81.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/field-survey-workers-demand-wages/article38001483.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||97 fresh COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||A total of 97 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Monday. The Health Department said 109 persons recovered from the disease in the district and it had 1,110 active cases on Monday. The toll increased to 2,497 after two more persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.1 % on Sunday. Tiruppur district reported 42 new cases. There were 525 active cases in the district while 52 persons recovered on Monday. One more person died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 1,017. The TPR of Tiruppur district stood at 1.1 % on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/97-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article38001491.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth hacked to death||A 22-year-old youth was hacked to death by a group of men near Saravanampatti in Coimbatore late on Monday. The police said V. Sriram alias ‘Kurangu’ Sriram, a resident of Sampath Street at Rathinapuri, was rounded by a six-member gang who came on three motorcycles at Anjugam Nagar near Chinnavedampatti around 8.30 p.m. The assailants chased Sriram and his friend, who were travelling on a two-wheeler, for nearly five km before the assault. Though Sriram was rushed to a private hospital and later shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital after the assault, he died of injuries, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-hacked-to-death/article38001477.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Act against cattle smugglers’||Hindustan Makkal Seva Iyakkam petitioned the district administration seeking action against those who smuggled cattle to Kerala. The outfit said, in violation of rules, native species cattle was smuggled in containers for beef to Kerala. In its estimate, 10 lakh to 15 lakh cattle was being smuggled a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/act-against-cattle-smugglers/article38001573.ece
21 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Kallimadai and Saravanampatti sub-stations from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 22: Kamaraj Road, Bharati Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Jothi Nagar, Ramanuja Nagar, Neelikonampalayam, Krishnapuram, Singanallur, GV Residency, Uppilipalayam, Balan Nagar, Sarakarai Chettiar Nagar, NGR Nagar, Hope College to Civil Aero, Varatharajapuram, Nandanagar, Housing unit, part of Ondipudur, Masakalipalayam, Medical College road, Saravanampatti, Amman Koil, Chinnavedampatti, Krishnapuram, Sivanandapuram, Vellakinar, Urumandapalayam, Gounder Mills, Subramaniapalayam, KNG Pudur, part of Maniakarampalayam, Lakshmi Nagar, Nachimuthu Nagar, Jayaprakash Nagar, Ganapathi Pudur, Udayampalayam, Vellakinar Housing Unit, and north part of Vinayagapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38001489.ece
21 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Three persons die as car rams tree in Cuddalore district||Three persons were killed when the car in which they were travelling rammed a tree at the Cuddalore SIPCOT on Monday. The incident occurred at around 4:45 a.m. when the driver of the vehicle lost control and crashed it into a roadside palm tree. The deceased were identified as Ram Nadar, 65, his wife Lalitha, 58, of Neermunai near Thirutharaipoondi in Nagapattinam district, and the car driver Kothandam, 50. According to the police, the couple was travelling to Chennai for medical treatment when the incident occurred. While Lalitha died on the spot, Ram Nadar and Kothandam died of injuries at the Cuddalore Government General Hospital. The Cuddalore Port Police have registered a case and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-persons-die-as-car-rams-tree-in-cuddalore-district/article38001829.ece
21 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore district reports four COVID-19 cases||Four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday, taking the tally of active cases to 64,517. The district saw 63,579 recoveries and the active case count stood at 64. Villupuram district reported five cases, taking the total number of cases to 46,082. Kallakurichi district recorded one case, taking the overall tally to 31,595. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,391 with 7 new cases reported on Monday. While 49,143 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 107.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-district-reports-four-covid-19-cases/article38001828.ece
21 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng Chidambaram for Arudra Darshan||A large number of devotees thronged Sri Natarajar temple in Chidambaram on Monday on the occasion of ‘Arudra Darshan’ as the ten-day event drew to a close. People from the neighbouring districts and across the State visited the historic temple and offered worship, after getting a glimpse of the presiding deity during the annual event. Amid chanting of hymns, Lord Natarajar in a cosmic dance pose and Goddess Sivagamasundari were taken out in a procession on a palanquin at 6 p.m. from the thousand-pillar mandapam to the sanctum sanctorum where special pujas were performed. This is one of the two important annual 10-day festivals when Lord Natarajar is taken out in procession through the four Car Streets in the temple town, the other being ‘Aani Thirumanjanam’. The Cuddalore district police had thrown a huge security cordon deploying more than 900 police personnel to regulate the crowd. The district administration had declared a local holiday on Monday in view of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-throng-chidambaram-for-arudra-darshan/article38001827.ece
21 December 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Demolition of unsafe school buildings begins||Authorities on Monday began demolishing dilapidated and unsafe school buildings in Kallakurichi and Villupuram districts. The move comes in the wake of the death of three students due to the collapse of a toilet wall in a government-aided school in Tirunelveli district on Friday. Kallakurichi Collector P.N. Sridhar who oversaw the demolition said the School Education Department had identified 258 buildings to be demolished in the first phase. This included, 171 primary and middle school buildings and 87 high school and higher secondary school buildings across the district. Mr. Sridhar said that the district administration had also constituted a committee comprising the District Educational Officer, Block Educational Officer and teachers to identify weak and unsafe buildings in private schools as well. The committee would examine the strength of the school buildings in the private institutions and submit a report. Further action would be taken based on the findings, he said. The Collector, at a meeting attended by officials of the School Education Department, said it must be ensured that students did not go near the buildings identified for demolition. He urged the officials to sensitise the school staff to this effect. Villupuram In Villupuram, Collector D. Mohan said on Monday that they have identified 601 school buildings, toilet complexes, kitchens and classrooms in the district which required to be razed. He said that teams of officials had conducted the inspections and according to them 59 buildings which were in a dilapidated condition required to be pulled down in the first phase.  The administration has constituted a committee comprising the District Educational Officer, Block Educational Officer and teachers to identify weak and unsafe buildings in private schools as well||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demolition-of-unsafe-school-buildings-begins/article38001823.ece
21 December 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Kerala HC declares demand of 'nokkukooli' illegal; directs lodging extortion cases against such demands||The Kerala High Court on Monday declared demanding of nokkukooli or gawking wages as an "illegal and unauthorized" activity which needs to be banned and directed the police to lodge cases of extortion against whoever makes such demands. The court directed the Kerala government to carry out the necessary amendments to the Kerala Headload Workers Act in a time bound manner so that the industry is organised and regulated to some extent.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-hc-declares-demand-of-nokkukooli-illegal-directs-lodging-extortion-cases-against-such-demands/article38001306.ece
21 December 2021||Kumbakonam,TAMIL NADU||A simple grass that brings out the mellifluous music of nagaswaram||Thiruvavaduthurai, the small town that conjures up the image of nagaswaram wizard Rajarathinam Pillai, is also closely associated with seevali, a reed that is fitted with the instrument to produce the music. If playing nagaswaram demands enormous lung power, making seevali is no less a demanding job. “The process of thirattuthal, shaping the reed into a fine piece, takes a toll on the back of the seevali maker. A rope is tied to a small bar erected on the floor and the other end is tied around the waist of the seevali maker. He has to constantly pull it to fine-tune the reed by tightening the yarn around it,” explained G. Muthuraman, a seevali maker, who won this year’s Fernandes Award instituted by Parivadini, an organisation promoting music, musicians and artisans involved in making musical instruments. Fernandes, known as Parlandu, was the mridhangam maker of Palghat Mani Iyer. “I suffered heavily and underwent a hip surgery to relieve the pain,” said Mr. Muthuraman, whose grandfather N. Natarajasundara Pillai and father N. Ganesan were also seevali makers. A special grass known as korukku thatti is used for making seevali. The bamboo-sized grass is transformed into reed. After being harvested from the river beds, it will be dried and kept aside for a year before being cut into small pieces for making seevali. “We will flatten each piece by placing it in a press. Then we will tie them together and boil. We boil it with paddy as others may simply boil in water,” said Mr. Muturaman. Then comes drying them under the sun for a few days, followed by soaking them in ‘neerakaram’, made by further diluting the water drained after cooking rice and fermented for a day. “The soaking will improve the reed’s texture. After that we subject it to ‘thiratuthal’ and fix a small copper pipe so that it can be inserted into nagaswaram,” Mr. Muthuraman said. The seevalis would be made depending on the pitch of the nagaswaram player. “The reed’s size will determine the pitch. Nagaswaram players from Andhra Pradesh and naiyandi melam artistes from Tirunelveli normally place orders for seevalis with high pitch.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-simple-grass-that-brings-out-the-mellifluous-music-of-nagaswaram/article38001815.ece
21 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ailing MSME sector is in dire need of State support’||In a bid to save the bleeding micro, small and medium enterprises in the country, the Central and State governments should step and help the MSME sector in a big way immediately - with this prime demand, members and office-bearers of over 15 associations of industriial units, led by Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA), staged a demonstration, joining the nationwide protest, in front of the Madurai Collectorate on Monday. Apprehending tough actions by financial institutions, a majority of the small and tiny units were functioning at a loss. “If we locked our units, the banks may take legal action and proceed with auction. Hence, in a bid to prevent such a situation, many units, despite bleeding, are functioning,” MADITSSIA president M. S. Sampath said. “When prices of raw materials such as iron, steel and aluminium were not rising frequently, why is it that there is a steep rise in finished products. The Centre must look into why within a short span, prices of essential building materials had risen three to four times. Public sector undertakings such as National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC) and Small Industries Development Corporaation (SIDCO) must play a catalystic role in resuscitating the sector,” he said. On the lines of land bank, materials bank could be established to serve the MSME sector so that the industrial units could get raw materials at a fair price and also avoid middlemen. The Centre must keep a check on rise in prices of raw materials as, for instance, the price of raw materials for plastic had risen by 76%. This had resulted in closure of most of the small and cottage units. The entrepreneurs had to infuse working capital by borrowing money at high inerest rates. Either the government should help in supplying raw materials at affordable rates or give relief through banks. The EMIs should be re-worked and it must be ensured that the units had adequate working capital, RM Lakshminarayanan, secretary of MADITSSIA, said. Later, a delegation submitted a memorandum to the Collector.  On the lines of land bank, materials bank can be established to serve the MSME sector M. S. Sampath MADITSSIA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ailing-msme-sector-is-in-dire-need-of-state-support/article38001745.ece
21 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Acting CJ given warm welcome||There is a need to expedite disposal of pending cases to maintain the faith of people, said acting Chief Justice of Madras High Court Munishwar Nath Bhandari. He was speaking after he was accorded welcome at the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Monday He said it was the duty of the Bench and the Bar to expedite disposal of cases and urged the Bench and the Bar, the two pillars of the judicial system, to work for the litigants. Additional Advocate General Veera Kathiravan delivered the welcome address. Office-bearers of Bar Associations of the Madurai Bench welcomed the acting Chief Justice. Madras High Court Judges, Additional Advocate General R. Baskaran, Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/acting-cj-given-warm-welcome/article38001743.ece
21 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Case placed before ACJ for clarification||Justice G.R. Swaminathan of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the High Court Registry to place the petition filed by K. Lakshmi, sister of former Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, before the Acting Chief Justice in order to seek clarification on whether the judge could hear the case as per the roster. The petitioner had sought a direction to the Virudhunagar police not to harass the family members or relatives of the former Minister in the name of inquiry. Two cases were filed against the former Minister for allegedly cheating government job aspirants. His anticipatory bail petitions were dismissed by the High Court. During the course of the hearing, the State submitted that the matters connected to MLAs, ex-MLAs, MPs and ex-MPs should be placed before the special bench in the Principal Seat in Chennai. However, it was said that the family members were not named as accused in the case. In a special sitting on Saturday, Justice Swaminathan directed Virudhunagar police not to summon the family members or relatives of the former Minister who were not named in the FIR. The police had picked up the family members for inquiry, and later let them off. Virudhunagar police are on the lookout for the former Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-placed-before-acting-chief-justice-for-clarification/article38001560.ece
21 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three killed||Three persons, including medical officer R. Karthikeyan, 45, from Tirunelveli, were killed in two road accidents in Madurai on Monday. In the first accident, a speeding TNSTC bus knocked down T. Muthiah, 72, of Tiruppalai and S. Balasubramanian, 51, of TWAD Colony, on New Natham Road at Tiruppalai in the early hours of Monday. Police said that Muthiah, a retired employee of Madurai Kamaraj University, was crossing the road after buying milk and Balasubramanian, working in a tea shop, was proceeding on a two-wheeler towards Iyer Bungalow. The bus, proceeding towards Alanganallur, first hit the motorcycle and then the pedestrian. While Muthiah was killed on the spot, the motorist died on the way to the hospital. Traffic Investigation Wing (Tallakulam) has arrested bus driver Sakthivel. In the other accident, Dr. Karthikeyan, a senior resident paediatric surgeon with Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, was driving a car towards Madurai. While he was crossing Paramubupatti, he attempted to overtake a TNSTC bus that was also going towards Madurai on the Inner Ring Road. When the car had almost overtaken the bus, its rear end hit the front portion of the bus and the doctor lost control of the vehicle. It jumped the median and landed on the opposite lane. A bus that was proceeding towards Sivakasi hit the car at around 11 a.m. and the doctor was killed. Madurai rural district police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-accidents/article38001747.ece
21 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 141.95 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 758 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.18 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 825 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,100 mcft. There was no rainfall in the region during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38001561.ece
21 December 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing on delimitation of wards held||The regional public hearing on delimitation of urban local body wards in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts was held here on Monday. Chairing the public hearing, chairman of Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission V. Palanikumar said the objections or suggestions from the public and the political parties would be received up to December 24. Collectors had been asked to take due steps on the opinions of political parties and the public on delimitation of wards of urban civic bodies. The commission received the public opinion on the inclusion of 33 wards in the newly created Kollencode municipality and 52 wards in the Nagercoil Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-hearing-on-delimitation-of-wards-held/article38001884.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Medical board will assist Jaya panel: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday held it is only “just and proper” to constitute a medical board to assist the Justice A. Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry gather facts on the death of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at Apollo Hospitals, Chennai in 2016. The Bench of Justices Abdul S. Nazeer and Krishna Murari had indicated orally on November 30 that they would direct the constitution of the medical board. In its seven-page order, the apex court directed that the Director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) would nominate a panel of doctors, specialists in the fields of treatment of ailments as suffered by the late Chief Minister. The Inquiry Commission has to furnish the medical board with complete records of the proceedings. The court permitted the medical board to participate in “all further proceedings of the Commission and furnish a copy of the report to the Commission.” It underscored that a copy of the report would also be furnished to Apollo Hospitals, represented by senior advocate Aryama Sundaram and advocate Rohini Musa. The Apollo counsel reacted to the order by calling it a “historic victory”. The lawyers pointed out that Apollo has been “allowed to produce any number of witnesses to establish its case and finally the medical board will hand over a copy of its report to the Commission and will give Apollo a copy too.” Apollo had moved the apex court accusing the Commission of bias, violation of the principles of natural justice and conducting the fact-finding exercise outside its jurisdiction. The Commission had denied the allegation of bias, saying it was “rhetorically made without providing any perspective of the matter.” Mr. Sundaram had contended that the reputation of the premier hospital was “blighted overnight” by the Commission, which took a tangent which was “unbelievable.” The hospital had urged the Supreme Court to direct the Commission to share records and permit it to participate in the examination of witnesses in the inquiry process. The State had appointed the inquiry commission headed by Justice Arumughaswamy, a retired Madras High Court judge, on September 25, 2017. The Commission’s terms of reference were to examine the circumstances which led to the hospitalisation of Jayalalithaa on September 22, 2016 and the nature of treatment given to determine the cause of hospitalisation and her subsequent death on December 5 that year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-board-will-assist-jaya-panel-sc/article38001444.ece
21 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry lines up festive events with protocol for tourists||The Tourism Department has lined up a series of COVID-regulated celebratory events over the next fortnight, from a river festival showcasing rural heritage of Puducherry and Karaikal to a gala New Year eve party with at least 45 music concerts and other forms of entertainment. Tourism Minister K. Lakshminarayanan told mediapersons that a high-level meeting had been held with various departments, including the police, to put in place COVID-19 safety and security arrangements to facilitate the arrival of tourists choosing the city to welcome the New Year. The Puducherry Tourism Development Corporation (PTDC) is holding DJ concerts at four venues — the Old Port, Chunnambar, Paradise Beach and Sea Gulls. The Minister said vaccination certificates would be insisted upon at entry points into the city. Arrangements would also be in place to undertake thermal scanning and perform random antigen tests. “Directions have been given to ensure a safe and hassle-free experience for tourists,” he said. Hotels have been asked to register their private ticketed events with the Collector and the Tourism Department. “The police have asked for this data to put in place a traffic and crowd management plan for the New Year,” said Priytarshny P., Tourism Director. Tourists would have to leave their vehicles at designated parking spaces and take free shuttle rides to the venues in the city. The Chief Minister, N. Rangasamy, will inaugurate the first river festival on December 25 in Villianur, centred on the Sankarabarani river which is also called Varaha Nadhi, and has on its banks, the Gangai Varaga Natheeswarar temple. Mr. Lakshminarayanan said the temple had been renovated with Central and State funds and the first-ever river festival is being held under the auspices of the Jal Shakti Ministry. The festival will highlight rural art forms, such as Karakattam, Mayilattam, Kavadi, and Therukkuthu. Transport Minister Chandira Priyanga will lead the river festival in Karaikal scheduled to be held on December 26. World Yoga festival Puducherry will also host the 27th World Yoga Festival from January 4 to 7. Those wishing to participate can register athttps://pondy tourism.py.gov.in/yoga Participation fees for local students have been waived off. The festival will feature meditation, free yoga classes, seminars, competitions, a wellness exhibition, including yoga-naturopathy and natural food outlets for the benefit of the public, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-lines-up-festive-events-with-protocol-for-tourists/article38001820.ece
21 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G stresses on the need for COVID-19 vaccination||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan advocated the need for COVID-19 vaccination during her interaction with a section of shop owners and the public on Monday. While lauding those who had responded to the ‘vaccination movement’ and got themselves inoculated, the Lt. Governor urged the others to get the jab without further delay. “The health authorities will start verifying vaccination status of people in public places,” she said. Puducherry, which has made vaccination compulsory, has so far administered about 8.14 lakh first doses and 5.2 lakh second doses of COVID-19 vaccine so far. “Around 1.5 lakh people are yet to be vaccinated and steps had been taken to cover the remaining population as our intention is to ensure that Puducherry emerged as a cent per cent vaccinated region,” she said. C. Udaya Kumar, Health Secretary and G. Sriramulu, Health Director accompanied her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-stresses-on-the-need-for-covid-19-vaccination/article38001817.ece
21 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MLAs protest against move to sell land belonging to Ponfab||The MLAs belonging to the DMK, Congress and an Independent MLA on Monday staged a protest in front of the clock tower at Muthialpet against the territorial government’s move to sell the land belonging to Ponfab for settlement of bank loans. The Pondicherry Cooperative Handloom Export Development Project, popularly known as Ponfab, was established in the 1980s to cater to the overseas markets. But the handloom weavers’ body is now in a financial crisis. The government had proposed to sell an expanse of 28,500 square feet in Mudaliarpet, to settle bank dues to the tune of Rs. 8.33 crore. Protesting against the move, Leader of Opposition R. Siva, DMK MLAs — Annibal Kennedy, L. Sambath and R. Senthil Kumar, Congress MLA M. Vaithinathan and Independent MLA J. Prakash Kumar staged an agitation demanding the government to drop the proposal for sale. Modernise undertaking Leading the demonstration, Mr. Siva urged the Puducherry Government to drop the move and take steps to modernise the undertaking. Meanwhile, members of the AIADMK, led by former MLA Vaiyapuri Manikandan, picketed the office of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies in Thattanchavady to register their protest against the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-protest-against-move-to-sell-land-belonging-to-ponfab/article38001825.ece
21 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Last date extended||The Pondicherry University has extended till December 30 the last date to fill up all vacant seats for admission to various post graduate, five-year integrated post graduate and diploma courses for the academic year 2021- 22. Interested students may directly contact the respective Heads of the Departments for spot admission, the University said in a press note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/last-date-extended/article38001821.ece
21 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports 10 fresh COVID-19 infections||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory even as 10 new cases were confirmed from 831 tests, against 32 recoveries, on Monday. Puducherry and Karaikal accounted for four cases each and Mahe two. Yanam reported no new case. The test positivity rate stood at 1.2%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery 98.45%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,880 deaths — Puducherry (1,468), Karaikal (251), Yanam (109) and Mahe (52). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,29,325 cases and 1,27,316 recovered patients. Of an estimated 20.27 lakh tests conducted so far, over 17.17 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,614 persons took the COVID-19 jab in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered a total of 13,45,193 COVID-19 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-10-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38001818.ece
21 December 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged in Rameswaram against arrest of 55 fishermen by SL Navy||A large number of fishermen and their family members from coastal hamlets in Ramanathapuram district staged a demonstration in Rameswaram on Monday, condemning the arrest of 55 fishermen from Rameswaram and Thangachimadam by Sri Lankan Navy on a charge of poaching in the territorial waters of the island nation. Members of various fishermen associations, who participated in the protest, said it had become a routine for the Sri Lankan Navy to harass and humiliate the fishermen from Tamil Nadu in the Palk Bay. “Under some pretext or the other, they indulge in such kind of atrocities. This was the 19th incident in 2021,” said fishermen leader Jesu Raja. At a time when the fishermen were finding it extremely difficult to make both ends meet, especially, post pandemic, such arrests and seizure of the vessels only pushed to the wall. Accusing the governments, the fisherfolk charged that the political parties promised so many things during the electioneering, but nothing tangible had moved. All that the fishermen here have been seeking is to form a joint working group of the fishermen from TN and Sri Lanka, which would solve the problems. After all, the fishermen from the coastal districts in TN had enjoyed the hospitality of Sri Lankan fishermen until 1985. Trouble arose only then. Hence, the governments should make this possible, Mr Jesu Raja said and added that the fishermen should also be given the much needed relief on the subsidy part of the diesel as the costs incurred were phenomenal. During the demonstration, the fishermen leaders announced to observe a token fast on December 22 to press for the release of the 55 fishermen. In the event of non-release of the arrested fishermen from the Sri Lankan prisons, who have been sent to judicial custody till December 31, the fishermen here have planned to resort to block the Chennai Express train on January 1, 2022 at Thangachimadam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-in-rameswaram-against-arrest-of-55-fishermen-by-sl-navy/article38001559.ece
21 December 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Goods train derails after hitting cattle near Arakkonam||A goods train that was heading towards Katpadi got derailed in Chitteri village, 10 km from Arakkonam railway station, at 11.20 a.m. on Monday after the train hit cattle on the track. The loco pilot stopped the train and the crew alerted the Arakkonam railway station. The Railway staff and the police personnel rushed to the spot and restored the line in two hours. Officials said that services of express trains were not affected as the derailed train was on the loopline along the route while suburban trains between Tiruvallur and Arakkonam were delayed. Later, the suburban trains were operated on the alternative line. The route was cleared around 1.30 p.m. on Monday. “As villagers beyond Arakkonam railway station are cattle herders, many milch cows cross the track for grazing on the fields on either side of the rail line. Police and railway officials intervene regularly to prevent such trespassing,” a railway official said. On Saturday, the 22nd wagon of a goods train that was heading towards Renigunta got derailed in Mosur village near Arakkonam railway station at 5.45 a.m. The rail line was restored two hours later at 8.40 a.m., officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goods-train-derails-after-hitting-cattle-near-arakkonam/article38001894.ece
21 December 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Baby dies in YouTube-assisted delivery at home; woman critical, husband held||A 34-year-old man, who tried to help his wife deliver at home with the help of YouTube videos near Ranipet, was arrested on Monday after the baby died. Police said that R. Loganathan, 34, a petty trader in Nedumpuli village that comes under Panapakkam village panchayat in Nemili taluk in Ranipet district, relied on YouTube videos to help his wife L. Gomathi, 28, deliver their baby. In the process, she gave birth to a stillborn baby. The woman has been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in Vellore in a critical condition. The body of the infant has been kept at the GMHC in Vellore for post mortem. “Strict action will be taken against such practices risking the lives of the mother and the infant. More awareness on a safe delivery system will be done,” said D. Bhaskara Pandian, Ranipet Collector. Based on the complaint by Dr. S.N. Mohan Kumar, Medical Officer, Government PHC, Punnai Village, the police have registered a case against the man. The police said that the couple got married in June last year. Apart from the police enquiry, the Ranipet district administration has set up a team led by V. Manimaran, Deputy Director of Health Services, to probe the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baby-dies-in-youtube-assisted-delivery-at-home-woman-critical-husband-held/article38001898.ece
21 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Fresh searches conducted at 16 places related to Thangamani||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted searches at 16 places in Salem, Namakkal and Erode on Monday morning in connection with the corruption case registered against former Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, his son Dharanidharan, and wife Shanthi. The searches, the second time in five days, began around 6.30 a.m. According to officials, the searches were conducted at 12 places in Namakkal, three in Erode, and one in Salem. In Salem, searches were under way at the residence of a hotelier K. Manikandan, near Thiruvagoundanur Bypass, till late in the evening. According to official sources, searches were conducted at Namakkal, including the business premises of P.S.K. Periyasamy, a public works contractor. In Erode, searches were conducted at the residence of Mr. Dharinadharan’s friend. According to official sources, DVAC sleuths also conducted searches at the residence of an auditor, at a poultry farm, and spinning mills in Namakkal. The searches lasted for over 11 hours in Salem and Erode. According to a release, DVAC sleuths had seized documents in relation with the case, bank locker keys, laptops and computer hard disks on Monday. On December 15, the sleuths conducted searches at 70 places linked to Mr. Thangamani in relation with a disproportionate assets case registered against him and his family. The former Minister and his family members were accused of accumulating assets to the tune of Rs. 4.85 crores, disproportionate to their known sources of income. At the end of searches on December 15, the DVAC officials said in a release that Rs. 2.37 crores in cash, gold jewellery weighing about 1.13 kg and 40 kg of silver articles were found. Officials also seized mobile phones and documents related to the case, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-searches-conducted-at-16-places-related-to-thangamani/article38001442.ece
21 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs in Salem district seek reduction in raw material prices||Small and tiny industrialists observed a one-day strike on Monday demanding measures to control prices of various raw materials. Members of the Salem District Small Scale and Tiny Industries’ Association and various other associations representing small scale industries said their livelihood has been severely affected due to hike in prices. They charged that the price of various raw materials has increased ranging between 40% to 110%. K. Mariappan, president of the Tamilnadu Small and Tiny Industries Association, said that the Centre should intervene to control prices of raw materials. Mr. Mariappan said that engineering works have been severely affected due to hike in steel and aluminium prices. Business to the tune of Rs. .25,000 crore has been affected due to the one-day strike by MSMEs, he said. Mr. Mariappan said the hike in GST rates on textiles must be withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-in-salem-district-seek-reduction-in-raw-material-prices/article38001568.ece
21 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand waiver of farm loans||Farmers here on Monday demanded the State government to waive loans. In a petition to District Collector, members of various farm associations urged the State government to fulfil its promise of waiving all farm loans instead of bringing in new regulations. The farmers said that the announcement of waiver of farm loans ahead of Assembly elections played a major role in DMK’s win in recently held Assembly elections. Adangal document They charged that the co-operative department was trying to reduce number of beneficiaries citing lack of adangal document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-waiver-of-farm-loans/article38001570.ece
21 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Weavers seek withdrawal of GST hike||Weavers staged a protest in front of the Salem Collectorate on Monday demanding withdrawal of GST hike on textiles. Members of the Salem and Thiruchengode Circle Handloom Weavers’ Co-operative Societies Employees Union condemned the Centre for the steep hike in GST tax rates on textiles from 5% to 12%. They said that sale of handloom products has been affected due to COVID-19 pandemic and hike in yarn prices. They lamented that the hike in tax rates announced by Centre would severely affect the livelihood of weavers and sale of handloom goods. They said that over 10 lakh weavers are dependent on this occupation at least three lakh families would be affected if the hike in tax rates is implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weavers-seek-withdrawal-of-gst-hike/article38001571.ece
21 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Plea to fill vacancies in cooperative societies||Members of the Tamil Nadu State Primary Co-operative Bank All Workers’ Association took out a rally to District Collectorate here on Monday on various demands. The members said that several co-operative society secretaries are given additional charges. They demanded that all vacancies in the societies must be filled at the earliest and 30 % hike in salaries for the staff who have been given additional charge. Similar protests were held in Erode and Krishnagiri districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-fill-vacancies-in-cooperative-societies/article38001572.ece
21 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem district logs 33 fresh COVID-19 cases||Salem district on Monday reported 33 COVID-19 positive cases. According to Health Department officials, 25 cases were indigenous and 13 reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Erode, 51 cases were reported. As per bulletin, the district has 578 active cases. Six indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri and nine in Krishnagiri. As per bulletin, one death each was reported in Salem and Krishnagiri districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-logs-33-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38001566.ece
21 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||DYFI demands law against honour killings||Members of the Democratic Youth Front of India staged a protest in front of the Collectorate on Monday demanding the State government to enact separate laws against honour killings. Over 50 members of the organisation led by State president N.Rajish Kumar raised slogans condemning honour killing incidents. They also demanded that the State government take proactive measures to prevent incidents of sexual harassment in schools and colleges and ensure that all guidelines of Vishaka committee are being implemented in schools and colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dyfi-demands-law-against-honour-killings/article38001569.ece
21 December 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 precautions violated by tourists in Courtallam||Thousands of visitors showed scant respect for COVID-19 restrictions, as the waterfalls at Courtallam were reopened for the public. The district administration decided to open the waterfalls of Courtallam – Main Falls, Five Falls, Old Courtallam Falls – for the visitors after they remained closed since March 2021 in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. As the number of COVID-19 cases is coming down steadily, Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj announced recently that the waterfalls would be reopened for the visitors between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. from December 20. Subsequently, it was decided to allow only 10 male and six female tourists to take bath at a time in the Main Falls, while this number would be 10 each in the Five Falls to ensure the compliance of Standard Operating Procedure evolved by the Department of Public Health. Those entering the falls should produce vaccination certificates. In the Old Courtallam Falls, only five men and 10 women would be allowed at a time. The duration of bathing would be decided by the officials stationed there. The district administration also formed a district-level monitoring ream, crisis management team and a rapid response team to see if the tourists strictly followed the Standard Operating Procedure while taking bath. Subsequently, a check point was created near Anna Statue near the entrance of the Main Falls where the visitors had to produce their vaccination certificates while body temperature was checked near the waterfalls. However, the visitors flouted the restrictions and took bath in the waterfalls at will. Since the Ayyappa devotees would visit Courtallam in large numbers during this season to take bath in the waterfalls on their way to Kerala, the Main Falls witnessed heavy crowd. Though the district administration had decided to allow only 10 persons at a time to take bath in the Main Falls, more than 100 persons were seen bathing there at a time and this continued throughout the day. As tourists from various parts of Tamil Nadu and other States such as Andhra Pradesh, Telengana, Puducherry and Maharashtra started pouring in, the officials could not control the crowd. However, the crowd was relatively thin in the Five Falls and the Old Courtallam Falls on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-precautions-violated-in-courtallam/article38001749.ece
21 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Arudhra festival celebrated in Thanjavur||The Arudhra festival was celebrated with religious fervour and gaiety at Saivaite temples in Thanjavur district on Monday. Special anointment ceremony of panchaloka idols of Lord Nataraja and Goddess Sivagamasundari, along with Tamil saint Manickavachagar, preceded Arudhra darshan of Lord Nataraja in the early hours of Monday as per the religious custom and practice at Aadhi Kumbeswarar temple and other Shiva temples in Kumbakonam. Later, joint darshan of Lord Nataraja of Aadhi Kumbeswarar temple with the decorated Natajara idols from Nageswarar temple, Somanathar temple and other shrines brought one after another in a procession to the entrance of Aadhi Kumbeswarar temple was witnessed with devotion by Saivaite devotees and the general public. In Thanjavur, the idol of Lord Nataraja and Goddess Sivagamasundari at Sri Brahadeeswarar temple (the Big Temple) were anointed with milk, curd, sandal paste, cooked rice and other substances on Sunday night. They were decorated and taken in a procession within the temple precincts. Meanwhile, the celebration of Arudhra festival without the procession of Lord Nataraja outside the temple and restriction on the number of devotees to witness the Arudhra abhishegam (anointment of Lord Nataraja’s idol) at some temples have disappointed the devotees. The mega event of bringing the idols of Lord Nataraja from other Saivaite temples in Kumbakonam town to the entrance of Aadhi Kumbeswarar temple was made possible by a group of local Hindu devotees who impressed upon offiials in the district administration and the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Board to grant permission for holding the event citing the permission granted by the Cuddalore district administration for conducting the car festival and the Arudhra festival of Lord Natarajar Temple in Chidambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arudhra-festival-celebrated-in-thanjavur/article38001538.ece
21 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||National Children’s Science Congress held||The National Children’s Science Congress on ‘Science for Sustainable Living’ was held at Maharishi Vidya Mandir here last week. Around 200 pupils from schools from delta and southern districts participated in the exhibition organised as part of the science congress and displayed innovative ideas. District Chief Education Officer M. Sivakumar inaugurating the science congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-childrens-science-congress-held/article38001539.ece
21 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers seek reopening of Sterlite Copper plant||Villagers from 14 hamlets in and around here submitted separate petitions on Monday appealing to the Tamil Nadu Government to ensure early reopening of Sterlite Copper in the best interest of their children. Villagers from Lourdhammalpuram, Kovilpillai Nagar, Alangarathittu, Inigo Nagar, Madha Kovil Street, Annai Teresa Meenavar Colony, Sivagnanapuram, Panimaya Nagar, Ramar Vilai, John Xavier Nagar, Ayyanadaippu, Gopalsamy Nagar, Rajiv Nagar and Packiyanathanvilai submitted petitions in support of the immediate reopening of Sterlite Copper that remains closed since May 2018 after 13 persons were killed in police firing in the anti-Sterlite protest. On behalf of Confederation of Sterlite Supporters, its office-bearers also submitted a petition to press the same demand. They said they were supporting the Sterlite Copper in the best interest of the country and employment growth. Even though the copper manufacturing unit, which was spending a lot for community development since 1996, was closed down, it had given Rs. 60 crore towards scholarships for meritorious students, training and financial assistance for self-help groups and other community development activities like providing drinking water, healthcare, women development, anganvadi construction etc. in 2021 alone, they said. “When hospitals were gasping for medical-grade oxygen to save COVID-19 patients with serious lung infection, over 2,000 tonne life-saving gas was supplied to the hospitals in 32 districts of Tamil Nadu. Hence, the closed down Sterlite Copper should be reopened in the best interest of the younger generation and rural development,” they said. Salary arrears sought The casual multipurpose sanitary workers, who were involved in anti-COVID operations when the viral infection was at its worse, submitted petition seeking their 6 month salary arrears and COVID-19 special incentive. The petitioners said the casual multipurpose sanitary workers, who were hired through a private agency in June 2020 and posted in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital to tackle COVID-19 outbreak, were not given their salary for 6 months i.e. between May and October last. Though several petitions were submitted to the TKMCH administration, no step was taken to give the salary arrears. The COVID-19 incentive of Rs. 15,000 was also not given to the casual multipurpose workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-seek-reopening-of-sterlite-copper-plant/article38001887.ece
21 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Parents refuse to send children to schools with scary buildings||Parents of children studying at a panchayat union middle school refused to send their children to the school as all the four buildings are in a very bad condition. As the four buildings of the panchayat union middle school in Keezha Naalumoolaikinaru near Tiruchendur, having only 103 students and 6 teachers, are in a dilapidated condition, the parents were appealing to the officials to construct new classroom buildings. Since the wall collapse in Schaffter Higher Secondary School claimed three lives on last Friday, the parents refused to send their children to the school on Monday and staged a demonstration in front of the school. Chief Educational Officer Balathandayuthapani, District Educational Officer, Tiruchendur, Mohanan, and Panchayat Union Commissioner Pongalarasi held talks with the protesting parents. After the officials promised them that the dilapidated buildings would be razed down within a week and classes held in a temporary building, the parents gave up their agitation around 1 p.m. Weak buildings to go Tirunelveli Collector V. Vishnu has ordered the demolition of 92 dilapidated school buildings in the district within next 3 days. After the wall collapse in Schaffter Higher Secondary School here claimed three lives, Mr. Vishnu formed 18 inspection teams to audit the school buildings across the district and submit report. Based on the report submitted by the teams, the Collector has ordered the demolition of 92 school buildings within next 3 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-refuse-to-send-children-to-schools-with-scary-buildings/article38001885.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI awards tender to relay highway stretch||National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has awarded the tender for relaying a badly damaged stretch of about 1.40 km between Andhanallur and Thindukarai on Tiruchi-Karur Highway, addressing a long-felt concern of motorists. Residents in the city suburbs and motorists have been sore over the condition of the road and another short stretch on Tiruchi-Dindigul Highway on the outskirts of the city being left uncared for the past few years. Even though both highways have been strengthened and widened by NHAI and the city stretch by the State Highways, the short stretches have not been relaid as the proposed bypass road connecting Tiruchi-Madurai and Tiruchi-Karur national highways is to run across them. However, the stretches have remained unattended for years together as there has been a prolonged delay in building the bypass road. Expressing concern over the condition of the two short stretches, P. Ayyarappan, a road safety activist, points out that motorists travelling at high speed on the highways are often caught off-guard by the bad condition of the stretches. “The short stretch of highway on Karur Road is full of potholes and motorists suffer severe jolts. The bad condition of the stretches pose a severe threat to road users and could lead to accidents,” he said. Similarly, the stretch on Dindigul Highway, near CARE College, has also been badly eroded and lies in neglect. When contacted, a senior NHAI official said the tender for relaying the Andhanallur-Thindukarai stretch on Karur Highway at an estimated cost of Rs. 90 lakh was awarded on Saturday. “The work will begin in the next few days and completed within the next 10 days.” The Dindigul Highway stretch had been handed over to the State Highways (NH wing) and NHAI has already sanctioned Rs. 1.09 crore for relaying it. The State Highways would soon call for tender to execute the work. “We are closing following the backlog works in and around Tiruchi,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-awards-tender-to-relay-highway-stretch/article38001548.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lalgudi, Manachanallur to get new bus stands soon, says Nehru||New bus stands will be established soon in Lalgudi and Manachanallur in the district, Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru said here on Monday. Speaking at special public grievance meeting at Lalgudi, Mr. Nehru pointed out that the civic body of the town had been recently upgraded as a municipality and a new spacious bus stand would be established in the town. It would come up with a commercial complex. Steps would be taken to construct a building near Lalgudi for the arts and science college shifted to Kumulur and a new building for the courts and taluk office in Lalgudi. Later, at a similar camp at Manachanallur taluk, Mr. Nehru said the Chief Minister had ordered receipt of petitions from the public and initiating action within seven days. A new combined drinking water supply scheme would be executed for Manachanallur area at an estimated cost of Rs. 250 crore. A new bus stand was planned to be established in Manachanallur.. Speaking at another special public grievance meeting at Srirangam, the Minister said the taluk was all set to witness rapid industrialisation in the near future as new projects were on the anvil. At the grievance meet in Tiruchi, he said steps were afoot to ensure equitable potable drinking water supply. The underground drainage scheme was being extended across the city. The city limits were set for expansion as a new integrated bus stand was to be established at Panchapur. Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Collector S. Sivarasu and elected representatives participated in the special grievance meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lalgudi-manachanallur-to-get-new-bus-stands-soon-says-nehru/article38001550.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TIDITSSIA holds demo||Members of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA) on Monday staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate to draw the Centre’s attention to the helpless situation that the MSME sector had been pushed into due to escalating cost of steel and other raw material. The MSME sector, which provided the maximum employment next only to agriculture, must not be subjected to suffocation, The cost of steel, alumnium, copper and plastic had risen by 70% to 90%., they said. Similar demonstrations were conducted in other central districts as part of a nation-wide protest called by the All India Council of Association of MSMEs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiditssia-holds-demo/article38001874.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cooperative bank staff submit demands||Members of the Tiruchi wing of the Tamil Nadu State Primary Cooperative Bank All Employees Association (TACBEA) submitted a 15-point charter of demands to the Collector on Monday. The protesters would boycott work on January 5 if their demands were not met, they said. Around 600 members attached to TACBEA organised a protest outside the District Collectorate in support of their demands including that the members of cooperative societies be treated in a respectable manner and be heard. The protesters alleged that higher officials were dismissing the workers’ needs and sanctioning transfer orders for employees based on ‘personal grudge’ Other demands included passage of a comprehensive order on the crop insurance scheme and its waiver. “The method for applying for the scheme and its waiver seems to differ from district to district. We request a comprehensive order,” D.P.S. Kamaraj, district secretary of the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cooperative-bank-staff-submit-demands/article38001876.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers protest move to increase legal age of marriage for women||Members of Desiya Thenidhiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam have urged the Prime Minister to discard the proposal to increase the legal age of marriage for women to 21 years. Led by P. Ayyakannu, the members staged a demonstration outside the District Collectorate here opposing the move. In a petition submitted to the Collector, they said that families, especially in villages and towns, would not be able to provide for a girl child until she turned 21. “The normal age of attaining puberty used to be 15 to 16 years. Nowadays, it is as early as 10 to 11 years. It is difficult for parents to care for the child for 11 years,” Mr. Ayyakannu said. The crimes against girls would increase, the protesters said and wondered if the age for the right to vote would also be increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-protest-move-to-increase-legal-age-of-marriage-for-women/article38001878.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Visually challenged demand better treatment on government buses||The visually challenged from Tiruchi on Monday staged a demonstration in front of the District Collectorate here seeking permission to travel in all buses free of cost as per the government order. Some would not allow them to travel free of cost on long-distance buses or without identification from the government. They had to pay the full fare and they were also charged for luggage if they were travelling to make a living. “We would be carrying soaps, incense sticks, books to sell on buses and they would restrict it. How are we to earn a living then,” they asked. Some conductors also made offensive comments poking fun at persons with disabilities and would not allow them to board buses. Such ill-treatment caused distress and put them in a difficult position, K. Selvam, a visually-impaired man, who led the protest, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/visually-challenged-demand-better-treatment-on-government-buses/article38001880.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps taken to ensure adequate potash supply’||Steps have been taken to ensure adequate supply of potash in Tiruchi district, Collector S. Sivarasu has said. In a statement issued here, Mr. Sivarasu said that 698 tonnes of potash, 1,495 tonnes of urea, 683 tonnes of DAP and 3,216 tonnes of complex fertilizers were available with primary agricultural cooperative societies and private retailers in the district as on Monday. This apart, about 100 tonnes of potash was being supplied by Indian Potash Limited through lorries from Thoothukudi port every day, he added. Mr. Sivarasu urged retailers to sell the fertilizers only to farmers producing Aadhaar cards and desist from selling above the maximum retail price. The price list of fertilizers should be prominently displayed. Apart from taking the signature of the buyers, the retailers should also issue receipts for the purchase of the fertilizers. Those selling fertilizers without required documents or indulging in irregularities would face action under the Fertilizer Control Order 1985 and Essential Commodities Act 1955, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/potash-stock-adequate-in-tiruchi-district/article38001551.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Students test positive||A private school in Samayapuram has closed after seven of its students tested positive for COVID-19. The school will reopen on Monday, accordig to district officials. Seven students of classes 11 and 12, most of whom stayed at the hostel on the school campus, suffered from fever, cold and other COVID-19 symptoms last week and were sent home. Their test results returned positive on Sunday, following which preventive measures were taken. Health officials disinfected the premises and asked that it be closed till Monday. RT-PCR tests were also lifted from nearly 6,000 people at the school including other hostel dwellers, classmates and staff. The Health Department would also conduct contact tracing and test the students’ primary contacts, the officials said. Meanwhile, a class 7 student of Government Higher Secondary School, Sirathope, reported COVID-19 positive on Monday. The student showed COVID-19 symptoms and was asked to stay home until she recovered. Her classmates were given two days leave and asked to report to the Health Department if they had any symptoms. 44 new cases, one death The central districts reported 44 fresh cases on Monday. One patient from Nagapattinam died of the illness. All nine districts in the region reported less than 15 cases. Fifteen patients reported positive in Karur, 14 in Thanjavur and 10 in Tiruchi. The remaining six districts registered two or lesser cases. Two patients reported positive in Tiruvarur, while Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai reported one each. No cases were reported in Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8-students-test-positive/article38001544.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||KKNPP puts recruitment on hold as locals stage flash protest||A flash protest staged by the locals and land-losers at the main entrance of Kundankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) on Monday forced the administration to put on hold recruitment of engineers that commenced on Sunday. The locals urged the KKNPP to give preference to qualified local youth in employment in the upcoming nuclear park, where the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) is operating 2x1,000 MWe nuclear reactors and constructing four more similar-capacity reactors with Russian assistance. Though this demand is being raised ever since the NPCIL started constructing the first two reactors 20 years ago, only a few local youth were recruited. Collector V. Vishnu discussed this issue with the KKNPP administration recently and set up a centre to equip the locals with the skills required by the NPCIL, major contractors constructing the reactors and the allied units. Under these circumstances, the KKNPP planned recruitment of 34 engineers, for which 1,700 persons had applied. Based on the first round of selection, 170 candidates were called for personal interview on Monday and Tuesday (December 20 and 21). As none from Koodankulam area was called for the interview, the locals gathered along with contract labourers in front of the KKNPP’s main gate and staged a protest that effectively prevented engineers from entering the plant. Even though police were deployed and Superintendent of Police P. Saravanan held talks with the protesters, led by Koodankulam panchayat president Vincy Maniyarasan, they refused to relent till 11 a.m. Meanwhile, local body representatives from Koodankulam and adjoining areas also joined the protesters. Tripartite peace talks were held at Radhapuram Taluk Office, in which Mr. Saravanan, the Cheranmahadevi Revenue Divisional Officer, KKNPP Site Director Manohar Godbole, Project Director (Reactors 5 and 6) M.S. Suresh, General Manager (Human Resources) Anbumani, District Panchayat chairman V.S.R. Jegadeesh, Ms. Vincy Maniyarasan, Vijayapathi panchayat president Sahayaraj and Irukkanthurai panchayat president Indra took part. As the local body representatives were firm in their demand of giving employment to the locals, the KKNPP officials were forced to put on hold the recruitment, though the personal interview was conducted as planned on Monday. “Since the KKNPP failed to recruit qualified people from the local community for various positions, the aggrieved youth started the protest. As the KKNPP has decided to put on hold the recruitment process and discuss it with the Collector, we have withdrawn the protest,” said Mr. Jegadeesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kknpp-puts-recruitment-on-hold-as-locals-protest/article38001554.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Wall collapse: headmistress, three teachers suspended||Tirunelveli CSI Diocese, which is administering Schaffter Higher Secondary School where three students were killed in a wall collapse on Friday, has suspended the headmistress and three teachers. Police had arrested the headmistress, Persis Gnanaselvi, correspondent Selvakumar and contractor John Kennedy, who constructed the wall allegedly without basement. Since Persis Gnanaselvi was arrested and remanded in judicial custody following registration of the First Information Report by the Tirunelveli Junction police, she was placed under suspension by the CSI Diocese. The Diocese had formed a committee to probe the issue, and the committee submitted its report to the Manager of the Diocese, S. Pushparaj. Subsequently, Physical Education Teachers of the school S. Jesuraj and C. Arul Titus and Physical Education Director G. Suthakar David, who had been reportedly given the task of regulating the students during the interval, have also been placed under suspension.  Rs. 3-lakh compensation Meanwhile, the Diocese has decided to give Rs. 3 lakh each to the families of the deceased students and Rs. 50,000 each for the injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headmistress-three-teachers-suspended/article38001563.ece
21 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Monday stood at 140.10 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 621.41 cusecs and a discharge of 504.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 117.60 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 273 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38001889.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Tirupattur police return 100 recovered phones to owners||The district police in Tirupattur handed over 100 lost and found mobile phones to the owners on Monday. Superintendent of Police K. S. Balakrishnan distributed the phones worth Rs. 17 lakh recovered by the Tirupattur district cyber crime police to the owners. “Owners of lost mobiles are from various places including Bengaluru, Chennai, Tiruvarur, Rajasthan and West Bengal. Most of them are travellers. Complaints were related to phones lost over the past three months,” said Mr. Balakrishnan. Five-member team A five-member team comprising inspector M. Prema, sub-inspector D. Sarathkumar, constables S. Gangadevi, A. Manjula, and R. Jayakumar, of the District Cyber Crime police traced the missing phones for which complaints were filed in all 11 Law & Order (L&0) police stations in the district. Mr. Balakrishnan also launched a round-the-clock helpline 9442992525 for residents to alert the cyber crime team at the SP office on the missing mobile phones and those who are in possession of such phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirupattur-police-return-100-recovered-phones-to-owners/article38001891.ece
21 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Fake complaint: court orders action||The Mahila Court, Tiruppur, recently ordered for action against a 38-year-old man who had lodged fake complaint of child sexual assault against a known person in 2019. The court during the trial found out that the complainant had lodged a fake complaint against the accused by forcing his niece, an 11-year-old girl. Judge V.P. Sugandhi, in-charge Mahila Court, acquitted the 44-year-old man who was accused of having sexually assaulted the girl. The accused, who is known to the family of the girl and the complainant, was arrested by the All Women Police Station, Tiruppur north, on December 23, 2019. The complainant had alleged that the accused sexually assaulted his elder brother’s daughter after giving chocolate. When charges under Sections 7 (sexual assault) read with 8 (punishment for sexual assault) were read out to the accused at the court before starting the trial, the accused had claimed innocence. The court during the trial examined six witnesses and nine material evidences. Asked whether a case was registered against the man who lodged the fake complaint, an officer from the AWPS, Tiruppur north, said the station was yet to get a copy of the judgement.  (Names of the accused (now acquitted of charges) and complainant were omitted to protect the identity of the girl) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-complaint-court-orders-action/article38001490.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvannamalai dams to stay shut till January 5||Parks, swimming pools and dams in Tiruvannamalai and Kattam Poondi will remain closed till January 5, Collector B. Murugesh said on Monday. Restaurants, bakeries and tea shops can function from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., with dine-in permitted till 8 p.m. and takeout till 10 p.m. But only 50% occupancy will be allowed in restaurants and tea shops. Imposition of fines for not wearing face masks and not following social distancing norms in public places and 50% occupancy in government buses are the other restrictions, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvannamalai-dams-to-stay-shut-till-january-5/article38001892.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Aazhi Ther festival to be held in March next year||The Aazhi Ther festival of Sri Thyagarajaswamy temple at Tiruvarur will be celebrated on March 15 next year. As per the custom and practice of the temple, the car festival — Aazhi Ther — is celebrated as the culminating event of the annual Panguni festival. Meanwhile, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, P.K. Sekarbabu chaired a meeting of officials here on Monday and reviewed the restoration of the southern bank of Kamalalayam tank that was damaged by heavy rain in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aazhi-ther-festival-to-be-held-in-march-next-year/article38001540.ece
21 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ooty gets first specks of ground frost||Low-lying areas in Udhagamandalam were carpeted with a thin layer of ground frost on Monday. The continuous rain this year that extended till December could have delayed the onset of ground frost, scientists from the Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation (ICAR-IISWC) said. Over the last few years, the onset of ground frost has been delayed in winter. In both 2019 and 2020, ground frost in the upper plateau was recorded in late December and early January. The ICAR-IISWC, which has been measuring the intensity of ground frost in the Nilgiris since 1968, said the dew gauge, which measured the intensity of ground frost, averaged a measurement of anywhere between 4 – 8 units in December and January. However, in recent years, the intensity measured had dropped to three, the scientists said. Ground frost is believed to play a key role in maintaining key aspects of the Nilgiris’ fragile ecosystem, including inducing the flowering and fruiting of certain native trees and plants. There are also ecological concerns that the lack of ground frost could lead to invasive species of plants like Lantana camara , Eupatorium and Cestrum species spreading into new habitats. Ecologists working in the Nilgiris said due to ground frost, many of these invasive species get killed off each year, preventing their spread into native ecological habitats. Every year, the onset of ground frost also spurs a slight increase in tourist numbers to the district during the winter, with visitors keen to catch a glimpse of some of the town’s green spaces, like the Government Botanical Garden, the Ooty Race Course and Wenlock Downs being carpeted with a thin layer of frost in the early hours of the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ooty-gets-first-specks-of-ground-frost/article38001494.ece
21 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||GOC thanks Forest Dept. for help in rescue operations after chopper crash||Lieutenant General A. Arun, General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat Area, has written to the Nilgiris Conservator of Forests expressing his gratitude and appreciation for their help rendered during the rescue operations following the helicopter crash that killed CDS General Bipin Rawat and 13 others on December 8. In his letter, Mr. Arun said that he wanted to express his profound gratitude and deepest appreciation to the staff of the Nilgiris district forest department for standing alongside the armed forces family during the unfortunate helicopter crash on December 8, 2021. “Your immediate mobilisation of all available resources at your disposal to the site of the air crash and other resources have been commendable. Your staff and the entire Forest Department made every effort possible to assist us during this unfortunate accident. The noble gesture will motivate and inspire the future youth to also come forward and wear the uniform,” he added. The Lieutenant General also said that he felt honoured and privileged to work alongside such exemplary support. He said that the gesture has reassured all serving and veteran soldiers that the Forest Department is with them in times of need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rescue-operations-goc-thanks-forest-dept/article38001478.ece
21 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopard cat rescued||A leopard cat ( Prionailurus bengalensis ) was rescued near the Coonoor Fire Station by fire and rescue service personnel on Monday. Officials from the Forest Department said the animal was healthy and had strayed near the town when it was captured. The animal was handed over to the Forest Department and it was released back into the wild. It did not have any injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-cat-rescued/article38001479.ece
21 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Police recover 16 kg of jewellery from graveyard, one arrested||A week after the gold heist at a popular jewellery showroom in the heart of Vellore city, the District Police have cracked the case by arresting one person and recovering the entire 16 kg of gold and diamond jewellery, estimated at Rs. 8 crore, from the graveyard in Odugathur on Monday. Addressing mediapersons here, AG Babu, DIG (Vellore Range), said that T. K. Raman, 23, a resident of Kuchipalayam village near Pallikonda, was involved in the crime. He has two bike theft cases in Pallikonda police station limits. He was arrested from his rented house in Odugathur village where he had buried the stolen jewellery in the graveyard. A case has been registered against the suspect by the Vellore North police. “The special police teams integrated both traditional and scientific ways of investigation, including analysing footage of 200 CCTV cameras and tracking previous offenders and their case history,” Mr. Babu, DIG (Vellore Range), told The Hindu . Accompanied by Vellore SP S. Rajesh Kannan, and ASP Albert John, Mr. Babu said that they got a key breakthrough in the case after analysing the CCTV footage, especially from inside the showroom as the suspect ensured that he should not be identified by the police by covering himself completely. Such cautiousness can be found only with local offenders as they fear getting caught in the neighbourhood. Offenders from other States or places, he said, do not bother about disclosing their identity so meticulously. It was on last Wednesday (December 15), unidentified miscreants drilled a hole into a jewellery showroom and decamped with valuables worth crores in Vellore city. The incident happened at an outlet of a gold retail chain, on Katpadi Road. The perpetrators drilled a hole in the wall at the back of the building and stole 16 kg of gold jewellery worth Rs. 8 crore. The suspect wore a dark face mask and meticulously sprayed paint to all 12 CCTV cameras placed inside the shop. The employees found out about the theft when they opened the showroom in the morning and informed the police. Subsequently, Mr. Babu set up eight special police teams to nab the suspects and recover the lost jewellery. As the showroom had CCTV cameras only inside the showroom, DIG Mr. Babu said the suspect used the empty plot on the rear side of the showroom to drill a hole. “He (the suspect) drilled it for a week taking advantage of the lack of CCTV cameras on the rear side of the showroom. After this incident, we have decided to have a meeting with such showrooms and banks to install CCTV cameras on all four sides of their premises," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-recover-16-kg-of-jewellery-from-graveyard-one-arrested/article38001897.ece
21 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs seven new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,391 with 7 new cases reported on Monday. While 49,143 persons have been dsischarged, the active cases in the district stand at 107. The district's death toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, one case was reported positive and the total stood at 43,657. In Tirupattur district, two cases were reported on Monday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,447. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at six, taking the tally to 55,316. Out of these, 54,575 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 68. Four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday, taking the tally of active cases to 64,517. The district saw 63,579 recoveries and the active case count stood at 64. Villupuram district reported five cases, taking the total number of cases to 46,082. Kallakurichi district recorded one case, taking the overall tally to 31,595.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-seven-new-cases/article38001895.ece
21 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing on delimitation of wards held in Virudhunagar||Representatives of political parties from erstwhile Sivakasi and Tiruthangal municipal areas were divided over the number of wards to be allocated for their respective areas after delimitation of wards upon upgrading the merged urban local bodies into Sivakasi Corporation. At a public hearing on delimitation of wards held here by the Delimitation Commission, led by its Chairman, V. Palanikumar, its member secretary, A. Sundaravalli, representatives of various political parties demanded either higher number of wards for their areas or to retain the existing number of wards. Its member and Commissioner of Municipal Administration, P. Ponniah, said that the number of wards for the newly-formed Sivakasi municipality has been fixed at 48 as per Delimitation Act 2017 as the population of the new Corporation was less than 3 lakh. While Sivakasi municipality had 33 wards and Tiruthangal municipality 21 wards, as per the delimitation exercise, the areas under both the former municipalities will have 24 wards each. As the officials explained that 900 to 920 households formed each ward, the representatives from Sivakasi wanted to have population or voter population as the basis for ward delimitation. S. Sermadurai of the Congress said that the population and voter population in Sivakasi was much higher than that of Tiruthangal and hence 33 wards for Sivakasi area should be retained and remaining 15 wards should be given to Tiruthangal. Countering his argument, M.R. Sethuraman of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam said that Tiruthangal municipal area had bigger geographical area (13 sq km) while Sivakasi had only 8 sq km. “Tiruthangal municipal area had huge potential for expansion of residential areas in the years to come while Sivakasi town had saturated. Hence, the number of 24 wards for Tiruthangal was justified,” he said. Similar, arguments were made by representatives of other political parties also. Representatives from Indian National League, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Puratchi Bharatham, and others insisted that the ward delimitation should ensure that the vote base of minoritiets and Scheduled Castes were not disturbed. They wanted reservation of additional wards for the oppressed classes. Meanwhile, to a question of why the nine panchayats around Sivakasi and Tiruthangal, which were planned to be included in the Sivakasi Corporation were not included now, the Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy clarified that it would be done later. He told the Bharatiya Janata Party functionary Venkatesh that since the elected representatives of those panchayats had more than three years of tenure, those panchayats would be added later. Some of the representatives complained that their wards were not compact and streets and residential areas in far off places were included in their wards and sought to reconsider the decision. The officials said that suggestions and objections on delimitation exercise of Sivakasi municipality would be received till December 24. D. Kumaran of Congress complained that the details and map of delimited Sivakasi Corporation were not given to the representatives on time and sought more time for them to respond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-hearing-on-delimitation-of-wards-held-in-virudhunagar/article38001556.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||India-SL fishers’ talks may resume||In September 2020, during the virtual bilateral summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa agreed to “continue engagement to address the issues related to fishermen through regular consultation and bilateral channels.” Follow ups For the five to six months, the State Government had been following up with the Centre both in respect of the fishermen-level talks and the JWG meeting, the sources point out. The impact of the pandemic was said to have come in the way of the group to hold a conventional meeting. As for accelerating the pace of implementation of the deep-sea fishing scheme, which was launched in July 2017 with a view to resolving the Palk Bay dispute and improving the livelihood opportunities for the fisherfolk, the State Government has urged the Centre to hike the unit cost of vessels from Rs. 80 lakh to Rs. 1.2 crore, the figure mentioned in the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana. Till now, construction of 42 boats have been completed under the scheme. Work on 43 more is in progress. In total, work orders have been issued to 105 beneficiaries. A sum of Rs. 31 crore was released to the beneficiaries. Being financed by the Union and the State governments with beneficiary participation, the scheme had originally envisaged the provision of 2,000 vessels in three years to the fishermen of the State and motivate them to abandon bottom trawling. Cost factor Pointing out that the cost factor is a serious problem for the fishermen, an expert in the field of fisheries suggests that an agency of the State government be entrusted with the task of purchasing deep sea vessels which can, in turn, be given on rent to fishermen, who are using bottom trawlers. The fishermen can be advised to form organisations on the lines of cooperative societies or farmer producer groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-sl-fishers-talks-may-resume/article38001443.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Threat to public||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/threat-to-public/article38001575.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect - DGL||The Entrepreneurship Development Cell and Institution Innovation Council of Sri Kaliswari College, Sivakasi, organised an awareness programme on Tamil Nadu Student Innovators (TNSI) on December 15. R. Ramachandran, Field Co-ordinator and ILD Trainer, EDII-TN-Madurai, was the guest speaker. S. Krishnamurthy, Principal, spoke. P. K.Balamurugan, Vice-Principal, offered felicitations. S. Ajith Kumar, Coordinator - ED Cel,l and M. Lakshmana Kumar, CooOrdinator, IIC, had made the arrangements.   Mohamed Sathak Hamid College of Arts and Science, Ramanathapuram, in collaboration with EDII-IEDP Alagappa University Hub Entrepreneurship Development Committee, organised an awareness programme on ‘One million ideas and TNSI’ on December 16. K. Rajam, Principal, welcomed the gathering. The resource persons – J. Arumai Urban, field coordinator from Alagappa University, and S. Gopinath, field coordinator from Madurai, spoke on innovative ideas in entrepreneurship and startups development. A. Radhika, Assistant Professor of Commerce and EDIP Coordinator of the college, proposed a vote of thanks.   The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, The Students’ Chapter of The Institution of Engineers India (IEI), and Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC) of Sethu Institute of Technology, Kariapatti, jointly organised a lecture on ‘Electrical safety and energy conservation,’ in connection with Energy Conservation Week, on December 16. V. Kondalraj, Regional Safety Engineer, Tangedco, Madurai region, was the chief guest. In his address, he urged the students to keep utmost safety precautions while handling electrical equipment and to use only energy-efficient and electrical appliances with ISI standard. He said there was good scope for the students in emerging fields such as artificial intelligence and electrical vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect-dgl/article38001557.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||20 December 2021 Campus Connect||Commerce clubs were inaugurated in Thiagarajar College in Madurai on December 15. I. Nagarajan, Head, Department of Commerce, welcomed the gathering. D. Pandiaraja, Principal, in his presidential address, advised the students to make the best use of opportunities and develop their curricular and co-curricular skills. S. Saravanan, Deputy Collector and alumnus of the department (B.Com 1987-1990 batch), in his address, shared his student days’ experiences and advised the students to involve themselves actively in all club activities. The presidents of the clubs presented the reports on proposed activities. The Principal and the chief guest presented the Club Charters to the office-bearers of the clubs. S. Meenakumari, co-ordinator of all commerce clubs, proposed a vote of thanks.    The Agricultural College and Research Institute, Madurai, and The Fertilizer Association of India - Southern Region, Chennai, organised a three-day institute-industry interface on entrepreneurial and employability skills in fertilizer industry and allied sectors Y. V. N. Murthy, the Regional Head of Chennai and Mumbai, said agriculture contributed 20 % to the GDP in 2020-21, which has risen from 17.5% in 2019-20. Agri-entrepreneurship opportunities were rising in the past few years with the total value of agricultural produce standing at Rs. 64 lakh crores. The agri input business turnover would reach Rs. 4 lakh crores by March 2022. In such a favorable scenario, there are ample opportunities for agri graduates to become successful entrepreneurs in the field of seeds, fertilizers (organic and inorganic), micro irrigation, farming process and allied sectors such as horticulture, sericulture, poultry and dairy development He gave a. complete set of FAI publications to Dean V. K. Paulpandi for the college library.  Saliha, ICAR -IDP - workshop coordinator highlighted the purpose of the programme. Earlier  P. P. Mahendhran - P and H, Departmen. of Soil and Environment welcomed and Saravanapandiyan proposed the vote of thanks. Chief Operating Officer of SPIC Balu spoke on latest technologies in new generation fertilizers which he said were economical and eco-friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-december-2021-campus-connect/article38001742.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Trust: Margazhi programme, Sri Venugopalaperumal and Sree Kalyanavenkatesaperumal Temple, Kovaipudur, 5.30 a.m.    The Avinashilingam Education Trust Institutions: Annual Oration of Dr. Rajammal P. Devdas, 2 p.m.  Bharathiar University: Workshop on Navarasa, 11 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Online course on Grammer basics of INFYTQ platform, 2 p.m.  PSG Institute of Technology and Applied Research: Entrepreneursh ip awareness programme, 9.30 a.m.  Sri Krishna Adithya College of Arts and Science: Signing of MoU with ITM Techpark, 10.30 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Session on “Innovative Avenues for Bio - Entrepreneurs”, 11 a.m. Ramanujam Day programme, 9.15 a.m.    Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Workshop on Industry 4.0, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article38001488.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘We are committed to stopping forcible, fradulent conversions’||“The State Government is committed to stopping forcible conversion or those carried out fraudulently. We will bring a law to prevent such occurrences,’’ Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Monday. “Innocent people across the State are being converted by some people who offer money and other inducements to the poor and backward classes. The Constitution does not allow such kind of forcible conversions. We need to bring a law in accordance with these Constitutional principles,’’ he said. He was speaking at a function organised by Vishwa Hindu Parishat in Udyambag Industrial Area. “Some people are opposing the proposed law. However, the same people who are debating this law, had tried to bring in such a law in 2019. But now they are opposing this for political reasons,” he said. Reacting to a memorandum submitted by some religious leaders and VHP office-bearers, the Chief Minister said that senior State Government officers were studying the anti-conversion laws brought in by various States. “A draft Bill will be prepared after studying all the available laws. Once that is done, it will be presented before the legislature,’’ he said. “The poor and backward classes are being targeted by some vested interests. They convert them through allurement or fraud. Such communal forces are taking advantage of social evils such as poverty and backwardness. However, we will not let it happen,’’ he said. “Conversion does not just readjust the number of Hindus and other faiths. It alters mindsets. It starts as an enticement. But becomes a disease that affects society. But the BJP governments in the States and at the Centre will not allow this to happen,’’ he said. Sri Shivamurthy Shivacharya Swami of Hukkeri Mutt and others were present. Later, he told journalists that the State Government had taken strict action against Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti leaders and activists who had tried to disturb peace in Belagavi. The police have taken the right step by arresting the main leaders behind the disturbances. The earlier governments had hesitated to this, he said. “The Home Secretary and the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police have spoken to their counterparts in Maharashtra and urged them to ensure the safety of Kannadigas in that State. We have instructed the local police to take steps to protect property and vehicles in Belagavi and other places,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-committed-to-stopping-forcible-fradulent-conversions/article38001580.ece
21 December 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Chaos breaks out in both Houses over desecration of statues||The Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council witnessed chaos on Monday with two vociferous protests being staged simultaneously on different issues by the Opposition parties — one relating to the border row and resultant violence and another demanding that Urban Development Minister Bhyrati Basavaraj step down. As soon as the Assembly paid tributes to former Minister and Backward Classes leader R.L. Jalappa, Congress members trooped into the Well of the House and resumed their dharna that began on Friday demanding the resignatioion of Mr. Basavaraj in the wake of an FIR filed in connection with alleged land grabbing. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar too joined the protesting members. Meanwhile, all the JD(S) members, who sported Kannada shawls, stood up in their places and began a protest to condemn the alleged efforts to undermine Kannada pride by MES activists by damaging the statue of Sangolli Rayanna, a 19th century icon who had fought British. They urged the Government to allow them to raise the issue in the House and sought the Government’s response to the issue. Amidst noisy scenes, Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri took up the question hour, but later had to adjourn the House abruptly for lunch. However, normality resumed when the House met after lunch as Congress members withdrew their dharna to facilitate a debate on the damage caused to the Sangolli Rayanna statue and the desecration of the Shivaji statue. JD(S) members too withdrew their dharna, paving the way for a debate. In the Council, members of Congress and the JD(S) staged a walkout opposing Home Minister Araga Jananendra’s reply to the discussion on the issue. Mr. Jnanendra, in his reply, said the police had arrested 38 people in connection with the incidents of violence reported in Belagavi. “Many are still absconding. We will arrest all people involved in the crime,” he said. However, he refused to share the names of the accused and the sections under which the cases were registered against him. Congress members S. Ravi, B.K. Hariprasad, and others took exception to the Minister’s refusal to share details of the cases registered. Mr. Ravi called the Minister “inefficient” and also said the Minister had information about the desecration of a portrait of Basavanna in Khanapur. The Minister replied that he had information about the desecration of Basavanna’s portrait in Nandagada police station in Khanapur taluk. “The police have begun investigation into the case and arrest those involved,” he said. However, his response did not satisfy the Opposition benches. Members of the Congress and the JD(S) walked out. In their absence, the Home Minister moved a resolution condemning the desecretaion of statues of Sangolli Rayanna, Shivaji, a portrait of Basavanna, and the burning of the Kannada flag. Meanwhile, Belagavi city saw protests by Kannada activists at various locations. Police stopped a crowd of Kannada activists from reaching the Suvarna Soudha. The protest was planned by Karnataka Rakshna Vedike and other organisations. Some were taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chaos-breaks-out-in-both-houses-over-desecration-of-statues/article38001422.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police stop activists from entering Suvarna Soudha||The police stopped a crowd of Kannada activists from reaching the Suvarna Soudha during a protest by Kannada groups in Belagavi on Monday. The protest was planned by Karnataka Rakshna Vedike and other organisations against the attack on Sangolli Rayanna statue and stone-throwing on some vehicles in Belagavi two days ago. Leaders T.A. Narayana Gowda and others whose supporters were stopped at the Hire Bagewadi check-post, accused the State Government of lacking the nerve to take action. Some vedike members staged a protest near the Rani Channamma Circle and at Hire Bagewadi check-post. Traffic on Bengaluru-Pune National Highway was disrupted for some time when the protestors refused to move away from the road. The police then took them into custody and released them later. Similar protests were staged in Chikkodi and Ramdurg. Other activists, including Vatal Nagaraj, were stopped near the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Meanwhile, the police rushed to Halasi near Khanapur where miscreants had allegedly desecrated a poster of Sri Basaveshwara and tried to set a Kannada flag on fire near the village circle. A District Armed Reserve van has been stationed in the village. The situation is under control, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-stop-activists-from-entering-suvarna-soudha/article38001582.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Over 7,000 Vidyagama teachers had COVID-19’||Among teachers who were involved in Vidyagama scheme during the peak of COVID-19, 4,432 teachers of primary schools and 2,837 of high schools were infected. Among them, 4,395 primary school teachers and 2,825 high school teachers recovered. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh on Monday stated this in his written reply to JD(S) member Bhoje Gowda in the Legislative Council. He also revealed, in reply to another query, that the State Government has not yet done a study on the psychological impact of COVID-19 and subsequent closure of schools and colleges on students. He was answering a question by BJP member Tejaswini Gowda. The member wanted to know if the Government had studied the psychological impact on students due to closure of schools. “We have not studied the psychological impact on students. However, students were provided with necessary counselling,” he said. When member drew the Minister’s attention to mobile phone addiction among students following online classes, Mr. Nagesh said the Government would make attempts to spread awareness against it through teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-7000-vidyagama-teachers-had-covid-19/article38001416.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Time slot fixed for discussion on NK||Following appeals by members of all parties, Legislative Council chairman Basavaraj Horatti has scheduled time on Tuesday to discuss issues concerning North Karnataka in the Upper House. Mr. Horatti, on Monday, announced that soon after the Question Hour, the entire day would be devoted for North Karnataka issues. “People and the media have been accusing the legislators of wasting time here without discussing issues related to North Karnataka,” he said. Earlier, raising the issue, Leader of Opposition S.R.Patil said, “The House should discuss issues related to irrigation projects, development of backward areas in the House. The chairman should fix specific time for the debate,” he said. BJP member Laxman Savadi said the public were disappointed with the way the discussions were being held. JD(S) member K.T. Srikante Gowda, Congress member C.M. Ibrahim also expressed similar opinions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/time-slot-fixed-for-discussion-on-nk/article38001417.ece
21 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||We cannot blame MES immediately, says DKS||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has said that Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti cannot be blamed for the alleged desecration of the Sangolli Rayanna statue in Belagavi, before the investigation was complete. He was speaking to journalists in Belagavi on Monday. “We know that there has been an incident that has led to disruption of peace and law and order. There are complaints that some MES workers are behind it. But we cannot say that the MES is involved till the investigation is complete,” he said. This seems to be in line with the stand taken by Lakshmi Hebbalkar, Congress MLA, who said that she would blame neither the Kannada nor Marathi organisations as she wanted the support of both of them. Mr. Shivakumar said that the BJP was least interested in governance and was only focussed on “dividing the society on communal and caste lines”.  “The State government has been passively encouraging moral policing by some organisations. This is unacceptable. No organisation, whether political, social or linguistic, should take the law into its own hands,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-cannot-blame-mes-immediately/article38001588.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah visits Angol||Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah visited the statue of Sangolli Rayanna that was re-installed in Angol in Belagavi on Monday. The statue was recently desecrated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-visits-angol/article38001583.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Huge vacancies in varsities||A total of 2,266 teaching and 5,138 non-teaching posts are vacant in 23 universities of the State, Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said in a written reply to a question by BJP member Shashil G. Namoshi in the Legislative Council on Monday. The total number of teaching posts sanctioned was 4,158. Of them, 2,266 were vacant. Of the total 8,447 non-teaching posts 5,138 were vacant. The most vacancies were in Karnataka University. Of the total 679 sanctioned posts, 431 were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/huge-vacancies-in-varsities/article38001418.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Will support Kannadigas in Maharashtra’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that the State Government would support the decision of Kannadigas in Maharashtra if they wish to integrate with Karnataka. “We are ready to support any such decision. I know it will become controversial but I do not mind. As long as we take a defensive stand, attacks will happen,” he said. The Chief Minister also cited 40 gram panchayats in Jath taluk of Sangli district in Maharashtra passing resolutions to integrate with Karnataka since water issues have not been addressed by the Maharashtra Government in this drought prone area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-support-kannadigas-in-maharashtra/article38001423.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Yatnal’s statement slammed||As the Legislative Assembly was condemning the acts of violence in one voice, a statement made by BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Urdu enraged Congress members. “Bharat will survive only with our languages. Otherwise only Urdu will survive,” he said, drawing sharp reactions from the Congress, who took objection to the statement. Din ensued in the House as both Congress and BJP members traded charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yatnals-statement-slammed/article38001424.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah visits Angol||Leader of Opposition Siddharamaiah visited the statue of Sangolli Rayanna that was re-installed after its recent alleged desecration at Angol in Belagavi on Monday. He paid floral tributes to the statue and made a short speech. He said that no one s hould take the law into their hands and that the government had the responsibility to trace and punish such wrong doers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-visits-angol/article38001776.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA clears the decks for RMP-2041||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), whose earlier attempts to get the Draft Revised Master Plan-2031 approved, ended in a legal quagmire, is starting the process afresh. The authority has called a tender to rope in consultants to prepare the RMP-2041 - essentially a Master Plan for the city for the next 20 years. However, the move has already been called into question by academics and activists, who said the way in which BDA was going ahead with the exercise indicated they had perhaps not learnt any lessons from the Draft RMP-2031 fiasco. “The law is very clear - it is the Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee that is tasked with planning for the city, not BDA, which is the secretariat for BMPC. It is on this ground that the Draft RMP-2031 was questioned in the Karnataka High Court. Since the new Assembly came into force in 2018, the BMPC has not been reconstituted and does not exist. In the absence of BMPC, BDA seems to be again going ahead with planning for the city. We will oppose this tooth and nail and again challenge it in the court,” said N.S. Mukunda, of Bengaluru Praja Vedike, one of the petitioners against Draft RMP-2031. In the run up to the preparation of Draft RMP-2031, BDA consulted citizens on a Vision Plan for the city, based on which the draft was later prepared. Now, BDA seems to have skipped that step, drawing the ire of many. Who plans for the city?   Activists also point out how some private consultants and officials decide the fate of the city for the next 20 years, given that it is not just the BMPC, but even the BBMP council that is non-existent at present. Moreover, the lack of coordination and the resultant chaos created by no clear policy on who plans for the city, that undid the Draft RMP-2031, still persists and it may be a repeat all over again, cautions Mathew Idiculla, Visiting Faculty, Urban Governance, Azim Premji University. “After the Draft RMP-2031 was finalised, BMRCL, DULT and other agencies came up with a Comprehensive Mobility Plan, which had no mention in the Draft RMP. Now there is a new agency - Bengaluru Metropolitan Land Transport Authority (BMLTA) - coming up, which also has a planning function. Who plans for the city is the moot question and none of these exercises take the holistic view. This confusion still persists,” he said. Urban planners have also raised questions over the BDA’s decision to extend the RMP for a period of 20 years. “The Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961, very clearly provides for planning for only 10 years. How can BDA plan for two decades? Agreed, the RMP has been delayed by three years; then it should have extended the proposed RMP only by those many years, not a decade,” a professional urban planner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-clears-the-decks-for-rmp-2041/article38001391.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Delay in NEET counselling puts students in a dilemma||The delay in the counselling for medical seats through the National Eligibilty cum Entrance Test (NEET) has become a cause for concern for many students. As there are only a limited number of medical seats, many have picked engineering seats, as the counselling for medical seats has not begun. Some of these students have decided to give up on their engineering seats if they later obtain a medical seat once the NEET counselling begins. Although the results of the NEET 2021 examination was announced on November 1, the counselling has been delayed as the matter is pending in the Supreme Court. A professional seat aspirant who hopes to get a medical seat said that he has already taken up an engineering seat in a top college. “Every year, students have demanded and that the counselling for engineering seats should be held later. But there is no coordination between any of the government agencies and students have to suffer the brunt,” she said. M.K. Panduranga Setty, Secretary, Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges Association (KUPECA), said even the government was helpless as they had to follow the orders of the court. “Students are in a total dilemma and don’t know whether they should opt for engineering seats or wait for the medical seat counselling. Engineering colleges are also likely to suffer as many students may quit the courses midway and the seats will be vacant thereafter,” he said. Officials in the Department of Medical Education said that the delay was because the matter regarding the EWS quota is pending in the Supreme Court. “The government will first conduct counselling for PG NEET seats and then for UG NEET. So we are trying to complete registration and documentation verification as soon as possible so that we can save time. As soon as the Supreme Court resolves this matter, we will have to conduct PG NEET and only then conduct UG NEET,” a source in the department said. The Karnataka Examinations Authority has completed two rounds of engineering counselling and is all set to conduct the third round, which is also known as the casual vacancy round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-neet-counselling-puts-students-in-a-dilemma/article38001406.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MSMEs in State protest against rising prices||Over 10,000 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) belonging to Peenya Industrial Estate, and several thousands of such units from the city and across the State observed a bandh on Monday to protest against the increase in prices of raw materials such as metals, chemicals, polymers, plastics, rubber and other items. Bommasandra Industrial Estate, Machohalli Industrial Estate, Doddanna Industrial Estate, Thigalarapalya Industrial Estate, Ravendra Industrial Estate, Kachohalli Industrial Estate, Prakash Nagar Industrial Estate, Bengaluru Centre Small Scale Association, Bengaluru North Small Scale Industries Association, Rajajinagar Industries Association, Jigani Industrial Estate, etc participated in the protest by closing their factories and units. According to trade body estimates, Monday’s trade loss of MSMEs under Peenya Industrial Area alone would be over Rs. 500 crore, while it would be a very significant sum for the whole State as some 132 industry associations affiliated to Kassia, five industrial associations from Belagavi Industrial Estate, Banglore Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Mysore Industrial Estate and several other industry associations across the State participated in the protest. “We are seeing a steep hike in prices of key raw materials, all metals such as steel, aluminium, copper, bronze, zinc, phosphate, and chemicals such as ammonium, plastic, polymers, and rubber. Prices have soared almost by 70 to 80% adversely impacting the operations of MSME units,” Peenya Industrial Association, President, Muralikrishna told The Hindu . According to him, this increase is due to the unfriendly policies of the Central Government while the increase in import duty made the price scenario even worse. “We want a reasonable reduction in prices of these raw materials and also a significant cut in import duty with immediate effect. Unfortunately, some kind of cartelisation is taking place to keep MSMEs out of the market,” he alleged. Some 18 months ago, steel was priced at Rs. 46 a kilo, which is now sold at Rs. 73 a kilo; the price of aluminium rose from Rs. 185 a kilo to Rs. 300, copper Rs. 400 to Rs. 800, caustic soda Rs. 48 to Rs. 85, zinc Rs. 210 to Rs. 380. Similarly, prices of almost all raw materials, including iron, TMT rods, brass, stainless steel, etc have gone up by 80% or more than doubled, according to industry associations. R. Raju, former president of Kassia, cautioned: “MSME units have been facing an existential crisis since many years. The pandemic made it extremely tough for them and many lost the battle and closed down. Now the remaining ones are unable to function because of the skyrocketing prices of critical raw materials. If this scenario continues, no industry will be able to survive.” The industry associations have also demanded a reduction in fuel prices. Diesel is used in running several types of machinery and gensets used by MSMEs and petrol to run their vehicles to transport people and move materials. They also demanded an early refund of GST, simplification o bank loan procedures, relaxation on merchandise exports, implementation of public procurement scheme and extension of credit guarantee fund trust up to to Rs. 10 crore. Machohalli small scale Industries association, secretary, Suresh N. Sagar said, “Large companies are constantly posting unprecedented profits and growing. Meanwhile, MSMEs are only declining, going through tough times and some are shutting down too. Neither banks nor the government support us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/msmes-in-state-protest-against-rising-prices/article38001412.ece
21 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bommai’s emotional remark becomes talk of the town||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s emotional remark that “political posts are not permanent” has not only become a talking point in the corridors of the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha, the venue of the ongoing Legislature session in Belagavi, but also fuelled speculation of leadership change. The Chief Minister surprised people of his Assembly constituency Shiggaon on Sunday by stating emotionally that politcal posts are not permanent. Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani’s remark that Mr. Bommai was expected to become a Central Minister like his father added to the rumour mills, despite his clarification later that he was not referring to the Chief Minister’s present term. Though the Chief Minister’s remark came as a surprise to the people of Shiggaon, it was not so in political circles as speculation has been doing the rounds in the last few weeks, ever since allegations of a bitcoin scam hit a crescendo.  According to a section that believes that leadership change is in the offing, the BJP high command may try to play it safe by replacing the Chief Minister by citing health issues or the like. The names of Union Minister Shobha Karandlaje, former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, and Mr. Nirani are doing the rounds as possible alternatives. While Ms. Karandlaje belongs to the Vokkaliga community, Mr. Shettar and Mr. Nirani hail from the Lingayat community which has formed the main support base of the BJP. In the event of a change, choice would also depend on other isues such as who would become the next State president of the BJP. Generally, the Chief Minister and the party State president are not picked from the same community. The thickening speculation has become a cause for concern among BJP MLAs and leaders as they fear that unsettling the political system now may affect the party’s performance in the 2023 Assembly polls owing to the paucity of time for settling down. Some of them are also of the view that Mr. Bommai is the best bet to face the polls in the present circumstances owing to his experience in administration and diplomacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommais-emotional-remark-becomes-talk-of-the-town/article38001420.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||12.77 lakh cases settled in four Lok Adalats this year||A 37-year-old case related to a property dispute in Dharwad, a civil suit pending for 22 years in Bengaluru, and grant of 1.28 guntas of land as maintenance for a divorced wife in a 17-year-old suit in Hassan district were among the 3,29,074 cases resolved during a Lok Adalat held on December 18 from amongst the cases pending in various courts in the State. The Lok Adalat also saw amicable resolution of 113 cases pending in commercial courts, and 25 cases pending in industrial tribunal in the city resulting in disbursement of Rs. 157 crore and Rs. 2.03 crore respectively as settlement amongst the parties. Briefing journalists about the outcome of the fourth national Lok Adalat conducted by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) across the State this year, Justice B. Veerappa, a judge of the High Court of Karnataka, and the Executive Chairperson of the KSLSA, said 1,528 matrimonial disputes too were settled across the State and in 37 of these cases, the couples reunited leaving behind their differences. He also pointed out that a total 5,53,726 cases were referred to the Lok Adalat held on December 18 and nearly 61% of these cases have been amicably settled and the rest of them have been referred to the next Lok Adalat. Pointing out that a total 3,37,680 cases, including 8,606 pre-litigation cases, were settled in this Lok Adalat, he said that a total 12,77,853 cases have been settled in the four Lok Adalats held this year. While a total amount of Rs. 3,404 crore has been paid as compensation to the litigants in land acquisition, motor vehicle accidents claims and other disputes, a total Rs. 132 crore have been collected towards the state exchequer by way of fine by compounding minor offences during these four Lok Adalats, said Justice Veerappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1277-lakh-cases-settled-in-four-lok-adalats-this-year/article38001403.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Five more Omicron cases recorded in State||Karnataka recorded five more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Sunday, in addition to the 14 reported earlier. The newly-infected persons are from Dharwad (54-year-old male), Bhadravati (20-year-old female), Udupi (82-year-old male and 73-year-old female) and Mangaluru (19-year-old female), according to a tweet by Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday morning. This takes the total number of Omicron-infected to 19 in Karnataka, reported from Bengaluru, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Udupi and Shivamogga districts. Many among those infected are double-vaccinated with no travel history. However, all have either mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. The State reported 222 new COVID-19 cases according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s Monday bulletin, 146 in Bengaluru Urban. Apart from two new deaths, there were 286 discharges. The positivity rate was 0.25% against 87469 tests. There were 7,074 active cases in the state. Preventive measures Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has made COVID-19 tests mandatory for all patients of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) visiting as outpatients at all private hospitals in the city in the wake of the Omicron scare. Dr. Trilok Chandra, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP, held a meeting with the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association on Monday, and discussed preventive measures. Dr. Chandra said private hospitals should ensure that all patients coming to their hospitals get both doses of the vaccine. “If anyone comes with no vaccination, or with only one dose of vaccination, then the hospital needs to get them fully vaccinated,” he said. “Presently, COVID-19 cases in the city are stable. As a precautionary measure, according to the Government Order, private hospitals must be ready to reserve beds for COVID-19 patients. Along with that, separate paediatric beds also should be ensured. Information about real-time bed availability should be uploaded in the PHANA portal. All the necessary measures should be taken to ensure the proper availability of oxygen,” Dr. Chandra said.  Presently, COVID-19 cases in the city are stable. As a precautionary measure, according to the Government Order, private hospitals must be ready to reserve beds for COVID-19 patients. Trilok Chandra Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-five-more-omicron-cases-recorded-in-state/article38001410.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice on plea questioning appointment||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered issue of notice to the State Government on a PIL petition questioning appointment of Shanth A. Thimmaiah, who was associated with various private companies that are engaged in mining, quarrying and environment impact study, as the chairperson of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on the petition filed by Pushpa B. Gavadi, a student pursuing post-graduate degree in law. Various posts held Naming several companies in which he was working in positions like environment engineer, technical advisor, partner, director and managing director, the petitioner has alleged that appointing him to the post carries a “conflict of interest” though he has sufficient educational qualification. The petitioner has pointed out that as per the provision of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, a person, who has directly or indirectly by himself or by any partner, any share or interest in any firm or company carrying on the business of manufacture, sale or hire of machinery, plant, equipment, apparatus or fittings for the treatment of sewage or trade effluents, or is a director or a secretary, manager or other salaried officer or employee of any company or firm having any contract with the Board, is disqualified from being appointed to the Board. Resignation Knowing about these conflict of interests, Mr. Thimmaiah resigned from his previous position on June 12, 2020, and submitted his application to the post of KSPCB chairperson on August 8, 2020, it was alleged in the petition. It has been claimed in the petition that many of the companies with which he was associated with had direct relationship with the functioning of the KSPCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-on-plea-questioning-appointment/article38001401.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two more leachate-treatment plants proposed||The civic body has proposed to set up two new leachate-treatment plants, one at the waste-processing unit at Chikkanagamangala and another at Mittaganahalli quarry pit at a cost of around Rs. 7.5 crore. There are already two leachate-treatment plants that are operational in two shifts at the Bellahalli quarry and another at the waste-processing unit at Kannahalli, both on the outskirts of the city. However, the plants are functioning below capacity. It was only recently that leachate posed a huge headache for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Following heavy rains, the leachate tank at a waste-processing plant overflowed and contaminated water bodies nearby, leading to unrest among the local communities. According to senior civic officials, the proposal has been sent to the State Government for approval. While the treatment plant proposed at Mittaganahalli will have an installed capacity of 1 lakh litres a day, the one at Chikkanagamangala will have the capacity to treat 50,000 litres a day. Officials stated that the leachate treatment plant at the Bellahalli quarry has the capacity to treat around 1.2 lakh litres a day, while the one at Kannahalli plant is of 50,000 litres a day. However, the leachate-treatment plant at Bellahalli is treating only 80,000 litres and is being operated in two shifts, instead of three shifts. Even the plant at Kannahalli is operating at half its capacity. The reason being given is that the leachate generated there is not enough for the plant to function at its installed capacity. The treatment plant at Bellahalli was established around three years ago at a cost of Rs. 4.5 crore, while the one at Kannahalli was commissioned just around 2 months ago, officials told The Hindu.  Officials also pointed out that the leachate goes through a 5-stage filtration process. The civic body has been utilizing the treated leachate at both Kannahalli and Bellahalli at the site to clean the garbage vehicles ferrying waste from the city to the plants. The treated leachate is also used in the surrounding villages to prevent dust from rising in the air, officials added. ( This concludes the series on the problems caused by garbage in the city )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-leachate-treatment-plants-proposed/article38001399.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two killed in bike collision||Two persons were killed and two others injured when a speeding sports bike collided head on with another bike on Hosur service road in the wee hours of Monday. The deceased have been identified as Jitin Josh, 25, and his friend Sonu, 30. According to the police, the deceased were working in a real estate and interiors firm and living in a rented house on Huskur Road. On Sunday night, they were returning after dinner, when the accused, identified as Sharath Aditya, 24, riding his sports bike with his friend Santosh, 23, lost control and collided head on with the bike coming from the opposite direction. The impact of the accident was such that all four were thrown up in the air and they crashed on the road, sustaining severe head injuries, the police said. Passers-by rushed the four to nearby hospitals where Jitin was declared dead on arrival, while Sonu succumbed to his injuries later. Sharath and Santosh are being treated. The Electronics City traffic police have taken up a case against Sharath, charging him under rash and negligent driving and death due to negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-bike-collision/article38001393.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stray bullet in hotel car parking lot triggers panic||A stray bullet found at the car parking lot of a star hotel opposite the Jakkur Aerodrome triggered panic on Friday afternoon among the police, who suspected disruptive activities. However, a detailed investigation led them to track down an elderly woman - the wife of a retired air force officer - who had discarded a few bullets of her licensed German-made rifle when the family had visited the hotel for dinner. The incident came to light when Fayaz Ahmed, housekeeping staff of the hotel, found the bullet at the parking lot while sweeping on Friday afternoon. He alerted his manager, who in turn alerted the Yelahanka police. The police rushed to the spot and cordoned off the area for further investigations after registering a case under the Indian Arms Act, 1959. The police also summoned the Bomb Detection Squad, who combed the entire hotel to find another bullet in a flower pot on the premises. The police analysed CCTV camera footage and found a woman throwing the bullet into the flower pot. They tracked down the woman with the help of the vehicle registration number and were led to the family of a retired captain of the Air Force. Further investigations revealed that the family owned a licensed German-made rifle and the woman, who is said to be mentally ill, carried the ammunition to the hotel and threw it there. The police, on Monday, summoned the family and recorded their statement for further investigation. They are now filing a detailed report before the court seeking permission to close the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stray-bullet-in-hotel-car-parking-lot-triggers-panic/article38001394.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vivek Subba Reddy elected president of AAB||Senior Advocate Vivek Subba Reddy has been elected president of the Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru (AAB) for 2021-24 in an election held on December 19 under the supervision of a high-level committee appointed by the HC. While T.G. Ravi has been elected General Secretary, Harisha M.T. has been elected treasurer in a keenly-contested election to the governing body of the AAB, which has around 16,500 registered members. The tenure of the earlier governing body ended in January 2021 and non conduct of elections resulted in the State government on September 4 appointing an administrator. This action was challenged before the HC by the AAB. The HC on September 20 set up a panel to conduct election by December 22. The HC, though had kept in abeyance the appointment of administrator, had restrained then office-bearers from taking any financial decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vivek-subba-reddy-elected-president-of-aab/article38001400.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chilume Mutt seer found dead||A 62-year-old seer of Chilume Mutt at Solur village of Magadi taluk in Ramanagaram district was found dead in the mutt on Monday morning. The deceased, Basavalinga Swamy, hailed from Doddaballpura taluk, and had been staying in the mutt since 1982. The incident came to light around 7.30 a.m. when the staff of the mutt came for work. He found the seer dead and alerted the police. Preliminary investigation revealed that it could be a case of suicide. “However, we have taken up a case of suspicious death based on the complaint filed by the staff. Though the seer has not left any death note, he has written in his diary about his financial transactions. As per the statement of the staff, the incident has taken place after the seer performed puja early around 5 a.m. The staff has also mentioned that the seer had some health problems and appeared upset over the last two weeks. We are awaiting the post mortem report for further action," the police said.  Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chilume-mutt-seer-found-dead/article38001397.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Accused dies while fleeing||An accused in an abetment to suicide case died while fleeing from the police station in K.R. Puram on Monday morning. The deceased, Shatkivelu, was arrested following the suicide of his wife due to alleged harassment. Around 6 a.m. on Monday, Shaktivelu, asked permission to use the washroom and the police let him out of the lock-up. Taking advantage of the situation, he ran out of the station. The staff sounded an alert and chased him. While he was running on the skywalk, he reportedly lost control and fell down before a moving SUV and was severely injured. The police who were chasing him with the help of others shifted him to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accused-dies-while-fleeing/article38001395.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ITI receives Rs. 433 cr. work order from Tamil Nadu||Multitechnology public sector firm ITI Ltd. on Monday said it received a Rs. 432.97 crore work order from Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited, a Government of Tamil Nadu undertaking, to implement phase-II of BharatNet in the State. The scope of the work includes various works for broadband connectivity under BharatNet Phase-II in Tamil Nadu for Package D, as per an ITI media statement. As the contract, ITI would be covering 10 districts, 109 blocks, 3103 Gram Panchayats and 845 revenue villages across the length and breadth of Tamil Nadu to provide a minimum of 1 Gbps bandwidth service. The package would also include radio connectivity for Gram Panchayats that cannot be connected through fiber, implementation of horizontal connectivity to government premises, schools, and primary health centres (PHCs). Around 15000 kilo metres of fiber cable would be laid, that includes underground and aerial fiber to connect Gram Panchayats with blocks, district centers, and state headquarter, said ITI. BharatNet project is aimed at providing high-speed broadband connectivity to the 250,000 Gram Panchayats in the country in an effort to provide broadband connectivity to all the villages in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iti-receives-rs-433-cr-work-order-from-tamil-nadu/article38001404.ece
21 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Jalappa, Ahmed Patel responsible for my entry into Congress’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday credited two leaders – former Minister R. L. Jalappa and AICC leader Ahmed Patel – for his entry into the Congress. “It is because of these two leaders that I could join the Congress,” Mr. Siddaramaiah told the Legislative Assembly while speaking on an obituary motion to pay tributes to Mr. Jalappa, who died recently. “While Mr. Jalappa wrote a detailed letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi recommending to her to include me into the party, Mr. Ahmed Patel spoke to me over the phone and invited me to join the Congress,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. Mr. Siddaramaiah’s statement is being seen as a strong message to friend-turned-political foe A.H. Vishwanath who has claimed that he had brought Mr. Siddaramaiah into the Congress. Many others, including Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Law Minister J. C. Madhuswamy, recalled their association with Mr. Jalappa. They described him as a tough man committed to the welfare of backward classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jalappa-ahmed-patel-made-me-join-congress/article38001415.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four held for hunting wild animals||Officials of the forest mobile squad busted a wildlife-poaching racket and arrested four persons who hunted a porcupine and sold its meat for Rs. 2,000 per kg on Sunday. Based on a tip-off, a team led by Deputy Conservator of Forest G.A. Gangadhar arrested Krishnakumar D., 26, and Madhu G., 19, Ganganna, 37 and Madhu M.S., 19 from Magadi town. They recovered a dead porcupine weighing 14 kg, a motorcycle, and four mobile phones. The accused are part of a poaching racket who venture into the reserve forest and hunt wild animals for meat, officials said, adding that the accused confessed that they hunted many rabbits, wildcats and wild bores before, and sold the meat to the villagers. They would also collect pelts and other body parts of the dead animals to sell. The officials are now probing how the accused sourced the weapons to hunt, and suspect that there is a thriving racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-held-for-hunting-wild-animals/article38001396.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ACCS award announced||Advanced Computing and Communications Society (ACCS) on Monday announced Subhasis Chaudhuri, professor, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IITB), as the winner of the ACCS Award for 2021. The award recognises his research in the area of computer vision and computational photography. The award, which carries a cash prize of Rs. 1,00,000, along with a citation, will be conferred on him at Bengaluru at a later date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accs-award-announced/article38001392.ece
21 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad district reports first Omicron case||With a 54-year-old woman, who has no travel history, testing positive for the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, Dharwad district has reported its first such case. Her condition is stable and she has recovered from the infection. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Monday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that the employed woman tested for positive for COVID-19 on December 5 and was in home isolation. However, she also tested positive for Omicron. But her health condition is stable. Mr. Patil said that the woman had 137 primary and secondary contracts, including her family members, and all of them have tested negative. “The infected person too was tested twice on Sunday and Monday and she too tested negative now,” he said. He said that after the outbreak of COVID-19 at SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital at Sattur in Dharwad, the State Health Taskforce had asked the district administration to send all samples for genome sequencing and accordingly, samples of all positive patients were sent for genome sequencing. The samples of the 54-year-old woman were sent for genome sequencing on December 6 and the test results received on Monday revealed that she was infected with Omicron, he said and added that the woman had received two doses of vaccine. Mr. Patil clarified that the patient has recovered completely now and the two RT-PCR tests have revealed that she was negative for the infection now. “However, as a precautionary measure, the woman has been asked to extend her home isolation for another seven days extending her isolation period to 17 days in all,” he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that the woman has no travel history but as a precautionary measure, the office where she worked has been closed down. All those who had come in contact with her have tested negative, he said. To a query, he clarified that, in all, 200 persons from high-risk countries have arrived in the district and all of them are in home isolation. These persons were tested at the Bengaluru and Mumbai airports and were again subjected to tests at the Hubballi Airport and their test reports came negative, he said and added that teams have been formed to monitor them while they are in home isolation. New guidelines He said that the State Government is likely to issue new guidelines for Christmas and New Year celebrations and if it was found necessary, additional restrictions will be imposed in Dharwad district as a precautionary measure. Regarding the disappearing practice of wearing face masks, he said that he will appeal to the public not to become complacent but continue following the COVID-19 protocol. Steps will be taken to conduct surprise checks in crowded places and those not wearing face masks and violating COVID-19 protocol will be penalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-district-reports-first-omicron-case/article38001586.ece
21 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat helps settle 10,406 cases||A total of 10,406 cases were disposed of during the National Lok Adalat conducted through various courts in Dharwad district on Saturday. The National Lok Adalat was conducted at various local courts in the district under the guidance of Principal District and Sessions Judge Umesh Adiga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lok-adalat-helps-settle-10406-cases/article38001585.ece
21 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||School given a coat of paint, inaugurated||Exterior and interior painting of Government Higher Primary School at Kotagondahunasi village near Hubballi has been carried out Under the Freedom Through Education Assist Project. And, on Monday, it was formally inaugurated. The project was undertaken by Hubballi Knights Round Table 178 in association with Lions Club of Hubballi. Office-bearers of the clubs, including Sachin Shah, Prashant Hebsur, Ankesh Jain, Kunal Pawar, Manoj Bhansali, Vinod Desai, and others were present, a release said.    Karnataka Folklore University, Gotagodi, Shiggaon (Haveri District), has invited applications for MA in Journalism and Mass Communication for 2021-22. Graduates from any of the UGC-recognised universities and final year students awaiting results can apply for admissions. Further information can be had from the university prospectus or by visiting university website http://www.janapadauni- versity.ac.in. For further details, call Ph: 6366266465.    A total of 773 girl students studying in government colleges have been given scholarships worth Rs. 45 lakh by Malabar Charitable Trust. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, working president of SJM Education Society Arvind Kubusad, Malabar Golds branch head Nissam Shikku and others handed over scholarships cheques to the girl students of Dharwad, Haveri and Gadag districts in a function held at SJMV College for Women in Hubballi recently. Mr. Shettar lauded the initiatives of the trust, while Mr. Nissam Shikku briefed about the trust’s initiatives, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-given-a-coat-of-paint-inaugurated/article38001584.ece
21 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fresh order seeks report on College of Fisheries||The State Government on Monday appeared to have backed out of a move to upgrade the more-than-a-50- year-old College of Fisheries here as an autonomous institute of fisheries research and technology. It comes after students of the college launched an indefinite strike against the proposal and demanded that the educational institution be upgraded as a university of fisheries sciences by carving it out of the Bidar-based Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (KVAFSU). Accordingly, the government withdrew its December 1 order constituting a seven-member expert committee to analyse the pros and cons of upgrading the college as an autonomous institute of fisheries research and technology. Instead, the government issued a fresh order constituting a nine-member committee which now will have to submit a report on whether the college should be carved out of the KVAFSU to promote it as a university of fisheries sciences or whether it should be retained in its existing form under the university. The order said that if the committee recommended upgrading the college as a university, its report should have complete details with suggestions on how to set up the university. The alumni association and the students union should be consulted before submitting the report, the December 20 order said and added that the report should be submitted before January 31, 2022. The order said that the previous order was withdrawn as there was some “confusion” in it. The new committee is headed by the Commissioner of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services. Director of the Directorate of Fisheries is its member-secretary and scientist and advisor (research and patent) at Nitte Deemed to be University I. Karunasagar is its co-chairman. The members of the committee are the Chief Executive Officer of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat, the Director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services, the Registrar of University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru, the Registrar, KVAFSU, the Dean of College of Fisheries and Professor and Head, Fisheries Resource Management of the College of Fisheries. The new order mentioned that a report by the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada on July 6, 2021 and another report by the Director of Fisheries on July 13, 2021 said that there is a need to set up an autonomous institute of fisheries research and technology in Mangaluru. The alumni association of the college in its October 4, 2021 letter to the government sought a fisheries sciences university in the city. Meanwhile, the Mangaluru City Corporation Council passed a resolution in August 2021 seeking university status for the college. The college, which was established at Yekkur in 1969, was the first of its kind in Southeast Asia. Initially, the college was affiliated to the UAS, Bengaluru. It was brought under the KVAFS in 2005. On November 11, 2020, chairman of the Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation and president of Mangaluru Trawl Boat Fishermen Association Nitin Kumar and other stakeholders wrote to then Minister for Fisheries, Ports, and Inland Transport Kota Srinivas Poojary to prevail upon the Government to declare the college as a fisheries university. In a renewed appeal this July, fishermen launched a signature campaign pressing for their demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-order-seeks-report-on-college-of-fisheries/article38001758.ece
21 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Eight cases of Omicron; all patients have recovered||With one more case of Omicron variant being reported from Dakshina Kannada, the district has reported six cases of the variant so far. In addition, Udupi district has reported two cases of the variant for the first time. With this, the coastal belt has reported eight cases of the variant so far. All the patients have recovered and are doing fine, according to Health Department officials. Dakshina Kannada Disease Surveillance Officer K. Jagadeesha said that the new case in the disrict has been reported from the same cluster, Srinivasa Nursing College, Valachil, which had reported a case of the variant on December 18. Both patients are nursing students who are doing fine, he said. Their swab samples were among the samples of 19 students which had been sent for genomic analysis on December 10 after they tested positive for COVID-19 on December 9, Dr. Jagadeesha said. The swab sample of the second student was collected again on Sunday for test, he said. Udupi case Meanwhile, the Omicron variants were found in the samples of an 82-year-old person and his 72-year-old wife in Udupi. A Health Department official in Udupi said that their samples had been sent for genomic analysis on November 30 and the test results were received on December 19. Both the patients have recovered now, the official said. Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao told presspersons in Udupi on Monday that the couple did not have COVID-19 symptoms or any other health complexities. Referring to the same case in a family, he said that a 11-year-old girl who wanted to attend offline classes in a school in Bengaluru got herself tested on November 26 first. She tested positive for COVID-19. Later, four primary contacts in her family were tested and three of them tested positive for COVID-19. Her grandfather and grandmother tested positive for Omicron variant. The elderly couple, who have tested positive for Omicron, had taken their first dose this March and the second in May. The 73-year-old woman in the case is a cancer patient and is under medication. However, she is doing well, Mr. Rao said. He said that the travel history of people in the family of two who tested positive for Omicron is being ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-cases-of-omicron-all-patients-have-recovered/article38001755.ece
21 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Students stage dharna||Students of College of Fisheries launched an indefinite dharna on the premises of the college at Yekkur on Monday opposing the State Government’s move to upgrade the college as an autonomous institute of fisheries research and technology. They demanded that the college be upgraded as a university of fisheries sciences. The students said that if the college is made as an autonomous institution, then, they will have to pay a hefty fee ranging from Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh per annum to pursue their courses. If it is upgraded as an independent university, then, they will have to pay a maximum of Rs. 25,000 per annum as fee. In addition, the students said, if it is a university, then, they will get ICAR accredited degree certificates. They will lose this privilege, if the college is converted as an autonomous institution of research and technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-stage-dharna/article38001760.ece
21 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Open chess, carrom tournaments||The Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports here will organise Dakshina Kannada district-level open chess and carrom tournaments at U.S. Mallya Indoor Stadium on December 30. The participants will have to apply by December 27. Men and women aged above 18 can participate. For details, contact the department on Ph: 2451264, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/open-chess-carrom-tournaments/article38001753.ece
21 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||80.97% given second dose in Udupi||Deputy Commissioner of Udupi M. Kurma Rao said on Monday that 95.68% and 80.97% of the eligible population have received their first and second doses of vaccination against COVID-19, respectively, in the district so far. Addressing presspersons in Udupi, the Deputy Commissioner said that 9,55,806 of 9,99,000 eligible persons aged above 18 have received their first dose. And, 8,08,893 persons have received their second. He said that achieving 100% vaccination is the immediate priority of the district administration to curb the spread of the infection. ‘‘However, the spread of Omicron has thrown the focus back on the need to avoid large gatherings and get vaccinated,’’ he said. ‘‘The second phase of Har Ghar Dastak campaign will go on till January 1, 2022,” he said. The local body administration will coordinate, he said and added that 94,196 persons whose second dose is due should come forward and take it. Mr. Rao said that COVID-19 tests have not been scaled down. In the last week, 18,995 tests were conducted in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8097-given-second-dose-in-udupi/article38001756.ece
21 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Protest against Rangayana Director||Activists under the banner of ‘Rangayana Ulisi Horata Samiti’ staged a demonstration in front of the theatre repertoire on Monday demanding the dismissal of its director, Adannda Cariappa. The Samiti members said that they would intensify their protest in case Mr.Cariappa was not removed or if he did not tender his resignation. The immediate triggering point for the opposition and the protests was the decision of the Rangayana Director to invite Malavika Avinash and Chakravarti Sulibele for the valedictory of the national theatre festival Bahurupi 2021 – which has now been postponed. Their grouse is that the two invitees have nothing to do with theatre and alleged that Mr. Sulibele was known to harbour right-wing ideological views. “Rangayana since its inception nurtured various views and theatre artistes with different ideological bent of mind. The Bahurupi festival had transcended ideological divisions while Rangayana had emerged as an independent cultural entity thanks to the tireless services of theatre persons since decades’’, said the activists. They alleged that the two invitees harboured views that were inimical to the social fabric of the society and hence justified their protest. The activists also flayed Mr. Cariappa for his interview to a media channel in which he had allegedly dubbed a majority of those who headed the theatre repertoire as ‘maoists’. “Some of the theatre personalities who headed Rangayana were responsible for the stature the theatre repertoire enjoys today and his remarks amounted to casting aspersions on their integrity’’, said the activists. They also accused Mr. Cariappa of promoting ‘’RSS agenda’’ and sought his resignation. Incidentally, Mr.Cariappa had rubbished such allegations and had stated in the recent past that those seeking his resignation were the ones fomenting ideological divide. He had also pointed out that a section of people had opposed his appointment and tried to prevent him from assuming charge as the Rangayana Director. More recently, Mr. Cariappa had also given a police complaint that a section of activists were trying to create disturbance within Rangayana besides preventing the artistes from discharging their duties and had sought police protection. Incidentally, the then Minister for Kananda and Culture C.T.Ravi, in a programme at Rangayana, had stated that the government was set to give a “’new direction’’ to the repertoire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-rangayana-director/article38001771.ece
21 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Caring for the mini-zoos||The century-old Mysuru zoo has continued its support in developing small- and mini-zoos in the State that are being projected as tourist attractions in tier-II and tier-III cities. It has been enriching the collection of animals and birds in smaller zoos to help them attract more footfall and become self-sustainable. A kind of “sister zoo” concept, the management of Mysuru zoo recently gifted a pair of hippopotamus and five barking deer to the Tyavarekoppa Lion and Tiger Safari near Shivamogga. The safari had earlier received animals and birds from the zoo. The Mysuru zoo is also adopting zoos that are crying for attention, for helping them emerge as attractions for locals. Post-COVID-19, the Mysuru zoo is not in a position to support them financially but it has resolved to enrich their collections besides lending expertise in constructing enclosures for housing the animals gifted. Mysuru zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu that it contributed for the construction of enclosures for the hippo pair and barking deer that were gifted to Tyavarekoppa. “We had gifted tigers and hyenas to Hampi zoo which is the youngest zoo in the State. Likewise, we have enriched the collections in other zoos as the focus is also on developing them and making them sustainable like Mysuru zoo,” he said. First priority Mr. Kulkarni said the small and mini-zoos get first priority when it comes to sharing animals that are in surplus zoo here. “We exchange animals with zoos outside the State but we cannot do this since the collections in mini and small zoos are not much.” Well-known nationally and internationally and rated as one of India’s well-maintained zoos and a prolific breeder of endangered animals in captivity, the Mysuru zoo had adopted the Gadag zoo which has become one of the new attractions seeing a substantial development over the years. It gave birds for the newly-developed aviary at Gadag. The Mysuru zoo had spared Nilgais to Tyavarekoppa and a giraffe to Bannerghatta Biological Park in the past. The zoo has not sought anything in return from the mini-zoos. It is done as a goodwill gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/caring-for-the-mini-zoos/article38001773.ece
21 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Linguistic Society of India meet from today||The Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) Mysuru and Linguistic Society of India (LSI), Pune, are organising the 43rd International Conference of LSI (ICOLSI-43) in the virtual mode from December 21 to 23, according to a release. The CIIL, which has a history of 5 decades and is a hub of activities focusing on teaching-learning and research on Indian languages, said this conference is organised as the 43rd annual event of LSI, a body of linguists working on languages and promotion of linguistics. In addition to the technical papers the conference will also have plenary lectures by eminent scholars. Around 250 delegates from India and abroad are participating in the conference and presenting 243 research papers that are relevant to theoretical and applied linguistics as well as allied disciplines. The ICOLSI-43 will have deliberations through paper presentation on all language families of India, the release added. Representatives from several countries and almost all departments of linguistics in India are participating. G. Umamaheshwara Rao, President, LSI, will deliver the inaugural address. Martin Haspelmath, Max Planck Institute for Science of Human History, Germany, will deliver the keynote address and Shailendra Mohan, Director, CIIL, Mysuru will chair the inaugural session. The conference will be held online and the proceedings will be live-streamed. Those interested can follow the link https://meet.google.com/qus-qmqk-bwh to participate in the inaugural and valedictory sessions, the release added.  Around 250 delegates from India and abroad are participating in the conference  ICOLSI-43 will have have paper presentations on all language families of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/linguistic-society-of-india-meet-from-today/article38001767.ece
21 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Gorillas Demba, Thabo on display||Ahead of their permanent display, the Mysuru zoo has put the newly-acquired gorillas from Germany on display on a trial basis to acclimatise the primates to the new enclosure and conditions, particularly the visitors. Once they get used to the new surroundings, they would be on display all day, making them the newest attractions of the zoo after orangutans. The enclosure for gorillas was constructed with funding from the Infosys Foundation. The 14-year-old Thabo and 8-year-old Demba arrived here on August 19 from Germany and were in quarantine for many days. The Mysuru zoo is the only zoo in the country to house gorillas. With the zoo getting the pair, the long wait for displaying gorillas after the death of Polo, the Western Lowland gorilla that died in 2014, finally ended. When Polo was alive, the zoo was then the sole zoo housing the animal. The infrastructure developed for housing gorillas played a key role in acquiring the primates. The enclosure project was taken up at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore. Polo was gifted to Mysuru zoo by the Dublin zoo in 1995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gorillas-demba-thabo-on-display/article38001774.ece
21 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MSMEs sore over high raw material prices||Entrepreneurs of MSMEs in Mysuru staged a demonstration on Monday against the rise in the prices of raw materials. However there was no closure of production. Senior office-bearers of Mysuru Industries Association, Mysore Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other organisation met the district administration to convey their concerns and submitted a memorandum. The protest was part of a nation-wide demonstration called by the All India Council of MSMEs. Suresh Kumar Jain of MIA said MSMEs are the backbone of the economy and contribute to the country’s GDP. However, despite requests there was no correction or attempts to roll back prices to the pre-COVID-19 levels. The All India Council of MSME saidthe units are faced with challenges such as erosion of working capital on account of hike in prices of steel, iron ore, aluminium, copper, plastics, PVC, paper, and chemicals. The MSME Council sought protection against such escalation and wanted the public sector units to receive fresh quotes from the MSMEs. The stakeholders also wanted the Steel Authority of India to maintain the prices for a period of at least 3 months at a stretch. The government has always encouraged MSMEs and advocated their cause and if they are crippled, it will discourage entrepreneurs and go against the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat, said the stakeholders. The representatives included members from Mysore Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mysore Industries Association, Hebbal Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Assocciation, Mysore District Small Scale Industries Association, KIADB-Industrial Area Manufacturers Association, and MSME Council Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/msmes-sore-over-high-raw-material-prices/article38001768.ece
21 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmika dies of asphyxiation||A pourakarmika who entered a manhole to clean the UGD died of suffocation while two others fell sick in Periyapatna, on Monday. The victim was identified as Madhu (27). Those who fell sick are Rajesh and Vishwa. While a case has been registered against the house owner who engaged the workers, there were protests by the pourakarmikas in Mysuru in front of the DC’s office. The protest was held with the body of the victim and was led by former Mayor Narayan. He said the pourakarmikas continue to be vulnerable in the absence of safety gear and lack of commitment of the higher-ups in the district administration to crack down on physical cleaning of manholes and UGDs. Mr. Narayan also sought a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the family members of the deceased. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Goutham promised to initiate action as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pourakarmika-dies-of-asphyxiation/article38001769.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bommai slams violence, desecration of statues||Stating that Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) had derived political success by creating instability and law and order problems, he said: “MES is not getting support like in the past. People have rejected it, but it is trying to revive itself. Maharashtra is also trying to keep the border issue alive,” the Chief Minister said, adding that there was no scope for discussion or compromise on the border row. The resolution, which will be sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs, said that Karnataka wished to have cordial relations and these untoward incidents should be stopped. Despite the State accepting Mahajan Commission report as final, some persons were trying disrupt law and order, the Chief Minister said. On the demand for banning MES coming from the Opposition, Mr. Bommai said that the Government would take steps if it was feasible under the law to ban the organisation.  Stating that the DGP and Chief Secretary had already spoken to their counterparts, the Chief Minister said: “I will also speak to Maharashtra Chief Minister seeking action against the culprits.” Earlier, Opposition members, including Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, D.K. Shivakumar, H.K. Patil, and K. Annadani spoke on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-slams-violence-desecration-of-statues/article38001425.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Launch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/launch/article38001408.ece
21 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Youth injured in gang war||A youth was injured when two gangs entered into a fight at Aryad, near Alappuzha, on Sunday night. According to the police, Vimal (29) of Aryad suffered injuries on his head and hand after being hacked by Binu, a member of the rival gang. Search on He was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. The police said a case has been registered and a search was on to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-injured-in-gang-war/article38001718.ece
21 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||T.N. closes last Mullaperiyar shutter||Tamil Nadu on Monday closed the last spillway shutter of the Mullaperiyar dam which had remained open to 10 cm for a month. The shutter was closed at 12 noon on Monday once the Kerala government was informed. From November 18 onwards, the shutter had not been closed fully with water being released to the Periyar for regulating the level to the upper rule curve level. Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) sources said Tamil Nadu had ensured that the water level stayed close to the maximum level of 142 ft for the past 20 days. Kerala had demanded that the water be kept at a safe level so as to avoid the risk of releasing a high volume of water to the Periyar, especially at night. The water level in Idukki reservoir continued to decline and it fell to 2,399.48 ft on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-closes-last-mullaperiyar-shutter/article38001734.ece
21 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Poetry collection to be released||Goa Governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai will release a collection of poetry, What’s Me? The Virgin Hustler , written by Dimple B. Theophilose at Thodupuzha in Idukki at 5.30 p.m. next Sunday (December 26). Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University, will receive the book, published by Authorspress Publishers, New Delhi. A total of 45 poems portraying her “feelings and reactions” to the world are included in the collection that also features sketches accompanying the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poetry-collection-to-be-released/article38001719.ece
21 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||UDF stir seeking to catch tiger||United Democratic Front (UDF) Wayanad district committee launched a relay hunger strike at Gandhi Park at Mananthavady in the district on Monday raising a slew of demands, including new strategies to capture the wounded tiger that has reportedly killed 16 domestic animals. Speaking after inaugurating the hunger strike, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) vice president T. Siddique, MLA, said that though the tiger had triggered panic among villagers in Kurukkanmoola, Payyampally and Chelur under the Begur forest range of the North Wayanad forest division for the past three weeks, no Minister had visited the sites so far. The UDF would be forced to waylay the Ministers when they visited Wayanad, Mr. Siddique said. The apathy of the State government in addressing the issue earlier had made the situation more complex, Mr. Siddique said. The protesters demanded that the panic gripping the public be eased by capturing the tiger, ensuring adequate compensation to those who lost their cattle in the tiger attack and setting up a modern fencing system on the fringes of the forest to mitigate man-animal conflict. Still evasive Meanwhile, the search for the tiger continued in the Begur and Tholpetty forest ranges under the North Wayanad forest and Wayanad wildlife sanctuary divisions for the 20th day on Tuesday with two Kumki elephants (trained elephants). But the animal remained evasive. The combing focussed mainly on the sanctuary on the day as an image of the tiger was received from a camera trap placed near the Konavayal forest around 9 a.m., Forest department sources said. Though officials could detect the presence of the big cat in the area, the animal could not be spotted. All 36 surveillance cameras set up inside human settlements had been shifted to the sanctuary and 30 more cameras would be installed in the area on Tuesday, the sources said. Was healthy When the tiger was caught in a camera trap in the Wayanad wildlife sanctuary two months ago, it was healthy and there was no snare on its neck. It was suspected that the animal escaped from a cable snare set up on the fringes of the forest under the North Wayanad forest division, the sources said.  Image of tiger received from camera trap near the Konavayal forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-begins-hunger-strike-seeking-to-capture-tiger/article38001645.ece
21 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rahul to visit Wayanad||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi,, MP, will visit his constituency, Wayanad, on Thursday and Friday. Mr. Gandhi will attend a programme at Puthuppadi in Kozhikode district to commemorate former MLA C. Moyinkutty at 11.15 a.m. on Thursday. Mr. Gandhi will also attend a review meeting at Wayanad collectorate here at 2 p.m. He will inaugurate an office of T.Siddique, MLA, here at 3.40 p.m. and open Achur-Chathoth road at 4.40 p.m. on the day. Mr. Gandhi will inaugurate a public library at Adikkolly near Pulpally at 11.15 p.m. on Friday. He will also attend a Christmas celebration programme at the Bishop’s house at Thamarassery at 4.30 p.m. after inaugurating the Mandolam Congress party office at Mullankolly at 12.15 p.m. on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-to-arrive-on-two-day-visit-to-wayanad/article38001660.ece
21 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||GM to inspect railway stations||After a gap of two years, the General Manager of Southern Railway would be inspecting Railway stations between Mangaluru and Kannur to assess the safety of the track and bridges and to ascertain passenger amenities on Tuesday. John Thomas, General Manager of Southern Railway, would be travelling with 120 officials. The train would leave Mangaluru at 3 p.m. and is scheduled to reach Kannur by 6.30 p.m. They would end the visit at the Kannur railway station, which looked spic and span to welcome the officials. As part of their visit, a herbal garden would be inaugurated at the station. Member of Parliament K. Sudhakaran would submit a petition to the General Manager to address concerns and issues affecting the passengers. The demand to extend the unreserved Shoranur-Kannur MEMU train to Kasaragod would be taken up with the officials. Passengers have been demanding that the train, which is kept idle for nine hours at the Kannur station after reaching here at 9.10 a.m., should be extended to Kasaragod. In the absence of passenger trains, including from Kannur to Kozhikode, Kannur to Cheruvathur and Mangaluru to Kozhikode, the extension of MEMU train would help passengers commute for work and education to Kasaragod and Mangaluru. Kasaragod MP Rajmohan Unnithan said that he had briefed the GM’s team on the issues and complaints regarding various railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gm-to-inspect-railway-stations/article38001659.ece
21 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Police step up security in Kannur||In the wake of the political murders in Alappuzha, the police have intensified surveillance and carried out preventive arrests in Kannur. District Police Chief R. Ilango said all arrangements had been made to prevent any untoward incident. He said 12 preventive arrests were made after they were found loitering around party offices and other sensitive areas under suspicious circumstances. The police have issued notices warning 30 leaders of the SDPI and BJP. Those involved in criminal activities were being monitored, he said and added that any protest march related to the incident had been disallowed. Patrolling has been intensified and police personnel who were on leave, have been called back to duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-step-up-security-in-kannur/article38001658.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL to build 22-m road along Thripunithura metro corridor||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to build a 22-metre-wide road linking S.N. Junction with the metro’s Thripunithura terminal station and to extend the road further up to Hill Palace Road. The State government’s nod for the project was awaited, said sources. The decision comes in the wake of memoranda submitted by the Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents’ Associations (TRURA) to the metro agency and to the Chief Minister. The organisation was on the warpath demanding a 22-metre-wide carriageway, citing that roads beneath the 27-km Aluva-Pettah-S.N. Junction metro corridor had that width. As per the earlier plan, the width of the road proposed beneath the metro’s S.N. Junction-Thripunithura station corridor (Phase 1-B) was to be confined to 16 metres, unless the Thripunithura municipality stepped in with support. Another demand raised by TRURA was the extension of the road from S.N. Junction beyond the Thripunithura station by a few hundred metres, in order to link it with the Thripunithura Town-Hill Palace road. Land acquisition  Official sources said the land acquisition process for the road was in its final stage. “A total of 6.60 acres of land is needed for the purpose and KMRL hopes to take possession of the full extent of land in another three months,” they added. TRURA chairman V.P. Prasad said the two decisions vindicated the stand of Thripunithura residents. “The municipality and Hibi Eden, MP, played their role to help KMRL adopt a positive stand. KMRL was earlier focused on just building the metro viaduct beyond S.N. Junction, which TRURA had questioned. The Thripunithura municipality passed a resolution entrusting KMRL with the task of building the road,” he said. Welcoming KMRL’s decision, TRURA convenor V.C. Jayendran said it was the outcome of a host of agitations, including a hunger strike, that the residents’ forum had organised over a year. “Yet another of our demands is to build an overbridge parallel to the bottlenecked one on the S.N. Junction-Irumpanam Road. This is important to end traffic hold-ups in the vicinity of S.N. Junction,” he said. KMRL has completed 90% of work on the metro’s Pettah-S.N. Junction (Phase 1-A) extension. The laying of tracks on the viaduct is in the final stage, while the finishing works of metro stations at Vadakkekkotta and S.N. Junction are underway. Patch works on the road beneath have been done, while it will be resurfaced after the station works are over, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-to-build-22-m-road-along-thripunithura-metro-corridor/article38001673.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, Kochi suburbs come alive with tourism festivals||Tourism stakeholders are upbeat, thanks to a slew of tourism festivals that are on in the city suburbs, coinciding with the peak tourist season in the State. While the month-long Vypeen Folklore Fest began from December 1 at beaches and other destinations in the Goshree islands, the curtains went up on Monday for the Cheranalloor Village Tourism Fest that is being hosted till the end of the month. The fest that showcases Cheranalloor’s ethnic tourism potential is being hosted jointly by Kerala Tourism, Ernakulam District Tourism Promotion Council and Cheranalloor panchayat. A tree house surrounded by huts readied by members of the tribal community from Pooyamkutty, a food fest, an eating contest, amusement park, exhibition ground for birds, domestic animals, oxen and camels, and pavilions displaying bullock carts and similar modes of ferrying cargo that were in vogue till a few decades ago are among the attractions. There are stalls selling forest l produce, backwater fish and Kuttanad ducks. A State-level tug of war contest , staging of martial and traditional art forms like Kalaripayattu, Chavittunadakam, and Theechamundi Theyyam, a Kudumbasree arts fest would also be organised, said Cheranalloor panchayat president K.G. Rajesh. A total of 60 clubs are participating in the Cochin Carnival, the flag hoisting of which was conducted on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-kochi-suburbs-come-alive-with-tourism-festivals/article38001717.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Unwed mother reclaims her baby||An unwed mother recently reclaimed her baby she had abandoned in an Ammathottil (public cradle) in Thiruvananthapuram early this year. The woman returned home with her baby last week after a DNA test confirmed her relationship with the child. The mother is believed to have left for a Gulf country where she is employed. The woman reportedly told authorities that she was forced to abandon the child after its father refused to marry her and attempted to give the child in illegal adoption. She said the child was abandoned in the Ammathottil so as to keep it safe. The family of the woman did not know about the child, she reportedly informed the authorities. Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, which prescribes punishment for abandoning or wilfully neglecting a child, protects its biological parents from penal action if the abandonment is ‘due to circumstances beyond their control.’ The mother had approached the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Thiruvananthapuram, in February this year to get the infant back after noticing its photograph in a newspaper advertisement, which stated that the baby was to be given in adoption. In her email, the mother had asked the CWC to put on hold the adoption proceedings. She had also shared the documents of the baby and its photographs with her as proof. The abandoned baby was named after a noted Malayalam poetess by the authorities who took the possession of the child from the cradle. On her complaint, the CWC had asked the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare to stop the adoption proceedings, besides ordering a DNA test. The DNA test confirmed her relationship with the child, according to sources.  She approached CWC after noticing a newspaper ad which stated that the baby was to be given in adoption||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unwed-mother-reclaims-her-abandoned-baby/article38001666.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Thrikkakara municipality has no right to claim rent’||The Thrikkakara Municipal Cooperative Hospital authorities have said that the Thrikkakara municipality had no right to claim rent for the land that it had used to launch the hospital facilities more than two decades ago. The premises where the hospital originally operated out of is now being used by the cooperative society to run a Neethi medical store, an ophthalmology department, and an Ayurvedic treatment centre. P. Sukumaran Nair, president of the cooperative society, said the land did not belong to the municipality. It was a piece of revenue land and owned by the government, he said, adding that the municipality had no ownership of the land and thus no claim to any rent. Information on the status of the land was obtained by the cooperative society through an RTI application after the municipal authorities had demanded rent for the use of the land in 2014. Arrears of Rs. 31 lakh The municipal authorities claimed that the land belonged to the civic body and that the cooperative society was renting out the space, a claim denied by the hospital authorities. The municipality had demanded payment of total rent arrears of more than Rs. 31 lakh. Municipality chairperson Ajitha Thankappan said the finance standing committee of the municipal council had taken up the issue and a notice had been served on the cooperative hospital. A.A. Ibrahimkutty of the finance standing committee said the land belonged to the municipality and there were complaints against the cooperative society using the land commercially. He claimed the cooperative society had rented out the space. People’s Plan  Mr. Nair said the land claimed by the municipal authorities was government land, which was used by the health department to run a dispensary. The land for launching a cooperative hospital was identified in 1999 under the People’s Plan campaign. The hospital was shifted out of the old premises to the new premises on Seaport-Airport Road. The allegation is that the old compound belongs to the municipality. The cooperative hospital had about 30 permanent doctors and 18 specialty departments and offered affordable healthcare, said Mr. Nair. The out-patient department footfall was around 350 to 400 daily, while the pre-pandemic level was about 600 per day, he added. He also claimed that the hospital had not been given any financial support by the municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-municipality-has-no-right-to-claim-rent/article38001678.ece
21 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Electric, hydrogen-run buses to operate feeder trips from stations||Aimed at ushering in a mode of sustainable feeder network from Kochi metro corridor, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is readying to launch a fleet of e-buses. They include nine e-buses on lease, on the lines of what KSRTC has mooted. In addition, discussions are under way to purchase a total of 10 e-buses. The option of augmenting this by adding a fleet of hydrogen-cell-powered buses is being probed. The feasibility of procuring 10 such buses for operation too is under consideration, in keeping with the government’s efforts to ensure that all public transport vehicles operate on renewable sources of energy by 2030, it is learnt. The electric and hydrogen-cell powered buses are expected to operate from metro stations to Kochi’s immediate suburbs. Inadequate services The development comes in the wake of the metro agency facing flak for not introducing a full-fledged feeder network involving e-buses and e-autorickshaws, over four years since the metro, a capital-intensive system of mass rapid transport (MRT), was launched. This is in addition to the metro attracting an average of only around 70,000 passengers daily during pre-pandemic days, as compared to the projected daily footfall of approximately four lakh that finds mentions in its Detailed Project Report. Public transport experts reasoned that a daily footfall of over a lakh was attainable, if there was a reliable network of feeder services to ensure last-mile connectivity. The State government had in October sanctioned Rs. 10 crore to KMRL to procure 10 hydrogen fuel cell-based buses on wet lease to operate feeder services from metro stations. The metro agency ought to ensure adequate supply of hydrogen for the purpose. The Union government had launched a Hydrogen Energy Mission to generate hydrogen from green-power sources.  The metro agency is, in addition, readying to procure 200 e-autorickshaws for operating feeder trips. This comes in the wake of delay in augmenting the fleet of a dozen e-rickshaws that were introduced from prominent metro stations in 2018. An initiative to induct 100 e-autorickshaws in 2020 to operate from metro stations was a non-starter, after the pandemic played spoilsport with the logistics sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/electric-hydrogen-run-buses-to-operate-feeder-trips-from-stations/article38001669.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. council to verify firm’s credentials for running Brahmapuram waste plant||The Kochi Corporation will seek legal opinion in 10 days on the technical qualification of the firm that has submitted its bid for running the municipal solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram. This was decided at a special session of the Corporation Council held here on Monday. The financial bid submitted by the firm will be considered by the local body if the technical bids are found in order, it was decided. Incidentally, the UDF councillors had demanded that the bid should be floated once again as they were unsatisfied with the credentials of the firm. They had also pointed out several discrepancies in the bid documents. Eight years The Brahmapuram plant had been run on an ad hoc basis by a private firm for the past eight years. Though the contract between the Kochi Corporation and the firm for operating the plant had expired way back in 2014, the local body was forced to extend the agreement as no other agency came forward for operating the plant. Mayor M. Anilkumar led the council proceedings. Antony Kureethara, UDF leader in the council, stuck to his earlier stand that the bid should be floated once again after rectifying the anomalies that had crept into the bid documents. C. A. Shakkeer, CPI leader in the council, said that the firm had failed to meet the minimum qualifications specified in the bid documents, including the three-year experience in the sector. He also raised doubts about the validity of the experience certificates produced by the firm. Priya Parsanth, Chairperson of the Tax Appeal Standing Committee, expressed concerns over the ownership structure of the company. However, the secretary of the Kochi Corporation informed the council meeting that the firm had passed the muster to submit its bid for running the plant. The council gave its in-principle nod for the draft bylaw ‘Plastic, Solid, Liquid and E-Waste handling Rules 2021’, drawn up by the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-council-to-verify-firms-credentials-for-running-brahmapuram-waste-plant/article38001674.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Illegal construction: NGT panel pegs eco damages at Rs. 14 crore||A joint committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has assessed an environment compensation of Rs. 14.9 crore on a builder for carrying out illegal construction in violation of environment norms and for causing damage to the environment. The committee has submitted a report before the Southern Bench of the tribunal stating that the amount has to be collected from Jain Housing and Construction Limited in connection with the construction of Tufnell Gardens at Kakkanad. The court had asked the committee to find out whether the builder had valid environmental clearance and other permissions for the construction of the project. The committee led by Vishnu Raj, Sub Collector, Fort Kochi, had inspected the site on November 9 and filed its report on December 10. It was set up by the tribunal on a petition filed by the Environment Protection and Research Council, Thiruvananthapuram, alleging violation of norms in the construction of the building complex. The committee report said that the builder started the construction activities before obtaining environment clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC). The project did not have valid environment clearance at present and the project proponent was required to obtain fresh environment clearance from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, Kerala, prior to start of any additional work, it said. The entire construction was done without the State Pollution Control Board’s consent to establish and occupancy was begun without consent to operate from the board, violating the Water (Prevention and Control Of Pollution) Act, 1974, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and Environment Protection Act, 1986. Paddy land used Paddy land was used for building construction without obtaining any permission from the Local Level Monitoring Committee and Revenue Divisional Office. The conversion of agricultural land disrupted the ecological setup of the area and affected its biological diversity, according to the report. A senior representative of the company refused to comment on the issue while stating that the matter was sub judice. It was a false and motivated case, which the firm would suitably defend, he said, quoting the company management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-construction-ngt-panel-pegs-eco-damages-at-rs-14-crore/article38001675.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||31 local bodies yet to achieve vaccination target||Thirty-one local bodies in Ernakulam are yet to achieve the 85% coverage in the administration of the second dose to the target population, according to the Health Department. This included 30 panchayats and one municipality (Thrikkakara). The target population in Ernakulam is around 29 lakh. The overall figure in administering the second dose in the district as on Monday is around 86%. “We hope to achieve the 90% mark by the end of this month. The thirty-one local bodies have been told to step up efforts to cross the 85% mark at the earliest,” said M.G. Sivadas, District Nodal Officer for vaccination. As per the official estimates, around 78% of the target population had received the second dose by the last week of November. The corresponding figure in the second week of November was 66%. The district authorities had set December 31 as the deadline for covering 90% of the target population. An intensive campaign was held from December 18 to 20 in the local bodies that had not achieved the 85% coverage. Around 15,000 to 20,000 persons had received the second dose on these three days. However, the figure was not as expected on Monday as only around 8,000 received the second dose. Dr. Sivadas said that the local bodies need to hold special camps and utilise its network to encourage more people to receive the second dose. “The focus is mostly on these panchayats now and the aim is to reach at least 90% before December 31 in these regions,” he said. Around 86% of the target population in Kochi Corporation limits had received the second dose. However, five wards under the urban primary health centres need to improve the coverage by coming up with special camps and initiatives, according to the Health Department. The district authorities said that it would not be possible to achieve the 100% target, as people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after receiving the first dose will miss their schedule for the second dose. The vaccine is provided after three months of testing positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/31-local-bodies-yet-to-achieve-vaccination-target/article38001668.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||State protecting killers of BJP workers: Rai||Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai on Monday alleged that the Kerala government was protecting criminals involved in the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers. Referring to the killing of BJP leader Ranjith Sreenivas in Alappuzha on Sunday, Mr. Rai said the government should carry out a proper investigation to nab the culprits. The Minister was on his way to visit the family members of Ranjith. Mr. Rai said around 200 BJP workers had been killed in political violence in the State over the past few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-protecting-killers-of-bjp-workers-rai/article38001740.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KUFOS selected for NASA-ISRO programme||The Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) has been chosen to join a research project backed by the Space Application Centre of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) under a NASA-ISRO collaborative programme. NASA and ISRO are jointly developing a space-borne synthetic aperture radar (NISAR), to be launched in January 2023. NISAR will produce high-resolution data for large areas with the capability for systematic observation of earth resources. It will provide time-series data for eco-systems applications benefiting several operational activities related to agriculture, forestry, wetlands, and soil moisture estimation, said a communication here. KUFOS has been selected as one of the nodal agencies in South India to implement the project, said K. Riji John, Vice-Chancellor of KUFOS. Ground truth data validation is planned prior to NISAR launch through collaboration with other research institutions such as the Centre for Water Resources Development and Management (CWRDM). Inventory KUFOS will establish long-term plots and its inventory in Shimoga (Karnataka) and Nilambur (Kerala) under the programme for validation of NISAR forest biomass products. The project will be headed by Girish Gopinath, Associate Professor of Remote Sensing and GIS at KUFOS and U. Surendran, senior scientist at CWRDM. The outcome is expected to help address critical issues of forest biomass estimation, carbon stock estimation and monitoring of carbon sequestration, the communication said.  NASA and ISRO are jointly developing a space-borne synthetic aperture radar to be launched in January 2023||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kufos-selected-for-nasa-isro-programme/article38001649.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NIA seeks to declare 3 accused as approvers||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has sought to declare three accused in the Sri Lankan arms and drugs seizure case as approvers. The agency has filed a petition in this regard before the NIA Special Court, Kochi. The NIA had submitted the chargesheet in the case at the court last week. As many as 15 Sri Lankans were arrested on charges of smuggling arms, ammunition and drugs to India and for attempting to revive the activities of the proscribed organisation Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam and waging war against Sri Lanka, according to the chargesheet. The prosecution case against the accused is that they conspired among themselves and sailed to India from the Kudawella harbour in Sri Lanka in a fishing vessel, Ravihansi. They ferried 300 kg of heroin and prohibited arms and ammunition in the vessel. The vessel in which the accused were travelling was intercepted by the law enforcement agencies in the Arabian Sea on March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-seeks-to-declare-3-accused-as-approvers/article38001667.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Goa Liberation Day celebrated||The diamond jubilee of Goa Liberation Day was celebrated jointly by the Indian Navy and Kerala Konkani Academy in Fort Kochi on Monday. Capt. Sreejit Nair and Lt. Cdr. Kailash Pai from INS Dronacharya were among those who participated in the function. The naval band enthralled the audience with a musical treat during the event. Capt. Sreejit Nair spoke about Operation Vijay undertaken by the Indian Armed Forces that liberated Goa from Portuguese rule and the role of the Navy in the operations. Goa Liberation Day is celebrated on December 19 to mark the success of Operation Vijay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/goa-liberation-day-celebrated/article38001665.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pre-order facility at duty free outlet||International passengers arriving at the Cochin International Airport can now pre-book the products they want to buy from the Cochin Duty Free outlet using the websitecochindutyfree.com. The website was launched by hockey player P.R. Sreejesh here on Monday, said a communication from the airport. There will be a dedicated counter for the delivery of pre-ordered products. The facility would help passengers save time, and get discounts, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pre-order-facility-at-duty-free-outlet/article38001679.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIFT testing XtraGreen diesel as fuel||The Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) is trying out the ‘XtraGreen diesel’ developed by Indian Oil in its vessels in a bid to see if it can effectively reduce carbon footprint in the fisheries sector. The new fuel variant will be used to power the CIFT vessel Sagar Harita to conduct the pilot-scale studies on fishing operations in Kochi. The performance validation of fuel is further certified by one of the most renowned third party accredited automotive testing agency, International Centre for Automotive Technology, Manesar. Ravishankar C.N., Director, ICAR-CIFT, said that the fuel was critically tested as per IS: 1460-2017 specifications and found to be fully compliant for the use in fishing boats. The features of the XtraGreen diesel were its better deposit cleaning action, more fuel-efficiency, eco-friendliness and high performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cift-testing-xtragreen-diesel-as-fuel-in-vessel/article38001677.ece
21 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Humiliation of child by police: HC deplores govt. stand||The High Court on Monday expressed its displeasure at the State government stand that there was no material on record to show that a Pink Police officer had humiliated an eight-year-old girl in public at Attingal by alleging that she had stolen her phone. When a petition by the girl seeking compensation came up for hearing before Justice Devan Ramachandran, additional public prosecutor P. Narayanan submitted that the petitioner would not be able to get compensation since the allegations were denied by the police. The court observed that the police should not have disputed the fact when the woman officer had admitted that she had restrained the girl and her father from leaving the scene till her phone was found. The judge noted that an IG, in her affidavit, referred to a video viewed by her. It was not produced before the court. The court directed the IG to produce the video and posted the case for hearing on December 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/humiliation-of-child-by-police-hc-deplores-govt-stand/article38001735.ece
21 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bus ferrying Sabarimala pilgrims from A.P. overturns||At least nine persons were injured when a bus carrying Sabarimala pilgrims overturned at a sharp turn near Kanamala in Kottayam district on Monday. The accident occurred in the early hours of the day when the bus, with 35 passengers from Andhra Pradesh on board, lost control while negotiating a sharp curve at Attivalavu.  As the vehicle moved towards a pit, the driver sensed danger and rammed the bus to a protection wall. The front portion of the bus was completely damaged. Local residents, who rushed to the spot, launched a rescue operation and the bus driver, who was trapped inside the vehicle, was pulled out after cutting open its mangled remains. He was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, sources said. Following the accident, traffic along the Erumely-Pampa route faced disruptions for about half an hour. The injured passengers were rushed to hospitals in Erumely and Kanjirappally. Traffic surge Official sources said accidents involving the vehicles of Sabarimala pilgrims were commonplace along the Kanamala route. They pointed out that police personnel had not been deployed in the area to regulate traffic despite a huge surge in vehicular traffic this season. The Sabarimala Safe Zone project, which aims to bring down vehicular accidents along the roads leading to Sabarimala, too has been less effective this time owing to shortage of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-ferrying-sabarimala-pilgrims-from-ap-overturns/article38001721.ece
21 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man gets 10-year RI for raping minor girl||The Additional District Court in Kottayam on Monday sentenced a 32-year-old man to 10 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) and imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh for raping a mentally challenged minor girl. Pronouncing the judgment, Additional District Judge G. Gopakumar found Ajesh, aka Aji, 32, of Chinganteth house in Kadanad, near Pala, guilty under Indian Penal Code Section 376 (2) (j) and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. If fine is not paid, he will have to serve an additional six months in jail. The court also ordered that the girl be paid Rs. 75,000 from the fine. As per the prosecution case, the incident took place on September 2, 2013. The girl, a resident of Kottayam, was raped by two men on the day at two different places. The girl, who had left the house after a quarrel with her grandmother, was first taken away by a man named Manu, whom she had known earlier. After raping her in a vacant house in Pandavam, Manu dropped the girl off at a bus stop. Manu was later arrested and sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs. 1 lakh in the earlier stage of the trial. Girl found When the victim reached Manarcaud, Ajesh took her to an isolated location near the Government Medical College Hospital at Gandhinagar and raped her. She was then sent back to Manarcaud by an autorickshaw. The incident came to light after the police found her on the premises of the Manarcaud church. The case was investigated by the Kottayam West police.  The mentally challenged girl was raped by two men on the same day at two different places||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-10-year-ri-for-raping-minor-girl/article38001725.ece
21 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Leaders to visit Attappady||A team led by Sunny M. Kapikkad, chairman, Dalit Samudaya Munnani, will visit Attappady for three days from December 24 in view of the recurring infant deaths there. They will visit tribal colonies and interact with residents and prepare a comprehensive report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fact-finding-team-to-visit-attappady/article38001722.ece
21 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Pan-IIM world meets witness confluence of India’s soft powers||The three-day eighth pan-IIM World Management Conference (WMC) and second International Conclave on Globalising Indian Thought (GIT) concluded on a high note with close to 400 research papers presented on global management thought and practices and the impact and influence of Indian thought in the 21st Century. Dipak Jain, former Dean of Kellogg School of Management, and INSEAD (France); S. Sivakumar, head of Agri and IT Business, ITC, and Sister B.K. Shivani, meditation teacher, Brahma Kumaris Spiritual Movement in India, and Prof. Debashis Chatterjee, Director of IIM, Kozhikode, spoke. The gathering witnessed a wide range of discussions and exchange of ideas with Prof. Jain emphasising a DIET (Digital Learning, Innovative Mindset, Entrepreneurial Spirit and Talent development) as the fulcrum for encouraging entrepreneurialism for creating a better world. In her address, Sister Shivani underlined the humane need of the hour to prioritise ‘person’ over ‘performance’ and encouraged listeners to embrace the power of affirmation inspired by the ancient Indian concept of “Sankalp Se Siddhi”. Mr. Sivakumar, with his presentation on ‘Sustainable agriculture practices - India’s lessons for the world’ stressed the need for critical thinking to come up with innovative ideas. With its theme ‘Responsible Business for Sustainable Development’ the Pan-IIM WMC 2021 hosted by IIMK registered participation from not only the 20 IIMs in the country but from also 15 other countries – Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Denmark, India, Iraq, Italy, Nepal, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and United States. Nearly 262 papers were accepted and presented after a rigorous review process with an acceptance rate of 40%. The tracks were co-chaired by experts from various institutions including Singapore Management University, IIM Ahmedabad, Penn State Behrend, IIM Calcutta, IIM Indore, and the University of Oklahoma, among others, with participation by 343 delegates. The GIT, IIM Kozhikode’s signature conclave witnessed 117 papers presented over 26 sessions in three parallel tracks and 160 delegates participating along with a special track titled “21st Century Gurukul and Asceticism: A quest for spirituality”. Participants had an opportunity to converse with Swami Sarvapriyananda of the Ramakrishna Mission. In the “Meet the Editors” session, Chief Editors of renowned global journals encouraged and guided Indian researchers on how to carry out excellent scholarly work suitable for high impact publications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confluence-of-indias-soft-powers-at-pan-iim-meets/article38001643.ece
21 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Political murders trigger demand for stern action||The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government is under pressure from civil society and political parties to rein in organisations that are having a free run in the State in the wake of a spate of political murders in the State of late. Two political murders within a few hours in Alappuzha on Sunday — that of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) State secretary K.S. Shan and BJP OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas — raise questions on the alertness of the law enforcement and intelligence agencies of Kerala. If Shan was attacked by a car-borne killer-gang on the road near his house at Mannanchery, Ranjith was hacked to death by a 12-member hit squad in front of his mother and wife in the drawing room of his house. Police inaction The two incidents occurred within a month after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary S. Sanjith was hacked to death by group in broad daylight when he was riding a motorbike with his wife at Kinassery in Palakkad district and P.B. Sandeep Kumar, secretary of the Peringara local committee of the CPI (M), was hacked to death near Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta. The latter and the Alappuzha murders, though in two neighbouring districts, had taken place in a radius of 40 km. Sources say the government has been sitting on intelligence reports on the activities of organisations, including intensified social media campaigns, amassing of weapons, financial dealings, clandestine operations, training programmes and street corner meetings inciting communal passions. Cause for concern Unlike the clashes occurring between political parties, the violent confrontation between Sangh Parivar outfits and the SDPI, the political wing of the Popular Front of India (PFI), across the State in recent times has acquired a communal dimension. This appears to be a serious cause for concern for Kerala society, according to sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/political-murders-trigger-demand-for-stern-action/article38001733.ece
21 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Here texts and pictures are a thing of the past||Learning is no longer the same for the students of the Government Higher Secondary School on the Kozhikode Medical College Campus. They will now be guided by augmented reality textbooks and a virtual laboratory. According to the school authorities and PTA office-bearers, students usually watch pictures in textbooks and read the descriptions given along with them to learn about different things. In augmented reality textbooks, pictures are given in 3D format so that they can examine them more closely. Teachers believe that this would make learning interesting and the students would get an in-depth understanding of subjects. Textbooks in State syllabus are being used for the purpose. In the virtual lab, students are given the practical version of what they learn in textbooks. Using advanced technology, they get a multi-dimensional feel of various things. More than one subject can be learnt in the lab. For example, details of human anatomy being taught in a Biology lab and the functioning of machines explained in a Physics lab can be arranged in the same place. The virtual museum arranged along with the lab have facilities to learn history and geography too. The students can touch and feel objects here, said the teachers. Mobile app The students are also asked to download a mobile application to help them use the facility at home as well. Right now, students in Classes 8, 9,10 are being given the app. Technical help It is part of the Promoting Regional Schools to International Standards through Multiple Intervention (PRISM) project being implemented in the Kozhikode North Assembly constituency. Iluzialabs, a start-up company based in the Government Cyber Park, Kozhikode, is providing the technical help. The medical college campus school is apparently one of the first in the district to have these facilities. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty opened the facility through the online mode on Monday. Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, launched ‘Iluzia My Class’ web application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-hss-launches-augmented-reality-textbooks-virtual-lab/article38001656.ece
21 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ensure uniform stipend for medical interns: Binoy Viswam||Binoy Viswam, Rajya Sabha MP, has urged Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to ensure equity in payment of internship to medical students in private and government medical colleges across the country. In a letter to the Minister, Mr. Viswam said that the National Medical Commission’s Draft Regulations on Compulsory Rotating Internship, 2021, issued on April 21 and gazetted on November 18, had said that all interns shall be paid stipend “as fixed by the appropriate fee fixation authority as applicable to the institution/university/State.” “The phrasing of this provision allowed for great ambiguity and arbitrariness. It may also result in management of private colleges denying stipend to the interns as they have complete discretion without any safeguarding mechanism. The ramifications of the same are already being seen in colleges across the country as great variance exists in stipend amounts being paid in government colleges as opposed to private colleges,” he said. Mr. Viswam said that medical profession was an extremely strenuous and highly specialised field that required individuals to dedicate their lives in the service of others. “As part of medical professionals’ education and training, they are necessitated to undertake internships across various settings. In this context, a stipend is paid as a matter of right and not charity. It is therefore essential that parity and equity be maintained across all medical institutions, whether run by private bodies or by the government,” he said. The MP requested the Minister to consult with all stakeholders to formulate a policy that ensures equity among medical students. The erstwhile Medical Council of India had come up with a public notice on January 25, 2019, on Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 1997. The Board of Governors that superseded the MCI was considering a provision that said “All the candidates pursuing compulsory rotating internship at the institution from which MBBS course was completed, shall be paid stipend on par with the stipend being paid to the interns of the State government medical institution/Central government medical institution in the State/Union Territory where the institution is located.” However, it was not gazetted until the Board was dissolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-uniform-stipend-for-medical-interns-binoy-viswam/article38001647.ece
21 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Land acquisition process on for Marakkar memorial bridge||The procedures to acquire nearly 2.45 acres of land for the construction of the proposed Kunjali Marakkar memorial bridge connecting Iringal with the Vadakara sand banks have begun in the area with the support of the National Highway (NH) division of the Public Works Department (PWD). The acquisition works begin in the wake of the completion of the environmental impact assessment, which had already approved one of the three alignments for the Rs. 59-crore project. According to Revenue Department officials, land will be taken over from 42 owners in the area. The sand banks-Kottakadavu alignment is the shortlisted one following the environmental impact assessment conducted by a Kannur-based agency. They also point out that no land holders have come up with any major opposition against the project execution. An innovative design from the Design Research Investigation and Quality Control Board under the PWD is under consideration for the multi-crore project with a length of 564 metres. Paying tribute to Kunjali Marakkar, it will have a sword-theme already approved by the government. The Kerala State Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) will fund the project. Solar panels  Another proposal is also under consideration to fit solar panels on the east-west sides of the proposed bridge for power generation. The expected daily power generation for the grid-connected project will be 142 kW. Considering its viability, the Kerala State Electricity Board is also expected to sign up with the idea. If executed as planned, the solar project will generate electricity worth Rs. 27 lakh a year. A Detailed Project Report has also been submitted to the KIIFB. The completion of the bridge as part of the coastal highway project will be a big boost for a number of tourism ventures in Vadakara and surrounding regions. Quick access to Vadakara sandbanks from Iringal is one of the major attractions. Officials also hope that the innovative design of the bridge will be a huge attraction for tourists to the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-acquisition-process-on-for-marakkar-memorial-bridge/article38001661.ece
21 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Court orders confiscation of Kinfra property||The Kozhikode sub court on Monday ordered the confiscation of 1.78 acres of land acquired for Kinfra Knowledge Park project at Ramanattukara after the State Government failed to pay compensation to land owners whose properties were acquired for the project. Issuing the order, Principal Sub Judge K. Priya said the land owners had not received their compensation even after a decade of giving up their agricultural lands though a directive had been issued by the court earlier. In three cases, the court ordered the confiscation of Kinfra’s land to recover a total of Rs. 7.77 crore. The State Government ordered the acquisition of 80 acres of land in Ramanattukara in 2008. Of this, 76.66 acres was acquired in 2010. At that time, the government paid only one-tenth of the fair value of the land. Till now, the government has not yet paid the full compensation to 116 landowners. Then the court ordered the compensation in 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-orders-confiscation-of-kinfra-property/article38001651.ece
21 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Inquiry against private financial firm||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has ordered an inquiry by the District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) on a complaint that Karamparamba-based Aradhana Financial Services Private Ltd. had duped its customers. The inquiry should be completed and a report submitted in 15 days, said commission member K. Baijunath. It is based on a complaint filed by Eranhipalam native M. Sindhu. She said that she belonged to low-income family and had deposited her life savings in the private financial institution. She claimed that the whereabouts of its owner Sajithlal were not known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inquiry-against-private-financial-firm/article38001657.ece
21 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vadakara taluk office resumes from rented building||The Vadakara taluk office resumed its usual functioning in a rented building near the sub treasury office on Monday. Usable files from the gutted building were shifted to a spacious room at the cyclone shelter near Thazhe Angadi with the support of a group of volunteers from various civil defence units in the taluk. To address the concerns of citizens over the lost files, the special help desks announced by Revenue Minister K. Rajan were also opened near the election office building at Vadakara. Sufficient number of Revenue Department officers with laptops was ensured to check the details of lost files and recommend follow-up action based on public queries. ‘Documents safe’ Revenue Department officials from the taluk office said all the files and documents received and processed since 2019 were safe in computers in the form of electronic files. The details of the rest of the gutted files could be recreated or restored using the back-files in various village offices or using the available documents in the possession of the applicants, they said. Meanwhile, the loss of various important file registers in the fire outbreak surfaced as a real challenge for the Revenue team to get a clear picture of the damage. According to them, it could be ascertained only after reviewing the complaints received through the help desks. Grievances which were not solved through the help desk service would be attended to at a taluk-level adalat, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vadakara-taluk-office-resumes-functioning-in-rented-building/article38001662.ece
21 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Speaker inaugurates Ranni Knowledge Assembly||Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh here on Monday inaugurated Ranni Knowledge Assembly, a programme organised as part of establishing a Knowledge Village in the Ranni Assembly constituency. Lauding the initiative, Mr. Rajesh said the project marked the first step towards turning the State into a knowledge economy. “The goals of Knowledge Village programme, led by Ranni legislator Pramod Narayan, have been clearly defined along with the paths for its effective execution,” said the Speaker. According to the Speaker, the old system of learning has already undergone a definitive sea change with the introduction of online education. “Projects such as Edu Care and Knowledge Village are aimed at students from pre-primary level to higher classes,” said Mr. Rajesh. The Speaker also launched the logo of the Knowledge Village and the Student Care Mobile app. Mr. Narayan presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/speaker-inaugurates-ranni-knowledge-assembly/article38001724.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tenkasi veggies for Kerala by Dec. 29||Vegetables from Tenkasi district in Tamil Nadu are expected to start arriving in Kerala by the end of this month under a market intervention measure announced by the government for tackling price rise. On behalf of the Kerala government, the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) on Monday inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a consortium of seven farmer producer organisations (FPOs) in Tenkasi to procure the vegetables directly. Kerala will buy vegetables at wholesale prices fixed by the Tamil Nadu Agri Marketing Department. This will enable the State to fend off exploitation by middlemen and ensure the supply of good quality vegetables to the public, Horticorp said. Vegetables will be supplied for a period of 11 months under the MoU. Horticorp will place the orders a day in advance to the consortium of FPOs. Once quality checks are complete, the consignments will be transported to Kerala the next day. Horticorp also has to pay Rs. 1 per kilogram as handling charge to the consortium. Initial arrivals from Tenkasi will consist of lady’s finger, brinjal, green chilli, tomato and drumstick. “We expect the first arrivals from December 29,” Horticorp managing director J. Sajeev said. Horticorp regional manager K.S. Pradeep signed the MoU on behalf of the State government. Horticorp hopes to cut down on the procurement once vegetable production and supply within Kerala, which are severely affected by heavy rainfall and natural calamities this year, is back to normal. After vegetable prices shot up in the open market in Kerala in November, Horticorp had decided to purchase from Mysuru in Karnataka and Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. Drumstick price rises Even as tomato prices have dipped, the price of drumstick has shot up in the Kerala market. On Monday, the wholesale price of drumstick at the Chala market in Thiruvananthapuram stood at Rs. 200 a kg. Retail prices touched Rs. 220, traders said. They attributed the phenomenon to the shortage of the vegetables in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The State is now depending on the meagre arrivals from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, a trader said, adding that the trend is likely to continue for a few days. Meanwhile, the wholesale price of tomato has dipped to Rs. 40 per kg. Retail prices hovere around the Rs. 50 mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tenkasi-veggies-for-kerala-by-dec-29/article38001664.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dilution of building rules likely||Amendments are being considered for the Kovalam and Vizhinjam area development schemes to reduce restrictions on building height and maximum area permissible for constructions. A draft scheme, with a set of amendments to the existing scheme, which has already been taken up for discussions with experts and councillors from the area, will be presented in the city Corporation council soon for clearance. Amendments The State government had formulated a scheme for planned development of Kovalam and Vizhinjam areas back in 1978, applicable to the coastal area stretching from Thiruvallam to Pulinkudi. Following demands from various quarters, a few amendments were brought to the zonal regulations of this scheme in 2010. However, demands continued for removal of some of the restrictions which had prevented construction of smaller houses and commercial establishments in some areas, as it was ‘not promoting investment.’ The State Government recently issued directions for further amendments to the zoning regulations in this context. As per the draft, no kind of constructions are presently allowed in zones marked as ‘agricultural reservation:paddy field.’ The amendment proposes relaxation for construction of houses up to 300 square metre, commercial establishments up to 150 square metre and dairy farms and poultry farms, subject to the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008. Use of land for commercial purposes in areas marked as residential is currently limited up to 100 square metres. The amendment proposes increasing this to 300 square metres. Restrictions The height of all constructions in the region is currently limited at 9 metres. This restriction is proposed to be removed with the height restrictions to be as per the Kerala Municipal Building Rules (KMBR). The maximum permissible coverage of constructions is currently limited to 30% or 40% of the total area of the plot in some areas. This restrictions are proposed to be removed to make it as per the KMBR. The restriction on distance of the building from the major roads is also to be made as per the KMBR, removing the current area-specific restrictions. Inclusion The scheme also proposes the inclusion of port-allied constructions and multiplex complexes in zones, except near water bodies. Transmission and telecommunication towers as well as convention centres, which were not included in all zones, is now proposed to be extended to all zones, except near water bodies. The amendments to the scheme are being made to take care of existing issues until a new Master Plan for the city comes into force. The preparation of the Master Plan is currently ongoing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dilution-of-building-rules-likely/article38001867.ece
21 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||War veterans feted||As part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations, Pangode Military Station along with the Kerala State Ex Services league celebrated India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war here on Monday. Wreaths were laid at the war memorial. The Pangode Military Brigade felicitated the 1971 war veterans and Veer Naris during the event. A total of 60 ex servicemen participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/war-veterans-feted/article38001870.ece
21 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Expelled LJD leaders to ‘work in tandem’ with CPI(M)||The Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), a Left Democratic Front (LDF) ally, appeared diminished on Monday with three former State-level leaders ‘defecting’ to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. They are ex-LJD State secretary (organisation) Sheikh P. Harris and one-time State secretaries V. Rajesh Prem and Ankathil Ajayakumar. The LJD had expelled them from the party after they fell out with State president M.V. Shreyams Kumar, MP. Mr. Harris said the trio would ‘work in tandem’ with the CPI(M). LJD State general secretary V. Surendran Pillai would join the CPI(M) fold. Mr. Harris said the defections from the LJD would soon become an exodus. He claimed to have the support of at least one ex-LJD district president, seven elected local body officials, and 25 serving State committee members. “They will follow us into the CPI(M),” he said. Mr. Harris said that under Mr. Kumar’s leadership, the LJD had become an irrelevant political entity with no direction. Mr. Kumar had sacrificed the party’s welfare at the altar of his business interests. The late LJD leader and Mr. Kumar’s father M.P. Veerendrakumar had balanced both, he said. On socialist parties Mr. Harris said socialist parties in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, and Bihar had degenerated into a dynastic business. People had rejected ‘family rule.’ The situation was not different in Kerala. Moreover, socialist parties seemed little concerned about people’s livelihood and were focussed on political power alone. The leaders did not hazard any conjecture about whether they had the backing of LJD’s sole legislator K.P. Mohanan. He represents the Koothuparamba constituency in Kannur. Talks with Kodiyeri Before meeting the press, the expelled LJD leaders had held several rounds of talks with CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. The LJD had been tottering on the brink of a split for several months. The anti-Kumar faction had opposed his ‘corporate style’ of functioning. Mr. Kumar has summoned LJD’s State committee for a conference in Kochi on December 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expelled-ljd-leaders-to-work-in-tandem-with-cpim/article38001737.ece
21 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 2,230 new cases||The State logged 2,230 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 39,826 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 52,19,819 cases. The active case pool has now shrunk to 28,724 patients, of whom 8.8% are currently admitted to hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. A total of 3,722 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Monday. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 44,922 as on Monday with the State adding 419 deaths to the official list on the day. These include 14 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 405 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by families. The number of deaths added to the official COVID fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise has now reached 14,768. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals was 513 on Monday, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support was 208 on the day. Hospitalisations down On Monday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with the disease was 193. Hospitalisations have been going down steadily. However, the number of persons being treated for moderate or severe disease in hospitals has shown a spike for the past two days and now stands at 4,238 cases Most cases Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 439, followed by Ernakulam 397, Kozhikode 259, Kottayam 177, Kollam 171, Kannur 161, Thrissur 120, Pathanamthitta 116, Alappuzha 86, Malappuram 80, Palakkad 73, Idukki 61, Wayanad 46, and Kasaragod 44 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-2230-new-cases/article38001738.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Key conspirator in Sudheesh murder held||Bringing an end to a massive manhunt that lasted 10 days, the Thiruvananthapuram Rural police nabbed the key conspirator in the murder of 32-year old Sudheesh in Pothencode on Monday. The second accused in the case, Rajesh alias ‘Ottakam’ Rajesh, 33, of Azhoor in Chirayinkeezhu was apprehended by the investigators from the KSRTC bus station in Kollam during the wee hours of the day. With his arrest, all the 11 people who are suspected to have direct involvement in the murder have been brought to book. Rajesh was apprehended two days after a civil police officer, S. Balu, attached to the Special Armed Police (SAP) camp had drowned while a team had gone in his pursuit to an island near Varkala. To Palani Shortly after the demise, the investigation team received a tip-off that the accused had fled to Palani from where he contacted a friend. However, the notorious gangster, who is involved in 28 criminal cases, fled from the place fearing the possibility of getting caught. Later, he reached Ernakulam from where he contacted the same friend using a stranger’s phone. Anticipating his return to Thiruvananthapuram to surrender at a court, the police established contact with KSRTC officials in Kochi. Their suspicion proved to be right as the accused boarded an Ernakulam – Kattakada Superfast bus. He was apprehended soon after the bus reached Kollam. After interrogating him in the Varkala police station, his arrest was subsequently recorded in the Pothencode police station. A team led by Pothencode station house officer K. Shyam took the accused to recover a machete from Sasthavattam in Chirayinkeezhu. The weapon is suspected to have been used to murder Kalloor native Sudheesh. He was subsequently remanded to judicial custody. While nearly 50 police officers were deployed to apprehend Rajesh, nearly 40 others were stationed in the vicinity of six courts in the district to prevent him from surrendering, sources said. The investigation team was led by District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram rural) P.K. Madhu and Nedumangad Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Raj Prasad. Conspiracy angle Sanjaykumar Gurudin, Deputy Inspector General, Thiruvananthapruam Range, said the police will interrogate the accused to probe the conspiracy angle. The possibility of the involvement of more people will also be investigated. He added preventive action has also been adopted in anticipation of further retaliation in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manhunt-ends-as-key-plotter-in-pothencode-murder-case-held/article38001730.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for vandalising vehicles in Balaramapuram||The Balaramapuram police on Monday apprehended a youth for allegedly vandalising numerous vehicles and attacking two people. Efforts were on to nab his accomplice. The police identified the accused as Mithun of Naruvamoodu. He is learnt to have been under the influence of narcotic substances when the duo unleashed violence in parts of Balaramapuram, Eruthavoor and Russelpuram around 2 p.m. Two hacked They vandalised nine lorries, three cars and four motorcycles using a machete and other objects. They also hacked two people, Jayachandran and Sheebakumari, while they were passing by the area. Their injuries are not critical, the police said. While the duo abandoned their motorcycle while fleeing to evade arrest, the police managed to apprehend Mithun. The circumstances behind the attack were yet to be known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-vandalising-vehicles-in-balaramapuram/article38001865.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||T.N. native held with unaccounted money||Excise officials on Monday apprehended a Tamil Nadu native with alleged possession of unaccounted money of over Rs. 70 lakh on a KSRTC bus at Kaliyikkavila on Monday. Adam, 42, of Pudhupettai in Chennai was caught by the Excise team while he was travelling on a Thiruvananthapuram-bound bus that came from Nagercoil, sources said here. Tasked with preventing drug inflow during the Christmas-New Year festive season, the officials searched the bus as it reached the Padanthalumoodu check-post near the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border around 11 a.m., official sources said. Foreign currency Around Rs. 72 lakh without proper documents was purportedly found in his bag. Foreign currency was also reportedly seized. He was handed over to the Kaliyikkavila police in Tamil Nadu for initiating legal action. The accused was yet to divulge details of the intended recipient of the consignment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-native-held-with-unaccounted-money/article38001866.ece
21 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister appeals to all to get vaccinated||In the background of an impending COVID-19 surge because of Omicron spread, people who are yet to get vaccinated against COVID-19 should do so immediately, Health Minister Veena George has appealed. There is no vaccine shortage in the State like before and at present, the State has a buffer stock of 11 lakh doses of vaccines. Vaccination facilities in Government hospitals are not crowded and people should make use of this opportunity to complete their vaccination, she said. Second dose Those who are due for the second dose should complete the vaccination as soon as possible. The second dose of Covishield should be taken between 84-116 days and Covaxin, between 28-42 days. People should not show any hesitancy in completing the vaccination as two doses within the prescribed time frame are necessary to build immunity. COVID disease severity, ICU occupancy/hospitalisation and death has been seen to be less in the vaccinated population. It is important that everyone in the community are protected with vaccines so that the intensity of a possible third wave of COVID-19 can be minimised, Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-appeals-to-all-to-get-vaccinated/article38001650.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWC member for change in marriage age||M.S. Thara, member, Kerala Women's Commission (KWC), has advised a change in the legal age of marriage of both women and men. She was speaking after inaugurating Sthree Abhiman, a programme organised in connection with the State conference of the Kerala Agricultural Ministerial Staff Federation (KAMSF) here. Drawing attention to the current debate on revising the legal age of marriage of women from 18 to 21, she said a controversy over mere numbers should be avoided. In addition to financial security, both women and men should also have developed the self-confidence to face life's situations before they enter family life. A woman becomes prepared and conditioned for married life after the age of 23.  For men Likewise, men also reach that stage between the ages of 25 and 27, she pointed out. KAMSF State president N. K. Satheesh, general secretary Satheesh Kandala, vice president Devi Krishna and other leaders were presentat the meet. The State committee meeting of the KAMSF will be held on Tuesday. Agriculture Minister P. Prasad will inaugurate the delegates' meet on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwc-member-for-change-in-marriage-age/article38001860.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister to open KAT anniversary fete today||Minister for Law and Industries P. Rajeeve will inaugurate the 10th anniversary celebrations of the Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) here on Tuesday. KAT chairman C.K. Abdul Rehim will preside over the function that will be held at Mascot Hotel in the capital around 4.30 p.m. Kerala Lok Ayukta Cyriac Joseph will be the chief guest on the occasion. Advocate General K. Gopalakrishna Kurup will also participate. The KAT, which had come into existence on August 26, 2010, has disposed of nearly 43,000 cases pertaining to disputes and complaints by government employees and their service conditions, municipal common services and panchayats, and others. Around 9,500 cases were currently pending before the tribunal. It has two additional benches in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-inaugurate-kat-anniversary-fete/article38001731.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman found dead at hollow bricks unit||In a suspected case of suicide, a 48-year-old woman was found hanging in her hollow bricks and interlocking tiles manufacturing unit at Vilappilsala on Monday. The Vilappilsala police identified the deceased as Raji Sivan of Nedumkuzhy. She was found hanging in a shed adjacent to the unit around 5.30 a.m. The police said financial hardship could have prompted Raji to take the extreme step. She is known to have outstanding dues amounting to several lakhs of rupees. With the COVID-19 pandemic pushing her business to near closure, she had hoped to repay the loans by surrendering nearly 25 cents of land towards the land acquisition being undertaken for the permanent campus of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University at Vilappilsala. With her plot figuring among the 100 acres of land identified for acquisition, the revenue authorities had collected her land documents a year ago. However, the government later decided to acquire only 50 acres initially. With this, her plot was excluded from the list of plots to be acquired. The delay on the part of the revenue authorities in returning her land documents apparently prevented her from pledging or selling the plot to repay the dues. She is survived by her husband and son. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471 – 2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-found-dead-at-hollow-bricks-unit/article38001859.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||439 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 439 COVID-19 cases and 681 recoveries as the active caseload fell to 5,282 on Monday. The test positivity rate stood at 8.1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/439-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article38001864.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Date extended||Special camps for disbursing ex gratia assistance of Rs. 50,000 to the kin of people who have died of COVID-19 have been extended up to December 22, the District Collector said on Monday. Organised at taluk offices, the camps are led by Tahsildars. Applicants can apply in person at the taluk offices and village offices or online on relief.kerala.gov.in. The application should be accompanied by copies of the death certificate/death certificate issued by the ICMR or death declaration and other documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/date-extended/article38001868.ece
21 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Be alert against online scams, KSEB tells consumers||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has warned consumers to be on guard against online scams designed to steal sensitive personal information by impersonating KSEB officials. The State power utility said on Monday that electricity consumers were receiving fake messages warning them that their electricity connection will be cut if power bill payments were not made immediately or if the consumer numbers are not linked to Aadhaar. The messages also carry a mobile phone number. On dialling it, the victim is asked to download an app and gets tricked into revealing bank account-related information which could result in money being stolen from the account. Genuine messages The KSEB has asked its consumers not to respond to such messages. Genuine messages sent by the KSEB contain the 13-digit consumer number, the name of the electrical section, the bill payment deadline, and the link for online payments. KSEB officials never ask for personal details such as the bank account number or OTP. The KSEB has also asked its consumers to immediately contact the power utility on the customer care toll-free number 1912 or the nearest KSEB section office if they receive suspicious messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-warns-against-online-scams/article38001648.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A space to unwind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-space-to-unwind/article38001671.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making a splash||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-a-splash/article38001653.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Graceful steps||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/graceful-steps/article38001715.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Devotional touch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devotional-touch/article38001728.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fired-up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fired-up/article38001863.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article38001872.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Thiruvathira glow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvathira-glow/article38001812.ece
21 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agricultural research should reach farmers at the field level: Minister||The agriculture research must focus on ways and means to help the farmers withstand the vagaries of weather, said Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana while inaugurating a kisan mela at the Agriculture Research Station(ARS) at Rekulakunta in Anantapur district on Monday. Research on new agri technologies, soil conservation, and varieties of seeds must reach the farmer at the field level so that they can prepare themselves better in the event of excess rainfall or drought, the Minister said. “Value addition to the existing crops is the best solution for farmers to improve their per-unit income. With millets in good demand, farmers in dryland areas such as Anantapur can grow the crop to earn some money,” Mr. Sankaranarayana said. The State government was with the farmer at every step, right from providing the in-put under ‘Rythu Bharosa’ to providing seeds and other necessary material through the Rythu Bharosa Kendras, the Minister pointed out. Singanamala MLA Jonnalagadda Padmavathi congratulated the ARS Scientists on coming out with new varieties of groundnut and jowar and providing new technologies, of which two were on display on Monday. The dignitaries watched the demonstration of hydroponics, and artificial intelligence-guided tractors, that can work in the field driverless. In all, 65 stalls of private companies and government agencies were set up in the mela where about 2,000 farmers and students from various parts of the district participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agricultural-research-should-reach-farmers-at-the-field-level-minister/article38001359.ece
21 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fill vacancies in Kendriya Vidyalaya, MP tells Commissioner||Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav on Monday met Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghatan Commissioner Nidhi Pandey requesting her to immediately fill 14 out of 23 vacancies in the Kendriya Vidyalaya on Sri Krishnadeveraya University Campus in Anantapur, which were lying vacant for the past 18 months. The MP later met Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan also to impress upon him to take immediate action to fill the vacancies. “A letter was sent to the Commissioner of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan on June 9 this year highlighting the issue, but no action was taken, hence I am forced to meet the officials and the Education Minister to save the academic year of the students,” Mr. Madhav said. Immediate steps are needed for the posting of regular principal along with the teachers (T.G.T’s) in Mathematics, English, Hindi, Social studies, Sanskrit, Art Education, TGT (Physical and Health Education), and primary teachers for this academic year, the letter said. The MP took serious note of the issue afrer a group of parents of children studying in the school had complained to him about the staff crunch. The plus two sections were closed before 2017 as there were no teachers and now even classes 1 to 10 were facing an acute shortage of teachers and many students were forced to take the transfer certificate and shift to other schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fill-vacancies-in-kendriya-vidyalaya-mp-tells-commissioner/article38001362.ece
21 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Library to come up at District Police Office||The District Police Office here will soon have a library and also start coaching classes for UPSC aspirants, said Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli here on Monday. The new facility will be formally opened on December 25 on the Police Conference Hall premises and access will be given to the online study material and books to the students. On the inaugural day, all the IAS and IPS officers in Anantapur district will attend the function and share valuable tips on how to prepare for the UPSC examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/library-to-come-up-at-district-police-office/article38001360.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bommai slams violence, statue desecration||Terming the violence and statue desecreation related to the Karnataka-Maharashtra border row as “anti-national”, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday announced that the culprits would be booked under the Sedition Act and the Goonda Act, even as the State legislature passed a unanimous resolution condemning violence. “This is an anti-national act conspiring to bring enmity between States. Sedition cases will be booked against the culprits and the Goonda Act will be slapped on people and organisations that are behind these violence. We have arrested the conspirators also and the track record of all the culprits are being monitored,” Mr. Bommai told the Legislative Assembly as he moved the resolution. “This time we will just not arrest the culprits and allow them to go out on bail.” He also announced that statues of Kittur Rani Chennamma and Sangolli Rayanna would be installed on the premises of Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi. The Chief Minister’s announcement came during the discussion on burning of Kannada flag, descecration of Sangolli Rayanna statue in Belagavi and the Chhatrapathi Shivaji statue in Bengaluru over the last one week, which resulted in violence. Following the burning of the flag at Kolhapur on Tuesday, the Janata Dal (Secular) had raised the issue. A similar resolution was also passed in the Legislative Council. “Descecration of statues has become a trend and they are pre-planned incidents. Border issue has turned into political capital in Maharashtra. This is not the problem of people and there is no trust deficit among people of both the States,” he said. Stating that Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) had derived political success by creating instability and law and order problems, he said: “MES is not getting support like in the past. People have rejected it, but it is trying to revive itself. Maharashtra is also trying to keep the border issue alive,” the Chief Minister said, adding that there was no scope for discussion or compromise on the border row. The resolution, which will be sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs, said that Karnataka wished to have cordial relations and these untoward incidents should be stopped. Despite the State accepting Mahajan Commission report as final, some persons were trying disrupt law and order, the Chief Minister said. On the demand for banning MES coming from the Opposition, Mr. Bommai said that the Government would take steps if it was feasible under the law to ban the organisation. Stating that the DGP and Chief Secretary had already spoken to their counterparts, the Chief Minister said: “I will also speak to Maharashtra Chief Minister seeking action against the culprits.” Earlier, Opposition members, including Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, D.K. Shivakumar, H.K. Patil, and K. Annadani spoke on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bommai-slams-violence-statue-desecration/article38001290.ece
21 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anti-conversion Bill gets Karnataka Cabinet’s nod||The Cabinet on Monday cleared the contentious anti-conversion Bill, The Karnataka Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021. It is likely to be tabled in the ongoing legislature session on Tuesday, according to sources. The Bill envisages stringent provisions for forced or induced conversion. It prohibits conversion from one religion to another by “misrepresentation, force, fraud, undue influence, coercion, allurement or marriage”. It says that any aggrieved person, parents, brother, sister or any other person related by blood, marriage or adoption can file a first information report against such an act. It has penal provisions that states that imprisonment will not be less than three years and can extend up to 10 years, and fine ranges from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 10 lakh. Earlier in the day, speaking at a convention of the Vishwa Hindu Parishat in the border city, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai reiterated that the State Government was committed to stopping conversion by force or fraud. He claimed that innocent people across the State were being converted by some people who offered money and other inducements to the poor and the backward classes.  At a convention of the Vishwa Hindu Parishat in the border city, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai reiterated that the State Government was committed to stopping conversion by force or fraud. He claimed that innocent people across the State were being converted by some people who offered money and other inducements to the poor and the backward classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-conversion-bill-gets-karnataka-cabinets-nod/article38001298.ece
21 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka registers 5 new cases||Karnataka recorded five more cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 on December 19, in addition to the 14 reported earlier. This takes the total number of Omicron-infected patients to 19 in Karnataka, reported from Bengaluru, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Udupi and Shivamogga districts. Many among the those infected are fully vaccinated with no travel history. All have either mild symptoms or are asymptomatic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-registers-5-new-cases/article38001307.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||India, Sri Lanka fishers’ talks may resume||The Tamil Nadu government, which is keen on resolving the long-standing conflict in the Palk Bay, has been asked by the External Affairs Ministry to submit a list of probable participants from the fishing community in the State and tentative dates for the proposed talks between its fisherfolk and that of the Northern Province in Sri Lanka. Reply soon “We will be shortly sending our reply,” said sources in the government. Also, in response to another request of the State government for a meeting of the India-Sri Lanka Joint Working Group (JWG) on Fisheries, the Ministry, about a week ago, informed the former that it had recently addressed the matter with the neighbouring country. The proposed talks hold significance against the backdrop of the arrest of 55 Tamil Nadu fishermen and seizure of eight trawlers by the Sri Lankan Navy on Sunday. Fishermen in Rameswaram staged a protest on Monday demanding the release of the arrested members. While the last round of the fishermen-level talks took place in New Delhi in November 2016, the JWG met in December 2020 through virtual mode. Between 2010 and 2016, several rounds of meetings between the representatives of the fisherfolk from the two countries were held. The Joint Working Group held four meetings since December 2016. In September 2020, during the virtual bilateral summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa agreed to “continue engagement to address the issues related to fishermen through regular consultation and bilateral channels.” For the five to six months, the State government had been following up with the Centre both in respect of the fishermen-level talks and the JWG meeting, the sources point out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fisherfolks-talks-may-resume/article38001414.ece
21 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension after Jagan’s birthday flexies torn down in Puttur||Tension prevailed in Puttur town on Monday when the flexies arranged to greet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the eve of his birthday were torn down by unidentified persons in the early hours of Monday. According to information, Nagari MLA R.K. Roja’s supporters had erected huge flexies at Ambedkar Statue circle on Sunday night, with images of Roja and other local leaders. In the early hours, the damage to the flexies was detected, leading to commotion among the party cadres, who started rushing to the local police station in batches. For about half an hour, traffic on the busy Tirupati-Chennai national highway, in front of the police station, came to a grinding halt with protestors blocking it. Groupism among the YSRCP cadres is believed to be the reason behind the act. A police officer on condition of anonymity said that in all the mandals of Nagari Assembly constituency, the party cadres were split into two groups. Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant said that a case was registered and further investigation is on. “While erecting the big flexies, the workers had completely blocked the view of a vital CC camera, which made identification of the offenders difficult. By using blades, the accused had ripped the publicity material,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-after-jagans-birthday-flexies-torn-down-in-puttur/article38001365.ece
21 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 red sanders logs seized in Kadapa||The Rayachoti sub-division police arrested two red sanders smuggling operatives from Tamil Nadu at Guvvalacheruvu forest location under Ramapuram police station limits in Kadapa district on Monday. Superintendent of Police (Kadapa) K.K.N. Anburajan told the media that due to the intensified vigil at vital entry and exit points at forest fringe villages, the recent activity had come to light. The arrested duo had belonged to a batch from Vellore district. The police seized 18 logs, two cars, three fake number plates, some saw blades and axes from the spot. Special teams formed A case was registered and special parties were formed to track the elusive offenders. The SP appreciated the sub-division police for accomplishing the task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-red-sanders-logs-seized-in-kadapa/article38001366.ece
21 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police sports meet begins in Chittoor||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar inaugurated the four-day Chittoor District Police Sports and Games meet-2021 at the Police Training College grounds here on Monday. The SP said that the annual sports meets would play a key role in boosting the morale of the police personnel who serve society under some of the toughest and highly-stressed work conditions. He said that such meets would promote a healthy trend of brotherhood and sportive nature among the personnel. “To be able to render their best to the department and the public, the police personnel should strive to keep themselves physically and mentally fit. In case of any stressful conditions, they should bring it to the notice of their higher officials,” he said. Earlier, the SP had an introductory session with the team members and took guard of honour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-sports-meet-begins-in-chittoor/article38001363.ece
21 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to launch OTS scheme today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the ‘Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku’ (One-Time Settlement scheme) in Tanuku of West Godavari district, on Tuesday. The scheme, which will provide permanent registration to owners of plots/houses, was promoted by the A.P. State Housing Corporation and other housing schemes and will benefit 52 lakh beneficiaries across the State, according to the government. The scheme is expected to waive off all loans and their interest on government-sanctioned homes and provide full rights on the property with the payment of a nominal amount. The nominal amount is fixed as Rs. 10,000 in villages, Rs. 15,000 in municipalities and Rs. 20,000 in municipal corporations. Similarly, people who have built houses in government-allotted lands with their own money and do not enjoy full rights can avail registration by paying just Rs. 10 and secure their property. Under the OTS scheme, the State government will be spending Rs. 16,000 crore, including the loan waiver and exemption of registration fees. The beneficiaries will have dwelling, mortgage and transfer rights according to the government. Post registration, the property will be removed from the prohibited lands under Section 22 (A) and the beneficiary can carry out any legal transaction without any hurdles. Also, to ease the registration process, beneficiaries can register their property at the village and ward secretariats at no additional cost. With this document registration, the beneficiary will not require any linked documents to carry out any transactions related to the property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-launch-ots-scheme-today/article38001292.ece
21 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Curse of Bhuvaneswari will fall on Naidu’||Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) on Monday created a flutter when he said that Nara Bhuvaneswari’s curse would definitely fall on her husband and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who “intentionally made politics by using her name” and blamed the government. He said that Naidu would lose his Opposition leader status too in the coming elections. The Minister told the media here that Mr. Naidu dragged her name into the controversy and tried to get sympathy. On paddy procurement, the Minister said that the government would purchase till the last grain of paddy was exhausted through RBKs without any hassle to farmers. He said payments would be made within 21 days of procurement. Andhra Pradesh government had been purchasing the produce directly from farmers despite difficulties, while even Centre and neighbouring States were backing off, he said. The Minister hailed the Electoral Reforms Bill passed in Parliament and said it would reduce the number of fake votes. With regard to banks offering loans to the government, he said that all the loans were being given after a thorough examination of the financial situation and investments, but not just by looking at the faces of Chandrababu Naidu or the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curse-of-bhuvaneswari-will-fall-on-naidu/article38001799.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free Wi-Fi extended to 588 stations in SCR zone||South Central Railway (SCR) has extended free Wi-Fi facility to as many as 588 railway stations and around 6,000 route km of network is now covered with Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) for this huge task to turn them into hubs of digital inclusion. The stations covered include 30 major ones and 558 medium and small ones. People visiting the railway stations can use this facility for streaming HD videos, download movies, songs, games, and even do their office work online. Students and other competitive exam aspirants from remote locations with limited access to Internet can also make use of the station Wi-Fi facilities for their preparations. Passengers are also using this facility for leveraging entertainments on their personal devices. Good response Feedback from passengers at Secunderabad, Kacheguda, Vijayawada, Tirupati, Guntur, Nanded and other stations showed that it provided ‘excellent’ connectivity, seamless data access and proved to be a great facility for passengers, a press release said. The free Wi-Fi service is accessible with a smartphone and a working mobile connection. The Wi-Fi is free for the first 30 minutes of usage every day at 1 mbps speed; thereafter, one has the option to extend the same by paying nominal user charges online. SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya said the digital initiatives implemented by Railways are beneficial to all rail users in providing comfort and convenience. He congratulated the signal and telecmmunication department officials, Rail Tel officials and other staff for their efforts, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-wi-fi-extended-to-588-stations-in-scr-zone/article38001289.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Improvising COVID testing tools to detect Omicron||Council Of Scientific And Industrial Research–Centre For Cellular And Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB) is working on specific primers for improving the current COVID-19 testing methods like the RT-PCR where the emerging Omicran variant can be identified. “We are working on a few sets of primers, but we have to test them extensively and validate them, before we can put them out so that a positive patient can know if it is the current dominant Delta variant or the new Omicron,” said director Vinay Kumar Nandicoori. “As per the data available, Delta is still dominant across the country. Whether Omicron will replace it, we will see in the coming days. We should know that in South Africa where it was first detected, the Delta wave was waning when this new variant took over, which shows better infectivity and naturally, the unvaccinated are prone to get infections than others,” he explained. In an exclusive interaction, Dr. Nandicoori emphasised that vaccines do provide protection and the focus in our country should be on vaccinating the remaining 22% population with double doses. “There are going to be fatalities among the double vaccinated also but the numbers are much less when compared to those unvaccinated. I would urge people not to get alarmed, but follow COVID protocols. Panic is not going to work but precautions would,” he asserted. The top scientist said while the immune escape ability of Omicron is higher, its severity and pathogenicity appear to be lower than Delta, which also had immune escape features. “There is alarm because of the 32-37 mutations on the spike protein alone and some are already known to escape the immune response,” he said. Studies, thus far, have shown existing antibodies due to prior infection to vaccines offer lower protection for Omicron when compared to Delta, but it is not as if the “immunity is non-existent”. “The response will vary from patient to patient depending on many parameters, however, we should know that in addition to B-mediated immunity, which produces the antibodies, we also have T-Cell immunity. Current knowledge suggests there is still some protective cover,” he explained. While he does not want to ‘speculate’ on how the Omicron infection could pan out, he pointed to the United Kingdom example where the first round of infections led to several deaths and when Delta ravaged, the fatalities were not that high. “It shows vaccines do protect from severity and this is different from testing positive due to symptoms on getting infected. We should be looking into how many were hospitalised and the number of deaths,” he said. India having experienced the worst second ‘Delta’ wave with significant vaccination status among the population and hybrid immunity considering 70-90% population are ‘sero-positive’ — infected or vaccinated or both infected and vaccinated, there is some room for hope. “But, it is an emerging thing and too soon to say anything even if the South African experience shows hospitalisations and deaths are lower. We will have a lot more information in a few days,” he said. Apart from increasing testing, more genome sequencing from cases among the general population will give a realistic picture of an impending wave, added Dr. Nandicoori.  Omicron shows better infectivity and naturally, the unvaccinated are prone to get infected more than others. Vinay Kumar Nandicoori, Director, CCMB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/improvising-covid-testing-tools/article38001300.ece
21 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leader’s son found dead||R. Vishnu Sai Reddy (24), the son of a YSRCP leader, was found dead near the Kadapa railway station. Mr. Reddy, a student of M.S. in London, was the son of YSRCP leader and Forest Department director R. Srilakshmi, belonging to Ramanapalli village of Chennur mandal. He had returned home recently and was preparing to go back to London to pursue his studies when the incident happened. It is learnt that he had spent the Sunday night with his friends, and had not returned home. His body was found by local people on the railway track near Fatima college, which sent shock waves across the district. Railway police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-leaders-son-found-dead/article38001803.ece
21 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stop mining near Buddhist site, ASI urges State govt.||The Archaeological Survey of India (Kakinada Sub-Circle) has appealed to the State government to stop mining on Turakula Konda near the Kondavali Buddhist site, located in Gollaprolu mandal of East Godavari district. Revenue authorities have reportedly issued a No-Objection Certificate (NOC) to a Guntur-based individual for the proposed mining, reportedly for laterite, on the Turakula hill. The proposed mining area is located only 357 metres from a third century Buddhist site at Kondavali. “The protected Buddhist monument is part of survey number 133/1, which is classified as ‘Turakula Konda’ in the revenue records. The monument is spread over 1.8 acres. Recently, Kondavali village secretariat has issued an NOC for mining operations in the area falling in survey number 133/1,” according to ASI (Kakinada Sub-Circle) conservation assistant K.V.V.S.N. Murthy. On December 16, Mr. Murthy wrote to the Gollaprolu tahsildar, urging him to stop the mining activity near the protected monument. Letter to Chief Secretary Former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma has written to Chief Secretary Sameer Sarma, alleging collusion among different departments of the government, including Mines and Revenue Departments in recommending mining activity. “Laterite mining will not only taint the remains but also threaten the stability of the structure. In any case, an investigation should be ordered to ascertain the circumstances under which laterite mining has been allowed near the Buddhist site,” Mr. Sarma said, adding that it was surprising how permission was accorded for mining even as locals were up in arms over the activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-mining-near-buddhist-site-asi-urges-state-govt/article38001293.ece
21 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM nod sought for cockfights, bull races||Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham on Monday appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to grant five-day permanent permission for conducting cockfights and bull races in the Godavari region during Sankranti and Ugadi celebrations. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Padmanabham said the cockfights and bull races are not as dangerous as Tamil Nadu’s Jallikattu festival. “Since 1978, police authorities have allowed the conduct of cockfights and bull races officially during the Sankranti and Ugadi festivals. In recent years, permission is being granted at the eleventh hour,” Mr. Padmanabham said. “Putting people behind bars during the festival is not a good initiative. A permanent guideline permitting the conduct of cockfights and bull races for the five days will enable people to celebrate the festivals in a grand manner,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-nod-sought-for-cockfights-bull-races/article38001801.ece
21 December 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three therapists from Kerala feared drowned in Telangana||An evening stroll along the NSP canal at Danavaigudem in Telangana’s Khammam turned tragic for three Ayurveda therapists from Kerala on Sunday evening as they were swept away by swirling waters in the canal. The trio were feared drowned in the irrigation canal. They were identified as Sonu Parakal, Abhay and Vivek. Sources said that Mr. Parakal along with his 11-year-old son Sharon and five others had gone to the NSP canal for an evening stroll. The incident occurred when Sharon accidentally slipped into the canal. Sonu, Abhay and Vivek rushed to his rescue but the trio drowned one after another. Pradeep, an Ayurveda therapist who accompanied them, rescued the boy. "Sony’s last words ‘please save my son’ still ring in my ears," Mr. Pradeep said while recounting the tragic incident. Speaking to The Hindu , he said, "I have seen Sony making desperate attempts to save his son before going down in the huge volume of waters flowing in the canal. Alerted by local persons, the Khanapuram Haveli police reached the spot and launched a search operation but could not trace the trio. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh joined the search operation on Monday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-therapists-from-kerala-feared-drowned-in-telangana/article38001302.ece
21 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will accept decision on marriage age’||Cardinal George Alencherry, president of the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council, said here on Monday that the Catholic Church would accept any decision by the government on the age of marriage for women. The Church would abide by the law of the land and there would be absolutely no opposition to the government decision, he added. He was speaking at an interaction with mediapersons at a programme organised to mark the beginning of the Christmas season at the Pastoral Orientation Centre in Kochi. He was answering questions related to the proposed raising of marriage age of women in the country to 21 years. He said the canon law allowed the marriage of women from the age of 18. But that would not stand in the way of the Catholic Church willingly accepting a decision by the government. Alappuzha murders He said the murder of two persons in Alappuzha should not be portrayed as religious rivalry. He called the murders most shocking and appealed to the media, police, and government agencies not to allow political murders to create divide between religious groups. The Cardinal said a decision by the Syro-Malabar Church synod on celebration of the Mass was expected to be implemented across the dioceses by Easter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-accept-decision-on-marriage-age/article38001297.ece
21 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to visit Kurnool tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will visit the city on Wednesday to attend the wedding of Panyam legislator Katasani Rambhupal Reddy’s son Katasani Siva Narasimha Reddy. District Collector P. Koteswara Rao and Superintendent of Police Ch. Sudheer Kumar Reddy conducted a joint inspection of the arrangements at the Orvakal Airport, the helipad in Montessori School at Panchalingala, and the wedding venue ahead of the Chief Minister’s arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-visit-kurnool-tomorrow/article38001802.ece
21 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leader thrashed for ‘outburst’||A local YSRCP leader G. Subba Rao was allegedly thrashed by a group of party activists for his reported observations against some party leaders. A video of Mr. Subba Rao speaking out against party leaders went viral, after which a group of activists claiming to be supporters of Energy Minister Balineni Srinivas Reddy allegedly thrashed him. Meanwhile, Mr. Srinivas Reddy told reporters that immediately after coming to know of the incident, he called up his supporters and ordered them to stop assaulting Mr. Subba Rao. The Minister also expressed suspicion if TDP State vice-president and former Ongole MLA Damacharla Janardhana Rao might have instigated Mr. Subba Rao to make the allegations to speak in such a manner. Meanwhile, Ongole police registered a case and have launched an investigation into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-leader-thrashed-for-outburst/article38001804.ece
21 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rejuvenate Cong. from booth level’||All India Congress Committee general secretary Koppula Raju on Monday said that people were keen to vote for the Congress party in the next general elections as they were fed up with the policies of both Union and State governments. Mr. Koppula Raju was the chief guest for the training programme conducted for mandal presidents of the party from the North Andhra region. He directed the party leaders to rejuvenate the party from booth level by appointing local committees. PCC president Sake Sailajanath, Srikakulam DCC president Boddepalli Satyavati, Vizianagaram DCC president Saragada Ramesh Kumar, Vizianagaram City Congress president Sunkari Satish Kumar and other leaders were present in the training session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rejuvenate-cong-from-booth-level/article38001833.ece
21 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amid tensions, Kerala police put on alert||Communally sensitive localities in Kerala remained on edge after the targeted political killings in Alappuzha put BJP and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) workers at loggerheads for the second consecutive day on Monday. The tense situation prompted State Police Chief Anil Kant to restrict public protests and use of loudspeakers. Mr. Kant has cancelled the leave of officers. He has asked officers from non-uniformed units to ready themselves for rapid law and order deployment. Law and order officers should be at their posts round the clock. The police have posted pickets in trouble spots. They have placed BJP and SDPI offices under protective surveillance. Plainclothes squads are afoot to execute pending arrest warrants and detain instigators. The police are monitoring social media platforms for incendiary messages. Meanwhile, the CPI(M) has said two religiously opposed fanatical forces aim to instigate a communal conflagration in the State. They are using the social media to spread hate and falsehoods. The forces behind the fraught situation are attempting to punch holes in the Left Democratic Front government’s law and order record. For one, BJP president J.P. Nadda had called Kerala a lawless State. Congress leaders have echoed the falsehood, the CPI(M) said. The brazenly communal outfits responsible for the tit-for-tat political slaying in Alappuzha have attempted to undermine the State’s storied secular tradition, the CPI(M) said. Meanwhile, the government postponed the inter-party peace meeting in Alappuzha to Tuesday. BJP State president K. Surendran said his party would not turn its back on peace initiatives. However, the police are highly partisan and politically prejudiced against the BJP. They favour the SDPI, he charged. Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had outsourced police station functioning to local CPI(M) satraps. Union Minister’s charge In Kochi, Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai alleged that the Kerala government was protecting criminals involved in the murder of BJP workers. Referring to the killing of BJP leader Ranjith Sreenivas in Alappuzha on Sunday, Mr. Rai said the government should carry out a proper investigation to nab the culprits. Democratic principles had been thrown to the winds, he said.  (With inputs from Kochi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amid-tensions-kerala-police-put-on-alert/article38001296.ece
21 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 4 new cases, Kerala’s Omicron count rises to 15||Four more cases of COVID-19 caused by the virus variant Omicron have been confirmed in Kerala, all cases being reported in the capital district Thiruvananthapuram, the State health department confirmed in an official release here on Monday. This takes the total number of Omicron cases in the State to 15. Of the new cases, three are contacts of a 17-year-old who arrived from the U.K. on December 9 and turned out to be Omicron-positive. They include the mother (41) and the grandmother (67) and one being a co-passenger on the same flight (27) of the person who tested COVID-positive while in quarantine on December 16. One new case is that of a 32-year-old who flew to the capital from Nigeria on December 17 and tested positive for COVID-19 at the test done at the airport here. The genomic sequencing of all samples was done at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here. Kerala had detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive.  Special Correspondent from  Karnataka recorded five more cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 on December 19, in addition to the 14 reported earlier.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-4-new-cases-keralas-omicron-count-rises-to-15/article38001294.ece
21 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Udayasthamana’ seva tickets for mega donors||The ‘Udayasthamana’ seva ticket, under which devotees can take part in all rituals performed inside the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala from dawn to dusk, would be bestowed on patrons donating Rs. 1 crore or above to the temple hundi, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) said. The donation would be used for the construction of a proposed paediatric super-specialty hospital in Tirupati in the vicinity of BIRRD, it is learnt. While devotees contributing Rs. 1 crore would be allowed to take part in all rituals from Suprabhatam to Ekantha seva at midnight on any day of the week except Friday once a year along with five family members, those contributing Rs. 1.50 crore would be permitted to avail the benefit on any day of the week including Friday, on which day ‘Abhishekam’ is offered to the deity. Donors would be allowed to avail the benefit once a year for 25 years. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said that the tickets would be made available online in order to ensure transparency in allotment and to enable devotees from across the world avail the offer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/udayasthamana-seva-tickets-for-mega-donors/article38001805.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attacks on doctors: IMA chief seeks stringent laws||Indian Medical Association (IMA) national president J.A. Jayalal has advocated the need for enhanced security cover to be given to medical professionals and stringent laws to prevent the spate of attacks on the fraternity. “Even as doctors across the country are trying hard to tame the pandemic by risking their own lives, it is unfortunate for them to be treated in this manner,” he said while addressing reporters on the sidelines of a two-day annual national conference of IMA’s Academy of Medical Specialties (IMA AMS NATCON 2021) on Monday. The protective legislative cover to safeguard frontline workers from the onslaught of family members of patients should look beyond the pandemic period, he observed. Dr. Jayalal also sought help for the families of doctors who succumbed to COVID-19 while treating patients. The IMA president appealed to the State government to lay enhanced focus on the health sector. He also urged the government to increase the annual health budget from the present 1.2% to 5%. Similarly, he also recommended the introduction of family medicine at all levels. Dr. Jayalal also suggested that online courses be embraced at a higher level to ensure that the doctors practising in rural areas get updated. Technical sessions and convocation were conducted later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/attacks-on-doctors-ima-chief-seeks-stringent-laws/article38001807.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Olympian Rajani receives Altroz car from Tata Motors||Star hockey player Rajani Etimarpu of Tirupati formally received the Tata Altroz car, in recognition of her performance in the recent Tokyo Olympics. The hatchback car offer was announced by Tata Motors to all the 24 Indian players who had participated in the Olympic games. While the other players were presented with the car at their respective home towns, Ms.Rajani formally received the same from Vijayabharathi Automobiles on Monday. The ace goalkeeper of the Indian women’s hockey team, hailing from Yerravaripalem mandal of Chittoor district, is the lone Olympian from Andhra Pradesh. She has been playing in the global arena from the International Hockey Federation’s (FIH) world hockey league in 2014-15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/olympian-rajani-receives-altroz-car-from-tata-motors/article38001369.ece
21 December 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Club organises free medical camp||Rotary Club of Tirupati conducted a medical camp at Kandur, a remote village in Chittoor district, in association with SV Aravind Eye Hospital, Tata Cancer Institute and Ajanta Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-club-organises-free-medical-camp/article38001370.ece
21 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja awards long serving staff||As part of its 36th foundation day, Tirupati-based Amara Raja group on Monday presented ‘Long Service Awards’ to the employees who served 25 and 30 years with the organisation. Conducted in hybrid mode, the event was attended by group founder Ramachandra N. Galla and Chairman Jayadev Galla, apart from the Executive Directors Harshavardhana Gourineni, Vikramadithya Gourineni, Ashok Galla and Siddharth Galla. As a mark of encouraging vaccination, the meet recognised the group companies that excelled in registering high number of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amara-raja-awards-long-serving-staff/article38001367.ece
21 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. committed to energy conservation’||Minister for Energy, Science and Technology, and Environment and Forests Balineni Srinivasa Reddy called upon members of Self-Helf Groups (SHGs) to spread the word on energy conservation starting with their family in order to achieve energy efficiency and help the State strengthen the power sector. Addressing the ‘Mega workshop on energy conservation to self-help group women’ and Energy Conservation Week awards ceremony here on Monday, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said that spreading the message of energy conservation through SHG members who are about one crore in number would be a big step forward in reducing the carbon footprint. The Minister said that the State government is committed to strengthening the power sector and has already saved over Rs. 2,500 crore by way of energy conservation so far. He said though the previous government borrowed over Rs. 70,000 crore on the power sector, the YSRCP government ensured that no burden is caused to the consumers. He said that over 7,500 linemen were recruited by the State government. Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said that the government ensured no power outages even as the country faced severe coal shortage recently. Mr. Reddy and Energy secretary N. Srikant presented the energy conservation week awards to winners from across the State. In energy conservation practices, Dalmia Cement, Kadapa won gold in the cement industries category while NSL Textiles won gold among the textile industries, Sailaja Plastics of Anantapur won gold in the MSME sector. Among the urban local bodies, Bobbili municipality of Vizianagaram won gold and the Electric Traction Training Centre of South Central Railway in Vijayawada won gold in the commercial buildings category. Koneru Lakshmaiah Educational Foundation won gold in the universities and educational institutions category. In the short video competition, students of SNMC Urdu Girls High School, Vijayawada received first prize while ZP High School, Turuvolu of Visakhapatnam bagged second prize while JMJ EM High School, Namburu, Guntur won third prize. In the slogan competition, students of JM EM High School, Nabumur of Guntur district won the first prize while Sri Guru Raja EM School, Kurnool and ZPHS Davajigudem of Krishna won second and third prizes respectively. SERP CEO A.Md. Imtiaz, MEPMA MD V. Vijaya Lakshmi, CPDCL chairman and managing director J. Padma Janardhan Reddy, AND AP State Energy Conservation Mission CEO A. Chandrasekhar Reddy took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-committed-to-energy-conservation/article38001903.ece
21 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims one life in State||The State reported one death due to COVID-19 and 75 infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning as only 21,211 samples were tested, according to a health bulletin released by the Health Department on Monday. The lone death was reported in Guntur district and three districts reported no fresh cases in the past day. The cumulative death toll and case tally increased to 14,480 and 20,75,879 respectively. The number of recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,59,882 and 99.2% as 154 patients recovered in the past day bringing down the active cases to 1,517. The daily test positivity rate was 0.35%. Visakhapatnam reported 17 infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (13), Guntur (10) Krishna (8), East Godavari (8), Kadapa (6), Nellore (5), Prakasam (3), Srikakulam (3) and Anantapur (2). Vizianagaram, Kurnool and West Godavari reported no infections in the past day, the bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-one-life-in-state/article38001797.ece
21 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ruling on movie tickets is applicable across State’||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has clarified that its orders that the cinema ticket fares be fixed in consultation with the Joint Collector (JC) concerned was applicable across the State. The High Court clarification comes in the wake of the State government’s contentions that the High Court orders would be applicable only to theatre owners who filed petitions opposing the G.O. 35. B. Adinarayana Rao, the advocate who represented the theatre managements on Monday, told the court that the Home Secretary asserted that the High Court orders would be applicable only to the petitioners. He also sought clarity from the High Court. In response to it, High Court Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy stated that the relaxation in pricing of movie tickets would apply to all exhibitors in the State. The matter was posted to Thursday as the advocate representing the Home Department sought more time to submit additional documents. It may be recalled that the State government issued G.O. 35 in April this year reducing the prices of cinema tickets in the State. The theatre managements moved the High Court opposing the government order, arguing that the Government Order was issued in violation of earlier orders by the court. A single-judge court has issued interim orders allowing the petitioners to sell the tickets at previous rates. The State government, subsequently, filed an appeal before the Division Bench, which directed the exhibitors to fix ticket fares in consultation with the Joint Collectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruling-on-movie-tickets-is-applicable-across-state/article38001808.ece
21 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police sports and games meet gets under way||Commissioner of Police Kanthi Rana Tata launched the three-day Vijayawada Police Sports and Games Meet-2021 at the city armed reserve grounds on Monday. Teams of Crime and CMS Zone, East Zone, Traffic Zone, West Zone, CAR and CSW Zone, and CPO Staff will compete in kabbadi, volleyball, tug of war, handball, basketball, throw ball, long jump, high jump, triple jump, shot-put, discus throw, javelin throw, hammer throw, running, and other sports and games. Mr. Rana said that the meet provides the much-needed respite for the policemen from hectic work. He said the meet would also remind everyone of the need for having a fit body. He said the winners of the unit-level competitions would compete at the State and national-level police sports meets. Earlier, Mr. Rana also played a few games while inaugurating the competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-sports-and-games-meet-gets-under-way/article38001905.ece
21 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students study effect of social media on youth||The students of the Visual Communication and Electronic Media department of the Andhra Loyola College threw light on the issues that have become a cause of concern for the society through their research work, documentaries and public service announcements. During the annual ‘Media Conference-2021’ held on the college premises on Monday, final year students presented research works on effects of social media on children and youth, the impact of cosmetics advertisement on young women, the effect of mobile games, fake news and social media on college-going students and the effect of COVID-19 on college students. As per the study done by Sandeep Sunkara and his team, people of 14-25 age group were frequenting social media sites once every half an hour to once in every three hours and were facing physical and mental issues like depression, lack of proper sleep and high anxiety levels. In his presentation, Mr. Sandeep said over 200 persons from four colleges in the city were interviewed for the research. Documentaries on the struggles of hearing-impaired persons, lockdown impact on the public, daily wage workers were screened during the day-long conference. Students also screened commercial ad films made for various business establishments in the city. Public service announcement videos portrayed the need for use of safety gear while driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-study-effect-of-social-media-on-youth/article38001901.ece
21 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eleven directors appointed to APIDC||Andhra Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation (APIDC) chairperson Bandi Nagendra Punyaseela said that an action plan was being prepared to strengthen APIDC which has been ‘ignored’ for the past 15 years. Ms. Punyaseela was speaking at the swearing-in ceremony of the eleven directors appointed to the corporation, at the APIDC office in the city on Monday. “Corporation offiicals will visit industries in various districts soon and prepare a report on the current situation of the industrial sector, which would be submitted to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” Ms. Punyaseela said. The newly-appointed directors include M. Adilakshmi, P. Nandakumar, J. Kumari, P. Srinivas Kumar, K. Sagar, S. Srinu, P. Divya, P. Hanumanth Reddy, R. Anuradha, K. Venkata Lakshmi and B. Bangaru Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eleven-directors-appointed-to-apidc/article38001906.ece
21 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to release one DA to employees||The State government issued an order (G.O. 99) releasing Dearness Allowance (DA) of 5.24% of basic pay with effect from July 1, 2019. The government revised the DA sanctioned to employees from 33.536% to 38.776%. Employees of zilla parishads, mandal parishads, gram panchayats, municipalities, municipal corporations, agricultural market committees (AMCs), Zilla Grandhalaya Samsthas, work-charged establishments, teaching and non-teaching staff of aided institutions including aided polytechnics, non-teaching staff of universities including A.P. Agricultural University, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University and Dr. YSR Horticultural University, who are under regular pay scale will benefit from this. Andhra Pradesh Government Employees Federation chairman K. Venkatarami Reddy thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the State government for taking steps to release the DA. The DA would be paid from January 2022 onwards. The DA arrears would be paid in three instalments from January 2022, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-release-one-da-to-employees/article38001809.ece
21 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop on vermicompost||Telugu Association of North America president L. Anjayya Chowdary inaugurated a workshop by vermicomposting expert M. Venkata Subba Rao at Labbipet in the city on Monday. The workshop takes up and promotes the conversion of organic waste generated in households into organic compost. The workshop is supported by Andhra Hospitals and the Rose Society of AP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-on-vermicompost/article38001907.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modern tech adopted to develop Naval Dockyard||Rear Admiral I.B. Uthaiah, Admiral Superintendent of Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has said that the yard is being developed into a smart dockyard with the adoption of automation, IoT, and undertaking repairs and refit in the minimum possible time and in-house development of ERP solutions for quick turnaround. Interacting with media persons, in connection with the golden jubilee celebrations of the yard, here, on Monday, Rear Admiral Uthaiah said that robotic crawlers would be deployed in certain works like peeling off the old paint. The present strength of 5,000 plus staff, was less than the required strength by about 40%. This was being met by offloading some of the work to the local MSMEs, he said. As many as 145 local MSMEs were registered with the yard. Replying to queries, he said that an average of 16 to 17 refits a year were being done at the yard during normal times and the same was maintained even during the pandemic time by taking all the necessary precautions. Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has come a long way, after transformation into its present ‘avatar’, 50 years ago. Commencing its journey as a small boat repair shop in the 1940s for maintenance of the Royal Indian Naval Ships, the dockyard today provides technical support and services to the ships and submarines of the Eastern Naval Command (ENC). The boat repair shop was upgraded into a Base Repair Organisation in the 1950s and the construction of the Naval Dockyard was started in 1968. The Yard has evolved and transformed from strength to strength with creation of wharves, jetties, dry docks and shop floors to state-of-the-art Dockyard. The Naval Dockyard is headed by the Admiral Superintendent of Dockyard, who is assisted by four General Managers, of the rank of Commodore, heading the Quality Assurance, Human Resource, Technical Services and the Refit and Repair Services. Additionally, the Yard has a full-fledged dispensary to cater to all the medical needs of over 5,000 defence civilian workforce of the Yard. The Yard is divided into four zones, Operational, Refit, Dry Dock and Administration and Training Zones, for efficient work flow. The Yard boasts of berthing space of more than 5 km for the naval assets of the Eastern Naval Command(ENC). These jetties and dock areas are integrated with all critical facilities like fire main lines for fire fighting, steam, compressed air and various jetty cranes, needed to perform all critical repair and maintenance activities. Further various other mobile services like Load Banks, Mobile Stabilised Power Supply, chilled water and air plants, mobile cranes, compressors, BCRs and DGs are provided on any jetty, as per specific requirements. The Yard works the round-the-clock with all operations being coordinated from the Dockyard Operations Centre, using in-house developed Enterprise Resource Applications, automating all processes of the Yard. The Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has gone ‘paperless’ and has migrated to online mode for more than 80% of the processes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modern-tech-adopted-to-develop-naval-dockyard-admiral-superintendent/article38001832.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bumpy roads continue to trouble people in city||Pothole-ridden roads have been one of the major civic issues for people of Visakhapatnam in this year. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has failed to address the issue despite a number of representations from resident welfare associations, corporators and citizens. With the city receiving good rains this year, the condition of roads has gone from bad to worse in the last one year. Some of the most damaged roads in the city can be seen in the suburban localities and recently merged areas in the corporation, including Pendurthi, Madhurawada, Gajuwaka, Bheemunipatnam, Anakapalle and a few other areas. Whenever it rains in the city, several complaints pour in on to the GVMC social media handles from residents of Pendurthi, Chinnamushidiwada, Sujatha Nagar and a few surrounding areas. “It is completely unsafe to travel on our roads, when it rains. While two-wheelers skid, the tyres of the four wheelers get struck in mud. Many people were even injured,” said P. Swathi, a resident of Pendurthi. TDP floor leader in GVMC and Corporator of Ward 98, P. Srinivasa Rao, said that he has sought sanction of Rs. 6 lakh to repair the roads near the Government Polytechnic College, keeping in view of problems faced by the students. But the GVMC did not even consider to sanction such a small amount, he said. Similar problem is reported from many areas such as Daba Gardens, Jagadamba Junction, Maddilapalem, Kancharapalem, Murali Nagar, Akkayyapalem, PM Palem and a few other areas. Last month, members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) from Gajuwaka submitted a representation to the Zonal Commissioner complaining about bad roads apart from other civic issues. “Consider the stretch from Appughar to Jodugulapalem, which used to be the best road, and now it has developed a number of minor and major potholes, posing risk to the motorists,” said T. Varun, a B.Tech student from Pendurthi. P. Aishwarya, a resident of NGGOs Colony, said that roads between Kapparada and Madhavadhara used to be in bad state two years ago. Now, due to UGD works, almost three-fourth of roads were damaged, she said. A few traffic police officials pointed out that bad condition of BRTS roads in several stretches of Pendurthi, Gopalapatnam and Chavulamadham, is leading to a number of road accidents and the officials should take immediate steps. Members of the TDP, CPI(M) and Jana Sena Party (JSP) have staged protests over the poor condition of roads many times in this year. While the TDP and the CPI(M) activists have taken up repair works to potholes at various areas as part of protest, JSP has taken up a massive social media campaign by recording videos showing the condition of roads in their colonies. “Despite representations, the GVMC has failed to address the issue. Not a single rupee was sanctioned for roads by the council so far, while crores were sanctioned for theme parks. If the civic body focusses on roads instead of parks, a number of lives can be saved from road accidents,” said Corporator of Ward 78 and CPI(M) leader B Ganga Rao. According to officials from GVMC, to ensure overall development of all the zones, the corporation has designed development plans for all the wards. All the corporators have stressed for roads as a major priority in their wards. “Ward development plans are ready for all the wards. Administrative sanction was also accorded for most of the wards, while others will also receive in due course. Once the sanctions are given, we would call for tenders to take up the works,” said Chief Engineer of GVMC K. Ravi Krishna Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bumpy-roads-continue-to-trouble-people-in-vizag/article38001836.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found dead in bathroom||A 36-year-old man was found dead in his apartment at Car Shed Junction in Visakhapatnam on Monday. According to the police, D Srinivasa Rao, a private employee, was found dead in the bathroom. On Monday morning, family members of Srinivasa Rao with the help of police opened the door of his house as he was not responding to their calls. As per the primary investigation by the police, Srinivasa Rao had been staying away from his wife for the last two years. Police are yet to ascertain the cause of his death. PM Palem police have registered a case. Body was shifted to hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-found-dead-in-bathroom/article38001911.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relay hunger strike against privatisation of VSP continues for the 312th day||The relay hunger strike being organised by steel workers, under the aegis of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (VUPPC) continued for the 312th day on Monday. Representatives of the Coke Oven plants and trade union representatives participated in the relay fast. Addressing the gathering, VUPPC leaders N. Rama Rao, Varasala Srinivas and Kommineni Srinivas alleged that the Centre was controlling the economy of various States in the name of GST. It was burdening people by imposing taxes on all goods and services availed by them. At the same time, the government has decided to raise Rs. 1.75 lakh crore to overcome fiscal deficit this year through the sale of public sector companies. Bank employees have gone on a two-day strike against the privatisation of banks. They warned the Centre that it would have to face the wrath of the people, if it failed to repeal the decision on strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP). They said that barring the BJP, all other political parties were opposing privatisation of the VSP. Coke Over Plant representatives S.N. Murthy, P. Srinivasa Rao, Mohd. Rafi, Jyothi Prasad, G. Pulla Rao, Mohiuddin, K. Nageswara Rao, Demudu Naidu, John Manish, K. Babu Rao, A.V. Raju, Lakshmaiah and Atta Naidu participated in the fast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relay-hunger-strike-against-privatisation-of-vsp-continues-for-the-312th-day/article38001834.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Road connectivity will be provided to all tribal villages’||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna said that as part of Mission Connect Paderu with a budget of about Rs. 735 crore, all the tribal villages in the Agency will be provided road connectivity and drinking water supply. He said that 131 mobile towers were also sanctioned for the Agency including one at Pinakota Panchayat, to strengthen communication network. Mr Gopala Krishna was speaking to tribals after inaugurating a Mega Medical Camp along with Araku MLA Ch. Phalguna at Pinakota village in Ananthagiri mandal here on Monday. Mr. Gopala Krishna said that the State Government has given top priority to medical and health in the Agency. With Rs. 1.10 crore and Rs. 90 lakh, medical equipment were purchased and amenities were provided for the patients at Paderu District Hospital and Araku Area Hospital respectively, he said. He said that nine specialist doctors were appointed in the Agency hospitals with the efforts of District Collector A. Mallikarjuna. “We will also strive to have more specialist doctors,” he said. Mr. Phalguna said that 28 roads and three bridges are being constructed in Ananthagiri mandal. He also appealed to the tribals to utilise the medical camp. Additional District Medical & Health Officer (ADMHO) K. Leela Prasad and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-connectivity-will-be-provided-to-all-tribal-villages/article38001838.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low visibility due to fog leads to accidents in Visakha Agency||Sudden drop in temperatures in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam might be giving the visitors a memorable experience, but the low visibility due to the dense fog has been posing a risk to the motorists. In the last two days, the Agency areas have reported two road accidents. In one accident on Sunday, one person died while four others were injured when the van fell into a gorge at G.Madugula, while in another incident on Monday, two four-wheelers skidded off the road into an agricultural field. Motorists are finding it difficult to negotiate sharp bends on the ghat roads and in interior villages due to the foggy conditions. This has been the case even with RTC buses, private jeeps, auto-rickshaws and other vehicles. Most of the Agency areas have been witnessing thick fog since the last couple of days, as the temperatures are hovering below 10° Celsius. Especially G.K Veedhi, Chintapalle, Paderu and Araku have been reporting 5 to 6° Celsius as lowest temperature. Lambasingi and Araku have been receiving a good tourist footfall since the last one month. It is also expected to increase in the coming days due to Christmas holidays, New Year and Sankranthi season. “A large number of visitors are flocking Paderu early in the morning to reach Lambasingi and Vanjangi. Since there is thick fog, it is advised to drive very slow and be careful at steep curves. A few private jeeps are seen driving at high speed, which is not advisable,” said a senior police officer from Araku. D Upendra, a resident of Paderu, said that visibility drops below 10 to 20 metres at some places due to thick fog. “And that is why we plan our travel after 9 a.m. whe the sun is out and fog dissipates,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-visibility-due-to-fog-leads-to-accidents-in-visakha-agency/article38001843.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rear Admiral Sanjay Bhalla takes over as Eastern Fleet Commander||Rear Admiral Sanjay Bhalla took over the Command of the Eastern Fleet from Rear Admiral Tarun Sobti, here on Monday. The change of guard took place at an impressive ceremony held at Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam. Rear Admiral Sanjay Bhalla was commissioned into the Indian Navy on January 1, 1989, and is a specialist in communication and electronic warfare. He is an alumnus of the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, College of Naval Warfare, Mumbai, and Royal College of Defence Studies, London. Rich experience He also served onboard several ships as signal communication officer. His commanded missile vessel INS Nishank, anti-submarine warfare frigate INS Taragiri and guided-missile frigate INS Beas. His staff and operational appointments include those as Training Commander at the Indian Naval Academy, Director at Maritime Doctrine and Concepts Centre and Naval Assistant to the Chief of Naval Staff. He also served as the Naval Adviser at the High Commission of India, Islamabad. Prior to assuming command of the Eastern Fleet, he was the Assistant Chief of Personnel (Human Resource Development) at Integrated Headquarters (Navy), New Delhi. Over the past 10 months, the Eastern Fleet was under the command of Rear Admiral Tarun Sobti, who now will be taking over as the Director General, Project Seabird at Integrated Headquarters (Navy), New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rear-admiral-sanjay-bhalla-takes-over-as-eastern-fleet-commander/article38001845.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP demands immediate removal of smart city corporation chairman||Seniors leaders of the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) have demanded the immediate removal of Greater Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Limited Chairman Gannamani Venkateswara Rao. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, former MLA and TDP urban president Palla Srinivasa Rao alleged that Mr. Venkateswara Rao was blackmailing industrialists and extorting money under the guidance of Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. If Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy is so confident that he has nothing to do wth Mr. Venkateswara Rao, who is popularly known as GV, then he should either ask him to resign from the post or initiate an inquiry against him, said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. The allegation of blackmail and extortion had come to the fore, after a noted industrialist from Visakhapatnam had uploaded a video in the social media, wherein he had blamed GV and other YSRCP leaders for allegedly blackmailing him and extorting money to the point of downfall of his company. “Many such cases are stumbling out but some are scared to disclose the facts in the open, fearing repercussion. If this is the case and the ruling party is stooping down to this level, then the ecosystem of Visakhapatnam will be affected. This city is known for its peaceful fabric and being industry-friendly. But such activities will affect the image the industrialists and businessmen will not invest in this city,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. He also questioned the State government for its efforts in bringing in investors. “It has been over two-and-a-half years since they have formed the government, but so far not a single investment has come in,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-demands-immediate-removal-of-smart-city-corporation-chairman/article38001847.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vidya Volunteers stage protest at ITDA office||A large number of Vidya Volunteers staged protest in front of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) office in Paderu demanding paymet of their pending wages in Visakhapatnam district on Monday. The protest turned tense as the volunteers tried to enter the ITDA office and the police stopped them. During the protest, the volunteers alleged the government has not paid their salaries since the last three months. They also said that they have been protesting over the delay in paying salaries and a few other things before the ITDA office since the last 24 days and urging the officials to release their wages, but there has been no response from the officials. The protestors also include a large number of tribal women who raised slogans against the officials. Many volunteers entered the ITDA office by pushing the barricades arranged by the police. Tension prevailed for some time as police personnel stopped the volunteers and detained many of them. A few protestors also alleged that the police have used force against them. District Secretary of CPI(M), K. Lokanadham, condemned the alleged lathi charge by the police on the volunteers at the ITDA Paderu office. Mr. Lokanadham alleged that despite knowing that the volunteers would try to meet him, the ITDA Project Officer was not present in the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vidya-volunteers-stage-protest-at-itda-office/article38001839.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Focus on reducing energy consumption’||The National Energy Conservation Week was observed at the RINL-VSP from December 13 to 19. Speaking at the valedictory on Monday, Atul Bhatt, CMD, RINL, said that, “RINL has been in the forefront in the energy efficiency movement since inception. The state-of-the-art technologies adopted at RINL have immensely contributed for reduction in specific energy consumption at the plant.” He congratulated the RINL collective for enabling RINL win the National Energy Leader Award by continuously winning the Excellent Energy Efficient Unit Award consecutively for five years. On this occasion, he called upon the RINL collective to focus on further reducing Specific Energy Consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-reducing-energy-consumption/article38001848.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trust board for temple constituted||The State government has constituted a Board of Trustees to Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi Ammavari temple, located at Burujupeta in the city. The 12-member board comprises D. Bapu Anand, B. Sathyarupavani, M. Dhana Latha, M. Ashok Kumar, B. Venkata Ratnam, K. Simhachalam, B. Anuradha, S. Satish, V. Maruthi Prasad, N. Guramma and N.S.S. Subramanyam as members and K. Srinivasa Sarma (Upa Pradhana Archaka) as ex-officio Member, according to the orders issued by G. Vani Mohan, Principal Secretary to the Government. The above trustees shall hold office for a period of two years with effect from the date of taking oath of office and secrecy. The Commissioner of Endowments has been directed to take necessary steps to administer the oath of office and secrecy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trust-board-for-temple-constituted/article38001912.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police sports meet begins||Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam (Rural), B. Krishna Rao, inaugurated two-day Games and Sports Meet 2021 for the district police at A.R Grounds, Kailasagiri, here on Monday. Around 180 police personnel from Anakapalle, Narsipatnam, Paderu, Chintapalle sub-division apart from Armed Reserve and Home Guards are taking part in the meet. During the inaugural, Mr. Krishna Rao stressed the need for police personnel taking part in sports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-sports-meet-begins/article38001841.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Close shave for tourists||A major tragedy was averted, when two cars carrying tourists skidded off the road and fell into an agricultural field in the early hours of Monday near Kandamamidi village in Paderu mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency. The incident occurred when the cars were negotiating a steep curve near the village. According to Sub-Inspector of Police, Paderu Police Station, Lakshmana Rao, low visibility due to thick fog could be the reason for the incident. A few tourists who were travelling in the cars reportedly failed to negotiate the steep curve and fell into the field. The car, which was following the first car missed the curve and ran into the field. The first car overturned after running into the agriculture field. The cars bear Andhra Pradesh registration number only. “When we reached the spot, the people have already left the spot. We are collecting details,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/close-shave-for-tourists/article38001837.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag dist. reports 17 new COVID cases||The district recorded 17 new COVID-19 cases and 11 discharges in the last 24 hours ending on Monday morning, taking the cumulative tally of cases to 1,59,272. The number of recoveries ha salso increased to 1,58,013. The death toll stands at 1,107 as no COVID-19 death was reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-dist-reports-17-new-covid-cases/article38001840.ece
21 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fly from Vizag to Singapore from Dec. 29||Scoot Airlines has started bookings for its flight from Vizag to Singapore with effect from December 29.  Scoot has fixed the ticket price, subject to availability, for the December 29 Vizag – Singapore flight at Rs. 8,645. This flight is expected to take off from Vizag at 11 p.m. and reach Singapore at 5.40 a.m. IST on the next day (December 30). This flight will operate thrice a week from Vizag to Singapore under an ‘air bubble’ agreement between India and Singapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fly-from-vizag-to-singapore-from-dec-29/article38001810.ece
21 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free cleft surgery camp held||Pregnant women should take nutritious food and overcome obesity to avoid cleft lip and cleft palate problems among infants, according to renowned doctors who came to the city from across the country to participate in ‘Smile Please’ medical camp organised on Monday at Tirumala Hospital here. After the inauguration of the camp by MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy, the doctors performed surgeries to nearly 95 patients brought from East Godavari, West Godavari and the North Andhra districts. Medical Superintendent of the hospital Ch. Mahesh said that the operations would continue till Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-cleft-surgery-camp-held/article38001831.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shree Cement to set up factory in Guntur district||The Chief Minister explained about the incentives being given to the industries sector in the State. Shree Cement has cement manufacturing and allied sector plants in nine States and will be setting up its first plant in Andhra Pradesh. It has been planned to complete the project in 24 months. Mr. Bangur said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been working wholeheartedly for the development of the State, like the CEO of a company. He said the Chief Minister desired to see people develop and earn more and wanted industrialisation and income generation in the State. He said they were setting up the cement plant in the State as its growth rate is higher than the national average and it would improve further in the future due to the vision of the Chief Minister. Mr. Prasanth Bangur said setting up a big cement plant would provide employment to many people directly and indirectly and contribute to the development of the area. MP P.V. Mithun Reddy, Shree Cement president ( Commercial) Sanjay Mehta, GM G.V.N. Sridhar Raju, manager Venkat Ramana and assistant manager Simhadri Rajashekar were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shree-cement-to-set-up-factory-in-guntur-dist/article38001798.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Make payment within 21 days of procuring paddy’||They should interact with farmers and make necessary arrangements, including supply of gunny bags, transport vehicles and hamalis for procurement, he said. The Chief Minister directed the officials to conduct field trips and interact with farmers to understand their problems. They should take continuous feedback from the Joint Collectors on procurement. He directed the officials to create more awareness on Crop Cultivator Rights Cards (CCRC) among farmers. Alternative crops Create awareness on cultivation of alternative crops among farmers and consider giving special incentives to the farmers who make such a switch-over. The government would take up the responsibility of purchasing such produce, he said. Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Agriculture Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Marketing and Cooperative Principal Secretary Y. Madhusudan Reddy, Civil Supplies Commissioner Girija Shankar, Agriculture Commissioner H. Arun Kumar, Agriculture Marketing Commissioner P.S. Pradyumna, Civil Supplies Director S. Delhi Rao, Civil Supplies MD G. Veerapandian and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-payment-within-21-days-of-procuring-paddy-jagan/article38001794.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Calling for change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/calling-for-change/article38001909.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paddy procurement: TRS leaders hold protests across State||Responding to the call given by party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao against the attitude of the Centre over paddy procurement in summer season, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders and workers held protests across the State led by Ministers and local MLAs. They raised slogans against the BJP. At several places, the TRS workers beat ‘chavu dappu’ (the drums beat during the last journey of a person). Unlike in the previous protest, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao and party working president and Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao did not participate in the protests. Leading the protests in Siddipet, Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao has alleged that the BJP has been cheating farmers, and in the interest of farmers the party should be thrown out from the Centre. He has suggested the party workers to grill the BJP leaders in villages. Stating that the Chief Minister did what ever was possible to bring pressure on the Union Government, he alleged that it is yet to respond. “Only boiled rice can be produced in Telangna in summer due to severe heat, and raw rice is not possible here. For the past several years, only boiled rice was sold to the Centre and it had purchased it. Question the BJP leaders on the issue when they visit villages. Ask them why the Centre is stepping back from its responsibility,” Mr. Harish Rao told the farmers and party workers. The Minister also questioned why Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy failed to convince Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. Participating in the protest at Mahabubabad marketyard, Tribal, Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod said that the Centre is following anti-farmer policies and there is a a need to bring more pressure on it. In Nirmal, the protests were led by Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy. A rally was held from municipal office to Manchiryal Chowrastha in which large number of party workers participated. In Nalgonda, MLC Gutta Sukhender Reddy led the protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paddy-procurement-trs-leaders-hold-protests-across-state/article38001629.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ERC softens stand, allows Discoms 7 more days to file RST||After threatening the two power distribution companies (Discoms) in the State of considering rejection of their aggregate revenue requirement (ARRs) for the year 2022-23 filed on November 30 on their failure to submit the retail supply tariffs by December 20, Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has softened its stand and allowed the Discoms more time. When all eyes were on the decision to be taken by the ERC on Monday, the regulatory body has given in to the fresh request of the Discoms to give one more week’s time for filing the retail supply tariff (RST) for considering both the ARRs and RST for hearing. Intentions clear The two Discoms have already made their intentions clear about the need to increase the tariff, which has not been revised since 2018-19, and readied their proposals explaining the increased costs of fuel (coal), transportation, transmission and human resource overheads besides the burden of different cess and the obligations of renewable energy purchase resulting in backing down of generation in thermal plants and paying fixed costs to them without availing any energy. “The proposals are already lying with the government for a clearance. Unless we get a clearance we can’t go ahead with the RST filing. However, we are hopeful of getting the nod within the extended time given by the ERC,” a senior executive told The Hindu , when contacted. Mounting losses The official stated that in spite of taking over the cumulative losses of Discoms of about Rs. 12,000 crore as of September 30, 2015 by the State government as part of the Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY) scheme in 2017, losses kept piling up every year even after that due to the widening gap in the actual cost of supply and aggregate revenue realisation. Sources stated that the losses were in the range of about Rs. 10,000 crore every year although the government has been releasing subsidies given to domestic, commercial and other categories of consumers. However, they have not been commensurate with the energy consumed by those categories in the absence of tariff revision since 2018-19. With the losses for the current year estimated at around Rs. 10,600 crore and at nearly Rs. 11,000 crore projected for the next fiscal, all eyes are on the government now as to what extent it would allow the utilities for tariff revision since it could give a go-ahead for it only this year as elections to the Assembly are just two years away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/erc-softens-stand-allows-discoms-7-more-days-to-file-rst/article38001610.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More than 70,000 farmers died in the last three-and-a-half years||Few months before concluding the first term, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had announced introduction of Rythu Bima (farmers’ group insurance scheme). The government claimed that this was the first such insurance scheme introduced in the country. The scheme is being implemented with the help of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India. The State government pays the entire premium to the LIC. In the event of the death of an enrolled farmer due to any reason, including natural death, the LIC will transfer Rs. 5 lakh to the account of the nominee within 10 days. However, the number of farmers who died in the last three-and-a-half years since inception of the scheme stood at an alarming figure of 70,041. The total amount of insurance amount paid to the families of farmers stands at Rs. 3,502.05 crore. According to information available with the official sources, in 2018-19 the number of farmers’ deaths registered was 17,644 with a payment of Rs. 882.2 crore, in 2019- 20 the number was 18,928 with a payment of Rs. 946.4 crore, in 2020- 21 the number was 28,174 with a payment of Rs. 1,408.7 crore and in the present year the number is 5,295 with a payment of Rs. 264.75 crore as on December second week. Total premium paid till now is Rs. 3,204.73 crore. Though officials did not contradict the figures, they claim that all the farmers who are having land on their names are not into farming and more than 50% are into other activities like jobs and business. They also clarify that the deaths include natural, accidents and health-related issues of farmers, besides suicides. However, the numbers do not include tenant farmers as they are not recognised by the State government at any level and data is not available with any source. But the fact remains that there are many tenant farmers living on farming and feeding the State. “Our government has been trying to stand with farmers. That is why we have extended Rythu Bima, Rythu Bandhu, round the clock free power, in addition to providing seed and fertilizer. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wishes that farming should flourish as an industry and future generations should turn towards it. 60% of people in the country are dependent on farming in our country. Like Telangana, other States and the Centre should implement Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima in addition to providing irrigation. If not, we will see farmers only in museums,” S. Niranjan Reddy, Agriculture Minister told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/70000-farmers-died-in-last-three-and-a-half-years/article38001627.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Review COVID preparedness, govt. hospitals told||Administrative officials of government hospitals in the State have been issued a general alert with regard to arrangements if COVID-19 cases were to surge. Health officials have earlier cautioned, at least on two occasions, that the cases might spike in mid-January or February next year. Major hospitals in the State with dedicated wards for COVID patients include District Hospital in King Koti, Gandhi Hospital, Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences in Gachibowli, and District Hospital in Kondapur. Currently, all Omicron cases are admitted at TIMS. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said the alert were also given to hospitals in various districts. “We have asked hospitals administrations to review their preparedness, and check equipment so that we should be in a position to admit patients if the cases were to increase,” he added. To keep a tab on the spike, District Medical and Health Officers and health staff check the number of COVID patients admitted in government and corporate hospitals, especially those admitted in ICUs and those on oxygen support. Upon suspicion, samples are collected from COVID patients at government hospitals and sent for genome sequencing. At least one sample collected from a foreign national at Gandhi Hospital was sent for sequencing. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has said regardless of the variant in circulation, imposition of lockdown is not an option. As part of preparedness, a reorientation programme on COVID management is planned for doctors, considering that the second wave has long been on the wane. Doctors in government hospitals said corporate hospitals must step up their precautionary measures as foreigners prefer the latter’s facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/review-covid-preparedness-govt-hospitals-told/article38001601.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File counter affidavits in pleas over fare meters in cabs: HC||Telangana High Court on Monday directed the governments of the State and the Union to file counter affidavits in a PIL petition seeking a direction for installation of fare meters in cabs instead of charging fares based on Global Positioning System (GPS) technology. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji passed the direction while hearing the PIL plea field by Forum Against Corruption, a registered society. The organisation’s president Vijay Gopal requested the court to issue instructions immediately stopping cabs from plying on roads without fare meters. The petitioner also prayed that directions also be passed for formulation of a policy regulating fare collection by State government. The petitioner’s counsel Deepak Mishra contended that under the present law, usage of GPS is not permitted for fixation or collection of fares by cab operators. According to him, section 74 (1) (viii) of the Motor Vehicle Act mandated that all motor cabs must have installed a fare meter. These fare meters should be maintained properly for fixation of fares, the section of law states, he said. The lawyer told the court that cab operators, in the absence of fare meters, were collecting surge fee citing high volumes of traffic and rains from the passengers. This was illegal and violation of rules, the lawyer said. The matter was posted after six weeks for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/file-counter-affidavits-in-pleas-over-fare-meters-in-cabs-hc/article38001624.ece
21 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Traffic restrictions for Chief Minister’s Christmas dinner||In view of the Christmas dinner hosted by Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao at L.B. Stadium on Tuesday, the Hyderabad police have imposed traffic restrictions between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. At AR Petrol Pump junction, vehicles would not be allowed towards BJR statue and would be diverted towards Nampally and Chapel Road. Similarly, traffic coming from Abids would not be allowed towards BJR statue and it would be diverted at SBI Gunfoundry towards Chapel Road. Vehicles coming from Old MLA Quarters would be diverted at Basheerbagh Junction towards Liberty. Parking places Guests holding Gold Card passes (A Block) should alight at Gate No 17 near ‘A’ Gate LB Stadium, enter through inner Gate No 17 and park their vehicles at Tennis Court parking. Guests holding Gold Card passes (A-1 Block) should alight at ‘B’ Gate, enter through Fath-e-Maidan Club Entrance and park their vehicles at Alia Model School, Mahaboobia College, Aliya College and Stanley Engineering College. While Guests holding Green Card passes (A-2 Block) should alight at ‘D’ Gate, enter through SATS Gate and park their vehicles at Nizam College Ground -1 through Nizam College Gate-2 and people holding Blue Card passes (B-Block) are should alight at ‘G’ Gate opposite to Ayakar Bhavan, enter through inner Gate No. 15 and park their vehicles at Public Garden. While guests holding Pink Card passes (C-Block) should alight at ‘F, F1’ Gates near BJR Statue, enter through inner Gate No.s 6 & 8 and park their vehicles inside Nizam College grounds through Nizam College Gate-4 and media personnel should alight at ‘D’ Gate, enter through SATS Gate and park their vehicles inside SCERT Office parking premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-restrictions-for-chief-ministers-christmas-dinner/article38001616.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After Elbrus, it’s mission Everest for TS girl||Having scaled Mt Elbrus, the highest mountain peak in Russia on December 7, and apparently becoming the first Indian to do so during winter, Anvitha Reddy has now set higher goals for herself, quite literally. An MBA graduate, Anvitha, who is now taking classes in financial discipline, said she was delighted to achieve the feat in what she felt was one of the most demanding conditions in her five-year mountaineering experience. “It was a windy and life-threatening journey to the top of the peak. In fact, my team was forced to postpone the trip to the summit because of windy conditions which touched 65 km per hour,” she recalled. “The happiest moment of my whole trip was when I unfurled our 10-metre national flag at the base camp of Mt. Elbrus,” she said, adding, “One can imagine the risk involved, going by the fact that a few of the 20-member US contingent along the same route were washed away last month.” Inspired by her 5,642-metre Mt. Elbrus climb, she is now looking ahead to scale some of the more difficult peaks across the world. “Mt Everest will be my next target, thanks to the instantaneous financial support extended by Gudur Narayana Reddy Foundation when I approached them for help,” Anivtha, a native of Bhuvanagiri, said. Her father is a farmer and mother, a teacher. For his part, Mr Narayana Reddy said they were supporting Anvitha for the different difficult path she had chosen in the world of adventure. “We salute her spirit, courage and conviction and assure continued support from the foundation for her future endeavours,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-elbrus-its-mission-everest-for-ts-girl/article38001851.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State’s viral tally up by 156 cases||Eight international passengers who arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) at Shamshabad tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. Samples collected from the flyers were sent for genome sequencing. Altogether, the sequencing results of 15 samples were awaited. Till Monday night, 20 Omicron cases were detected in Telangana, excluding a seven-year-old boy in transit who left for Kolkata, West Bengal. The State recorded 156 new cases of COVID on Monday, taking the total to 6,79,720. After several days, no fatality related to the infection was reported on the day, keeping the death toll at 4,015. The new 156 infections included 53 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 22 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 14 from Rangareddy, 12 from Siddipet, and 11 from Khammam. So far, a total of 2.93 crore samples have been put to test. Of the total cases, 3,642 were active while 6,72,063 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-virus-tally-up-by-156-cases/article38001603.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All students of Pharma City skilling programme bag jobs||The first batch of a skilling programme launched as part of the proposed Hyderabad Pharma City to train youth from villages near the project site has concluded and all the 125 students have been hired by leading pharma firms. Lab Technician cum Assistant; and Production/Manufacturing Operator cum Assistant were the two programmes offered and in high demand in the industry. Theory classes, lab practicals, industry expert session as well as visit to industrial units were part of the 45-day course. Inputs on personality development, life skills, basics of IT and financial literacy were also provided to the students under the programme that Telangana government had launched earlier this year, a release from Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao’s office on Monday said. Aurobindo Pharma, Neuland Laboratories and Honour Lab were among the companies that hired the students. Presenting the letter of placements, Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan urged the students to use the training and job offer as a platform to build their careers. The State government has committed to facilitating at least one job per family, who has given land to the Pharma City project. The training is being offered at government’s cost and the programme was executed by Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge in partnership with the Life Science Sector Skill Development of Government of India. Hyderabad Pharma City has been planned as a world class industrial city with thrust on development and production of affordable and quality medicines for the world. It is to be developed on work, live, learn and play concept by adopting sustainable green concepts with state-of-the-art integrated infrastructure, the Minister’s office said.  Inputs on personality development, life skills, basics of IT and financial literacy were also provided to the students under the programme. A release from Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-students-of-pharma-city-skilling-programme-bag-jobs/article38001605.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Siddipet should be role model’||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao said that Siddipet should be a role model for the nation. He said that establishment of a Bio-CNG plant in the district headquarters was made possible with the active support of the public. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating Bio- CNG plant at Bussapur in Siddipet rural mandal along with Dr. Andrew Fleming, British Deputy High Commissioner at Hyderabad, Mr. Harish Rao said mounting garbage is a problem the entire world is facing and any landfilling would pollute the water and air impacting the health of the people. “In the past there used to be mounds of garbage around Siddipet. The plant has been established to address the problem for ever. As much as 55,000 kilograms of garbage is generated in the town,” said Mr. Harish Rao. Informing that Siddipet received 14 national and four State level awards, the Minister said sanitation workers have played a key role in this achievement. Dr. Andrew Fleming said that Siddipet stood top in increasing greenery and keeping the city clean among all the 33 districts in Telangana. Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy, ZP Chairperson V. Roja Sharma and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/siddipet-should-be-role-model/article38001856.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bharat Biotech seeks nod for Phase-3 trial of nasal vaccine as booster shot||Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech has applied to Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission to conduct Phase-3 clinical trials of its COVID-19 intranasal vaccine candidate BBV154 as a booster dose. The company has submitted application to roll out Phase-3 trials and is proposing the trial, as a booster, on those who have received both doses of any COVID-19 vaccine, not necessarily Covaxin, said a person with knowledge of the development. An intranasal vaccine as a booster dose will be easier to administer in mass vaccination campaigns. Intranasal vaccines have the potential to prevent transmission. The company has already completed Phase-2 with Covaxin and BBV154. Using a combination of one intra-muscular and the other nasal is an innovative approach of heterologous, the source said. Bharat Biotech’s decision to seek permission to conduct Phase 3 comes in the backdrop of an intensifying debate on booster doses and an increase in the number of cases of those infected with the omicron variant of Coronavirus. The company leadership has been highlighting benefits of intranasal vaccine as well as its use in combination with an intra-muscular vaccine. Bharat Biotech founder Krishna Ella had said the nasal vaccine could be a game changer in the fight against the virus and more effective, since it is expected to generate immune responses at the site of infection (respiratory mucosa). It would also deliver benefits in terms of ease of administration and production. Bharat Biotech had last year entered into a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis for the ‘novel chimp adenovirus’ intranasal vaccine. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech on Monday reiterated that an opened 20 dose vial of Covaxin can be stored at 2-8 degree C for upto 28 days and not required to be discarded immediately in a day or at the end of immunisation session. A source said the company provided the update as there reports of vaccines being wasted. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) has recently approved the extension of Covaxin shelf life upto 12 months from the date of manufacture. “This approval of shelf-life extension is based on the availability of additional stability data, which was submitted to CDSCO. With the shelf-life extension, hospitals can now utilize the stock which was nearing the expiry and avoid vaccine wastage,” the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bharat-biotech-seeks-nod-for-phase-3-trial-of-nasal-vaccine-as-booster-shot/article38001622.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre should give written assurance’||Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy and Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashanth Reddy demanded that the Centre should give a written assurance over paddy procurement without any further delay. They said that Ministers and Lok Sabha members have been waiting in New Delhi for the past three days to meet Union Minister Piyush Goyal but he was away in Mumbai on Saturday and Sunday. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi on Monday, the Ministers said that Rajya Sabha member K. Keshava Rao contacted Mr. Goyal informing him that Ministers and MPs are waiting to meet him and that the Union Minister wanted them to come and meet him in the Parliament. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao came here twice and held discussions with the Centre. We have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Centre to procure 40 lakh metric tonnes of rice and 60 lakh metric tonnes of paddy. The target of paddy procurement will be completed by today or tomorrow. The Union Minister said in Parliament that they are ready to buy any quantity of raw rice when we asked for increase in the quantity. But there is no written assurance,” said Mr. Niranjan Reddy adding that as many as 6,952 paddy procurement centres were established in the State and harvesting is yet to take place in Bhupalpally and combined Khammam districts even as paddy is yet to reach the procurement centres. “We have to pay the farmers within three or four days after completing the procurement. We need written assurance from the centre on paddy procurement. If the Centre does not pay, what should we do?” asked the Agriculture Minister. Alleging that the Centre has been indulging in politics on paddy procurement, Mr Niranjan Reddy said that the issue can be sorted out within five minutes if the Union Minister spares five minutes time. Alleging that the Central Minister has been asking them to come repeatedly, he said that they have been patient for the sake of farmers. The Minister said that godowns are not vacant and milling capacity is only 10 lakh metric tonnes and that the Centre is not taking rice that is ready. Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashanth Reddy said that they are speaking about present procurement and not about summer. “Centre should give not only written assurance but also lift rice immediately,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-should-give-written-assurance/article38001631.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pass all students who appeared for Inter exams: NSUI||Leaders of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) continued its protests demanding justice for Intermediate first year students on Monday. All the students who had appeared for the examination should be passed was the major demand. NSUI State president Balmoor Venkat said justice should also be done to families who lost a son or daughter after results were declared. At least three students in the State had ended their lives. Student wing organisations, including NSUI, blamed the government's poor infrastructure for ensuring online classes, particularly in rural Telangana, and conducting the examinations abruptly just after a few weeks of classroom teaching as the reasons. NSUI’s Venkat also demanded that the government immediately remove the officials who played a role in the “inappropriate exam results”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pass-all-students-who-appeared-for-inter-exams-nsui/article38001854.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Demolition of 250 houses of the poor in Gowlidoddi flayed||Congress senior vice-president Mallu Ravi has accused the government of demolishing houses in Gowlidoddi and driving away poor people from their lands without any notice. He led a Congress team of Youth Congress president Shivasena Reddy, spokesperson Ravali Reddy and Medchal DCC leader Sarita to Gowlidoddi and interacted with 250 families belonging to the Vaddera community living on the land for the last 30 years. He said no notices were given and the houses were demolished by the authorities, and the families have nowhere to go now. Mr. Ravi said all the families have ration cards, electricity connections given by the government as a proof of their residence for the last 30 years. In fact, the government had earlier allocated one acre of land to them for a burial ground. All of a sudden, authorities have now demolished the houses and huts. He said the local MLA has not even reacted to the displacement of these families, and if he doesn’t put pressure on the government, the Congress would support the families in their fight. Pass all Inter students, says NSUI Leaders of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) continued its protests demanding justice for Intermediate first year students on Monday. All the students who wrote the examinations should be passed was the major demand. NSUI State president Balmoor Venkat said justice should also be done to families who lost a son or daughter after results were declared. They blamed the government's poor infrastructure for online classes and conducting the examinations abruptly just after a few weeks of classroom teaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demolition-of-250-houses-of-the-poor-in-gowlidoddi-flayed/article38001620.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flu, fever cases rise as mercury dips||As the city shivers with a drop in temperature, fever and flu are making a comeback. Senior consultant physician at KIMS Hospitals, K. Shivaraju says he has come across two categories of cases in the past week. The first category includes the 60 years-plus age group who are post-COVID, with asthma, and have developed lung infections, necessitating hospitalisation. The other is the younger population complaining of cold, cough, fever, throat pain and blocked nose. “Normally, it comes down in three to five days, but now it is prolonged — seven to 10 days. People have been complaining that they caught cold or fever after going out at night,” says Dr Shivaraju. Given the pandemic situation, prolonged cold and fever are making people fearful and undergo COVID tests. In such a scenario, the consultant physician advises following safety precautions to avoid unnecessary anxiety about COVID test results and fear among family members. A professor of Pulmonology at Government General and Chest Hospital, M. Narender says that people have to cover themselves with warm clothes, take flu shots, avoid smoking and stay indoors. He suggests that doors and windows can be kept shut and opened every four hours for ventilation. Doctors advise against going out in the cold, be it for early morning walks or late-night rides. “If people are to go out, they have to take extra protective measures to keep themselves warm,” says Dr Shivaraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flu-fever-cases-rise-as-mercury-dips/article38001599.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Engage students in industrial projects’||Department of Science & Technology (DST)’s new secretary Srivari Chandrasekhar said he will strive to make Hyderabad a true science hub of the country and urged scientists at CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology to engage students in industrial projects from the day they join the institute as its culture is technology-driven. Responding to the felicitations on Monday, he said that he will be available to guide the institute in all its scientific endeavours, and the promotion of CSIR will be an important agenda while he is at the DST, and ensure all scientific laboratories will work closely with DST. Best of the best CSIR-IICT director V.M. Tiwari noted that Dr Chandrasekhar is among noted few from the CSIR family to be appointed DST Secretary and recalled the strides of the IICT in the last few years under the latter’s leadership in various fields including agro sector, pharmaceuticals and various technologies to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, informed a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engage-students-in-industrial-projects-from-day-1/article38001607.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lawyer’s book on balancing personal and work life launched||Mundane and More from Memory, a book written by Supreme Court senior counsel V.R. Reddy, was launched by former Supreme Court judge M. Jagannadha Rao in the presence of SC judge P.S. Narsimha. Justice P.S. Narsimha and Justice Jagannadha Rao recalled and appreciated the journey of V.R. Reddy from a small village of Andhra Pradesh to the offices of the AP Advocate General and the apex court’s Additional Solicitor General. RBI former governor Y.V. Reddy said the book was unique as it explained how one should maintain balance of family bonds and professional life. He said the author’s contribution in influencing the legal education system in the country by setting up National Law School at Bengaluru was immense. Senior counsel and MP K.T.S. Tulsi, APERC chairperson and justice Nagarjuna Reddy, National Law Institute Univeristy-Bhopal vice-chancellor professor Vijay Kumar and Additional Solicitor General Vikramjit Banerjee were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lawyers-book-on-balancing-personal-work-life-launched/article38001604.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Accused in CBI cases withdraw pleas from HC||Indu Projects managing director I. Shyam Prasad Reddy and retired IAS officer B.P. Acharya, who were made accused in the disproportionate assets case involving Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy by the CBI, on Monday withdrew the petitions they had filed in Telangana High Court seeking quashing of the CBI cases against them. Earlier, Dalmia Cements managing director Puneeth Dalmia, who was also facing CBI case in the same disproportionate assets case, withdrew his petition seeking a direction to quash the CBI case against him. The petition was withdrawn after his counsel presented arguments for two days in the case. Justice Ujjal Bhuyan permitted withdrawal of the petitions filed by Mr. Reddy and Mr. Acharya after hearing contentions of their respective counsels. CBI counsel K. Surender, however, opposed withdrawal of the petitions by the accused. He contended that the petitioners, who were accused of investing in companies connected to Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy for securing favours from the latter’s father Y.S. Rajasheker Reddy (who was then CM of undivided Andhra Pradesh), got orders staying trial of the cases by moving the HC. He said the accused might resort to litigation again by filing petitions in the CBI special court which is to conduct trial in CBI cases. He requested the court to ensure that any petitions likely to be filed by the accused be disposed of in time-bound manner. In a separate petition filed by V.D. Rajagopal, another accused in the CBI case connected to the disproportionate assets case, Justice Ujjal Bhuyan reserved orders. Mr. Rajagopal’s counsel Jayasri contended that the Central government amended Prevention of Corruption Act in 2018. As per that amendment, permission of the government is mandatory to prosecute a retired government officer, which was not so earlier. The CBI special court took cognizance of the charge-sheet filed by the CBI against Mr. Rajagopal in 2020. Hence, as per the amendment to the Act, CBI should have secured government permission to prosecute him, the lawyer argued. CBI counsel K. Surender said the petitioner approached the HC with near similar contentions in Obulapuram mining case earlier and his plea was rejected. Since the plea was filed with same grounds again, it amounts to review petition. He contended that the HC had no power to review plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/accused-in-cbi-cases-withdraw-pleas-from-hc/article38001625.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File status report, High Court directs Collector||Telangana High Court on Monday directed Rajanna Siricilla district Collector to file status report in a PIL petition seeking recovery of Rs. 55 lakh from a person who was accused of wrongfully securing that sum claiming village Buruju (barbican) as his personal asset under Mid Manair Reservoir project’s submerged properties. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji gave this instruction when the PIL plea filed by farmer R. Shankar Rao of the same district came up for hearing. In his petition filed more than two years ago, Mr. Shankar Rao charged that P. Haricharan Rao of Chintalthana village of Thangallapally mandal of the district secured Rs. 55,00,579 from the State government wrongfully claiming the village Buruju as his personal property. The then State government of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh in 2008 acquired agricultural lands and properties of the village for construction of Mid Manair Reservoir project. The petitioner stated that the village Buruju is a public property and not a personal property of Mr. Haricharan Rao as the latter claimed to secure compensation from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/file-status-report-high-court-directs-collector/article38001626.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS govt. neglecting farmers, says Sharmila||YSRTP president Y.S. Sharmila said that ‘chavu dappu’ should be for Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government as it has been neglecting farmers despite huge promises. Participating in the second day of ‘Rythu Aavedana Yatra’ in Kamareddy district on Monday, Ms. Sharmila consoled and interacted with the family members of Kummari Rajaiah of Adlur Ellareddy village in Sadashivanagar mandal, Mamidi Chinna Beeraiah at Lapur village in Lingampet mandal and Munnur Yadaiah of Vadalparthi village in Nagireddypet mandal. “Farmers have every right to sow paddy as it has the minimum support price (MSP) and government has to buy it any cost. If necessary, I will take up fast unto death to bring pressure on the government to procure paddy. We do not need a Chief Minister who asks farmers not to cultivate paddy,” said Ms. Sharmila, adding that more than 7,000 farmers had committed suicides in Telangana in the last seven years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-govt-neglecting-farmers-says-sharmila/article38001632.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS and BJP are friends in need: Jagga Reddy||Describing the TRS and the BJP as friends in need, the TPCC working president and Sangareddy legislator T. Jagga Reddy said both the parties have conspired to mislead farmers on the paddy procurement and playing out a drama on the streets. What is this drama of Ministers going to New Delhi to meet the Union Ministers when Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself couldn’t convince the Centre during his visit, he asked at a press conference. “Farmers are not so naive to believe the TRS and the BJP’s combined drama on creating a political issue out of nothing to relegate the core issue of paddy procurement to the background,” he said. Mr. Jagga Reddy charged that the Chief Minister is sleeping in Pragathi Bhavan even as farmers are sleeping on the roads along with their paddy produce. This was was not what the people of Telangana people wished for. All that the farmers were demanding is procurement of paddy that was promised by the Chief Minister himself, he said. He asked Mr. Rao what prevented him from sorting out the issue sitting with the Prime Minister rather than creating this drama. “You both supported each other in the last 7 years for your political benefit but can’t do the same for farmers,” he asked adding both the parties are deliberately trying to create an atmosphere of fear among farmers, and distrust on the whole system itself. The Congress MLA said the Food Corporation of India (FCI) was established by Jawaharlal Nehru with a futuristic idea of ensuring that crops cultivated by the farmers are easily procured. The procurement never faced any problems till the Congress was in power in 2014. Suddenly the responsibility of the government is being propagated as a favour to farmers by the BJP and TRS and not as a service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-and-bjp-are-friends-in-need-jagga-reddy/article38001635.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clear bills of mid-day meals scheme: BJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday demanded the government to immediately clear the pending bills to the mid-day meals so that children studying in government schools are not deprived of the same. In a press statement, the BJP leader said due to the lopsided administration of the TRS government, about 20 lakh children are being deprived of proper food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clear-bills-of-mid-day-meals-scheme-bjp/article38001633.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three killed as lorry hits motorcycle||Three youths were killed, one of them on the spot, in a road accident that took place at Chegunta mandal headquarters in Medak district on Monday. They were identified as S. Rakesh (20), his cousins S. Pradeep (15) and S Raju (13). According to the police, when Rakesh was going to college with his brothers on a motorcycle, a lorry coming from a factory hit the vehicle killing Rakesh on the spot. The two others died while being shifted to the hospital. Man killed, wife injured A church pastor was killed and his wife suffered severe injuries when their car, driven at high speed, rammed a moving truck on the Nehru ORR under Rajendranagar police station area here on Monday morning. The victims Jetti Charles Daniel (40) and Hepsiba Sravanti (36) from Vanasthalipuram were returning home from Sangareddy after attending the funeral of their relative when the accident took place around 9.40 a.m. Drunk driving fatality In a suspected case of drunk driving, a 34-year-old man was killed, when his friend who was behind the wheel lost control and crashed into a roadside tree in late hours of Sunday. The victim, Balakrishna, along with Kiran, who was driving the car and four others, were going towards Dulappaly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-as-lorry-hits-motorcycle/article38001613.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Telanganites ignored, Andhraites get asst. prof. posts’||Joint action committees of the unemployed, and the Osmania University, on Monday alleged that the P.V. Narasimha Rao Telangana Veterinary University has violated the roster points rule of reservation for appointments of assistant professors. “Candidates hailing from Telangana were ignored and those from Andhra Pradesh were given the orders,” alleged leaders K. Manavatha Roy and K. Pratap Reddy. Staging a protest before the office of the Vice-Chancellor on Monday, they said preferring Andhrites for the posts of assistant professors was doing injustice to people of Telangana. They demanded a rollback of the given orders. Mr. Roy and Mr. Reddy submitted their petition to vice chancellor Ravinder Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telanganites-ignored-andhraites-get-asst-prof-posts/article38001621.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Energy conservation award for RGIA||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL), has been awarded Certificate of Merit for energy conservation by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency under National Energy Conservation Awards 2021. Union Minister for Power and New and Renewable Energy R.K. Singh presented the award to senior officials of GHIAL in an event in New Delhi. GHIAL was the only one in the airport sector to receive the recognition. This year, the awards were organised as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. The airport recently commissioned its second phase 5MW solar power plant, which helps meet 50% of the energy requirements of airport terminal. There will be a reduction in carbon footprint by about 28 lakh kg carbon dioxide which is equivalent to saving 1.4 lakh fully-grown trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/energy-conservation-award-for-city-airport/article38001606.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Homage paid to Ramanujacharya at ‘Rise to Equality’ meet||Celebrating ‘1000 years of equality’, marking the birth anniversary of Sri Ramanujacharya, the Jeeyar Education Trust, USA, organised ‘Rise to Equality’ conference in Michigan on Sunday. The event organisers said celebrating and standing for equality, and spreading awareness of leaders who advocated equality was the aim. Remembering the 10th century leader, members of various faiths, cultural and spiritual affiliations, students and monks from across several countries participated and shared their thoughts. Equality statue Learning about the installation of the 216-foot Statue of Equality’ of Sri Ramanujacharya in Hyderabad, Poppy Sias-Hernandez, executive director of Global Michigan, the immigrant and refugee platform, said that statues, while commemorating the past work, also continue to serve as motivators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homage-paid-to-ramanujacharya-at-rise-to-equality-meet/article38001600.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unauthorised boarders directed to vacate OU hostels||The authorities of Osmania University directed the unauthorised persons staying in hostels to vacate by December 24 12 noon. The bonafide students are demanding that the university authorities evacuate unauthorised persons from hostels to control undue incidence and inconvenience in hostels. The authorities further warned that those who do not vacate will be evacuated forcibly and be liable for legal action for trespassing on the University premises. The exit of the unauthorised persons who occupied rooms during the lockdown will facilitate the admission of bonafide students of campus and constituent colleges seeking admission into university hostels, the authorities added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unauthorised-boarders-directed-to-vacate-ou-hostels/article38001614.ece
21 December 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Student activists seek justice for Inter students||Blaming what they termed “arbitrary policies” of the State government for low pass percentage in the Intermediate first year exams, student activists owing allegiance to SFI, AISF and PDSU formed a human chain here on Monday demanding justice to the distraught students. Earlier, a large number of students took out a rally after boycotting classes in response to the State-wide bandh of Intermediate colleges called by various student unions. The rally culminated in a demonstration at Shivaji Circle in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-activists-seek-justice-for-inter-students/article38001858.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Merry and bright||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/merry-and-bright/article38001305.ece
21 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||2 RSS activists arrested for SDPI leader’s murder||The Kerala Police on Monday arrested two persons in connection with the murder of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) State secretary K.S. Shan in Alappuzha. The arrested have been identified as RSS activists Prasad of Mannancherry and Ratheesh of Mararikulam South. The police said the duo had actively participated in the conspiracy and planning to kill the SDPI leader. Prasad hatched the plot, organised attackers and vehicle, said an official. Following the murder of the SDPI leader, a gang hacked Ranjith Sreenivas, BJP OBC Morcha State secretary, to death in his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha, on Sunday morning. A special investigation team led by Vijay Sakhare, Additional Director-General of Police, Law and Order, is probing the twin political murders. Mr. Sakhare said the police had identified 10 people involved in the murder of Shan and efforts were on to nab the other eight accused. At least 12 assailants were involved in the murder of Sreenivas, the ADGP said. The police were also probing the larger conspiracy angle behind the murders, he added. Sreenivas was laid to rest at Valiyazheekkal. His body was kept at Alappuzha District Court compound, BJP office and his house at Vellakinar for the public and relatives to pay their last respects before being taken to his native place Valiyazheekkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-rss-activists-arrested-for-sdpi-leaders-murder/article38001528.ece
21 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Health a major reason behind witchcraft-related violence’||Health concerns continue to be a major underlying reason behind witchcraft related violence in Odisha while there is a dire need for awareness and education among the people regarding superstition, says a study that analysed 102 incidents of violence. The study ‘Witch-Hunting in Odisha’ conducted by State Commission for Women, Odisha and Action Aid Association, a non-government organisation, says, “27% of witch branding are attributed to health issues among children, whereas 43.5 % of the cases are linked to health issues in case of adult villagers.” “Similarly, misfortune or attempts of land grabbing have been found to be reasons behind 24.5 % of the cases. The lowest 5% of the cases were due to crop failure,” says the study. “Police have intervened in 69% of the cases. In 30% cases, victims of witchcraft have been killed whereas victims in 17% cases did not have any options left, but to leave their villages,” it says. ‘Widows vulnerable’ B.N. Durga of Action Aid Association said “single women who were widowed or separated were found to be the most vulnerable groups in witch branding related crimes. Children of the victims face the brunt of the stigma.” According to the study, a total of 12 States in India witnessed witch-branding and close to 2,300 witch-hunting murders were committed nation-wide between 1999 and 2013. Even after the enactment of the Witch Hunting Act of Odisha in 2013, as many as 99, 83 and 58 cases were reported in the years 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively. In case of neighbouring Jharkhand, the witch-hunting law has been in force since 2001. However, the State still tops the list of witch-hunting deaths from 2013 to 2016. 523 women were lynched on the suspicion of practicing witchcraft from 2001 to 2016 in the State, but unfortunately, many cases had gone unreported, the study says. OSCW assurance “The Commission considers witch persecution of women as violation of the rights of women. As suggested by the study, the Commission will work to bring necessary amendments in the existing law to ensure adequate safeguarding of victims of witch branding,” said Dr Minati Behera, Chairperson of Odisha State Commission for Women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/health-a-major-reason-behind-witchcraft-related-violence/article38001699.ece
21 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Flying doctors for remote Odisha areas||As quality health services remains a far cry in the distant districts of Odisha, the State Government on Monday launched a air health service, which will fly specialist doctors to four districts and address the needs of the people. The air health service, inaugurated by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, would be available in four districts of Nabarangpur, Nuapada, Kalahandi and Malkangiri. “Specialist doctors of different medical colleges and corporate hospitals would fly down to the four districts on pre-scheduled dates. People can avail their services in respect of kidney ailments, cardio complications and neurological problems,” said the State government. The Odisha Government would bear the all costs. As per the latest affidavit filed by the State Government in Orissa High Court, 3,523 posts of general duty medical officers are lying vacant against 5,838 sanctioned posts. Similarly, there are no specialist doctors in 1,211 positions as against 2,708 sanctioned posts for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/flying-doctors-for-remote-odisha-areas/article38001698.ece
21 December 2021||Guwahati,||AFSPA to continue in Assam, to be withdrawn if peace lasts: CM||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday said the State will continue to be under Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, and a decision on withdrawing it will be taken only if the present peace prevails for a longer term. He expressed apprehension that the militant groups might not reciprocate the same way if the AFSPA is withdrawn from Assam. Mr. Sarma, however, said that no State Government wants to continue with the AFSPA if the law and order situation is peaceful and conducive. “The Assam Government is of the view that if this kind of peaceful situation continues at a later date we will be able to take a call on whether we need AFSPA in entire Assam or we need it only in some parts,” the Chief Minister told reporters here. He cited the example of Arunachal Pradesh, which decided to withdraw the Act in consultation with the Centre from many parts of the State, except in three districts. “AFSPA or not cannot be a call of the Government. It has to depend on the overall situation, law and order situation of the State. Now suppose I withdraw, will that be reciprocated by the militant organisations? “If they do not withdraw and we do, the Army will not be able to carry out any operation meaning thereby you are inviting chaos. So I think AFSPA withdrawal is linked to the peace and stability of the State,” Mr. Sarma said. Stating that no State Government will want to continue with AFSPA if the law and order situation is peaceful and conducive, he said “I am only saying this in the context of our State and not Nagaland because I have no jurisdiction to do so. On Nagaland I do not have any assessment. I do not want to comment on the situation that exists in that State,” he added. Nagaland resolution Nagaland Assembly on Monday unanimously adopted a resolution demanding that the Centre repeal AFSPA from the North East and specially from the State “so as to strengthen the ongoing efforts to find a peaceful political settlement to the Naga political issue”. The Assam Government had extended the existing “Disturbed Area” status of the State for another six months with effect from August 28, thereby continuing with the AFSPA in the State. The Act was imposed in Assam in November 1990 and has been extended every six months since then after a review by the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/afspa-to-continue-in-assam-to-be-withdrawn-if-peace-lasts-cm/article38001702.ece
21 December 2021||Guwahati,||Assam may bring in law against mob lynching||The Assam Government on Monday said that it will discuss and consider a proposal to introduce a Bill against mob lynching in the State, Replying to the issue of bringing in legislation to stop incidents of mob lynching, Assam Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pijush Hazarika said in the Assembly that the State Government has not thought about it so far. “Though we have not enacted any law against mob lynching, we must take steps to prevent it. Many such gruesome incidents have shaken us. We will discuss and consider the Acts implemented by other States,” he said. “We do not have any information about other States’ laws. However, the Supreme Court, in the judgement in Tehseen Poonawalla case, had issued a set of guidelines to stop mob lynching incidents. It had also said that there was scope of enacting anti-mob lynching laws,” he said. The Minister mentioned several cases of mob lynching that took place in Assam that are being tried in fast-track courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assam-may-bring-in-law-against-mob-lynching/article38001703.ece
21 December 2021||Guwahati,||Notice to Cong. MLA over ‘joining’ Assam govt.||Opposition Congress MLA Sashi Kanta Das ‘joined’ the government in Assam on Monday, the first day of the winter session of the Assembly, and will work in association with it though he will not resign from the party immediately, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The Congress slapped a show cause notice on Mr. Das and asked him to clarify his stand within a day. The notice issued by State Congress general secretary Bobbeeta Sharma said Mr. Das was seen offering support to the BJP government and his allegiance to Mr. Sarma and BJP state unit president Bhabesh Kalita. Mr. Sarma and Mr. Kalita welcomed Mr. Das at the CM’s chamber inside the Assembly complex while the House was in progress. “Mr. Das has decided to join the government to develop Raha constituency,” Mr. Sarma told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/notice-to-cong-mla-over-joining-assam-govt/article38001533.ece
21 December 2021||Hazaribagh (Jharkhand),||3 trampled to death by elephants||A 31-year-old woman and her two children have been trampled to death by an elephant herd in Jharkhand’s Hazaribag district, a forest officer said on Monday. Five others were also seriously injured in the incident that took place in Iteez village in Keredari police station area on Sunday night, Hazaribag West Divisional Forest Officer R.N. Mishra said. The deceased and the injured, all brick kiln labourers, were sleeping in huts when the herd of 15 elephants attacked them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-trampled-to-death-by-elephants/article38001697.ece
21 December 2021||Hoshiarpur/Ferozepur,||Farmers block rail tracks in Punjab||Farmers on Monday blocked rail tracks at several places in Punjab, demanding complete loan waiver and compensation to families whose members died during the course of the stir against the Centre’s farm laws. They also demanded the cancellation of police cases registered against farmers who protested against the laws. Train movement was affected in the State. According to railway officials, over 55 trains were affected following the protest by farmers at Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur. They said 27 trains were cancelled, 11 were short-terminated while 17 were halted. The cancelled trains included the Amritsar-Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna Express, Amritsar-Nanded Superfast, Amritsar-Chandigarh Intercity Express and Amritsar-Howrah Express.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-block-rail-tracks-in-punjab/article38001532.ece
21 December 2021||Mumbai,||HC extends time for Varavara’s surrender||The Bombay High Court on Monday extended the time for 82-year-old Varavara Rao to surrender till January 7. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S.V. Kotwal was hearing a plea filed by Mr. Rao, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case. He is currently out on medical bail and is residing in Mumbai with his wife. He urged the court to allow him to go back home to Telangana. He was granted interim medical bail for six months on February 22 and has filed for an extension of the same in the court. On the last occasion, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had submitted a one-page medical report stating Mr. Rao is normal. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, representing the probe agency, said Mr. Rao had medical issues and those have been resolved. He said, “He [Mr. Rao] is over 80 years old. Obviously there will be medical problem. But that does not mean he keeps taking extensions forever. He has to surrender sometime. I don’t see why this plea should survive.” Senior Advocate Anand Grover appearing for Mr. Rao said the court had granted him bail making certain observations on the heath aspect. He read out the portions of the order passed in April 2021, granting temporary bail to Mr. Rao. The court took on record that the Nanavati hospital’s report can be accepted and it was not necessary to analyse the reports. “The applicant was allowed to be released on medical bail. As the Division Bench had earlier followed this protocol, we will also follow the same, and we grant time to Mr. Rao to file his reply.” Objection raised Raising an objection, Mr. Singh said he would never surrender if this went on and that it was like getting bail. The Bench directed Mr. Grover to file the affidavit by December 28 and posted the hearing for January 4 while extending time for Mr. Rao to surrender till January 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-extends-time-for-varavara-raos-surrender/article38001531.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t panic, Govt. prepared to fight Omicron variant, says CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that there is no need to panic about the Omicron variant of COVID-19 and that the Delhi Government is fully prepared for the fight with adequate beds, oxygen and medicines. Mr. Kejriwal said this in a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority held to discuss the problems posed by the variant. Experts said that the Omicron variant spreads rapidly but is very mild in nature. “One might get fever and other mild symptoms but the need for hospitalisation and the chances of death are very low. We have come to the conclusion that this time, home isolation would be needed at large and have thus decided to further enhance our home isolation programme,” the CM said. Mr. Kejriwal said that over the past week, the number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital has been rising and there is a need to find out if the variant spreading is Delta or Omicron. “We have decided to get genome sequencing of each positive COVID-19 case done to determine what variant is spreading at present. Till now, only the people coming to the airport have been tested for the variants,” he said. Vaccination Mr. Kejriwal said that 99% of Delhi’s eligible population have been vaccinated with the first dose and about 70% with both the doses. He appealed to the Central Government to allow booster doses as Delhi is ready with the infrastructure to administer such doses first to healthcare workers and then to the rest of the population. The Government said that 30,000 COVID-19 beds are ready in Delhi, while 100 beds per ward will be arranged as and when required on a two-week notice taking the total bed capacity to over 64,000. “Additionally, 6,800 ICU beds will be ready soon. Medicine stocks are being added, and home isolation arrangements are being strengthened. The Government has issued a COVID-19 helpline number — 1031 — to help patients if they face any problem,” the Government said in a statement. It added that to ensure that there is no shortage of essential medicines and equipment, 32 medicines have been identified for the treatment of COVID-19 and that the Government has mandated that a buffer stock of these medicines for 60 days be maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dont-panic-govt-prepared-to-fight-omicron-variant-says-cm/article38001524.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Ban on construction, demolition activities lifted in Delhi and NCR||The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) on Monday lifted the ban on construction and demolition activities in Delhi and the NCR and also allowed entry of trucks into the city. “Construction and Demolition (C&D) activities in the NCR shall now be permitted with immediate effect. It is subject to persons/agencies undertaking such activities strictly complying with the directions/orders for dust control norms issued by the Commission from time to time as well as those under the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules and various CPCB guidelines in this regard,” an order by the CAQM said. “Entry of trucks into Delhi, which hitherto was selectively permitted, would be allowed with immediate effect till further orders,” it said. The CAQM said that for projects located in the jurisdiction of the Delhi Government and the NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh, the proponents of C&D projects in sites measuring 500 sq.m or above should register their projects on the web portal developed for the purpose of online monitoring by the agencies concerned. Web portal “For the States of Haryana and Rajasthan, where the web portal is yet to be commissioned, this needs to be completed latest by January 20, 2022,” the order said. On November 16, the CAQM had banned C&D activities in Delhi and the NCR due to high pollution. On November 24, the Supreme Court reimposed the ban on construction, exempting some non-polluting activities. On December 17, the CAQM had allowed construction projects related to public utilities, Railways, metro, airports, national security, healthcare, highways, and roads among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ban-on-construction-demolition-activities-lifted-in-delhi-and-ncr/article38001508.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||3 kids dead after taking syrup prescribed by mohalla clinics||Three children have died after consuming Dextromethorphan, a cough syrup, prescribed by “mohalla clinics” run by the Delhi Government, the Directorate of Health Services (DGHS) of the Central Government said in a letter. There is no clarity on when the deaths occurred. “Sixteen cases of Dextramethorphan poisoning were reported at Kalawati Saran Children Hospital of which three children expired in the hospital. These children were prescribed Dextramethorphan drug by the Delhi Government-run mohalla clinics. The drug is strictly not recommended for paediatric-age children,” the DGHS letter dated December 7 read. The DGHS also directed the Delhi Government to issue a notice to all dispensaries and mohalla clinics “not to prescribe” Dextromethorphan for children less than four years of age and also suggested withdrawing the drug in “larger public interest”. Doctors terminated Later in the evening, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, said: “It is a very sad matter that a few days ago, three children died at Kalawati Saran Hospital due to reaction of medicine. Three doctors have been terminated and an inquiry has been ordered. We have complained to the Delhi Medical Council about the doctors.” A Delhi Government spokesperson did not respond to questions on when the children died or the deaths did happen at different mohalla clinics, and whether a post-mortem was conducted in these cases. The Minister also did not respond to calls or messages seeking comment. A committee has been constituted to conduct an inquiry into the matter following the Central Government letter regarding the deaths of children, an official order by the Delhi Government said on Monday. The committee has been asked to submit a report within seven days. Delhi Congress president Ch. Anil Kumar demanded a compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the families of the victims and Rs. 10 lakh relief to those who are under treatment. “The death of the three children has uncovered the mask of the Delhi Government and the incompetence of the mohalla clinic doctors. It is a matter of grave concern that mohalla clinics are managed by incapable doctors,” Mr. Kumar said. Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said the children died due to the ineligibility of the doctors at mohalla clinics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-kids-dead-after-taking-syrup-prescribed-by-mohalla-clinics/article38001516.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC rejects plea seeking possession of Red Fort||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by the widow of late Mirza Mohammed Bedar Bakht, great-grandson of last Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, to hand over the possession of Red Fort to her. Justice Rekha Palli rejected the petition, saying that Sultana Begum has not been able to give any “justifiable explanation” for filing her case after a delay of over 150 years. Ms. Begum, in her plea, said she was “the rightful owner of Red Fort as she had inherited this property from her ancestor Bahadur Shah Zafar II, the king of Delhi, and the Government of India is an illegal occupant of the property”. In her petition, filed through advocate Vivek More, the 68-year-old said she is currently living in a slum in Howrah, West Bengal, “in very unhygienic conditions”. Ms. Begum, who also claims to be illiterate, said her family was deprived of ancestral property, which was taken forcibly by the British East India Company in 1857, without any compensation. Justice Palli, however, questioned why Ms. Begum or other descendants of Bahadur Shah Zafar did not raise this issue till today. Everybody knows that Bahadur Shah Zafar was exiled by the British, the judge said, adding, “Why was nothing filed in time? If her ancestors didn’t do it, can she do it now?” When advocate More tried to justify the delay in filing the petition as Ms. Begum was illiterate, the High Court rejected it saying this was not a valid justification why steps were not taken in this regard at relevant time. “What were you doing for all these years?” the High Court asked. In her petition, Ms. Begum said that in 1960, the Government of India under the Prime Ministership of Jawaharlal Nehru recognised Mirza Muhammad Bedar Bakht as the inheritor of the late Bahadur Shah Zafar and a political pension was also granted to him. On August 15, 1965, Ms. Begum got married to Mirza Muhammad Bedar Bakht. On May 22, 1980, Mirza Muhammad Bedar Bakht died and on August 1, 1980, Ms. Begum was granted a political pension by the then Government. She said her petition was filed challenging the injustice done by the British East India company in 1857, when it dethroned the last Mughal emperor and sentenced him to exile in Rangoon. On November 11, 1862, Bahadur Shah Zafar died at the age of 82. In 2010, the then Central Government enhanced the rate of political pension from Rs. 400 per month to Rs. 6,000 per month for Ms. Begum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-hc-rejects-plea-seeking-possession-of-red-fort/article38001510.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Ex-BJP MLA Sengar, 5 others discharged||A Delhi court on Monday discharged former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar and five of his co-accused in connection with the Unnao rape survivor’s car accident in which she and her lawyer sustained injuries and two of her aunts died. The order was passed by Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey, who noted that there was no prima facie evidence against Sengar and others namely, Gyanendra Singh, Komal Singh, Arun Singh, Rinku Singh and Aadesh Singh and hence, they stood discharged in the case which attracted IPC Section 506 (ii) (punishment for criminal intimidation) read with Section 34. ACMM Pandey, however, went on to frame charges against four other accused. As per case records, two years ago, an accident occurred when a truck collided with a car in which the rape survivor, her lawyer and two aunts were travelling. While the aunts died on the spot, the woman and her lawyer sustained serious injuries. Following this, a case of murder was lodged against Sengar and his associates by the U.P. police. However, a CBI probe into the incident found that there was no criminal conspiracy to commit murder or attempt to murder of the woman and her kin. Subsequently, the woman’s uncle moved a protest plea before the court challenging the CBI’s findings, claiming that the incident was an attempt to stop the survivor from submitting evidence before the court and tamper with evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ex-bjp-mla-sengar-5-others-discharged/article38001514.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records 91 fresh COVID-19 cases, positivity stands at 0.20%||Ninety-one new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 14,42,288, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Monday. A total of 46,193 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.20%, which is also the highest in more than five months. On Monday, there was no COVID-19-related death in 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,101. Of the total cases, 14,16,656 people have recovered and there are 531 active cases. Both new cases and positivity have been showing an increase for almost a week and on Sunday, the new cases were the highest in close to six months. The highest number of daily new cases in Delhi till now was reported on April 20 this year, when 28,325 cases were reported Doctors continue strike More than 5,000 resident doctors of different city hospitals boycotted work for the fourth day on Monday, except for COVID-19 duty, as the protest against the delay in PG-NEET counselling, said the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association. The doctors also protested outside the Union Health Ministry, raising slogans and enacting street plays. The boycott which began earlier this month was called off last week after the doctors were assured that the counselling schedule will be released in a week. However, as it didn’t happen, the doctors resumed the strike on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-records-91-fresh-covid-19-cases-positivity-stands-at-020/article38001518.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC blames pending funds for salary non-payment||East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal on Monday said that the Delhi Government “is yet to sanction” pending funds to the civic body, which has led to the non-payment of salaries to its employees “for the last three months”. “On Monday, we marched to the Chief Minister’s Office over the issue but it is unfortunate that no official came to meet us despite the Deputy Chief Minister being present in his office. They do not have the time to discuss the salary issues of the workers at the civic body,” Mr. Aggarwal said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi Government has released 75% of this financial year’s funds to the BJP-governed municipal corporations but still the corporations are not paying salaries on time. “The Government is supposed to provide Rs. 3,488 crore to the corporations in the fiscal year 2021-22, according to the budget. So far, 75% of the funds totalling Rs. 2,588 crore have been released in three instalments. The remaining 25% will be dispersed in January,” he said. Mr. Sisodia said, “The Mayor keeps doing a drama all the time and does not pay his employees who are facing the toughest of the times. The question that must be asked is, where did all of this money go under the watch of the BJP?” he said. According to the data provided by a senior EDMC official, the Government is yet to sanction “Rs. 250.21 crore” to the East Delhi corporation for the current year. Out of a total “Rs. 1,121.12 crore”, the Government had sanctioned “Rs. 747.42 crore”, which was received in the second and third quarters, the official said. He said, “Apart from this, a balance amount of Rs. 2,985.12 crore is yet to be paid by the Government to the EDMC. This is the pending fund from the years 2012-2016. The fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendations were not implemented for these years, and the amount was paid based on the suggestions of the third DFC till 2016. Due to this, there was a balance amount, from each year, which has not been sanctioned.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-blames-pending-funds-for-salary-non-payment/article38001525.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Capital records two more dengue deaths||The Capital recorded 154 cases of dengue and two deaths over the past week (till December 18), a civic body report said on Monday. This takes the current season’s caseload to 9,414 and the death toll to 17. According to civic body officials, the victims were a 54-year-old female and a nine-year-old female who died on November 2 and November 18 respectively. Both victims were admitted to private hospitals in the city. “Cases will continue to fall in the coming days with the dip in temperatures which are not suitable for mosquito breeding. The reason behind an increase in the death of children this season is because the younger ones are more vulnerable to the vector-borne disease. There are also chances of cross-infection,” said a senior civic body official. Over the past week, south Delhi recorded 40 cases of dengue, followed by north Delhi with 29 and east Delhi with 23 cases. This season, north Delhi recorded the highest number of cases at 2,616, followed by south Delhi with 2,533 and east Delhi with 1,113 cases — the lowest among the city’s three municipal corporations. Apart from the corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council recorded 82 cases for this season, while Delhi Cantonment and other agencies recorded 167 cases. A total of 2,903 cases of dengue remain untraced after investigation this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-records-two-more-dengue-deaths/article38001506.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Teachers’ University receives Cabinet nod||The Delhi Cabinet on Monday approved a proposal to establish the Delhi Teachers’ University that will offer four-year integrated teacher education programmes like BA-BEd, BSc-BEd and BCom-BEd from the academic session of 2022-23 to help develop a new generation of teachers. Before Vidhan Sabha Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the Delhi Teachers’ University Bill 2021 will be placed before the Vidhan Sabha in the coming session and it will be a public university dedicated to preparing quality teachers for the city across different school stages. Mr. Kejriwal said that the campus will be set up at Bakkarwala village and that students will be attached to the Delhi Government schools for the entire duration of their course to get hands-on experience with strong emphasis on action-research. World-class teaching “The Delhi Teachers’ University will be a centre for excellence in teacher preparation in the areas of education studies, leadership and policy. It will engage in world-class teaching and research in emerging areas of teacher education to achieve excellence in school education through national and international collaborations,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that it will work towards bridging the gap between practice, research and policy in teacher preparation while constantly engaging with the dynamic concept and realities of quality education in the city of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/teachers-university-receives-cabinet-nod/article38001520.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Inner Ring Road saw the highest number of accidents in 2020||Delhi’s Inner Ring Road, among the other two main Ring Roads in the city, witnessed the highest number of accidents last year with as many as 287 cases reported as a result of which 88 persons were killed, whereas the Outer Ring Road saw the highest fatalities with 100 people killed in 256 incidents, data provided by the Delhi Traffic Police showed. The two Ring Roads secured the top spot among the 25 accident-prone roads with 97 fatal accidents reported on Outer Ring Road while 85 incidents seen on the Ring Road. The data further showed that among the black spots identified by the traffic police, Azadpur Chowk and Punjabi Bagh Chowk saw the most accidents, both at 23. Azadpur Chowk also topped the chart in the number of fatal accidents at nine, the number of persons injured at 22, while the number of persons killed at nine. Black spots are defined as accident-prone zones or where the frequency of accidents remains high. “They are identified on the basis of concentration of accidents at a specific place where some form of remedial measures can be introduced to reduce the number of accidents,” an officer said. In comparison, Azadpur Chowk had only seen 13 accidents in 2019, whereas the highest accidents were witnessed in Mukundpur Chowk, the data showed. In terms of range-wise classification of accidents for last year, the Outer Range saw the most fatal accidents with 350 cases reported last year. The Western Range stood second at 276, according to the data. A senior traffic police officer said that most road accidents occur due to cases of drunk driving and that officers have been briefed to crack down on such instances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/inner-ring-road-saw-the-highest-number-of-accidents-in-2020/article38001522.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC questions delay in demolition of illegal temple||The Delhi High Court on Monday ordered the removal of an illegally constructed temple on a footpath at Bhishma Pitamah Marg in south Delhi’s Defence Colony within 10 days, noting that no religious activity was going on there. Justice Rekha Palli told the authorities that once the Supreme Court directed that no unauthorised construction would be permitted in the name of temple or gurdwara or any other religious place, there was no question why the encroachment be not removed expeditiously.  The High Court ordered the Station House Officer of the local police station to ensure that the idols put inside the illegal structure are placed in a nearby temple so that the sanctity of the idols is preserved and the Hindu sentiments are respected. The court’s direction came on a man’s petition who had sought removal of the encroachment from the footpath in front of his property at Defence Colony. He said during the COVID-19 pandemic, an unknown person illegally constructed a temple on the footpath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-questions-delay-in-demolition-of-illegal-temple/article38001512.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three-year-old girl mauled to death by dogs||A three-year-old girl was mauled to death by stray dogs at a DDA park in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar on December 17, the police said on Monday. An inquiry has been initiated, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said that information was received around 3 p.m. on December 17 from a hospital that a girl named Laxmi had been attacked by stray dogs in a park and brought dead to the hospital. The body was shifted to the mortuary for post-mortem after which it was handed over to the father Gopal Ram — the park’s gardener — for last rites. The girl’s mother, Sajni Kumari, said that on the day of the incident, she was in the jhuggi and the girl had gone to the park to play. She said these dogs were in the park most of the time and Laxmi used to play with them every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-year-old-girl-mauled-to-death-by-dogs/article38001511.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||36-year-old found dead at rented house||A 36-year-old man was found murdered at his rented house in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash on Monday, the police said, adding that the suspects have been identified. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said that the victim has been identified as Rahul Thakur, a resident of Jammu & Kashmir, who used to work at ‘Delhi Haat Art Gallery’. “On Monday, around 9.40 a.m., we got a call from the owner of a flat at Greater Kailash about the incident. When the police reached the spot, a man was found lying unconscious inside the flat,” Ms. Jaiker said. Further probe revealed that Thakur used to live with his mother Anita in this house, who had left for their home town in J&K about four days ago. The police said Thakur was suspected to have been strangulated to death. However, the exact cause of the death will be ascertained from the autopsy report. A murder case has been registered under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. “It’s suspected that a male friend who was close to the victim is involved,” a senior police officer said. The police said that a few suspects have been identified in the CCTV footage and efforts are on to nab them. Three mobile phones have been found from the spot, the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/36-year-old-found-dead-at-rented-house/article38001515.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Two wanted in shoot-out case arrested||The Delhi Police Special Cell on Monday arrested two persons wanted in a case of shoot-out in Subzi Mandi area and seized two automatic pistols with eight live cartridges from them. According to DCP (Special Cell) Jasmeet Singh, the accused were already wanted in a case of shoot-out where they had fired upon a person and stabbed a few of his family members in a gang rivalry, and that they had not surrendered to jail authorities even after their interim bail had ended. A trap was laid and the accused were nabbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-wanted-in-shoot-out-case-arrested/article38001519.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Three held for child trafficking||A couple and the owner of a placement agency were arrested for allegedly trafficking children after kidnapping them, the police said on Monday. A Delhi Police Crime Branch team has rescued a 16-year-old girl, an officer said. The police found out that the owner of the placement agency, Abdul Haldar, who has a separate case lodged in West Bengal against him, was currently in Delhi and launched a manhunt to arrest him. DCP (Crime) Monica Bhardwaj said the couple was running the placement agency at Badarpur Extension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-held-for-child-trafficking/article38001521.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minimum temperature dips to 3.2°C||The minimum temperature in the Capital continued to plummet and settled at 3.2° Celsius on Monday, which was five degrees below normal. The maximum temperature was 21° Celsius, which was one degree below normal. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 4.6 degrees Celsius, which had been the coldest day of the season. The IMD has said that night temperatures are likely to rise by 2-3 degrees in the coming days. “Cold wave to severe cold wave is very likely to continue in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to abate thereafter over above areas,” the IMD bulletin said. The forecast for December 21 reads “mainly clear sky with shallow fog in the morning. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 21 degrees and 4 degrees respectively”. The extended forecast shows that the sky is likely to turn partly cloudy December 22 onwards that will bring down the minimum temperature to about seven degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/minimum-temperature-dips-to-32c/article38001526.ece
21 December 2021||Noida,||Villagers start hunger strike against Noida Authority||A group of farmers here launched an indefinite hunger strike on Monday as part of their protest against the Noida Authority over a host of demands, including hiked compensation for their land acquired in the past. Rajya Sabha MP and Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh assured them of raising their issue in Parliament. The Samajwadi Party also extended support to the protesting farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/villagers-start-hunger-strike-against-noida-authority/article38001705.ece
21 December 2021||Srinagar,||Will restore 100% power supply: J&K L-G||J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said 60% electricity supply stands restored in the Union Territory and promised to restore 100% supply by Tuesday, as protests by around 20,000 employees of the Power Development Department continued for the third straight day and affected students’ examination and tourism sector. ‘Bold reforms’ “I understand your pain caused by the disruption in electricity supply due to the strike by the power department employees. Many generations of J&K have spent their life dreaming about getting an uninterrupted 24 hours supply of electricity. We have taken the bold initiative of reforms in the power sector to realise that dream,” Mr. Sinha said. He accused the previous regimes of not intending “to better the system to bring qualitative change in the people’s lives”. The L-G said personnel from the REC, the NTPC and the NHPC, and officers from the Army Engineering Corps, are working together to restore electricity. “This only shows our commitment... we restored 60% electricity yesterday and by tomorrow we will achieve 100% restoration,” he added. Meanwhile, hundreds of employees on the call of the Power Employees and Engineers Coordination Committee (PEECC) held demonstration and stayed away from work. They are protesting against the government’s move to privatise grid stations to the Power Grid Corporation of India which, they say, will impact the jobs of locals. The protesting employees pledged to continue with the protests till their demands are met. The J&K officials had failed to reach any settlement with the protesting employees till Monday evening. NC, PDP flay govt. Regional parties, including the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, have criticised the government and supported the employees. “The proposed move is not a reform but another step in looting the State’s resources and block jobs for locals. The so-called reservation in recruitment is reduced to a cruel joke,” PDP leader Naeem Akhtar said. Meanwhile, several under-graduate and post-graduate examinations were cancelled by Jammu University in the face of power crisis. The crisis has hit both the capitals of Jammu and Srinagar, besides far off villages and towns in the UT, with people reeling under darkness and cold in the winter season. J&K Hoteliers Club chairman Mushtaq Chaya said, “Without electricity, the visitors will not be able to stay in the hotels and could hamper tourism industry badly.” Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who heads the Hurriyat Conference, accused the J&K authorities of “a policy of seizure of natural resources of J&K”. “It’s unfortunate that J&K, which is rich in water and other natural resources, has not been able to solve the problem of electricity even after seven decades and the consequences are being borne by the Kashmiris in winters and the people of Chenab and Jammu in summers. The authorities should accept the demand of the striking employees.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-restore-100-power-supply-jk-l-g/article38001535.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||No political will from Centre to part with OBC data: Jayant Patil||On December 15, the Supreme Court dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra Government seeking a direction to the Centre to share raw data collected in the Socio-Economic Caste Census of 2011. The apex court told the State to notify 27% of its Other Backward Classes (OBC) seats to open category in its local government body elections. The Maha Vikas Aghadi Government has received a lot of flak for being “negligent” and “non serious” about it. Nationalist Congress Party’s Maharashtra chief Jayant Patil, however, told The Hindu that there is lack of political will from the Centre to part with the data and its stand is very contradictory.  What according to you were the circumstances that led to the delay in submitting the data? I think it is important to understand the chronology of events here; the previous government led by Devendra Fadnavis had challenged the OBC reservation in the local body in court in 2017. Since then, the Government of Maharashtra is seeking the empirical data which is with the Centre. Between 2011 and 2013 this survey was done and the data was submitted to the Government of India. The survey was done in every State; however, the Centre’s stand has been confusing, in 2016, the Center had said in the Parliament that the empirical data on OBC was correct, but a few days ago, the Centre told the SC that the data pertaining to OBC cannot be determined by the survey. There are letters written in 2019, by Devendra Fadnavis and Pankaja Munde asking the Centre to share the data but it could not be procured. The lack of political will is at the Centre and not the State. Firstly, they denied the letters, then they said the data has errors and now they are saying they do not have any data. So you’re saying that there is a contradiction in the Centres’s stand? Absolutely, I think the Centre does not want to disclose the data because then there will be a demand to make budgetary allocations proportionate to the population that will lead to OBC’s empowerment.  That is why the Centre is not providing the data, which is being asked by a lot of States. There is a limbo which is creating ambiguity. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was against social economic and caste census in 2011. When the parent organisation is against caste census, it is unlikely that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Government will release the data. The RSS believes in an arakhsan mukt bharat (reservation free India), so how will the Government provide the data that will strengthen the reservation. Besides, the motive of 2011 census data was to make programmes and policies for OBC for their upliftment in education and jobs among others. By 2024, if they (BJP) get elected, they will cancel all the reservations. The MVA government has told the SC that it will provide empirical data in three months, how do you plan to do that? We have already formed a nine-member commission which will take up the difficult task in their hands and complete it in the next three months. We have suggested to the State Election Commission (SEC) that any election which will omit OBC’s reservation should not be taken immediately. It is very disheartening to see wastage of time, resources and money of the public exchequer into a task which was already done 10 years ago but just because of ill-intentions of the Centre, this data is not given to us. Can you explain the process of collecting empirical data? The entire State has a machinery of teachers, government servants’ and anganwadi sevikas who will collect data in their villages. But the compilation of data is very cumbersome. We are also trying to figure out if data can be collected online. Are there any talks to defer the local body polls? The decision on when to conduct elections is with the SEC. From our side, we are constantly pursuing and requesting the SEC to postpone elections for three months so that proper provisions can be made for OBC representations in the local bodies. We want the elections to happen with the OBC reservation. On Sharad Pawar’s birthday, you had said, ‘There is an ideological fight in India and has to be won ideologically’. Which fight are you referring to? The nature of the fight is very unique, now it is not right or left. This is an ideological fight - parties who want to uphold the Constitution and mechanisms laid by our Constitution versus authoritarians. Our deep-rooted idea of democracy is given by Mahatma Gandhi, Babasaheb Ambedkar and Mahatma Phule, Jawaharlal Nehru who believed in the Constitution and we will protect it. Today, there is a breakdown of Central institutions. Since this Government has come to power, the country has never seen so much damage to Central institutions laid by our Constitution, whether it’s the Central Bureau of Investigation or the Enforcement Directorate, bulldozing of members in the legislative and parliamentary houses, the unconstitutional passing of acts and laws, like the farm reform laws. There was no debate and discussion before it was passed, after more than 700 lives were lost, they repealed the farm laws only after electoral consideration. And even then, there was no discussion, they don’t like discussions. Atleast, the Prime Minister should have mentioned why the farm laws are removed. They have to give some explanation to the nation. How do you foresee Maharashtra’s future as two big regional parties are in power now? Maharashtra has always played an important role in shaping national politics. As far as NCP is concerned, apart from Maharashtra, NCP is also there in Kerala, Manipur and Assam. NCP’s grassroots are very strong in Maharashtra, it will always win at least 40 seats. Whichever wave came in the State or Country, we had 54 seats. Before the Modi wave, we had reached 72 seats. If you see in the past few years, we are an ever-evolving political party. From launching LGBTQI cell to focusing on new age campaigns. We are one of the most forward-thinking parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-political-will-from-centre-to-part-with-obc-data-says-jayant-patil/article38001530.ece
21 December 2021||Santiago,||Leftist millennial elected Chile’s President||The streets of Santiago erupted in celebration on Sunday after leftist millennial Gabriel Boric became Chile’s youngest-ever President-elect with an unexpectedly large victory over his far-right rival in a polarising race. Mr. Boric, 35, garnered nearly 56% of the vote compared to 44% for ultra-conservative Jose Antonio Kast, who conceded even before the final result was known. Tens of thousands of Chileans took to the streets of the capital and other cities after Mr. Kast’s concession, honking car horns in approval, brandishing pro-Boric placards, waving the rainbow LGBTQ flag and shouting: “Viva Chile!” Fireworks lit the skies for hours on end. “I’m thrilled, I am crying with joy. We dealt a blow to fascism!” pharmacy worker Jennie Enriquez, 45, said. “I am happy because there are going to be many changes that will help the people and the working class,” said construction worker Luis Astorga, 58. Mr. Boric had campaigned on the promise of installing a “social welfare” state, increasing taxes and social spending in a country with one of the world’s largest gaps between rich and poor. ‘Great triumph’ Branded a “communist” by his detractors, he vowed in his first official address on Sunday to “expand social rights” in Chile, but to do so with “fiscal responsibility.” “We will do it protecting our macro-economy, we will do it well... to improve pensions and healthcare,” he said. Mr. Kast congratulated Mr. Boric, who leads an alliance that includes Chile’s Communist Party, “on his great triumph.” “From today on, he is the President-elect of Chile and he deserves all our respect and constructive cooperation. Chile always comes first.” Mr. Kast is an apologist for brutal dictator Augusto Pinochet and his neo-liberal economic model, credited with Chile’s relative wealth but blamed for its deep-rooted social inequality. He opposes same-sex marriage, contraception and abortion, and had initially pledged to close the Ministry of Women’s Affairs, a promise he later rowed back on. According to a projection by Chile’s Servel election body, turnout was more than 55% — a record since voting became voluntary in 2012. Mr. Boric won by a margin of nearly a million ballots out of 8.3 million cast by 15 million eligible voters. Youngsters support “Clearly more young people came out, it seems clear... that Boric managed to mobilise the segment that is more difficult to mobilise, which is the segment of young people,” Claudia Heiss of the University of Chile said. “All (Kast’s) anti-rights, anti-women, anti-gay speech, I think it helped mobilise that young segment,” Ms. Heiss added. The new President will face the difficult task of healing a society reeling from a polarising campaign replete with antagonistic attacks and fake news onslaughts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/leftist-millennial-elected-chiles-president/article38001102.ece
21 December 2021||COLOMBO,||Yameen leads ‘India Out’ campaign in Maldives||About a fortnight since Maldives’s ex-President Abdulla Yameen walked free, after the Supreme Court overturned his conviction in a money-laundering case, the ‘India Out’ campaign in the island nation has intensified, with the former strongman now leading it. Earlier this month, Mr. Yameen’s Progressive Party of Maldives (PPM) said the leader would travel to the atolls to step up the campaign resisting “Indian boots on the ground” in the Indian Ocean Archipelago, even as the government denies any Indian military presence. Images of Mr. Yameen and his supporters, attired in a red t-shirt with ‘India Out’ printed in bold font, are circulating on social media, along with the ‘#IndiaOut’ hashtag. In a statement on Sunday, the Government of Maldives said it was “profoundly concerned” by attempts to spread “misguided and unsubstantiated information to propagate hatred towards India”. Calling India “one of the closest bilateral partners of the Maldives”, the government attributed the campaign to a “small group of individuals and a few political personalities”. “Spreading hatred and making false allegations regarding bilateral ties with neighbouring countries not only tarnishes the relations with trusted allies who extends consistent support to the Maldivian people, but also affect the safety and security of their citizens in Maldives, and Maldivians living abroad,” the government’s statement said. This is the second such statement issued by Male in recent weeks. On November 17, the government “strongly rejected” attempts to spread “false information” criticising its ties with India, its “closest ally and trusted neighbour”. India-Maldives ties deteriorated considerably when the Yameen administration was in power from 2013 to 2018. Significantly, tensions rose over Mr. Yameen’s ultimatum to New Delhi to withdraw two Indian helicopters from Laamu and Addu atolls. Mr. Yameen’s perceived China tilt at the time also made New Delhi apprehensive. Following President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih’s election win in September 2018, his government declared an “India first” foreign policy, resetting ties. In an open acknowledgment, Mr. Solih told The Hindu in a January 2021 interview that the Maldives “makes no apology” for close ties with India. Speaker and former President Mohamed Nasheed, a party colleague of Mr. Solih and an influential voice in the Maldives, has earlier said India is the “single most important country” for the Maldives, while accusing is political opponents of “xenophobia”. ‘Military presence’ Critics of the Government’s India relations, however, said it was Indian “military presence” that they were wary of. Speaking to The Hindu from Male, opposition parliamentarian and PPM vice-president Mohamed Saeed said: “We are not against India or the people of India. Our people are heavily into Bollywood, we love Indian cuisine. That is not the issue. There are reports of Indian military presence in the atolls and the government is not clarifying this,” he said, adding: “We oppose military presence of any foreign country – be it India, China or whoever else.” Observing that Mr. Yameen was only “giving leadership” to the “concerns” of citizens, Mr. Saeed slammed the government over its Uthuru Thila Falhu (UTF) harbour development deal with India, signed in February 2021. “There is no transparency, and the government is reluctant to reveal the terms of the agreement in Parliament, despite having a majority in the House. The BJP leadership in India and the [ruling] MDP are messing up bilateral ties. We are not on the right course,” said Mr. Saeed, who was Minister of Economic Development in Mr. Yameen’s Government. At the time of the signing of the UTF pact, Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Didi termed the project “vital” to the “effective functioning” of the Maldivian Coast Guard. Ms. Didi has said that the relationship between the Maldives and India today is “stronger than ever”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/yameen-leads-india-out-campaign-in-maldives/article38001243.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Uzra Zeya appointed U.S. Special Coordinator for Tibet||U.S. official Uzra Zeya has been appointed the country’s new Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues. She will hold the position concurrently with her current role as Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said via a statement. The coordinator’s role involves promoting “substantive dialogue” between the Chinese government and the Dalai Lama. The coordinator is also supposed to promote the unique identity of Tibet, safeguards human rights of Tibetans and coordinates U.S. policy on Tibet. “Specifically, she [Ms. Zeya] will promote substantive dialogue, without preconditions, between the Government of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and the Dalai Lama, his representatives, or democratically elected Tibetan leaders in support of a negotiated agreement on Tibet,” Mr. Blinken said in a statement, as part of a list of activities Ms. Zeya would undertake in her new role. In addition to her responsibilities around promoting human rights and preserving the distinct heritage of Tibetans, Ms. Zeya will “also promote activities to protect the environment and sustainably manage the water and other natural resources of the Tibetan plateau,” Mr. Blinken said. The position, which was established by U.S.’s Tibetan Policy Act (2002), had been lying vacant for much of the Trump administration, i.e., from January 2017 to October 2020, when State Department official Robert Destro was appointed to the role. Ms. Zeya was born in North Carolina to parents who emigrated from India. She quit the State Department during the Trump administration (2018), speaking and writing, after her departure, of the decline in diversity at the top levels of the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uzra-zeya-appointed-us-special-coordinator-for-tibet/article38001328.ece
21 December 2021||HONG KONG,||Beijing defends Hong Kong polls amid record low turnout||Pro-Beijing candidates have swept Hong Kong's “patriots only” polls, the first elections held after electoral reforms that essentially ruled out the participation of most of the pro-democracy opposition candidates in the Special Administrative Region. The central government in Beijing hailed Sunday’s polls and released a detailed white paper on Monday defending its political governance of Hong Kong. Its critics in Hong Kong, however, pointed to the record low turnout — the lowest in any election since the 1997 handover — as underlining public disenchantment with the new electoral process. In March, Beijing passed legislation that significantly reduced the share of directly elected representatives in Hong Kong’s Legislative Council, from 50% to 22%, with the rest nominated, and also introduced a candidate eligibility review committee to screen those running for office. Despite a range of measures aimed at boosting turnout, including making public transportation free on Sunday, only 30.20% of registered voters cast their vote, down from 58.28% in the last LegCo election in 2016. A provisional count of the total number of voters showed a steep fall of more than 60%, down from 2.2 million five years ago to 1.35 million voters on Sunday. Chief Executive Carrie Lam played down the low turnout saying the fact that 1.35 million voted showed the election “had the support of many citizens”. She also welcomed Beijing’s “white paper” on Hong Kong’s democratic system, which defended its overhaul of the electoral process arguing that there were no elections under British colonial rule prior to 1997 and that “one country” needed to take precedence over “two systems”, referring to the formula that gave Hong Kong political freedoms that people are denied on the mainland. “One Country is the prerequisite and basis for the Two Systems, and the Two Systems are subordinate to and derive from One Country,” the white paper said, adding that “Hong Kong governed by the patriots of Hong Kong is essential to the One Country, Two Systems principle, and quintessential to democracy in the region.” “The region must be governed by patriots and patriots only,” the paper said. “No instigator of disorder should be allowed into the governing body of the HKSAR, and resolute measures must be taken to guard the region’s administration against destabilising influences and the forces behind them.” Ms. Lam echoed that message in a meeting with reporters on Monday, saying that “the most important basis for enhancing Hong Kong’s electoral system is to ensure 'patriots administering Hong Kong’ because Hong Kong is an inalienable part of the People’s Republic of China." “If our electoral system were to have a loophole that would allow people who were unpatriotic, who actually wanted to use elections to go into Hong Kong's political structure and then undermine national security, or even overturn the Government and collude with foreign forces and so on,” she said, “it would not be in the interest of the people of Hong Kong and, in fact, the people of the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-defends-hong-kong-polls-amid-record-low-turnout/article38001100.ece
21 December 2021||Moscow,||Russia expels two German envoys||Russia on Monday expelled two German diplomats in response to a spat with Berlin over a German court’s ruling that Moscow had ordered the 2019 assassination of an ex-Chechen commander in a Berlin park. “The German Ambassador was informed that two diplomatic employees of the German Embassy in Russia were declared “persona non grata’ as a symmetrical response,” Russia’s foreign ministry said in a statement. The Ministry added that it had registered a “strong protest“ with the German envoy over Berlin’s expulsion of two Russian diplomats last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-expels-two-german-envoys/article38001107.ece
21 December 2021||Cairo,||One person killed in Sudan anti-coup protest||A Sudanese protester was shot dead during mass demonstrations against the recent military takeover and a subsequent deal that reinstated Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok but sidelined the movement, a medical group said on Monday. Tens of thousands of Sudanese took to the streets in the capital, Khartoum, and elsewhere in the country Sunday. The protests marked the third anniversary of the uprising that eventually forced the military removal of longtime autocrat Omar al-Bashir and his Islamist government in April 2019. Security forces fired tear gas to disperse demonstrators attempting to stage a sit-in near the presidential palace on the bank of the Blue Nile in the heart of Khartoum. There were also protests in elsewhere in the country, such as the coastal city of Port Sudan, the eastern city of Kassala and the northern city of Atbara, the birthplace of the uprising against al-Bashir. The Sudan Doctors Committee said a 28-year-old man was killed after he was shot in the chest during Sunday’s demonstrations in the East Nile area in Khartoum. More than 120 people were wounded in clashes between protesters and security forces in Khartoum, the Health Ministry said in a statement. Two other protesters were wounded in Kassala, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/one-person-killed-in-sudan-anti-coup-protest/article38001108.ece
21 December 2021||Surigao City,||Philippines typhoon casualties rise to 375||The death toll from the strongest typhoon to hit the Philippines this year surged to 375 on Monday, as desperate survivors pleaded for urgent supplies of drinking water and food. The Philippine Red Cross reported “complete carnage” in coastal areas after Super Typhoon Rai left homes, hospitals and schools “ripped to shreds”. The storm tore off roofs, uprooted trees, toppled concrete power poles, smashed wooden houses to pieces, wiped out crops and flooded villages — sparking comparisons to the damage caused by Super Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. At least 375 people were killed and 56 are missing in the latest disaster to hit the archipelago, with 500 more injured, the national police said. More than 3,80,000 people fled their homes and beachfront resorts as Rai slammed into the country on Thursday. “SOS” has been painted on a road in the tourist town of General Luna on Siargao Island as people struggled to find water and food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/philippines-typhoon-casualties-rise-to-375/article38001106.ece
21 December 2021||Islamabad,||PML-N seeks Imran Khan’s resignation||Pakistan’s main opposition party has demanded resignation of Prime Minister Imran Khan for allegedly defaming the country and its political parties only to hide his own corruption at a time when foreign dignitaries were in the capital to attend a high-profile international summit. Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) information secretary Marriyum Aurangzeb said that Mr. Khan’s government had already completed more than three years of its term, but it seemed that he had been suffering from “Sharif family phobia” as he kept on mentioning their names all the time, instead of highlighting his own achievements, Dawn newspaper reported on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pml-n-seeks-imran-khans-resignation/article38001104.ece
21 December 2021||Geneva,||World Economic Forum says 'will defer' Davos meeting over Omicron fears||The World Economic Forum (WEF) said on Monday it will defer its meeting in Davos over “uncertainty due to the Omicron variant”. The meeting, which draws top leaders from business, politics and diplomacy, will be held in "early summer" instead of the planned January 17-21 schedule.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/world-economic-forum-says-will-defer-davos-meeting-over-omicron-fears/article38001245.ece
21 December 2021||Beijing,||China's 'livestreaming queen' fined $204m for tax evasion||Chinese influencer Huang Wei, known as the “queen of livestreaming” and who goes by the username Viya, has been ordered to pay $204 million (1.3 billion yuan) for tax evasion, authorities said on Monday, the biggest fine of its kind in Beijing's crackdown on celebrities.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-livestreaming-queen-fined-204m-for-tax-evasion/article38001103.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Amid vaccine booster talk, context matters a lot||Nearly four weeks since Omicron (B.1.1.529) was designated as a variant of concern (VoC), evidence points to its spreading faster than other variants. This is most likely as a result of the ability of the mutated spike protein to bind better to the receptor. It could also be because the virus is able to re-infect previously infected individuals, and infect vaccinated individuals better than other variants. The initial data indicate a lower severity of disease by Omicron. However, that remains to be confirmed as cases accumulate and we develop a better understanding of how the virus behaves in vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals. Laboratory studies using samples from individuals vaccinated with vaccines made on different platforms, including mRNA, vectored and inactivated vaccines, have reported that the neutralising antibodies are 25 times or much greater times less effective against Omicron than the ancestral strain. Another study from the United Kingdom has reported that two doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine (Covishield in India) have limited effectiveness for prevention of symptomatic infection by Omicron, but after a booster dose of an mRNA vaccine, effectiveness goes up to 71%. Even before the emergence of Omicron, over 80 countries had introduced or planned to introduce booster doses, but the designation of Omicron as a VoC accelerated the process, with countries expanding booster doses for additional age groups or introducing a booster into the immunisation programme, the most notable being South Africa. Alongside, the vaccine manufacturers, particularly those with rapid-response platforms such as mRNA and viral-vectored vaccines, have already begun the vaccine formulation targeted to provide better protection against Omicron. In India, for the last few months, there has been a demand for COVID-19 booster dose for various population sub-groups. Government-appointed expert committees have been reviewing the need for a booster in India. The start of booster doses in many countries at intervals as short as three months since the start of COVID-19 vaccination in India — and a greater vaccine supply than demand are the arguments being made to support the introduction of booster doses in India. The demand has grown louder with the emergence of Omicron. However, does a new variant make a clear case for the introduction of boosters in India? The answer is not easy, if a scientific approach of basing decisions on data is followed. The situation is similar to the use of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) in India. In the early months of the pandemic, CPT was recommended based on plausibility but without any scientific evidence. Later, even when studies reported that it had no or a very limited role in COVID-19 management, it continued to be recommended, using anecdotal evidence from treating physicians or ‘expert’ opinion. There seems to be a similar push for COVID-19 boosters in India, playing out in newspapers and TV debates, but there is no evidence of waning immunity from India to support this approach. Often, selective studies/evidence are/is being quoted, to support the argument one wishes to make; 21 months into the pandemic, any decision on boosters should be based on cumulative scientific evidence examined comprehensively. Effectiveness of vaccines On the one hand, pre-print research papers — yet to undergo essential peer scrutiny as a standard part of the scientific process — are being used to argue the case for booster vaccination while on the other, there is a recognition that data from India on vaccines being used in India are very limited. Does the absence of evidence on waning of immunity with Indian vaccines really mean that vaccine immunity is not waning? For all vaccinations, antibodies rise and then fall. They may fall to undetectable levels, but if they rose at all, then an immune response was made. Should there be a cut-off of the level of antibodies that exactly equated to protection from disease, that would be helpful for tracking the sufficiency of protection. But there is no such correlate of protection for SARS-CoV-2. Data indicate that in general, higher levels of neutralising antibodies indicate greater chances of protection from severe disease and infection, but there is no magic number above which there is assured protection. And this situation is further complicated by variants where antibodies may have different activity against each variant. Neutralising antibodies are considered functional antibodies; they are the antibodies that block the virus from entering host cells, but there are also many other antibodies that can be found in binding assays that measure whether antibodies can stick to the cognate protein of the virus. The levels of some of these binding antibodies parallel neutralising antibodies, both high or both low, but again there is no cut off that predicts anything about whether the person with high antibodies is truly protected or not. A recent report on Omicron has good news about another arm of the immune system, showing that T-cell immunity was largely maintained. The spate of laboratory studies further shows that natural infection and vaccination with two doses was approximately equivalent to two doses and a booster. Most of these data are from the mRNA and viral vectored vaccine combinations. We still have a lot to learn about Omicron and the performance of other vaccines in different populations and subpopulations, particularly those in India. It does appear clear that without boosters, protection against infection is likely to be less, but in public health terms, how much this may matter for health-care systems in India remains unquantifiable and unpredictable at this time. While the evidence on the benefit of boosters is emerging, we also need to worry about the populations that are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated in India and in the world. A comparison Offering booster doses will have individual benefit, to a variable extent against different variants. However, when at the global level, vaccines continue to be in short supply, this comes at the cost of a potentially larger benefit for more individuals who still await their primary two doses. In this backdrop, the decisions on who gets boosters, when and with which vaccine has to be based upon a public health approach, determined by evidence and science. Second, since every country needs vaccines and access is variable, global access to the first two shots need to be prioritised over boosters for healthy adults. Yes, boosters might ultimately be needed for everyone, but at the moment, we need to immediately consider boosters only for subgroups such as the immunocompromised (often referred to as additional dose as part of an extended primary immunisation schedule) and those at the greatest risk. In India, we must plan and execute real world effectiveness studies at scale in the general population, particularly for those vaccines that have been or will be used mainly or initially in India, so that we can develop an evidence base for decisions on boosters for the general population. This must happen in parallel with increasing the two dose coverage in all adults to the highest possible levels. Third, we should not be surprised by reports of reinfections and breakthrough infections or of absence of antibodies after natural infection and vaccination, particularly when commercial tests are used. This is expected both because of the design of the tests and as vaccines for mucosal infections, as for SARS-CoV-2, rarely prevent all subsequent infections, but generally continue to protect against severe disease for a longer period. Fourth, in the context of Omicron, India has an opportunity to plan and implement testing and tracking that will enable an understanding of variant-specific and waning immunity with different vaccines, if we capture infection and vaccination history in people who are affected by this variant. Fifth, this is an opportunity to review the performance of the vaccine programme and identify the population groups to be prioritised for completion of primary immunisation. It is time for the Government to analyse and use the integrated data from its multiple platforms for decision making. Every setting is different India needs a road map that includes COVID-19 testing, provision of care, financial protection, and enhanced science communication with the general public to ensure sustained adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviours, and other measures for protection against disease to decrease further disruption by the pandemic. Discussions on boosters are essential, but it is important that India makes its decisions based, as far as possible, on its own data. High seropositivity, as shown in the fourth round of the National Sero-Prevalence Survey, different vaccines from the rest of the world, a different experience with the variants, all indicate that India should not blindly follow the path adopted by other countries and it should determine COVID-19 booster dose policy for the general population based on local evidence and data. In epidemics and pandemics, context matters a lot. Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya is a physician with advanced training in epidemiology, public health and vaccines and based in New Delhi. Dr. Gagandeep Kang is Professor of Microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/amid-vaccine-booster-talk-context-matters-a-lot/article38001081.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The sustained attack on federalism||B. Pocker Sahib, a Muslim League member from Kerala in the Constituent Assembly, was prophetic when he outlined his concerns about the possible impact of centralisation of powers. In 1948, he said: “Now after we have won freedom, to do away with Provincial Autonomy and to concentrate all the powers in the Centre really is tantamount to totalitarianism, which certainly ought to be condemned.” Today, amid the pandemic, some elements of this statement resonate quite strongly with the States with some of them raising complaints about the Union government’s anti-federal moves. Prior to the pandemic, a series of steps by the Union government undermined the principles of federalism, especially fiscal federalism. This manifested in the increasing monetary share of the States in Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS), the terms of reference of the 15th Finance Commission, imposition of demonetisation without adequate consultation with the States, institutionalisation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), outsourcing of the statutory functions under the Smart Cities Mission, a delay in transfer of GST compensation, ‘One Nation One Ration’, etc. Pandemic and federalism Besides tightening the purse strings of States, administrations also witnessed an onslaught on the principles of federalism during the pandemic. States were curtailed in aspects relating to COVID-19 management such as procurement of testing kits, vaccination, the use of the Disaster Management Act, and the unplanned national lockdown. Ironically, Union Ministers used the ‘health is a State subject’ argument to counter criticism when the second wave caught the government unprepared. Several other policies initiated by the Union government in the recent past have also led to the weakening of States’ autonomy. These include the farm laws; the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Act of 2020; the Government of National Capital Territory Amendment Act, 2021; the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill, 2021; the Draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020; the Dam Safety Bill, 2019; the National Education Policy of 2020; and the Draft Blue Economy policy. The creation of the Ministry of Co-operation and the Reserve Bank of India directives on cooperatives are being perceived by the States as measures to strangulate a sector that is still struggling to recover from the devastation of demonetisation.  These coercive policies, coming on top of the pandemic-induced economic shock, have worsened the fiscal situation of State governments. The impact of COVID-19 on fiscal federalism deserves to be understood in greater detail, and tax collection is a good place to start. Enlarging the non-divisible pool of taxes in the form of cess in petrol tax and instituting the Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess have resulted in a situation where the Union continues to exclusively benefit from tax collection. As the economic commentator Vivek Kaul said, the share of non-divisible pool cess and surcharge in total taxes collected by the Union government jumped from 12.67% in 2019-20 to 23.46% in 2020-21. On December 6, 2021, the Union government informed Parliament that its share in the total contribution of the petroleum sector to the exchequer for 2020-21 was 68%, which left only 32% to the States. In 2013-14, the Union:State share was almost 50:50. The story is the same with GST. During the pandemic, the Union government repeatedly violated the compensation guarantees to the States under the GST regime. Delay in paying the States their due worsened the impact of the economic slowdown. The crisis was aggravated in July 2020, when the Union government proposed borrowing as an option to address the shortfall in GST compensation. Most States, forced by economic pressure, had to accept the proposal. In effect, this meant that they were not only getting the share of GST collections due to them, but were now forced into debt which they would have to service. The GST compensation period expires in 2022, and despite multiple requests from the States, the deadline has not been extended. The Comptroller and Auditor General found that the Union government, in 2018-19, wrongly retained Rs. 47,272 crore of GST compensation cess in the Consolidated Fund of India — money that was supposed to be transferred to the States. It is also pertinent to recollect that the 2021-22 Budget Estimates indicate that the States’ share of Union tax has reduced to 30% against the mandated 41% devolution prescribed by the 15th Finance Commission. Cash-starved States have been seeking non-tax avenues to generate funds to sustain their programmes. And at this point, the Union government issued a clarification that funding to the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Funds will not be considered as CSR expenditure, unlike the case with PM-CARES. This was followed by decisions like the suspension and transfer of the Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) funds to the Consolidated Fund of India. This led to a major crisis situation for most States and resulted in demands for increasing borrowing limits under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM), from 3% to 5%. The Union government decided to increase FRBM borrowing limits, linking it to the performance of States in fulfilling certain conditions — implementation of the One Nation, One Ration policy, ease of doing business reforms, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms — making it difficult for the States to perceive this as an addressal of their concerns. Some solutions These policy misadventures call for research and introspection on federalism. Is it time for another State-centric committee like the Rajamannar Committee to study Union-State relations? States should, as recommended by the National Commission to Review the Working of the Constitution, demand the creation of a formal institutional framework to mandate and facilitate consultation between the Union and the States in the areas of legislation under the Concurrent List. State governments could also consider deploying human resources to support them in preparing responses to the consultations initiated by the Union, especially with a focus on the federalism angle. Instead of reaching out to each other only during crisis situations, Chief Ministers should try to create forums for regular engagement on this issue. Former Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac had rallied Finance Ministers from different States during the initial stages of discussion on the terms of reference of the 15th Finance Commission. Similar efforts are required. This would be crucial in the advocacy of major demands like the extension of GST compensation to 2027 and inclusion of cess in the divisible pool of taxes. Federal flexibility — or the lack of it — is going to play a crucial role in shaping the future of our democracy. The Union government needs to invest resources towards facilitating effective consultation with States as a part of the lawmaking process. It is critical that the Union establishes a system where citizens and States are treated as partners and not subjects. Arun P.S. is a Kerala-based public policy researcher and a recipient of the Smitu Kothari Fellowship. This article is published as a part of the Fellowship of the Centre for Financial Accountability, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-sustained-attack-on-federalism/article38001096.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||For Afghan women, it’s the great regression||The Taliban’s seizure of Kabul on August 15, 2021 has considerably altered the group’s role. But this time around, the leaders of the Taliban have been much more tactful. To establish legitimacy, the Taliban have gone out of their way to present a more moderate image of themselves to the world by vowing to respect women’s rights and freedom. But in reality, each passing day has only brought a stream of bad news for women and girls in Afghanistan. Evidence emerging from the ground suggests that the group has been undertaking many regressive steps to reduce the spaces for women to freely express themselves. The diktat Ever since coming to power nationwide, the Taliban were swift enough to issue new codes of conduct for the Afghan women, restricting their mobility and taking away their free will. They mandated that women wear clothes that completely covered their hair, body and most of the face; they also stipulated that women had to have male chaperones when leaving their homes. While these practices remain perfectly in line with the regime’s old order of the 1990s, the newly issued diktat is only one example of how the Taliban, under the garb of imposing Islamic law, have begun snatching away the rights of the Afghan women. No school, jobs The Taliban repeatedly assured women access to education and employment — which formed an important part of its promise to treat women differently under its new rule. Instead, many women are now without jobs; they have been asked to stay away from work. Despite the fact that women comprised over 27% of the workforce in government jobs under the previous civilian administration, the Taliban have gone ahead and imposed restrictions even on these female city government employees by barring them from returning to work; men are to fill up the resultant vacancies. Therefore, the new Taliban government has only male officials who are now responsible for making all the decisions, including those that concern women. In the education sector, the Taliban’s Ministry of Education issued an order for male students and teachers from Classes 6 to 12 are to report to their schools, with no mention about schoolgirls. A recent BBC report says that a top Taliban official has confirmed that girls will remain banned from attending secondary school. Teachers have also been reporting a worrying drop in the attendance of girls in primary schools. But while segregating classes on the basis of gender is one side of the story, snatching away from girls their right of education altogether brings with it a grave risk of pushing them towards poverty and backwardness. It could very well dent all the progress that has been achieved by Afghan women in the past, where female participation in education was as high as 65%, with many girls in school and thousands at university. Just last year, girls accounted for 39% of the country’s 9.5 million students. When will these girls be allowed to return to school? Or will they be allowed to return at all? These questions remain unanswered. Special decree On December 3, the Taliban issued a special decree on women’s rights, which outlined rules governing marriage and property for Afghan women. The decree stated that “adult women’s consent is necessary during marriage” and that a widow has a fixed share in her husband’s property. Though a welcome move, the decree — in its practical form — does little to solve the larger problems before the women of Afghanistan. For instance, at no point does the decree explicitly talk about the widespread issue of child marriage that has been prevalent even before the Taliban came to power and continues to be a issue of concern for the international community. According to a UNICEF estimate (November 2021), “28 per cent of Afghan women aged 15-49 years were married before the age of 18”. And these numbers have only risen with the COVID-19 pandemic, the on-going food crisis, the onset of winter, and political instability. The decree also contains levels of ambiguity in the sense that while talking about the consent of adult women, it does not specify who can be classified as these “adult women”. Neither does it specify how the Islamist group intends to implement these provisions in a country where impoverished families consider marrying off their daughters as a viable option to overcome financial hardships. But what is even more disturbing is that the decree has conveniently summarised all rights of women only in the context of marriage, providing an important insight into Taliban’s thinking vis-à-vis women. As such, the decree even fails to mention anything about women’s access to education or employment. Obliteration of services Gender-based violence is one of the most pervasive problems. Studies suggest that nearly 87% of Afghan women experience at least one form of violence — physical, sexual or psychological — and almost 62% experience multiple forms. But prior to the Taliban taking over the country, many women and girl survivors of gender-based violence had access to shelters and essential services such as medical treatment, psychological support and pro bono legal representation. Survivors were in fact granted access to the system through the provincial and capital offices of the Ministry of Women’s Affairs and the Human Rights Commissions. And even though these systems were not entirely perfect, they did assist thousands of women in Afghanistan each year. Under the Taliban, shelters are being closed and detainees being released from prison, which includes many of those convicted of offences related to gender-based violence, thereby endangering the lives of the survivors. The Taliban’s new government has also replaced the Women’s Affairs Ministry with the Ministry for the Promotion/Propagation of Virtue and Prevention of Vice and erased the most important legal mechanism — the Elimination of Violence against Women, 2009 — a law that criminalised rape, battery and forced marriage. Thus, extrapolating from these examples, it would be correct to state that within four months of being in power in Kabul, the hard-line Islamist group has adopted stringent policies that considerably limit women’s rights and freedoms in Afghanistan — dress codes, a bar on education and employment, confinement to the domestic sphere and curtailed access to services. All these moves are, nonetheless, a true exposition of the Taliban’s seriousness on granting liberty to Afghan women. After all, the leopard has not really changed its spots. Akanksha Khullar is the Country Coordinator for India at the Women’s Regional Network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-afghan-women-its-the-great-regression/article38001089.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||What rising inequality means||The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the stark divide between the rich and the poor. At this juncture, evaluating the state of inequality serves as an eye-opener on the income/wealth divides prevailing across regions. Such divides are represented in terms of the share of income/wealth among the top 10% of the population against the bottom 50% of the population. With regard to income, the top 10% of the global population share 52% of the total income, while the bottom half survives with a mere 8.5% of it. This leaves the 40% in the middle with 40% of the income. This distribution shows the tendency of a rising middle class with lower disparity in income, but it also shows that the status of the poor is worsening day by day. In terms of wealth, the top 10% of the global population own 76% of the total wealth, while the bottom 50% share a mere 2%. The practice of unabated accumulation has been possible in the absence of effective measures of redistribution on the one hand and the absence of measures discouraging undue accumulation on the other. Levels of inequality This inequality varies across regions. It is moderate in Europe and sharp in Africa. The top 10% have an income share of 36% in Europe vis-à-vis the top 10% with a share of 58% of the total income in West Asia and North Africa. This disparity shows that worsening inequalities are avoidable with appropriate measures in place. The share of income among the top 10% has been varying across regions indicating that the global picture is an aggregation of the most uneven distribution of income and wealth. While there is an argument in literature that inequalities are a manifestation of the average level of income, as explained by the Kuznets’ theory, the prevailing pattern across countries does not follow the same. The average income levels seem to be poor predictors of the levels of inequality, with high-income countries such as the U.S. having higher levels of inequality as against countries such as Sweden, which have moderate levels of inequality. Similar contradictions are also seen when we contrast middle-income nations such as Brazil, India and China as against Malaysia and Uruguay. Hence, emerging inequalities are not necessarily an outcome of rising levels of income in the post-liberalisation era, but a depiction of poor redistributive policies towards discouragement of accumulation by governments with due sensitivity towards inequalities. Such a contention is evidenced with the rise in inequalities in the U.S. and India as against a moderate rise in China. A reading across regions shows that global inequality is being largely contributed by South Asian, Southeast Asian and Latin American countries, Sub-Saharan Africa, West Asia and North Africa. This pattern is confirmed based on a ratio of average incomes of the top 10% to the bottom half which ranges in 5 to 50+ depicting the kind of disparity in income otherwise. The situation worsens further in the wealth domain. The top 10% own 76% of the total wealth compared with the bottom half which owns 2%. This means that we are keeping 50% of the population under-endowed to a degree of 15 to 20 times against the privileged. One wonders whether such a disproportionate distribution of wealth is sustainable in the long run. Rich nations, poor governments This prevailing pattern of wealth concentration and differential levels of income around the world has also resulted in rich nations having poor governments. In fact, many governments are relatively poor with very limited resources, as resources are gradually moving into private hands. Such a situation has two underpinnings: one, governments have a limited capacity to act on inequality aversion measures and two, private interests overshadow the distributional fairness of wealth. The scenario is undoubtedly an outcome of the ineffectiveness of redistribution measures and also a complete absence of measures that discourage accumulation. Some additional features of this exposition of inequality also relate to imbalance of women’s share in income as well as the ecological inequities indicated by the differential carbon emission levels. Focus also needs to be placed on reducing disparities in capability domains like education and differential endowments (tangible and intangible) that have the potential to sustain inequalities. The most unfortunate part of the prevailing inequality is the great homogeneity among the bottom half and the extreme disparity among the top 10%. This has led to an increase in the number of billionaires in the world while billions don’t have the means for a decent life. Udaya S. Mishra is Professor, International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai, and S. Irudaya Rajan is Chairman, The International Institute of Migration and Development, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/what-rising-inequality-means/article38001093.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The row over boiled eggs||The uproar following the Karnataka government’s decision to provide eggs along with mid-day meals to students from Classes 1 to 8 in eight backward districts underscores the role of food in not just nutrition but also in politics, religion and caste. After pressure from a section of religious heads who demanded rollback on the inclusion of eggs, Karnataka’s Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh said that the government is exploring protein-rich alternatives. A happy meal The Minister’s readiness for a change of menu has been criticised not just by a section of nutritionists, health policy experts and activists, but also by the beneficiaries themselves. Students in government and government-aided schools, who were happy that they were finally getting to eat eggs around three times a week, have urged the government to not stop the initiative that was rolled out on December 1 and in fact extend it to all districts in Karnataka. In a video clip that went viral, a Class 8 student from Koppal district warned that students would consume eggs in religious mutts should the government discontinue the scheme bowing to pressure from the heads of mutts. A dipstick survey conducted by the Department of Public Instruction found that over 80% of the children studying in government and aided schools come from egg-eating households. The proposal to include eggs in mid-day meals to students was mooted by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education after it noted the prevalence of acute malnutrition, lack of immunity, anaemia and stunted growth among children, particularly in north-east Karnataka. The pandemic only worsened the malnutrition situation, even though the government provided dry ration instead of mid-day meals when schools were shut. Multiple surveys and studies conducted by government and non-government organisations have underlined the issue of malnutrition among children. The National Family Health Survey-5 (2019-20) found that 32.9% of children below five years are underweight, 35.4% are stunted, 19.5% are wasted, and 8.4% are severely wasted in Karnataka. The department has instructed schools to conduct a health check-up of students once a month and record their height, weight and body biomass. Nutritionists and even government officials point out that providing eggs to students is the cheapest and best source of protein. A majority of the students from government and aided schools come from lower economic and disadvantaged backgrounds. In fact, many teachers have told the department that attendance was high on days when schools provided eggs. Bowing to pressure The irony is that for many years now, the Karnataka government has been supplying eggs five days a week to children aged three to six years in anganwadis without much opposition, but extending it to schools has met with opposition. In the past, the State government attempted to introduce eggs in mid-day meals, but the initiative was scrapped due to pressure from religious leaders. The protest by religious heads is also baffling because the scheme has no element of compulsion. Students who do not eat eggs due to dietary restrictions are given bananas. Students also get hot, cooked mid-day meals every working day and a glass of milk five days a week. Surveys and anecdotal evidence of higher attendance on ‘egg days’ point to the popularity of the scheme among the beneficiaries. But whether what children themselves want and is overwhelmingly regarded good for their health will prevail over a powerful lobby is the moot question. tanu.kulkarni@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-row-over-boiled-eggs/article38001098.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A strategic bulwark||The third India-Central Asia Dialogue convened by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Sunday is one in a series of timely connections to the region by New Delhi this year, spurred in some measure by events in Afghanistan. The dialogue has been held a month before leaders of all five Central Asian Republics (CARs) come to New Delhi as chief guests for the Republic Day celebrations, and a month after National Security Adviser Ajit Doval’s “Regional Security Dialogue” with his CAR counterparts to discuss Afghanistan. Among the issues discussed on Sunday were extending “immediate” humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, increasing trade, and improving connectivity. It is significant that the CAR Foreign Ministers chose to come to New Delhi, an indicator that India’s outreach to Central Asia, a region neglected by South Block for several decades, is being reciprocated. The joint statement, that they share a “broad regional consensus” on Afghanistan, is apt, given that, like India, all the Central Asian neighbours of Afghanistan worry about the threat of terrorism, radicalisation, narcotics, and refugees. However, unlike India, most of the CARs maintain bilateral talks with the Taliban regime; Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have reopened missions there. Trade between India and Central Asia has long languished below $2 billion, with all sides keen to grow this. In addition, India’s $1 billion Line of Credit for projects in Central Asia, and connectivity initiatives such as Chabahar port, the International North-South Transport Corridor and the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India gas pipeline were all part of the dialogue. While the strengthening of India-Central Asia ties and a revival of their traditional, historical and cultural links are much needed, it is also important to recognise the geopolitical cross-currents that complicate such efforts. While Russia continues to wield influence in the CAR governments, China’s Belt and Road Initiative and $100 billion trade (by some estimates) have made it a central figure in the region. The U.S. has also been seeking a foothold in the region, especially after Afghanistan. Meanwhile, India’s land connectivity to Central Asia is hampered by Pakistan which is building strong links and transit trade agreements with each of the CARs. The alternative route, via Iran’s Chabahar, has received a setback after the Taliban takeover of Kabul, and the development of the Indian-managed Shahid Beheshti terminal there continues to suffer due to the threat of American sanctions. While India has strengthened ties with other parts of Asia, it must now redouble its efforts towards Central Asia if it is to counter the ‘Great Game’ rivalries playing out in the region, and reclaim its shared history with countries that are an important market, a source for energy, and also a bulwark against the threats of extremism and radicalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-strategic-bulwark/article38001083.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The quartet of hope||Coming as it did after some ordinary showings in the Olympic year, the performances of K. Srikanth, Lakshya Sen and H.S. Prannoy in the recent BWF World badminton championship provided the proverbial ‘silver lining’. The trio, ranked between 14 and 19 in the world, gate-crashed into the quarter-finals, before young Lakshya claimed the bronze and Srikanth gave the country its first world silver in men’s singles. This heart-warming display lessened the disappointment following defending women’s champion P.V. Sindhu’s quarter-final loss. In fact, the true magnitude and timing of the performance of these men could be understood better when seen against the backdrop of the failed crop of Indian teen talent in the past decade. If no serious talent has emerged in the last decade among the ladies, the recent rise of Lakshya is an exception in the dismal scenario in men’s singles. A closer look reveals that India has only one serious pair each in men’s doubles and women’s doubles but none in mixed doubles. For all the government funding in badminton from the days leading to the 2010 Commonwealth Games, the present scenario fails to inspire confidence. In addition, the fitness concerns of Saina Nehwal and B. Sai Praneeth leave Indian badminton in a serious quality crunch. Given this background, what Srikanth, 28, and Lakshya, 20, achieved in Huelva, Spain, was very significant. With COVID-related restrictions playing havoc with the training and competition schedules of the players worldwide, it was great to see the Indians getting their act together on the big stage and returning with two medals. Lakshya was indeed a revelation on his way to the semi-final before losing to Srikanth. In fact, he led his senior compatriot in the deciding game but Srikanth’s experience made the decisive difference. Personally, for Srikanth, the silver was worth its weight in gold. Without a significant international title since 2017, the former World No. 1 has fought poor form and fitness for a long time. Once the Indonesian coach, Mulyo Handoyo, the trainer of former Olympic champion, Taufik Hidayat, left India in December 2017 before completing his term as a coach, Srikanth’s career graph nosedived. The recent confidence-building performance and the prospects of Mulyo returning to India to take charge of coaching in the New Year should rejuvenate Srikanth. Lakshya should be hungry after exceeding expectations and making his presence felt on one of the sport’s biggest stages. He needs to pay more attention to his fitness. Prannoy and Praneeth, both 29 and semi-finalists at the 2010 World junior championship, are still keen to realise their potential. In all, the quartet sure holds hope in the upcoming season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-quartet-of-hope/article38001084.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhutto takes over as President||New Delhi, December 20: Mr. Bhutto to-day took over as President of Pakistan and in his first message to the nation spoke of “revenge” to “undo the temporary humiliation” suffered in the war against India. Speaking over Radio Pakistan, Mr. Bhutto who was on the air for nearly 60 minutes, promised a constitution “very soon” without setting a definite date but said that before anything else the “Indian forces must vacate my motherland, must vacate East Pakistan before we pick up threads.” He announced the “retirement” of half a dozen generals, named Lt. Gen. Gul Hasan as the new Chief of the Army Staff in place of Gen. Abdul Hamid Khan and lifted the ban on the National Awami Party. Soon after he was sworn in on his return to Rawalpindi from the U.S. earlier to-day, Mr. Bhutto conferred with senior military and civilians officials and also called on the envoys of the U.S., China, Soviet Union, Britain and France. Immediately after his arrival from the U.S., Mr. Bhutto drove straight to the President’s closely guarded official residence for the swearing-in ceremony, the oath being administered by Gen. Yahya Khan. Three hours later, Reuter said officials issued the following statement: “Mr. Bhutto has been sworn in as President and Chief Martial Law Administrator.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bhutto-takes-over-as-president/article38001090.ece
21 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex slides 2.1% on Omicron risk to global growth, FII selling||Benchmark stock indices slumped more than 2% on Monday to near four-month lows on rising concern about the risk that the Omicron variant of the coronavirus may pose to global economic activity and continued selling by foreign funds. The S&P BSE Sensex tumbled 1,189.73 points, or 2.1%, to 55,822.01 points with stocks falling across the board. Top losers included Tata Steel (5.2%), IndusInd Bank (4.2%), SBI and Bajaj Finance, both of which lost almost 4%, and HDFC Bank. The NSE Nifty 50 slid 371 points, or 2.2%, to 16,614.20. “Markets reacted to the news of a sharp jump in the COVID cases globally, which may result in a lockdown,” said Ajit Mishra, VP - Research, Religare Broking Ltd. “Though the situation is under control domestically, at present, any impact on the global economic recovery would dent our prospects too,” he added. “Besides, the continuous outflow of foreign funds was also weighing on sentiment. We reiterate our cautious view on markets and suggest focusing more on risk management,” Mr. Mishra added. “India has been undergoing a phase of consolidation in the last 2 months,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. “The current sell-off is due to rapid rise in FII selling, triggered by hawkish world central banks’ policy, cautious view on Indian market due to high valuation compared to peers and drop in retail inflows,” he added. “We feel we are reaching the last phase of this consolidation in terms of price correction,” Mr. Nair remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-slides-21-on-omicron-risk-to-global-growth-fii-selling/article38001060.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Competition Commission approves Tata-Air India deal||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has approved the Tata Group’s proposed acquisition of debt-laden Air India and two of its units. “The CCI approves acquisition of shareholding in Air India Ltd., Air India Express Ltd. and Air India SATS Airport Services Pvt. by Talace Pvt. Ltd.,” the CCI said in a release on Monday. The CCI’s nod for the Rs. 18,000 crore-deal that entails Talace taking over Rs. 15,300 crore of debt, paves the way for completion of the transaction and the revival of the ailing carrier. Talace Pvt. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, emerged as the winning bidder in October. It will buy 100% stakes in Air India and Air India Express and 50% holding in Air India SATS (AISATS). AISATS provides ground handling services at Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mangalore and Thiruvananthapuram airports. It also provides cargo handling services at Bengaluru airport. State-owned Air India has been incurring a monthly loss of over Rs. 600 crore. Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, on December 14, said the Air India transaction was a “win-win situation” across the board and that taxpayers’ money would now be more justifiably used for many more socially productive purposes rather than filling the deep losses of the airline. “I am very confident at the turn of the New Year, you will have the transfer of Air India to its new owner,” Mr. Scindia had said. ( With PTI inputs )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/competition-commission-approves-tata-air-india-deal/article38001067.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Nov. domestic retail sales rise 9% over pre-pandemic levels’||Retail sales in India in November grew by 9% over the pre-pandemic levels of the same month in 2019, signalling improvement in business, amid worries around the spread of the Omicron variant and a potential third wave of the pandemic, according to the Retailers Association of India (RAI). In its retail business survey, RAI said growth witnessed last month was 16% over the same period last year. Stating that retail businesses across regions had indicated growth in sales compared with pre-pandemic levels, RAI said West India signalled an 11% increase, followed by East and South at 9% while North India indicated a growth of 6% compared with sales levels in November 2019. “Business is improving and we do hope that this will sustain,” said RAI CEO Kumar Rajagopalan. “However, there are still worries around Omicron and the third wave, leading to a feeling of cautious optimism,” he added. Consumer durables and electronics, which did not show a significant increase in October, grew 32% in November over pre-pandemic levels, on the back of strong Diwali sales. Sports goods reported a growth of 18% and apparels indicated consistent growth at 6%, it added. Food and groceries, and quick service restaurants continued to indicate growth, while other categories such as footwear, beauty, wellness and personal care, and furniture showed progress towards recovery, RAI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nov-domestic-retail-sales-rise-9-over-pre-pandemic-levels/article38001072.ece
21 December 2021||COIMBATORE,||MSMEs strike, protest high raw material prices||Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) across major industrial hubs in about 10 States pulled down shutters for a day on Monday protesting spiralling prices of raw materials. The strike was total in places such as Coimbatore, Belagavi, and Mysuru, said R. Ramamoorthy, spokesperson for the All India Council of Association of MSMEs, which gave the call for the strike. “MSME associations in States such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, had extended support to the strike. We estimate that almost 10 lakh MSMEs in the country stopped production on Monday resulting in production loss of almost Rs. 15,000 crore,” he added. Several input materials used by MSMEs, including steel, aluminium, copper, kraft paper and plastic, have on average seen a 70% jump in prices in the last one year. In November and December, MSMEs were impacted by a slump in orders and piling up of stocks. “The market is not absorbing the high raw material cost,” he said. The units demand measures from the government to control raw material prices.  Strike total in places such as Coimbatore, Belagavi, Mysuru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/msmes-strike-protest-high-raw-material-prices/article38001063.ece
21 December 2021||COIMBATORE,||‘Oil firms notify mills for 366 cr. litres of ethanol’||Oil marketing companies (OMCs) have notified sugar mills for the supply of 366 crore litres of ethanol following two cycles of Expressions of Interest (EoI) for the current ethanol supply year that began on December 1. The Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA) said in a press release that in the 2020-21 ethanol supply year, distilleries supplied 302.3 crore litres, achieving an average blending of 8.1%. For 2021-22, the government has set a target of 10% blending, and the total requirement for this year was 459 crore litres of ethanol, ISMA said. The association said that as on December 15, 479 sugar mills were crushing cane for the 2021-22 (October to September) sugar season, producing 77.91 lakh tonnes of sugar. This was 4.57 lakh tonnes higher than that in the corresponding date of the previous sugar season. More than 6.5 lakh tonnes of sugar were exported by the end of November in the current sugar season compared with about 3 lakh tonnes in the corresponding period of last year, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oil-firms-notify-mills-for-366-cr-litres-of-ethanol/article38001065.ece
21 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Vedanta unit buys Nicomet via IBC route||Vedanta said it had acquired Nicomet, a leading nickel and cobalt producer based in Goa. However, the company did not divulge any more details on the acquisition and the cost. The acquisition has been made by Vedanta’s wholly owned subsidiary Malco Energy Ltd. through the IBC process. “With this acquisition, Vedanta has become India’s sole producer of nickel,” the company said in a statement. The unit is defunct since 2019 and Vedanta is expected to make it operational by the end of this fiscal. “Vedanta’s foray into nickel and cobalt production will play a critical role in supporting Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” said chairman Anil Agarwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vedanta-unit-buys-nicomet-via-ibc-route/article38001062.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘PSBs recover Rs. 5.49 lakh cr. in seven years’||The government has taken comprehensive steps to reduce NPAs and to effect recovery, enabling public sector banks to recover more than Rs. 5.49 lakh crore over the last seven fiscal years, the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. In a written reply, Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said that with regard to the details of the recovery rate of non-performing assets (NPAs), the RBI had informed that it had not formally defined ‘recovery rate’ in the context of NPAs in the banking industry. “Comprehensive steps have been taken by the Government to reduce NPAs and to effect recovery,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/psbs-recover-rs-549-lakh-cr-in-seven-years/article38001069.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘MCA21 portal: third version in the works’||The development and testing of various modules of the corporate affairs ministry’s MCA21 portal, which will leverage analytics, artificial intelligence and machine learning, is in progress, Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh told the Lok Sabha on Monday. MCA21 is the key platform for companies to submit the required documents and filings under the companies law and the LLP Act. Besides, it provides public access to corporate information. An MCA lab would also be set up as part of the third version of MCA21 for improving data analytics, the Minister of State for Corporate Affairs said in a written reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mca21-portal-third-version-in-the-works/article38001076.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Palm oil import sans licence allowed till ’22||The government on Monday said traders will be allowed to import refined palm oil without licence for one more year till December 2022, a move aimed at increasing domestic supplies and bringing down the high prices of edible oils. In June, the government removed import restrictions on refined palm oil till December 31 this year as prices of edible oils had risen sharply. Import of ‘refined bleached deodorised palm oil’ and ‘refined bleached deodorised palmolein’ is “free for a period up to December 31, 2022,” according to a notification by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/palm-oil-import-sans-licence-allowed-till-22/article38001070.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bidding for DSF-III round to start on Feb 1: DGH||Bidding for 75 small and marginal oil and gas discoveries, mostly of ONGC, being offered in the DSF-III bid round, will begin on February 1, the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) said on Monday. The original deadline for bids’ submission was August 31, 2021. However, this was postponed to October 29. It was again put off without any reasons given.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bidding-for-dsf-iii-round-to-start-on-feb-1-dgh/article38001068.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi/Geneva,||WEF defers Davos Annual Meeting 2022 due to Omicron outbreak||The World Economic Forum (WEF) on Monday said it had decided to defer its Annual Meeting 2022 in the Swiss Alpine ski resort town of Davos in the light of continued uncertainty over the Omicron outbreak. The Annual Meeting, which was scheduled to take place in Davos-Klosters, Switzerland, from January 17-21, 2022, is now planned for early summer.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wef-defers-davos-annual-meeting-2022-due-to-omicron-outbreak/article38001073.ece
21 December 2021||New Delhi,||Wipro to acquire Edgile for USD 230 mn||Wipro on Monday said it will acquire Texas-headquartered Edgile for $230 million, a move that will strengthen the IT major’s play in the cybersecurity services space. Edgile’s experienced cybersecurity and risk management professionals will allow Wipro to further enhance its cybersecurity and risk consulting capabilities for the benefit of customers, the firm said in a filing.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-to-acquire-edgile-for-usd-230-mn/article38001075.ece
21 December 2021||Adelaide,||Australia tightens grip on the Urn||Australia ground down a battling England to win the second Test in Adelaide on Monday and go 2-0 up in the Ashes series, leaving the visitors’ dreams of winning back the hallowed urn in tatters. England resumed day five of the pink-ball Test in deep trouble at 82 for four chasing a massive 468 to win, realistically needing a miracle just to salvage a draw. The Englishmen gamely hung on into the final session, fighting a desperate rearguard action but ultimately crumbling to 192 all out and a 275-run defeat. Jhye Richardson was the pick of the bowlers with five for 42. Joe Root’s men will head to Melbourne for the Boxing Day Test knowing that the only instance of a team coming from 2-0 down to win the Ashes was Donald Bradman’s Australia way back in 1936-37. With Root, the World No. 1 Test batsman, removed by Mitchell Starc in the final over on Sunday, England’s hopes appeared to rest with all-rounder Ben Stokes. But trying to nurse England’s batting through 90 overs against Australia’s relentless bowling was too big a task, even for him. He put his head down and lasted 77 balls for 12 runs before Nathan Lyon struck. The umpire initially gave the lbw shout not out, but Australia reviewed and it was shown to be plumb in front. Ollie Pope lasted only seven balls, edging to Steve Smith at slip off Starc. But Jos Buttler (26) and Chris Woakes (44) dug in, frustrating Australia in a 61-run stand before Jhye Richardson clattered Woakes’ stumps. Ollie Robinson made a dogged eight before Smith took his sixth catch of the match to dismiss him off Lyon. Buttler then incredibly fell after surviving nearly 35 overs by stepping on his own stumps. Same squad Australia named an unchanged 15-man squad for the three remaining Tests with captain Pat Cummins and speedster Josh Hazlewood rejoining the team in Melbourne later this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-tightens-grip-on-the-urn/article38001309.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Team TVS Racing crowned champion||Team TVS Racing finished the season on a high winning all the four categories it had participated in the sixth and final round of the MRF MOGRIP FMSCI 2W National Rally Championship (INRC) for two wheelers at Nashik, Maharashtra on Sunday. It was enough for the factory racing team to seal the championship. The team’s big star Abdul Wahid Tanveer won the Group A (450cc) and the overall category and, so did the other top rider Samuel Jacob in Group B (260cc) for the second year in a row. Aishwarya Pissay clinched the Ladies class for the fifth year on the trot for the team and N. Karthik was crowned the Scooter class champion. It was the third and the fifth round at Puttur and Coimbatore that turned out to be decisive. The boys came up with a remarkable show winning podiums with ease. “It has been an incredible season for the team at the 2021 INRC. I am thrilled with the performance of all the riders, and their hard work and dedication have paid off,” said B. Selvaraj, TVS Racing’s Team Manager. “I would like to thank the crew for their relentless work and immense efforts in keeping the motorcycles and scooters at its best form,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-tvs-racing-crowned-champion/article38001384.ece
21 December 2021||Jaipur,||It’s Southern Derby time again||A Southern Derby featuring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka is always one of the most keenly-awaited clashes on the domestic calendar irrespective of the format. In white-ball cricket, the two have met quite a few times, including three finals, in the last two years. Last-ball-six victory In the 2019-20 season, Karnataka beat TN in the finals of both the Vijay Hazare Trophy and Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament. However, earlier last month, TN pulled off a sensational win with a last-ball six from M. Shahrukh Khan and clinched its second T20 title in as many years. The two sides will clash once again, this time in the quarterfinals of the Vijay Hazare Trophy, here on Tuesday. When the two met in the group stages in Thiruvananthapuram earlier this month, TN coasted to an eight-wicket win after spinning out Karnataka for just 122. However, the conditions here are diametrically opposite. While TN reached the last eight directly, Karnataka had to beat Rajasthan in the pre-quarters, which it did comprehensively on Sunday. In a way, the game time at the K.L. Saini Stadium — where the two teams will clash on Tuesday — will give Karnataka the edge in terms of knowledge of conditions. The one change for TN will be the return of B. Aparajith, who missed the league stages due to India-A duties. He has a solid technique and will have to play a vital role as opener to see off the new ball against the likes V. Vyshak and Prasidh Krishna. Onus on bowlers TN lost its last two matches in the league stage and the team will be hoping to get back on track on Tuesday. Speaking ahead of the match, TN coach M. Venkatramana said, “an area we need to improve is consistency in bowling. Similarly, one batsman needs to play a long innings and score a hundred so that others can bat around him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-southern-derby-time-again/article38001319.ece
21 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Southee and the IPL journey||Tim Southee has, over the last decade, emerged as a pillar of New Zealand cricket. The Black Caps veteran shares his IPL experiences. Excerpts : You have been a part of five IPL change-rooms so far. Can you summarise your decade-long journey in IPL? Well, now ten teams, so there’s still five more to go (chuckles). I have been been very lucky to experience a number of IPL teams, managed to pick up a couple of titles along the way and made the final this year. Those are the most memorable moments. Obviously, the success with Chennai in 2011 was an amazing experience and also with Mumbai a few years back. But the thing I enjoy the most is just playing cricket in India. Also the friendships you make. You go into an Indian team environment as an overseas player and by the time you walk away after two months, the friendships you have made and the people you have managed to get to know that time is something I really enjoy going over there. Being an IPL veteran, do you think it’s time IPL does away with full rejig of squads every three or four years? It’s a tough one. It’s obviously been something that’s been a part of the IPL from the start and it’s the hardest thing probably for the fans who get connected with the side and also the players on that side and then that gets changes every three or four years. It’s tough for the fans with the chopping and changing of players. I am not sure. It’s above my pay bracket to find out what the best solution is for that.  Amazon Prime Video debuts Live cricket streaming on January 1, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/southee-and-the-ipl-journey/article38001324.ece
21 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Sanil riding a career upswing||Sanil Shetty’s career is on the upswing, and he is keen to ride the good form he’s in now. The 32-year-old heaved a huge sigh of relief when he won his first National-ranking tournament in Dehradun last week. Long wait The last time he clinched a men’s singles title in a domestic event was the North Zone title in 2013-14; the year he bagged his first National championships crown. “I must have competed in nearly 20 National-ranking tournaments since then and must have played in 10 finals. I definitely felt relieved,” Sanil, the top-seeded men’s singles player, told The Hindu here on Monday, on the eve of the South Zone National-ranking tournament here. More than the losses in tournaments, it was the repeated defeats to A. Amalraj that troubled him. It was when he beat Amalraj in the 2018 North Zone quarterfinals after six previous failures that gave him the momentum to start a new mini-innings. “It took time for me to adapt to changes in rubber, balls and other things. Also, I was not comfortable playing against Amal. Beating Amal in the seventh and deciding game after trailing 1-5 to win 11-5 in the North Zone quarterfinals was the turning point of my career,” said Sanil. With a fresh and positive mind, Sanil is eager to do well here. “I am playing well and my game has improved. Ideally the way I am playing I should reach the final,” he said.  Harmeet Desai, on the other hand, is having a relatively quiet season. The 28-year-old, who recently married co-player Krittwika Sinha Roy, is of the opinion that things will not be easy even in the absence of India’s top stars, Sharath Kamal and G. Sathiyan. “There are 5-6 players who can win the title. The competition will be tough,” he said. The men’s and women’s singles main draw will begin on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanil-riding-a-career-upswing/article38001326.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||I am more confident now, says Surabhi||For shooter R. Surabhi Bharadwaj, it was a kind of ‘silver’ lining when she clinched the second spot in the women’s 50m rifle prone in the just-concluded Bhopal Nationals. The 19-year-old, who took to shooting during her NCC days in 2015 and then fine-tuned her skills under her first coach Sandeep Kumar here, is elated that her silver meant realising the dream of making it to the Indian team. Joy “I never thought of winning medals. But I was always keen to make it to the Indian team. My joy knew no bounds when this happened in Bhopal,” said the Engineering student of Osmania University, who took to shooting after watching her elder sister Vaishnavi wield the rifle. “Training under Bibaswan Ganguly for the last three months has only helped my cause and I am more confident now. “Earlier I used to do well in practice but felt the pressure in match-situations,” she said in a chat with The Hindu . “Calming down mentally is helping me now,” she added. A big fan of Abhinav Bindra and an ardent follower of Gagan Narang, Surabhi is keen to compete in both the 50m rifle prone and the 3-p events. “Though I have never met Bindra, I did talk to Gagan Sir quite a few times and his advice was simple — be confident in whatever you do.” Support Surabhi, who has the complete support of her parents — father Vishnu Kumar Bharadwaj, an advocate, and mother Lavanya, who works in Geological Survey of India — is grateful to Sports Authority of Telangana State shooting range administrator Alexander Francis. Her next major assignment is the National selection trials in Bhopal on January 7. “Though it is not mandatory for me to take part in the trials as I have already been selected for the Indian camp, I feel it is always better to compete at that level to be ready for bigger challenges.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-am-more-confident-now-says-surabhi/article38001593.ece
21 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Santhosh & Nagarajan are champions||Santhosh Kumar (Coimbatore) & T. Nagarajan (Chennai) emerged the overall champion of the 22nd Chander Memorial Rally, the South Zone qualifying round of the JK Tyre FMSCI Indian National Regularity Run Championship (INRRC) 2021, here on Sunday. Organised by the Coimbatore Auto Sports Club, the rally attracted 28 cars of which 11 competed in the INRRC class. Santhosh was determined to seal a place in the grand finale at Siliguri next year and he comfortably clinched the top spot with a total penalty 00:01:16. Karthick Maruthi (Sankar Anand) and Keerthi Prasad (C. Sakthivel), both from Erode, finished second and third. “It was tough from the start. The routes were quite challenging but we kept the car on the road safe and secure. We are proud to be the south zone champions,” said Santhosh. The rally was flagged off by the Coimbatore Collector Dr. G.S. Sameeran and S. Selvanagarathinam, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore Rural, gave away the prizes.  The results:   INRRC: 1. V. Santhosh Kumar & T. Nagarajan (Cbe) 00:01:16; 2. Karthick Maruthi & Sankar Anand (Erd) 00:01:39; 3. Keerthi Prasad & C. Sakthivel (Erd) 00:02:32.   INRRC Ladies: 1. Aparna Patek & Lalitha Rame Gowda (Bengaluru) 01:17:42; 2. Gitika Pant & Neena Jain (Mumbai) 05:01:05.   Open: 1. Jaiprashanth Venkat & Sugumaran (Cbe) 00:03:09; 2. A. Vinod & N. Murugan (Cbe) 00:18:11; 3. P. Robert Antony Raj & G. Arun Kumar (Cbe) 00:20:23.   Novice: 1. S. Arun Raj & Shanmugatrasup (Cbe) 00:34:09; 2. Sathish Kumar & Senthil Kumar (Cbe) 00:50:53; 3. D. Jagathguru & P. Sharves (Cbe) 00:54:53.   Skoda: 1. S. Arun Raj & Shanmugatrasup (Cbe) 00:34:09 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santhosh-nagarajan-are-champions/article38001473.ece
21 December 2021||TENHIPALAM,||Sedate start at junior athletics meet||The State junior athletics meet got off to a sedate start at the University Stadium here on Monday. Only six finals were held on the opening day, and none of those produced a record, though Muhammed Nihal of Palakkad came close in the under-16 boys' hammer throw. He, in fact, recorded better distances than the gold-medal winners in higher age-categories (under-20 and 18).  The winners:   Boys: Under-20: 10,000m: A. Alwin (Pkd) 34:43.50.   Hammer: Nithin Saji (Kkd) 44.08m.   Javelin: Jibin Thomas (Ekm) 55.96m.   Under-18: 3000m: Yamnam Arjit Meitei (Tsr) 9:17.30.   Hammer: Mahesh (Alp) 45.33m.   Under-16: Hammer: Muhammed Nihal (Pkd) 50.69m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sedate-start-at-junior-athletics-meet/article38001707.ece
21 December 2021||PUNE,||Nefisa gets top billing||Nefisa Berberovic of Bosnia and Herzegovina heads the seedings list in the NECC $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament to be played at the Deccan Gymkhana here from Tuesday. With all the eight seeds being foreigners, the task is cut out for the leading Indian players, Karman Kaur, Rutuja Bhosale, Zeel Desai, Pranjala Yadlapalli, Sowjanya Bavisetti and company. Zeel starts against second seed Anna Danilina of Kazakhstan, while Rutuja will be challenged by Shrivalli Bhamidipaty. Pranjala opens against wild card Farhat Aleen Qamar and could meet third seed Chihiro Muramatsu if she makes the second round. Karman will play Mihika Yadav in the first round and the winner could run into Nefisa in the second round. The Indian players did well to grab five of the eight qualifiers’ spots, with Nidhi Chilumula scoring a thrilling 4-6, 6-4, [10-6] win over second seed Jennifer Luikham.   The results:   Qualifying (second and final round): Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) bt Ramya Natarajan 6-1, 6-2; Nidhi Chilumula bt Jennifer Luikham 4-6, 6-4, [10-6]; So-Ra Lee (Kor) bt Ishwari Matere 6-1, 6-2; Sathwika Sama bt Saumya Vig 6-0, 6-1; Arthi Muniyan bt Sharmada Balu 1-6, 6-4, [10-1]; Weronika Baszak (Pol) bt Soha Sadiq 6-4, 6-4; Shrivalli Bhamidipaty bt Humera Baharmus 6-1, 6-4; Shreya Tatavarthy bt Elena Jamshidi (Den) 6-1, 6-2.   Seedings: 1. Nefisa Berberovic (BIH), 2, Anna Danilina (Kaz), 3. Chhiro Muramatsu (Jpn), 4. Diana Marcinkevica (Lat), 5. Nigina Abduraimova (Uzb), 6. Akiko Omae (Jpn), 7. Ekaterina Yashina (Rus), 8. Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nefisa-gets-top-billing/article38001499.ece
21 December 2021||KOVILPATTI,||Chirmako stars for Odisha||Junior World Cup star Sudeep Chirmako scored four goals as defending champion Odisha drubbed Chhattisgarh 10-0 in a Pool A clash of the 11th Junior National men’s hockey championship at the SDAT astroturf ground here on Monday. In another exciting Pool C battle, Telangana bounced back from a two-goal deficit to hold Bengal 4-4.  The results:   Pool A: Odisha 10 (Sudeep Chirmako 4, Roshan Kujur, Bikash Kujur, Sushant Toppo, Deepak Minz, Matiyas Dang, Amandeep Lakra) bt Chhattisgarh 0.   Pool C: Haryana won 5-0 against Tripura as Tripura forfeited match; Bengal 4 (Saif Khan 3, Sanjay Yadav) drew with Telangana 4 (Akshay Thimmapuram, Raju Talla, Santhosh Nenavath, Dharamveer Chand Bhavani).   Pool D: Karnataka 7 (Bharath Mahalingappa Kurtakoti 2, Chiran Medappa 2, C.B. Poovanna, A.A. Desh Poovaiah, Lekkala Hitesh Rao) bt Andhra Pradesh 0.   Pool E: Punjab won 5-0 against Arunachal Pradesh as Arunachal forfeited match; Maharashtra 2 (Aditya Lalage, Tejas Chavan) bt Kerala 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirmako-stars-for-odisha/article38001385.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tennis caravan moves to the Capital||It will be another week of action for the Indian tennis players as another edition of the Centena Pro Tennis League unfolds at the RK Khanna Stadium Complex here from Tuesday. With leading men’s players like Ramkumar Ramanathan, Saketh Myneni, Vishnu Vardhan, Arjun Kadhe, Niki Poonacha, Vijay Sundar Prashanth providing the thrust, the league hopes to get the right blend of men, women, youth and seniors. Eight teams have been divided into two groups, and will play on a league-cum-knockout basis. Each tie will feature six matches, two men’s singles, one junior singles, men’s doubles, and two mixed doubles, one featuring a junior and another a over-35 player. Every match will be played on a best of nine games format, with a regular tie-break at 4-4. Teams will be ranked on the basis of the games won and lost, and the top two will make it to the semifinals. Briefing the teams about the rules, referee Puneet Gupta stressed that the code violation would warrant a penalty, after an initial warning, and could lead to deduction of a team’s games in the final tally. The league matches will be played in two sessions, from 10.30 a.m. and 2.30 p.m. keeping in mind the cold conditions in the Capital.  The groupings:   Pool A: Indian Aviators, Sankara, Sapphire Superstars, Pro Veri Super Smashers.   Pool B: Bangalore Challengers, Team Radiant, DMG-Delhi Crusaders, Stag Babolat Yoddhas .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tennis-caravan-moves-to-the-capital/article38001387.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Zeeshan, Rohit upbeat about chances||Coach Zeeshan Ali and the Indian Davis Cup team’s captain Rohit Rajpal felt very positive about India’s chances against Denmark in the Davis Cup World Group playoff tie to be played on the grass courts of the Gymkhana Club here on March 4 and 5. Rohit emphasised the efforts that were made and the communication with all the players, and discussion over two days, to make the best possible surface and venue, so as to enhance India’s chances. Security needs With the Prime Minister’s house across the wall from the club, it was also clarified that two possible courts were identified so as to meet the security requirements. “Once we get clarity on the court to be used, we will get to know the do’s and don’ts for the tie,” said Rohit. Moulded his game Zeeshan felt that the country’s No.1 player at the moment, Ramkumar Ramanathan, had moulded his game for serve and volley, and that the other players including Prajnesh Gunneswaran, who may not have a great liking for grass, would be much better prepared than the Danes. “Except for their No. 1 player ranked 103, the others may not have much experience of playing on grass. That should work to our advantage,” said Zeeshan, even as he conceded that the home team would need to prepare its best on the surface to capitalise on the advantage. It was also stated by both the captain and coach, that some juniors would also be kept in the squad to give them exposure to intense international team competition. “Ramkumar has beaten Dominic Thiem on grass. He played five sets in the final qualifying round of Wimbledon and lost 9-11. He had also made it to the final of the ATP grass event in Newport a few seasons back,” said Zeeshan. It was pointed out that the possible doubles pair of Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan was pretty sharp on grass, which could tilt the scales in favour of India in the tie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeeshan-rohit-upbeat-about-chances/article38001316.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||ATKMB looks at Ferrando for resurrection||ATK Mohun Bagan will be looking to reverse its fortunes under a new head coach when it meets North East United FC at the Fatorda on Tuesday. The last year’s runner-up severed ties with its Spanish head coach Antonio Lopez Habas and announced the arrival of his compatriot Juan Ferrando on the eve of its seventh outing of the season on Monday. Looking for its first ISL title ever since its merger early last year, ATK MB’s hopes suffered a setback as it went winless in the last four rounds and Habas began to feel the pressure from the management. Ferrando, who had a mixed bag of success with FC Goa, was picked up by ATK MB for the remaining journey. Needs inspiration With eight points from six matches and currently situated at the seventh spot, ATK MB needs a lot of inspiration to restart the winning process. “I will give my 110% from day one so all the fans can enjoy the best brand of football and hopefully we can celebrate together soon,” Ferrando said in a statement. NorthEast United, which has seven points from as many matches, is fresh from a 2-0 win against SC East Bengal. Good performance Despite injuries to key players, NEUFC performed reasonably well in its previous match giving hopes to its head coach Khalid Jamil. “We did some good work in our last game and we need to continue that. The players are in a positive frame of mind and keen to continue the momentum,” Jamil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-looks-at-ferrando-for-resurrection/article38001777.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||BFC and JFC go goalless||Bengaluru FC and Jamshedpur FC played out a goalless draw in an Indian Super League outing at Bambolim on Monday. JFC (12 points) is in the second spot while BFC (six points) lies 10th. BFC is now winless in seven games. Both teams had their fair share of chances. JFC striker Greg Stewart created several opportunities, but failed to convert. Stewart, who scored a hat-trick in the previous match, challenged his markers with brilliant runs and assists. BFC custodian Gurpeet Sandhu had a memorable outing, making a few crucial saves. JFC nearly took the lead in the 35th minute when Komal Thatal was brought down by BFC’s Parag Srinivas in the box. However, the referee denied JFC’s penalty claim. A few minutes later, Thatal left the field due to an injury and was replaced by Boris Singh. BFC’s Sunil Chhetri came on from the bench with less than 20 minutes left in the game. Chhetri surprisingly replaced Cleiton Silva, who was among the best BFC players on view. Chhetri nearly turned hero, but his header rattled the crossbar and rolled back into play. Deep into injury time, Prince Ibara had a glorious chance to give JFC the full three points. The Congo forward, however, missed the mark with his shot.  The result: Bengaluru FC 0 drew with Jamshedpur FC 0.   Today’s match: ATK MB vs NEUFC, 7.30 p.m (Live on Star Sports 2 (SD & HD) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-and-jfc-go-goalless/article38001313.ece
21 December 2021||Johannesburg,||No spectators at India’s Boxing Day Test||The first Test between India and South Africa starting at Centurion on December 26 will be played without spectators as Cricket South Africa is not selling tickets in view of the emergence of the new COVID-19 variant Omicron, according to a report. Only some suite holders and delegates will be able to watch the match live though current COVID-19 restrictions implemented by the government allow for 2,000 fans, according to Afrikaans language weekly newspaper Rapport as quoted by news24 website. The organisers are, however, waiting to see if there are any changes to government regulations regarding COVID-19 next week. As of now, no tickets are on sale for the second Test either, beginning here at the Wanderers on January 3. The series is taking place amid the rising threat of COVID-19 following the emergence of the Omicron variant last month. The country has seen a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the past few weeks. The visitors, who arrived here on December 16, are staying in a resort entirely booked for them by CSA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-spectators-at-indias-boxing-day-test/article38001321.ece
21 December 2021||Buenos Aires,||Big-ticket Maradona items go unsold at auction||A virtual auction of some 90 items owned by late football superstar Diego Maradona on Sunday failed to attract any big bidders, with a seaside apartment, two BMWs and the house he had bought for his parents among the larger items failing to sell. More than 1,500 potential bidders — in Latin America, Italy, France, England, Russia and Dubai — had signed up to take part, organisers said. But by the end of the three-hour affair, sales totalled only $26,000, with more than $1.4 million in assets not bid on, according to AFP calculations. The morning’s highest bid went to a painting of the footballer titled ‘Between Fiorito and the Sky’, by artist Lu Sedova. It sold for $2,150. It was followed by a photograph of Maradona with late Cuban leader Fidel Castro, purchased for $1,600 by a buyer in Dubai. The biggest-ticket items included the house in Buenos Aires that a young Maradona purchased for his parents (valued at $900,000) and an apartment in the seaside resort of Mar del Plata ($65,000). Also unsold were two barely driven BMW cars, a 2017 model valued at $225,000 and a 2016 model at $165,000, as well as a Hyundai van, at $38,000. Items sold Among items that did sell: a painting of Marilyn Monroe was purchased by an Argentine bidder for $1,500; a team jacket from Naples with his famous number 10 on the back was purchased for $1,500 from an admirer in Dubai; someone in Germany paid $270 for training pants Maradona wore with Borussia Dortmund; and a box of Cuban cigars brought $550 from a fellow Argentine. But there was no interest in his six television sets or the gym equipment he trained on in Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-ticket-maradona-items-go-unsold-at-auction/article38001382.ece
21 December 2021||Dhaka,||India starts favourite against Japan||Back to its best after a slow start, defending champion and Tokyo Olympic Games bronze-medallist India will start as the overwhelming favourite against Asian Games gold medallist Japan in the semifinals of the Asian Champions Trophy (ACT) men’s hockey tournament here on Tuesday. The Manpreet Singh-led side’s confidence must be sky high, having thrashed Japan 6-0 in its last round-robin match and come Tuesday, India will fancy another big win en route to the title clash. Eyeing an encore India completely outperformed Japan in all departments and would eye an encore in the semifinal clash as well. India will, however, need to guard against complacency as any slip-up could spoil all the hardwork.  India ended the round-robin stage of the five-nation tournament at the top of the standings with 10 points, ahead of Korea (6), Japan (5), Pakistan (5) and host Bangladesh (0). Job on hand Japan will have to lift its game by leaps and bounds and play out of its skin to give itself any chance of registering an upset win.  Meanwhile, South Korea faces Pakistan in the other last-four clash on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-starts-favourite-against-japan/article38001497.ece
21 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Kesariya Balam shows its strength||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s Kesariya Balam, ridden by Akshay Kumar, won the Prince Of Berar Trophy, the feature event of Monday’s (Dec.20) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Ravindra Reddy Male.  VIKARABAD PLATE (1,400m), Maiden (Terms), 2-y-o only (Cat. II) -- 1.15: ESSENTIAL (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Midsummer Star (C.S. Jodha) 2, London Bell (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Survivor (P.S. Chouhan) 4. Not run: Candy Girl. 1/2, 1-1/2 and 2. 1m 29. 21s. Rs. 26 (w), 10, 13 and 14 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 34, SHW: 18 and 12, FP: 112, Q: 71, Tanala: 576. Favourite: Pleroma. Owners: Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. by Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Private Limited and Mr. Saleem Fazelbhoy. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  STARRY SCENE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GREGOR CLEGANE (Aneel) 1, Grand Duke (R.S. Jodha) 2, Sea Wolf (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Despang (P.S. Chouhan) 4. 1/2, Nk and Nk. 1m 28.01s. Rs. 71 (w), 16, 49 and 34 (p). SHP: 212, THP: 69, SHW: 29 and 81, FP: 3,221, Q: 1,377, Tanala: 12,091. Favourite: Quality Warrior. Owner: Mr. T. Amarender Reddy. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  STARRY SCENE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BEAUTY FLAME (Gaurav Singh) 1, Pacific Command (Akshay Kumar) 2, Sally (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Special Effort (P.S. Chouhan) 4. 1-1/2, 1/2 and 2. 1m 27. 91s. Rs. 54 (w), 13, 12 and 15 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 46, SHW: 37 and 10, FP: 188, Q: 44, Tanala: 940. Favourite: Pacifc Command. Owner: Mr. Md. Kashif Khan. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  DR. S.R. CAPTAIN MEMORIAL CUP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): IN CONTENTION (C.S. Jodha) 1, Galwan (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Moringa (Surya Prakash) 3 and Crazy Horse (Suraj Narredu) 4. 2-1/4, 1-1/4 and Nk. 1m 40. 65s. Rs. 21 (w), 10, 27 and 32 (p). SHP: 84, THP: 66, SHW: 24 and 33, FP: 173, Q: 130, Tanala: 1,497. Favourite: In Contention. Owners: Mr. P.J. Vazifdar, Mr. Firoze A. Vakil, Mr. M. Rishad, Mr. Prem Vazirani & Miss Soonu J. Davar. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  CYNDY PLATE (2,000m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): PHILANTHROPIST (C.S. Jodha) 1, Queen Blossom (Rupal Singh) 2, Bold Bidding (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Lightning Fairy (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. Nose, 2-1/2 and 1/2. 2m 7.65s. Rs. 19 (w), 14, 44 and 15 (p). SHP: 156, THP: 57, SHW: 20 and 33, FP: 419, Q: 349, Tanala: 1,887. Favourite: Philanthropist. Owners: Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  PRINCE OF BERAR TROPHY (1,800m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): KESARIYA BALAM (Akshay Kumar) 1, Scramjet (Suraj Narredu) 2, Summer Night (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Ashwa Yashobali (B.R. Kumar) 4. 3-3/4, Hd and 1-1/2. 1m 52. 44s. Rs. 31 (w), 16, 14 and 11 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 54, SHW: 17 and 18, FP: 115, Q: 56, Tanala: 194. Favourite: Summer Night. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer : R.H. Sequeira.  CHAITANYA RATHAM PLATE (1,200m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): EXOTIC DANCER (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Miss Little Angel (Koushik) 2, Turning Wheel (Abhay Singh) 3 and Jo Malone (Aneel) 4. 1/2, 1-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m 14. 93s. Rs. 47 (w), 13, 18 and 11 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 73, SHW: 43 and 19, FP: 237, Q: 117, Tanala: 577. Favourite: Summer Night.  Owner: Mr. Prakash Babu, Mr. G. Raghunandan Chary & Mr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: D. Netto. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 17,666 (25 tkts.), 30%: 941 (201 tkts.); Treble (i): 4,873 (9 tkts.); (ii): 526 (134 tkts.). Mini Jackpot (i): 9,455 (4 tkts.); (ii): 1,175 (104 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kesariya-balam-shows-his-strength/article38001377.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tinges of silver on an alluring Sunday afternoon||Christmas was celebrated six days early at the Mahalaxmi Racecourse in Mumbai, as the RWITC rewrote the history of racing in India while framing a star-studded Seven Graded Race extravaganza on one afternoon. It was punctuated with five Grade 1 races, one Grade 2 and one Grade 3. It’s a feat that will probably never be equalled in the years to come. T ake a bow Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla and the RWITC Committee. Set alight The day was set alight with the Spartan Poker Sprinters’ Cup. Six top-quality speedsters lined up to face the starter for what has often been described as the Equine equivalent of the Men’s Olympic 100 metres. And what a race it turned out to be. The favourite Multifaceted (Multidimensional-ex Dhaawiah) with Suraj Narredu astride just managed to hold on from a fast finishing Corfe Castle (Excellent Art-ex Miss Danehill) who was the unlucky loser. At the same time, the Darius Byramji-trained Multifaceted turned in a gutsy performance as both the victor and the vanquished went past the post locked together with both beating the track record. Multifaceted is owned by the Sri Lankan-based Edwards family and bred at the Usha Stud. Inspired performance Cosmic Ray (Burden of Proof-ex Corsican Gal) trained to the minute by the Bangalore-based Sulaiman Attaolahi then turned in an inspired performance in the hands of jockey A. Sandesh to win the Major P.K. Mehra Memorial Super Mile effortlessly. Owned by United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Pvt. Ltd. and bred at the Kunigal Stud, Cosmic Ray hit the front a little after turning for home and the rest was over bar the shouting. Ashwa Bravo (Leitrim Mor-ex Shadow Roll) then kept the Hyderabad flag flying with a bloodless win in the Grade 2, Suresh Mahindra Multi Million. Bred at the Poona Stud and sporting the colours of the Poonawalla family, the 4-year-old bay colt won as he liked under the hands of Suraj Narredu, who stepped in to ride as David Egan couldn’t make the trip. The first Classic of the Mumbai Winter Season — The Villoo C. Poonawalla Indian 1000 Guineas Grade 1, for 3-year-old fillies run over the metric mile — was next on the cards. It was expected to be a cakewalk for the unbeaten Miracle, a daughter of Multidimensional out of Khalila. Immaculate display The Mr. And Mrs. Mehernosh Deboo-owned filly, trained by Pesi Shroff and ridden by P. S. Chouhan, didn’t disappoint. She produced an absolutely immaculate display as she demolished the field to win by over 6 lengths, stopping the clock at just a fraction of a second outside the time set in the Super Mile. For me, she’s probably the best three-year-old in training and I haven’t seen a filly win a Grade 1 Classic the way she did in quite a while. Silver Bells are synonymous with Christmas decor, which always make the Celebration that much more alluring and you would not have looked beyond a 4-year-old grey filly named Alluring Silver. The daughter of Leitir Mor out of Personal Allure pulled off her greatest triumph yet when she came out and won the feature of the day — The Grade 1 Zavaray S. Poonawalla Indian Turf Invitation Cup. The runner-up and course-favourite Juliette might well have turned the tables but for jockey Sandesh riding what might just be one of his most ill-judged races yet. Bred at Poonawalla Exhilaration Stud and owned by the Poonawalla family along with Mukul Sonawalla, D.R. Thacker and Chaduranga Kantharaj Urs, the big-hearted 4-year-old filly gave trainer Pesi Shroff a Grade 1 Double. Jockey Suraj Narredu notched up a Grade 1 Double with the bonus of a Grade 2 win as well. The curtain came down with yet another nail-biting finish in the Grade 1 Dr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Stayers Cup. Run over a gruelling 3000 metres, the 6-year-old My Opinion (Dailed-In-ex Love Me Good) held on grimly after wresting the lead halfway down the straight. Bred at the Sans Craintes Stud, trained by Chennai-based B. Suresh, and ridden with great understanding by jockey Akshay Kumar, the 6-year-old held back the vehement challenge by the 4-year-old Theon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tinges-of-silver-on-an-alluring-sunday-afternoon/article38001388.ece
21 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India Juniors continue to dominate||Deepika scored a hat-trick while Mumtaz Khan and Sangita Kumari scored twice each as the Indian Junior Women’s team continued to steamroll its opponents in the Khelo India under-21 women’s hockey league with an 8-1 win against Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre in Pool A on Monday. Also winning easily was Sports Authority of India B with a 5-0 victory against Mumbai School Sports Association in Pool A and Haryana Hockey Academy overwhelming Delhi Hockey 6-1 in Pool B.  The results:   Pool A: India Juniors 8 (Deepika 3, Mumtaz Khan 2, Sangita Kumari 2, Vaishnavi Phalke) bt ONTHHPC, Bhubaneswar 1 (Munmuni Das).   SAIB 5 (Vartika Rawat 2, Vinamrata Yadav, Anjali Mahto, F. Lalawmpuii) bt MSSA 0; HIM Academy 1 (Taranpreet Kaur) bt Khalsa Hockey Academy, Amritsar 0.   Pool B: SAI A 0 drew with MPHA 0; Sports Hostel, Bhubaneswar 2 (Sunita Xaxa, Mukta Jojo) bt Jai Bharat HA 0.   Haryana HA 6 (Saavi 2, Pinki, Jyoti, Usha, Shashi Khasa) bt Delhi Hockey 1 (Shubham).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-juniors-continue-to-dominate/article38001500.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Top stars for India Open||Newly-crowned World champion Loh Kean Yew, along with runner-up and top seed K. Srikanth, will be part of the star cast for the $400,000 Yonex-Sunrise India Open at the K.D. Jadhav Stadium here from January 11 to 16. P.V. Sindhu and Saina Nehwal will be the top two seeds in the women's singles. With Lakshya Sen joining the fray, three men’s singles medallists from the recent World championship will be on view. H.S. Prannoy, P. Kashyap and Sameer Verma lend depth to the field. In the men’s doubles, home favourites Chirag Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy could find the going tough against three-time World champion and World No. 2 Mohammad Ahsan and Hendra Setiawan (Indonesia) and their compatriots Fajar Alfian and Muhammad Rian Ardianto, ranked eighth. Similarly, the field lacks stars in women’s doubles and mixed doubles, too. World No. 9 Jongkolphan Kititharal and Rawinda Prajongjai (Thailand) head the draw that includes the Indian combinations of Ashwini Ponappa-Sikki Reddy and P. Gayathri-Treesa Jolly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-stars-for-india-open/article38001311.ece
21 December 2021||PUNE,||UP to take on Punjab in final||Uttar Pradesh Hockey and Hockey Punjab set up a summit clash in the senior men’s National championship here. In the first semifinal on Monday, Uttar Pradesh edged past Hockey Karnataka 2-1. Mohammad Amir Khan (fourth minute) and Vishal Singh (eighth) got on the scoresheet for the winner, while captain Mohd. Raheel reduced the margin in the 22nd minute. Punjab blanked Maharashtra 3-0, thanks to goals from captain Rupinder Pal Singh (28th, 46th) and Sudarshan Singh (38th).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/up-to-take-on-punjab-in-final/article38001376.ece
21 December 2021||Karachi,||Malik’s nephew in record books||Muhammad Huraira, a nephew of Pakistan’s former captain Shoaib Malik, created history on Monday when he became the country’s second youngest cricketer to score a triple century, in the ongoing Quaid-er-Azam Trophy. Huraira, who is playing in his debut First Class season scored the triple ton at the age of 19 years and 239 days and is the eighth overall to achieve this feat. Javed Miandad holds the record for youngest at 19 years and 141 days. This is the 23rd triple on Pakistan soil with Huraira being the 22nd player overall to score a 300 in Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maliks-nephew-in-record-books/article38001380.ece
21 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Luminous is official sponsor of Tamil Thalaivas||Luminous Power Technologies announced on Monday that it would be the official sponsor of the Chennai-based franchise Tamil Thalaivas in the upcoming eighth season of the Pro Kabaddi League. Luminous’ chief marketing officer Ruchika Gupta, South General Manager Sujith Rayirath and Tamil Nadu State manager Ulaganathan unveiled the Luminous logo-printed home and away jerseys. “PKL is watched by a lot of people in the B and C category cities. So, this partnership aligns with our objective to extends our reach in smaller towns in the rural market,” said Sujith. Ruchika said the partnership is an attempt by Luminous to genuinely associate with the people of South India, adding that the corporate brand would help Thalaivas extend its reach in North India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/luminous-is-official-sponsor-of-tamil-thalaivas/article38001428.ece
21 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Abhishek, Prithvi shine||Abhishek Porel’s 104 (145b, 15x4, 1x6) helped Bengal post 219 on the first day against Hyderabad in the Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) Elite Group D fourth-round match in New Delhi on Monday. For Hyderabad, medium-pacer Prithvi Reddy (five for 54) was the pick of the bowlers.  The scores:   Bengal 219 in 62.4 overs (Abhishek Porel 104, Prithivi Reddy 5/54) vs Hyderabad 18 for no loss in nine overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhishek-and-prithvi-shine/article38001595.ece
21 December 2021||Johannesburg,||CSA to probe Smith, Boucher conduct||Cricket South Africa on Monday announced it would launch a formal inquiry into the conduct of current director Graeme Smith and national team head coach Mark Boucher after reviewing the Social Justice and Nation Building (SJN) Commission report. CSA was silent on enquiry against de Villiers.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csa-to-probe-smith-boucher-conduct/article38001314.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A.L. Mudaliar athletics||The Department of Physical Education, University of Madras, will organise the A. L. Mudaliar athletics meet at the Nehru Stadium here from December 21 to 23. A strong field of 1200 athletes (700 men and 500 women) from the University Departments and affiliated colleges of the University of Madras will take part. The meet includes 22 events for men and 22 events for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/al-mudaliar-athletics/article38001429.ece
21 December 2021||KOLKATA,||Ferrando becomes ATKMB coach after leaving FC Goa||Juan Ferrando started the league as FC Goa’s chief coach, and on Monday, officially took charge of a struggling ATK Mohun Bagan even as the top leadership of the Goan outfit expressed its “surprise and disappointment” at the Spaniard’s sudden change of heart. The announcement comes just a day before the struggling Mariners take on NorthEast United FC in their seventh match of the season.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ferrando-becomes-atkmb-coach-after-leaving-fc-goa/article38001591.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Nishkama karma, bhakti||In spiritual parlance, the commitment to work for work’s sake, that is, prioritising one’s duties over all else is known as Nishkama karma while devotion to God for His sake alone with no other desire, is known as Nishkama bhakti. In this context, it is interesting to note that Adi Sankara has stressed in his teachings that even the desire for moksha is only secondary against the superior value of nishkama karma, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. In a somewhat similar strain, the Bhagavata Purana highlights nishkama bhakti as a greater goal than mukti. To serve at the feet of the Lord and also to serve and worship His devotees is equal to the bliss of Moksha, says Prahlada in his prayer to Lord Narasimha after the killing of Hiranyakasipu. This confluence of bhagavat bhakti, bhagavata bhakti, and nishkama bhakti is the hallmark of true devotion. The terrible form as Narasimha that has kept everyone from Brahma onwards in fear does not frighten the child who is only aware of the Lord’s boundless compassion. But Prahlada has another great fear which he wants the Lord to remove. He is afraid to be churned and crushed repeatedly in the wheel of samsara and seeks to be relieved from it. His words of wisdom continue to guide people caught in samsara. The Lord’s grace is greater to anything else in this entire creation. The Lord is the only ally and protector to every jiva though it may appear that parents, medicines and wealth are important in this world. His words make us see our foolishness in getting entangled in samsara. We know this and also know that the body is a storehouse of virus and diseases of all kinds. Though aware that in reality the passing pleasures of this world are only a mirage, we easily tend to get carried away by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/nishkama-karma-bhakti/article38001277.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 07:32 IST,||Sudoku — December 21, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-21-2021/article38001922.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Into the void with Sati||When The Matrix released in theatres in 1999, it proved to be a precursor for chatter on the responsibility of the individual person in regards to mixed reality and the hegemonic power of technology. The next 22 years would raise philosophical questions, referencing the movie; ‘are we in a simulation?’, ‘what makes a person?’ and, of course, ‘would you choose the red pill or the blue pill?’ The latter even has its own Wikipedia page and official Reddit forums. It makes total sense that actor-producer Priyanka Chopra calls herself “a red pill girl”, as she takes on a “nurtured and well-positioned” legacy role in the franchise, playing Sati whose younger version (Tanveer K Atwal) appears in The Matrix Revolutions (2002). On the surface, Sati is the picture of sweetness with her endearing smile, lemon-coloured frock and schoolgirl braids. The little girl — program, really — was born without a purpose, and in a world of utilitarian machines, it made her an exile: a malfunctional program that should not exist. She is then pursued by the Machines and the Smiths (Hugo Weaving), putting her in danger of deletion, and is ultimately left in the protection of the Oracle. But she is saved by Neo, aka Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves), and is revealed to be the saviour of both the artificial world of Anderson and the dystopian rabbit-hole world of Neo. When Sati and the Oracle watch Neo walk off into the sunset the former created, the little girl asks if they will ever see him again. And Oracle affirms they will. So it fits that in Chopra’s entry into The Matrix world, she stands in a sun-basked forest and tells Neo, “I tried to keep my eye on you.”  Following the white rabbit  In an interview with The Hindu Weekend , Chopra reveals she was excited “that the responsibility of playing the grown-up Sati was placed on my shoulders; [director Lana Wachowski] had trusted me to play this typically-placed character, and no one knows this world better than her”. A few years ago, Chopra had already been a blip on the Wachowski’s radar having auditioned for the film. When she was shooting for a film in India, she was called to meet with the filmmakers in San Francisco the next day. Much later, in a meeting with producer James McTeigue and Wachowski, Chopra was handed a freshly-printed script with her name on it, kicking off her The Matrix Resurrections journey. Save for her involvement in the film, not much was revealed about her role for a long time until November this year when she revealed her character poster and a recent trailer confirmed her as Sati. Indian fans were elated that she would not be the too-often tokenised diversity role in a Hollywood film, but rather an integral part of The Matrix .  Claiming her seat  The responsibility of playing Sati is huge, but so is her unofficial ambassadorship of Indian cinema on a global stage. The White Tiger actor takes neither of these roles lightly, explaining, “I’ve always thought that films should not be divided by the countries they’re made in. For me, it has been a very conscientious effort to bring not just Indian talent but also Indian stories and showcase the country.” She reflects, “Getting to where I am today required educating the people in Hollywood — from whom I am seeking work — that I deserve a seat at the table. South Asian talent deserves that and very few people get the opportunity to represent the Indian diaspora and very very few that are in India. It’s predominantly people settled outside of India but I would like to see a cross-pollination of storytelling and cultures. I work hard on that as a producer and an actor to make sure there’s a nod to my heritage.” And playing Sati is no different. She worked with Wachowski and the costume department to bring some Indian essence to the character’s ensemble. “I depended on Lana a lot to make sure that I create, in my own way, the best form of Sati. Her jacket was made from the borders of saris and the pants were deliberately made to look like a dhoti . It’s subtle, but it hits the nail on the head,” she says.  Next year spells a busy one for Chopra. She will be working on miniseries Citadel , alongside Eternals and Game of Thrones actor Richard Madden, and Farhan Akhtar’s Jee Le Zaraa with Katrina Kaif and Alia Bhatt.  The Matrix Resurrections releases in theatres in India on December 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/into-the-void-with-sati/article38001681.ece
21 December 2021||December 21 2021 00:00 IST,||How to make a pre-apocalyptic comedy||“Hypothetically if there were a comet or asteroid heading our way, what would be your most immediate action? What would you do if it were the last day on Earth?” My heart sinks at the only India-origin press question selected for the cast and crew of Netflix’s Don’t Look Up  to answer. In a virtual press conference moderated by renowned astronomer Dr Amy Mainzer, who consulted on the film, said cast and crew include musician-actor Scott Mescudi AKA Kid Cudi, filmmaker-actor Tyler Perry, actor-comedian Jonah Hill, Academy Award-winning actor Meryl Streep, actor-activist Leonardo DiCaprio, actor Jennifer Lawrence, and the film’s writer-director-producer Adam McKay. The energy reverberates through the screen even at 2 am. Close to 400 journalists from around the world have logged in to have their chance to pick the brains of some of Hollywood’s contemporary greats… and the strike-out question of ‘what if’ got asked in this finite time. The cast and crew subtly exchange a ‘look’, then Mescudi smiles and responds he would love to spend time with his 11-year-old daughter Vada. But Hill, ever the quick reactor, responds, “I think I would tweet; make sure that people knew the cool thoughts that I had to say, [my] opinions on different stuff like movies and how the stars live their lives and what they look like, and who they are dating and stuff.” The joke earns some giggles from Lawrence, McKay, Streep and Perry, while a slowly-reddening DiCaprio ducks his head. Hill’s response is also a stab at how the media has played up his weight loss, ultimately labelling him a ‘thirst trap’ leading him to request people to refrain from commenting on appearance, positive or otherwise. Like his castmates, Hill wants the focus to be on his work. And Don’t Look Up — one of the year’s most anticipated feature films — is all about directing dialogue and attention where it needs to be: on our planet’s future, how we consume news, our relationships. As DiCaprio puts it, “McKay creates a sense of urgency with the film,” but not one of mass hysteria. It is a tone McKay has perfected over the years with films such as Academy Award-winning The Big Short (2015), Vice (2018), and Booksmart (2019).  A black comedy based on real events, Don’t Look Up follows two astronomers Dr Randall Mindy (DiCaprio) and Dr Kate Dibiasky (Lawrence) who discover a comet heading towards Earth. To raise awareness and urgency of the impending danger, the two embark on a media tour. DiCaprio, portraying socially awkward and quiet Dr Mindy, explains, “I was just thankful to play a character who is based on so many of the people that I’ve met from the scientific community, and in particular, climate scientists who’ve been trying to communicate the urgency of this issue and feeling like they’re subjected to the last page in the newspaper… I also love the way he was just incredibly truthful about how we’re so immensely distracted from the truth nowadays. And then, of course, Covid-19 hit and there was a whole new scientific argument going on there.” He calls Lawrence’s character Dr Dibiasky a “Greta Thunberg-type”: an activist at heart. She also has her own battles at home with parents who ‘don’t talk politics’. With this in mind, Lawrence, like her co-star, empathises with the science community whose cries on our planet’s future have gone unacknowledged for the past 30-odd years. “It’s just so sad and frustrating to watch people who have dedicated their lives to learning the truth, be turned away because people don’t like what the truth has to say,” she says. Portraying an image-conscious and conservative US President Jeanie Orlean who consistently turns away from science and danger, Streep agrees. “The kernel of truth of [ Don’t Look Up ] is that we push this information away. Even smart people — people who don’t have a scientific background — everyone pushes it away because it’s just too painful.”  Don’t Look Up will stream on Netflix from December 24.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com   The right notes The film also features an original track ‘Just Look Up’ by Scott Mescudi who portrays DJ Chello and Ariana Grande who plays pop star Riley Bina. The emotive love ballad lies in the context of the end of the world. The lyric video uploaded to Grande’s official YouTube channel on December 3, has more than 2.5 million views. Mescudi recalls how the first version, by the film’s composer Nicholas Britell ( The Big Short , Vice , Succession , The Underground Railroad , Cruella ), seemed to be written from Mescudi’s perspective, but Mescudi switched it up to suit his character DJ Chello. He wanted the song to be an expression of love for Riley after a public fallout. Proud of the track, he says with a smile, “It was intense at first because Ariana is such an incredible artist. Her voice is just amazing... I’m just really happy that we were able to figure it out, and it worked.” He adds jokingly, “We can do a NASA mixtape.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-to-make-a-pre-apocalyptic-comedy/article38001680.ece
