22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||House panel to review Bill on raising marriage age of women||As the Lok Sabha on Tuesday sent the Bill which seeks to raise the age of marriage for women to 21 to a standing committee, Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani said the proposed legislation would ensure uniformity across all religions and communities. “The age of marriage should be uniformly applicable to all religions, caste, creed, overriding any custom or law that seeks to discriminate against women,” Ms. Irani said while introducing the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Lok Sabha. “We are in our democracy 75 years late in providing equal rights to men and women to enter into matrimony. In the 19th century, the age of marriage of girls was 10. In 1940, this was raised from 12 to 14. In 1978, girls could be married at the age of 15. Today, for the first time both men and women on the basis of equality can take a decision to get married at the age of 21. From 2015 until 2020 we have stopped 20 lakh child marriages, according to research. The NFHS-5 data tell us that nearly 7% of girls between the age of 15 and 18 have been found pregnant and 23% girls under 18 were married though the law does not permit it,” the Minister said. Ms. Irani said the Bill would also amend the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1972; the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936; the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937; the Special Marriage Act, 1954; the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955; and the Foreign Marriage Act, 1956. Several members of the Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the Nationalist Congress Party, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and the Biju Janata Dal demanded greater scrutiny and urged that the Bill be sent to a standing committee. IUML member E.T. Mohammed Bashir said the Bill be withdrawn as “it was unwanted, unconstitutional and in violation of Article 25 of the Constitution. This Bill will have far-reaching consequences in the country. It is an attack on personal laws and the fundamental rights in the country”. Asaduddin Owaisi of the AIMIM said the Bill was retrogressive and questioned why the age of marriage for girls was being raised to 21 when “18-year-olds can choose a PM, be in a live-in [relationship] and have a sexual relationship under POCSO”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/house-panel-to-review-bill-on-raising-marriage-age-of-women/article38008702.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,||‘We’ll urge PM to ban MES’||The State Government will urge Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ban Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said in Belagavi on Tuesday. The Legislative Assembly has adopted a resolution to condemn the desecration of a Sangolli Rayanna statue. “We know that MES is behind this. We will request the Prime Minister to ban the political outfit,” he said. He was speaking after garlanding the re-installed statue of Sangolli Rayanna in Kanakadasa Colony at Angol of Belagavi. “Yesterday, I, during the Assembly session, said that miscreants responsible for insulting national heroes should be shot at and killed. Even today, I say that. The state of Uttar Pradesh is peaceful because the Yogi Adityanath government eliminates such miscreants in encounters,’’ Mr. Eshwarappa said. “The miscreants belonging to MES committed the offence during night. If they had attempted such a thing in day light, Kannadigas in Belagavi would have torn them to pieces,’’ he said. He criticised the Congress for speaking in different voices about the MES. On the one hand, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah says the MES should be banned. But on the other hand, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar says we should not blame the MES before a police inquiry. This shows that the KPCC president is trying to help his supporter Lakshmi Hebbalkar [Congress MLA] whose constituency has a significant number of voters who are supporters of the MES, he said. Earlier, Mr. Eshwarappa slipped while climbing the pedestal of the statue. But his staff helped him regain balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/well-urge-pm-to-ban-mes/article38008982.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||RS passes electoral reforms Bill amid Opposition protest||The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to link the electoral rolls to the Aadhaar database, was passed in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday amid dramatic scenes which ended with the suspension of Trinamool Congress member Derek O’ Brien. Mr. O’ Brien was suspended for the remaining part of the winter session for allegedly throwing a rule book at the reporters’ table after the Opposition’s motion to send the legislation to a select committee was defeated by voice vote and a division was denied since the House was not in order. The Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha on Monday. The Opposition said the Bill would disenfranchise many voters and violate the right to privacy as guaranteed by the Constitution. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said the opposition to the Bill was baseless and “only those who use bogus voters list will oppose this Bill”. The Bill was brought in after several rounds of consultations with the Election Commission of India (ECI), he said. He pointed out that the standing committee too held deliberations, during which many Opposition MPs argued in its favour. “One of the major concerns of the ECI was duplicity in electoral rolls. There was no system, no law to establish names in multiple electoral rolls and to delete and remove those names...election process should be clean and it will be clean only if the electoral roll is clean, if I am a genuine voter, why will I oppose the Bill?” he said.  Mr. Rijiju said many members had raised the Puttaswamy judgment of the Supreme Court. The court had said that if government intervened in privacy, there should be a justification for it. “The Supreme Court said there should a law, so we have brought this law. It said there should be legitimate reason... The returning officer will be able to use Aadhaar as an identity document and that electoral database will be with the ECI and not in public domain,” Mr. Rijiju clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajya-sabha-passes-electoral-reforms-bill/article38008717.ece
22 December 2021||YADGIR,||Two killed as tractor overturns||Two women workers were killed and 13 were injured as a tractor in which they were returning home from work in cotton fields overturned near Naikal village in Wadagera taluk of Yadgir district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Parveen Bhanu (32) and Monamma (28). Among the 13 injured, the condition of three is said to be critical and they have been referred to Gulbarga Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) Hospital in Kalaburagi. The rest are getting treatment in the District Hospital in Yadgir. According to one of the injured persons, the driver could not quickly negotiate a curve on a tank bund and the tractor overturned. Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya rushed to the District Hospital and directed the doctors there to provide immediate treatment to the injured. According to initial reports, the incident happened due to overloading and also negligence on the part of the driver while negotiating the curve. The district administration will direct the police and the RTO to book a case against the owner of the vehicle and the driver who fled the scene after the incident, the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-killed-as-tractor-overturns/article38008984.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Anti-national’ not defined in statutes, says Centre||The word ‘anti-national’ has not been defined in statutes, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. It added that ‘anti-national activity’ was inserted in the Constitution during Emergency in 1976 but was removed later. Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said this in response to a question by All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen member Asaduddin Owaisi on whether the government had defined the meaning of ‘anti-national’ under any legislation or 11 rules or any other legal enactment that is enforced in the country. “The word ‘anti-national’ has not been defined in statutes. However, there are criminal legislation and various judicial pronouncements to sternly deal with unlawful and subversive activities which are detrimental to the unity and integrity of the country,” Mr. Rai said in the written reply. “In this regard, it is relevant to mention that the Constitution (Forty–Second Amendment) Act, 1976 inserted in the Constitution Article 31D (during Emergency) which defined “anti-national activity” and this Article 31D was, subsequently, omitted by the Constitution (Forty-third Amendment) Act, 1977,” he added. SC guidelines Mr. Owaisi also sought details of the Supreme Court guidelines to deal with crimes relating to ‘anti-national’ activity and the number of people arrested for indulging in such activities during the past three years. In reply, the Minister said that ‘Public Order’ and ‘Police’ were State subjects as per the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution and the “data about number of people arrested for indulging in anti-national activities is not maintained centrally”. The responsibility of maintaining law and order, including investigation, registration and prosecution of crimes, protection of life and property, rested primarily with the respective State government, he pointed out. NCRB data In 2019, when the National Crime Records Bureau released the annual Crime in India report for 2017, it included for the first time a new chapter on “Crime Committed by Anti National Elements”. The chapter listed “North East insurgents, Left Wing Extremists and Terrorists (including Jihadi terrorists)” as the three anti-national elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-national-not-defined-in-statutes-centre/article38008706.ece
22 December 2021||TANUKU,||CM flays Opposition for casting aspersions on OTS scheme||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku (One Time Settlement) scheme will ensure complete rights over the property, which, the beneficiaries can pass on to the next generations as an asset, can avail themselves of bank loans and can sell their property at a market rate without any hassles. Mr. Jagan on Tuesday launched the scheme here and later addressed a public meeting. Under the scheme, over 52 lakh families would be given complete rights with the registered title of their houses. “The last two-and-a-half years have not been easy with the pandemic causing severe financial distress. However, the government has credited Rs. 1.16 lakh crore to people through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) without the interference of middlemen under various welfare schemes. Why would I take money from the poor in the name of OTS, when over Rs. 1.16 lakh crore has been provided through various schemes,” Mr. Jagan questioned in a retort to some opposition criticism. Explaining about the OTS scheme, Mr. Jagan said that till now dwelling rights were provided to the people, but now the scenario had changed where registration with complete rights were being given. The situation could be changed with OTS scheme, where the government was waiving Rs. 10,000 crore outstanding loans of 40 lakh beneficiaries who availed themselves of loans from the AP Housing Board Corporation since 2011, and beneficiaries would be given house documents with clear titles with free registration benefitting 52 lakh people. Mr. Jagan distributed registered documents to 8.26 lakh people who have enrolled for OTS. Similarly, people who had constructed houses in land allotted by the government with their own money and don't have full rights could register them by paying just Rs. 10 and secure their property. The government had been spending Rs. 6,000 crore or registrations alone. “Today, we have managed to create an asset value of Rs. 1.58 lakh crore, and the beneficiaries can avail the scheme by paying nominal amounts of Rs. 10,000 in villages, Rs. 15,000 in municipalities, and Rs. 20,000 in municipal corporations. In case the loan amount is less than the stipulated amounts, the beneficiaries can then pay the outstanding loan amount and get complete rights on their property. The scheme has been extended till Ugadi (April 2),” said Mr. Jagan. Taking a dig at Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu and a few media houses, he said they were not able to digest the good initiatives that were being provided to the poor and questioned why the previous government did not implement the scheme when it was in power. During 2014-19, although the officials had sent proposals to waive the interest amount, the previous government refused to do so and even failed to provide complete rights to 43,000 people who had cleared all the pending loans of Rs. 15.29 crore, he said. The Chief Minister asked people to question if the Opposition would purchase their houses at a market rate even without any registered documents and why were they objecting when the government was providing registered houses which could be passed to the next generations without any hassles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-flays-oppn-for-casting-aspersions-on-ots-scheme/article38008713.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI/CHENNAI,||Sri Lanka detains 13 more Indian fishermen||Thirteen Indian fishermen, hailing from Mayiladuthurai and Pudukottai districts of Tamil Nadu, were arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy on Monday evening on the charge of crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL). With this, the number of fishermen arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy in the past three days has gone up to 68. In two separate incidents, the Navy arrested 55 fishermen of Rameswaram and Mandapam on Sunday and seized 19 mechanised trawlers. In the latest incident, seven fishermen from Mayiladuthurai and six from Pudukottai ventured into the sea on Monday on two mechanised trawlers from the Jagadapattinam fishing harbour, sources said. A Sri Lankan naval vessel [some reports suggested it was the Coast Guard] detained them and confiscated the trawlers when they were fishing in the periphery of the IMBL. They were taken to the Jaffna coast for questioning. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday wrote to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, seeking his urgent intervention to secure the release of the fishermen and 75 boats. In the letter, handed over to Mr. Jaishankar by DMK MPs in New Delhi, Mr. Stalin recalled his previous letter to the Minister on Sunday, requesting that the Government of India prevail upon the Sri Lankan government through diplomatic channels to put an end to the “intimidatory tactics” of its Navy. “The alarming frequency at which these incidents of apprehension and attacks are happening warrants urgent attention,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sri-lanka-detains-13-more-indian-fishermen/article38008715.ece
22 December 2021||Thirvananthapuram,||Community surveillance to be strengthened||The Health department has decided to strengthen community surveillance for the early detection of the Omicron virus variant. At a high-level meeting held here on Saturday to assess the threat posed by the variant, it was decided that the sampling and genetic sequencing would be increased in the case of travellers coming to the State from nations which are not deemed to be “at risk”. Though airport surveillance has been strengthened and is being carried out systematically, many people who test negative for COVID-19 on arrival at airports seem to be testing positive at a later stage. Which is why community surveillance has to be upped, the meeting said. 15 cases Till now, 15 cases of Omicron have been reported in the State. The meeting decided that samples of those who come to the State from other States and test positive be also sent for genetic sequencing. Samples should also be sent for genetic sequencing wherever case clusters are found. Those who are hospitalised after confirming Omicron positive would be discharged only after they test negative and after keeping them under observation. The meeting also discussed the possible scenario of a sudden surge in hospitalisation within a short time if Omicron cases increase and the preparations that needed to be done, including the enlisting of the cooperation of private hospitals. Strict protocols Health Minister Veena George said that as more cases of Omicron seem to be detected in persons coming to Kerala from nations which are not deemed to be “at risk”, those who are asked to go on self-monitoring should strictly follow the protocols. At present, those who are coming from nations deemed to be at “high risk” are asked to go in seven days’ quarantine followed by seven days of self-monitoring. Those who are coming from nations not deemed to be “at risk” are to be under self-observation for 14 days. However, many of these people are found to be violating the norms set for self-observation and this can potentially affect the State’s efforts to keep Omicron transmission under check. Hence, those people should strictly follow the norms of self-monitoring and ensure that they do not frequent any crowded public places. Though there is no scarcity of vaccines in the State at present, many are not interested in taking vaccines, the meeting pointed out. A lot many others are staying away citing health reasons such as allergies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/community-surveillance-to-be-strengthened/article38009052.ece
22 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Govt. should ban MES, invoke Goonda Act: Mahesh Joshi||Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Mahesh Joshi said here on Tuesday that the State government should ban the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES). He also said that all those who indulged in violence in Belagavi a few days ago should be booked under the Goonda Act. Addressing presspersons, Mr. Joshi said that the parishat has formed a committee headed by Karnataka Law Commission chairman Justice S.R. Bannurmath to find out an amicable and permanent solution to border issues with Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Goa, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Mr. Bannurmath was a former Chief Justice of Kerala High Court and also a former chairman of the Maharashtra Human Rights Commission. Hence, the parishat is hopeful that the committee will be able to settle the border issues through dialogue, he said and added that Mr. Bannurmath is particularly familiar with the issues relating to Maharashtra and Kerala. The committee also comprises the former vice-chief of Indian Army Ramesh Halagali, he said. Mr. Joshi said that he will visit Belagavi on December 22. The government should nip violence in Belagavi in the bud. The incidents should not have occurred and there is a need to restore peace in the city immediately. The president said that untoward incidents in Belagavi cropped up on two occasions, that is during Rajyotsava Day and during the winter session of both the Houses. He said that both the sides appear to be responsible for the untoward incidents in Belagavi. Only a small segment of people indulged in violence. “I am pained over the incidents,” he said. Decision on Kannada To a question on High Court of Karnataka’s interim order on Kannada which said that the government cannot insist on making Kannada a compulsory language for first-year under-graduate courses from this academic year, Mr. Joshi said that the parishat has consulted the former High Court judge Arali Nagaraj on whether the parishat can file an impleading petition in the case to protect the interest of Kannada. It has requested him to submit a report in the matter. The parishat will take a decision on the future course of action based on the report. Mr. Nagaraj, he said, wrote the first judgment in Kannada. He said that the parishat supported the demand for making Tulu a State language and its inclusion in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-should-ban-mes-invoke-goonda-act-mahesh-joshi/article38009141.ece
22 December 2021||Vijayawada,||Special package to A.P. was in lieu of SCS, says Union Minister||Union Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary has asserted that the Central government has extended a special package in lieu of the Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh. Replying to an unstarred question raised by YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, the Minister said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had requested and reiterated for granting the SCS to Andhra Pradesh in recently held NITI Aayog meeting. Mr. Chaudhary said the Union Government was being committed to support the development of the successor State of Andhra Pradesh. Keeping in mind the obligation emanating from the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014; the recommendations of the Finance Commissions; the report dated December 1, 2015 of Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, on ‘Developmental support to the successor State of Andhra Pradesh under Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014’ and the request of the successor State of Andhra Pradesh, the Special Assistance Measure to the successor State of Andhra Pradesh was extended. The special assistance measure would make up for the additional Central share the State might have received during 2015-16 to 2019-20, if the funding of Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) would have been shared at the ratio of 90:10 between the Centre and the State. The Special assistance would be provided by way of repayment of loan and interest for the Externally Aided Project (EAPs) signed and disbursed during 2015-16 to 2019-20 by the State. An amount of Rs. 19,846.199 crore under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 had been released by the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, to Andhra Pradesh, he said. Revenue deficit Further, as per the recommendations of the respective Finance Commissions, Revenue Deficit Grant of Rs. 22,112 crore for 2015-20 and Rs. 5,897 crore for 2020-21 had been released to Andhra Pradesh, he said. The SCS for plan assistance was granted, in the past, by the National Development Council (NDC) to States that were characterised by a number of features necessitating special consideration. The features included hilly and difficult terrain, low population density and/or sizeable share of tribal population and strategic location along borders with neighbouring countries. Also, economic and infrastructural backwardness and non-viable nature of State finances were other criteria. The decision was based on an integrated consideration of all the factors listed above and the peculiar situation of the State, he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-package-to-ap-in-lieu-of-special-category-status/article38008672.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Approach police if temple lands are encroached’||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable (HR&CE) Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu on Tuesday urged members of the public to lodge complaints with the police if they were aware of encroachments on temple properties. He said the police were directed to take such complaints on record. “Earlier, the police used to ask the executive officers concerned to file complaints. But now even that is not necessary. Members of the public can themselves file complaints and the police will inquire and take steps along with officials of the HR&CE Department. Temple executive officers have been instructed to provide the required documents,” he said. The Department had changed the system of the Commissioner having to file complaints of encroachments. “We have amended the required Section in the [relevant] Act since there is a delay if only the Commissioner has to step in. The number of temples and attached properties is too large for a single person to handle. Temple officials, thakkars [fit persons] or trustees can prefer such complaints,” Mr. Sekarbabu said. The Department has been taking steps to retrieve temple properties, and so far assets worth Rs. 1,200 crore have been retrieved. Efforts are being made to measure and mark temple properties. Former officials of the Revenue Department have been roped in to mark the properties and install HR&CE boards on the lands, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/approach-police-if-temple-lands-are-encroached-says-minister/article38008804.ece
22 December 2021||Jammu,||Gupkar calls for protest against ‘divisive’ proposal||The People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of the regional political parties, on Tuesday described the proposed distribution of seven new Assembly seats for Jammu and Kashmir as “divisive” and “unacceptable” and “with potential to further deepen the alienation among people”. The Gupkar Alliance has called for a “peaceful protest” against the proposed increase of six seats in the Jammu division and one in Kashmir on January 1. In a joint statement released on Tuesday evening, the Alliance, said, “The leaders of PAGD have unanimously expressed their deep dissatisfaction and shock with regard to recommendations of the commission.” “The constitutionality of the commission under the Reorganisation Act has been challenged in the Supreme Court of India. The recommendations are highly disappointing and divisive and will further disempower the people of Kashmir.” The commission’s recommendations were “unacceptable to the people of the region,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gupkar-terms-delimitation-divisive-calls-for-protest/article38008704.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,||State bans mass gatherings for New Year||Karnataka has banned public celebrations and mass gatherings to mark the New Year in the wake of the continued threat of the Omicron variant. The restrictions will be enforced from December 30 to January 2. Restaurants, clubs, pubs and hotels too have been barred from holding parties or any events involving mass gatherings, such as DJ orchestra, group dance etc. However, they have been allowed to function with COVID-19 protocols. Double vaccination will be mandatory for entry to clubs, and the staff have to undergo RT-PCR test, says guidelines issued on Tuesday. The Government said no guidelines have been issued with respect to Christmas as mass would be held indoors with COVID protocols. However, public spaces such as roads or parks can’t be used for celebrations. Apartment complexes too are barred from holding any parties. The decisions were taken at a meeting of Ministers, officials and experts convened by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Belagavi on Tuesday. Chief Minister said the New Year revelry had been banned following recommendation of experts. “Apart from celebrations, public gatherings too have been banned throughout the State,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-bans-mass-gatherings-for-new-year/article38008750.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,||New Year parties, mass gatherings banned||Karnataka has banned public celebrations and mass gatherings to mark the New Year in the wake of continued threat of COVID-19 and its Omicron variant. The restrictions will be enforced from December 30 to January 2 to ensure that New Year revelry does not lead to spread of the virus. Restaurants and clubs too have been barred from holding New Year parties or any special events, like music and dance programmes. However, they have been allowed to function with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-year-parties-mass-gatherings-banned/article38008986.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Pay victims of custodial rape Rs. 5 lakh each’||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Tuesday recommended that the Tamil Nadu government pay a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to 15 victims in a case relating to the alleged rape of four women by four policemen attached to the Tirukoilur station in November 2011. SHRC member D. Jayachandran also recommended that the government ask the Director-General of Police to file the final report before the competent court in the criminal case registered against the respondents under Sections 323, 427, 363, 380, 376 of the IPC and and Section 3 (i) (xii) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The case has been pending for the past 10 years for the final report to be filed. The SHRC also recommended that the government instruct the DGP to pass the final order, within three months, on the departmental action initiated against the respondents — R. Srinivasan, R. Ramanathan (since retired), R. Dhanasekaran, R. Bakthavachalam and K. Karthikeyan — then attached to the Tirukoilur station in Villupuram district. The SHRC had taken suo motu cognizance of a media report, dated November 27, 2011, that a woman of T. Mandapam village presented a petition to the ADSP, Villupuram, alleging that her husband was picked up by policemen of the Tirukoilur station on Nov 22 that year. The same evening, policemen came to her house, damaged property, took away jewellery and cash and picked her along with eight, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pay-victims-of-custodial-rape-rs-5-lakh-each-shrc/article38008795.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Emergency drill||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/emergency-drill/article38008763.ece
22 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Govt. decision causing pain to some: Modi||The decision by the government to raise the legal age of marriage for women to 21 is causing pain to some, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday, taking a dig at the Opposition. “The country is taking this decision for our daughters but everybody can see who is feeling pained by this,” Mr. Modi said at Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, without naming anyone. Mr. Modi said women had desired more time to pursue education and to get equal opportunities and the new Bill would help them do so. He added that under the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, women got both security and rights. Endorsing Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s law and order model and action against suspected criminals, Mr. Modi said “Yogi ji has sent these goons to their right place”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-decision-causing-pain-to-some-modi/article38008703.ece
22 December 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool sweeps Kolkata municipal polls||In an overwhelming endorsement for the ruling Trinamool Congress, the party swept the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections on Tuesday, winning more than 90% of the wards. Of the 144 wards, the Trinamool won 134, with a vote share of 72%. The BJP won three, the Left Front and the Congress two each, while Independents grabbed three seats. Interestingly, the CPI (M)-led Left Front secured more votes than the BJP, though in majority of the wards they were a distant second to the Trinamool. Trinamool Congress chairperson and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hailed the results as a “victory of democracy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-sweeps-kolkata-municipal-polls/article38008707.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Call of the wild||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-of-the-wild/article38008793.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,||Anti-conversion Bill tabled in Karnataka||Amid vociferous opposition, the anti-conversion Bill — The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 — was introduced in the Assembly by Home Minister Araga Jnanendra here on Tuesday. Opposing the introduction of the Bill without it being on the agenda, Congress members staged a walkout. The Bill was added in the supplementary agenda and introduced soon after the House proceedings started after lunch, inviting the wrath from the Congress and JD(S) members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-conversion-bill-tabled-in-karnataka/article38009089.ece
22 December 2021||Chennai,||‘Go to police if temple lands are encroached’||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu on Tuesday urged members of the public to lodge complaints with the police if they were aware of encroachments on temple properties. He said the police were directed to take such complaints on record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/go-to-police-if-temple-lands-are-encroached/article38008794.ece
22 December 2021||Chennai,||Metro’s passenger traffic crosses pre-COVID level||Chennai Metro Rail’s weekday average passenger traffic crossed the pre-COVID levels, with nearly 1.31 lakh commuters taking a ride. Before the pandemic, the weekday average stood at nearly 1.25 lakh. The introduction of mini-buses at four stations as the last-mile link has had a positive impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metros-passenger-traffic-crosses-pre-covid-level/article38008797.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC orders social disability audit of public transport||The Delhi High Court has called for a social disability audit of the public transport infrastructure within six weeks. Justice Najmi Waziri said “non-availability of requisite infrastructure for persons with disabilities is glaring throughout the city”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-social-disability-audit-of-public-transport/article38008891.ece
22 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Police book Akali Dal leader in drug case||The Punjab police have registered a case against senior Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia under the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, triggering a political furore ahead of the Assembly election in early 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-book-akali-dal-leader-in-drug-case/article38009090.ece
22 December 2021||Mumbai,||MVA govt., BJP set for face-off over OBC quota||As the winter session of the Maharashtra Assembly begins on Wednesday, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi govern- ment is set for a face-off with the opposition BJP on the issues of scrapping of OBC reservation in civic bodies, arrest of former Home Minis- ter Anil Deshmukh and leak of recruitment exam papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-govt-bjp-set-for-face-off-over-obc-quota/article38009091.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Oppn. MPs hold march, seek Ajay Mishra’s ouster||Opposition MPs on Tuesday took out a joint march from the Gandhi statue on Parliament premises, where the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha members have been protesting, to Vijay Chowk, demanding the resignation of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in the Lakhimpur violence case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppn-mps-hold-march-seek-ajay-mishras-ouster/article38008890.ece
22 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||29 new cases in a day in Uttara Kannada||In the wake of 29 fresh cases of COVID-19 being reported in a single day, Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kannada Mullai Muhilan has said that there is no need for people to panic as all adequate precautionary measures have been taken. In a release in Karwar on Tuesday, Mr. Muhilan has said that of the 29 cases, 19 were from Morarji Desai Residential School at Ramnagar in Joida taluk and all infected students have been isolated in a building and given treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/29-new-cases-in-a-day-in-uttara-kannada/article38008985.ece
22 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Weavers stage protest near Suvarna Soudha||Members of Karnataka State Weavers Awareness and Agitation Committee staged a protest in Belagavi on Tuesday, demanding compensation for losses suffered during the lockdown and also some incentives. They sat in dharna near the Suvarna Soudha and shouted slogans. They listened to some leaders who made speeches. Then, they submitted a memorandum to the government and dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weavers-stage-protest-near-suvarna-soudha/article38008988.ece
22 December 2021||Chennai,||CB-CID to investigate lawyer’s act on camera||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered a Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department inquiry into an incident in which an advocate was involved in an erotic act with a woman during the virtual court proceedings. It also felt it was time to stop hybrid hearings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-cb-cid-probe-into-lawyers-erotic-act/article38008857.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. refuses poll Bill scrutiny||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, amid vociferous protests and a walkout by the Opposition. CPI(M) member John Brittas and DMK member Tiruchi Siva moved a motion to send the legislation for further parliamentary scrutiny, but it was defeated by voice vote. Mr. Brittas pressed for a division, but Deputy Chairman Harivansh rejected the demand, saying the division cannot take place when the Opposition members were protesting in the Well of the House. Ignoring the Opposition slogans, Mr. Harivansh went ahead with the procedure to pass the Bill. It was at this point, the Congress and the majority of the Opposition walked out. However, the Trinamool Congress MPs stayed back. Trinamool floor leader Derek O’ Brien, moving a point of order, said, “Please understand we have all the regard for the Chair and the rules. But you are doing the same thing as you did with the three farm Bills.” He flicked the rulebook towards the reporters’ table in front of the Chair before walking out of the House. Even if voting had taken place, the Opposition did not have the requisite numbers. Even before the debate on the Bill started, Mr. O’Brien accused the government of “manufacturing majority” by suspending 12 Opposition MPs. Mr. O’Brien, who has been suspended for the remainder of the session, is the 13th Opposition MP to be suspended. CPI’s Binoy Viswam attacked the government over Mr. O’Brien’s suspension. “They began the session by suspending 12 of us. They close the session by suspending one more. What do they think about Parliament? Another silly playground for them? BJP is trying to ridicule Parliament by doing whatever the modern autocratic monarchs want to impose. Shame on them,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-refuses-poll-bill-scrutiny/article38008514.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre calls for curbs to combat Omicron||The Union Health Ministry has written to the States to impose restrictions such as night curfews and declare containment zones if districts either have a 10% positivity rate or the occupancy in oxygen-supported or intensive care units rises to 40%. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan’s letter said Omicron was at least “three times more transmissible” than the Delta variant and therefore, “greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making and strict and prompt containment action” were required at the local and district levels. So far, 200 cases of COVID’s fast-spreading strain Omicron have been confirmed in India, according to the Ministry on Tuesday. Maharashtra and Delhi have reported the highest number of cases of the new variant at 54 each. They are followed by Telangana (20 cases), Karnataka (19), Rajasthan (18), Kerala (15) and Gujarat (14). India reported 5,326 cases of COVID infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest daily case count in 581 days. The total number of cases reported in the country now stands at 3.48 crore. The Ministry bulletin said there are now 79,097 active cases in the country, the lowest in 574 days. The Centre has specified a multi-point action plan that recommends that the States impose night curfew, strictly regulate large gatherings, curtail numbers in marriages and funerals, restrict numbers in offices, industries and public transport in case of spike in cases. Where new clusters of COVID-19 positive cases emerged, they should be promptly notified as “containment zones” and samples from clusters ought to be sent to designated labs for genome sequencing, the letter stated. Authorities should also be undertaking the “right proportion” of RTPCR tests in total tests being conducted daily, the letter said. The letter also urged States to look into bed capacity, availability of ambulances and a mechanism for seamless shifting of patients, operational readiness of oxygen equipment and keeping a buffer stock of drugs. Special attention ought to be given to those districts where the first and second dose coverage was less than the national average. The door-to-door vaccination campaign needed strengthening, the Ministry added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-calls-for-curbs-to-combat-omicron/article38008520.ece
22 December 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool sweeps Kolkata polls||The people of Kolkata showed an overwhelming support to the Trinamool Congress in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls, with the ruling party winning more than 90% of the wards as the results were announced on Tuesday. Of the 144 wards, the party won in 134. More than 72% of the votes were polled in its favour. BJP candidates won three seats, the Left Front and the Congress two each and Independents three. An interesting takeaway is that the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Front secured more votes than the BJP, though in a majority of the wards, they were a distant second to the Trinamool. The Left parties secured about 11.7% votes, while the BJP registered 9.3%. In 66 wards, the Left parties secured the second highest votes, and in 48, the BJP secured the second highest. In 16 wards, Congress candidates emerged as the second party in terms of vote share.  TMC meet tomorrow Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee described the results as a “victory of democracy”. She said the elections were held in a spirit of festival. “The national parties contested against us. The BJP, the Congress and the CPI(M) have all been defeated by people,” she noted. The party would meet on December 23 to decide the Mayor. Kolkata has always been a strong bastion of the Trinamool Congress and this is the third consecutive time since 2010 when it will run the civic body. In the Assembly polls held earlier this year, it had a lead in about 131 wards, while 13 had voted in favour of the BJP. The Trinamool had secured 61% votes in Kolkata in the Assembly polls and it has increased to over 72% in a span of six months. Conditional cash incentives such as Lakshmir Bhandar and outreach programmes such as ‘Duare Sarkar (government at the doorsteps)’ seem to be working for the party. Election results of the civic body was a foregone conclusion but political observers feel that the polls have thrown up interesting questions on whether the BJP will be able to retain the Opposition space. The Left Front will certainly get some oxygen from the KMC poll results. The question before the BJP is whether they can continue to maintain the Opposition space by choosing to stay away from about 30% electorate, who are from the minority community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-sweeps-kolkata-polls/article38008491.ece
22 December 2021||Srinagar,||‘Chillai kalan’ puts Kashmir in a deep freeze||Kashmir is in a deep freeze as the 40-day harshest spell of winter, locally called ‘chillai kalan’, started on Tuesday, with the minimum temperature already sub-zero in the entire Valley. “The 40-day spell has started in Kashmir. The minimum temperature, which is between minus three to minus four degree Celsius in Srinagar, is likely to improve in the coming days with cloud cover taking over from December 23 till December 26-27,” said Sonam Lotus, Jammu and Kashmir’s meteorological department director. The cold wave triggered by the sub-zero temperature has slowed down the pace of life in the Valley. People leave home late in the morning and return early in the evening. Nisar Ul Hassan, president of the Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK), has warned of increase in cases of heart attack or stroke due to the chilly weather. “The number of heart attack and stroke patients at Kashmir hospitals doubles in winter. Not only the elderly, but young and healthy people come to hospitals with heart problems, and some of them are even brought dead,” he said. Mr. Lotus said Kashmir may not see a ‘white Christmas’, as fresh snowfall was unlikely around December 24. “There is likely a spell of snowfall from December 26 onwards in both the upper reaches and plains of the Valley,” he observed. J&K and Ladakh have witnessed snow shortfall of 60% to 70% this month. “December has seen very low snowfall in J&K and Ladakh,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chillai-kalan-puts-kashmir-in-a-deep-freeze/article38008523.ece
22 December 2021||Pune,||Kejriwal promises graft-free Goa govt.||Remarking that Goa is “a first-class State regrettably saddled with “third class politicians”, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday exhorted the Goan public to root out the ruling BJP government, promising that the AAP would “establish the first corruption-free government in Goa” after the 2022 State Assembly election. Addressing a massive rally in Panjim, Mr. Kejriwal attacked the BJP, the Congress and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) – Goa’s oldest regional party – for having given the people nothing but scam-tainted governance since the coastal State’s liberation from Portuguese rule in 1961. Decrying the horse-trading frenzy before the elections, Mr. Kejriwal said the Congress, which did not have any strong candidates today, was a virtually empty party with just two MLAs in the 40-seat Assembly. “At the time of my flight to Goa, the Congress had three MLAs. By the time my flight touched down, the Congress had just two…The people of Goa had given the Congress 17 MLAs after the 2017 Assembly election of whom 15 were ‘sold’. Now, only a little ‘stock’ is remaining in the market [in form of two of its MLAs]. There is heavy discount before fresh arrives in March [after the poll results]. Anyone can buy this last stock,” Mr. Kejriwal mocked the Congress’ plight. He remarked that he didn’t understand politics, and least of all that of Goa where the buying and selling of MLAs and candidates was routine. The AAP leader said the Congress had ruled Goa for 27 years, while the BJP and the MGP had ruled the State for 15 years each and had given nothing to the people except a legacy of corruption. “These parties have provided no electricity, no water, no medical facilities while we [the AAP] have created magic in Delhi in just five years…The people of Goa are good and hard-working. They deserve better politicians,” he said, remarking that if it came to power, the AAP would provide a government which had “zero tolerance for corruption.” Stating that the Goan people were intensely resentful of the BJP, the Delhi CM said that the saffron party had had “stocked its cabinet with pearls” in the form of scam-tainted ministers. “There is one minister who was involved in a sex scandal [Milind Naik] and had to resign. Another was involved in an oxygen scam while another minister [Deepak Pauskar] is accused of selling jobs in his department and reportedly takes Rs. 20 lakh for it… The AAP will end all this corruption,” said the AAP leader. Mr. Kejriwal promised that the AAP would re-start the mining business within six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kejriwal-promises-graft-free-goa-govt/article38008494.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Congress sought Aadhaar linking’||On the day Parliament passed the Bill linking the electoral rolls with Aadhaar amid protests from the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, government sources on Tuesday said political parties, including the Congress, had called for the linking. The Election Commission held a meeting with political parties to discuss reforms on August 27, 2018, the sources said. The EC’s press statement released that day listed out the topics discussed including “Political parties urged the Commission to link Aadhaar numbers with elector detail for better electoral roll management”. The Madhya Pradesh unit of the Congress, too, had urged the Chief Election Commissioner during an April 2018 meeting to reverify the list of voters, alleging that there were many fake voters ahead of the Assembly polls there, the sources said. Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, in his response to the discussion on the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Rajya Sabha, said the Opposition did not have any basis to protest the Bill. He also tweeted a media report from 2018 about the Madhya Pradesh Congress’ demand for Aadhaar-linking the voter database with the word “Facts”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-sought-aadhaar-linking/article38008505.ece
22 December 2021||London,||‘Covishield effect wanes after 3 months’||The protection offered by the Oxford-Astra Zeneca COVID-19 vaccine declines after three months of receiving two doses, according to a study published in The Lancet journal. The findings drawn from datasets in Brazil and Scotland suggest that booster programmes are needed to help maintain protection from severe disease in those vaccinated with the AstraZeneca vaccine, known as Covishield in India. The researchers analysed data for two million people in Scotland and 42 million people in Brazil who had been vaccinated with the AstraZeneca jab. “Our analyses of national datasets from both Scotland and Brazil suggest that there is considerable waning of effectiveness for the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, with protection against severe COVID-19 falling over time,” said Srinivasa Vittal Katikireddi, professor at the University of Glasgow in the U.K. “Our work highlights the importance of getting boosters, even if you’ve had two doses of the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, as soon as you are able to,” he said. In Scotland, when compared with two weeks after receiving a second dose, there was approximately a five-fold increase in the risk of being hospitalised or dying from COVID-19 nearly five months after being double vaccinated, the researchers said. The decline in effectiveness begins to first appear at around three months, when the risk of hospitalisation and death is double that of two weeks after the second dose, they said. The researchers from Scotland and Brazil found that the risk of hospitalisation and death increases threefold just short of four months after the second vaccine dose. Similar numbers were seen for Brazil, they said. “Vaccines have been a key tool in fighting the pandemic, but waning in their effectiveness has been a concern for a while,” said Aziz Sheikh, a professor from the University of Edinburgh, U.K. “By identifying when waning first starts to occur in the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, it should be possible for governments to design booster programmes that can ensure maximum protection is maintained,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covishield-effect-wanes-after-3-months/article38008516.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,||DGCA revises breath analysis norms||To ensure aviation safety is not compromised due to the possible consumption of alcohol by pilots, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation has issued revised guidelines for conducting pre-flight and post-flight breath analyser tests on the crew. The country’s aviation regulator has said that even if the alcohol levels were zero in the body, the side effects of a hangover could affect flight safety. “It is a well-known fact that even when the blood alcohol levels are zero in the body, there could be some effect of hangover, which is mainly due to congeners. These congeners may take 15 to 18 hours to get dissipated and may produce ill effects for up to 36 hours depending upon the amount of alcohol consumed,” the DGCA said in a safety advisory. Awareness programmes for flight and cabin crew needs to be intensified, the advisory added. Explaining the procedure to be followed for the breath-analyser examination of the crew members and aircraft maintenance personnel, the DGCA said that in all scheduled flights originating from India, each flight and cabin crew member should be subjected to pre-flight breath-analyser examination at first departure airport during a flight duty period. For all scheduled flights originating from destinations outside India, post-flight breath-analyser examination should be carried out at first port of landing in India. Airline operators were told to have a doctor holding an MBBS degree/ trained paramedics/ emergency medical technician/ nurse on full-time employment of the company to conduct pre-flight breath-analyser examination at a designated place within the airport premises. Alternatively, they could avail pre-flight breath-analyser examination services of government or licensed private hospitals located on the premises of the airport. In case of an accident at an airport or in its vicinity, the Officer in charge of the airport “should ensure that the crew members are immediately subjected to medical check-up for consumption of alcohol”. In the event of the accident occurring at a location far away from the airport and the local police being the first responders, and the crew members being alive, the procedure for collection of blood/urine samples should be performed by the police at the nearest hospital, the DGCA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgca-revises-guidelines-on-breath-analyser-tests/article38008524.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Shringla for talks with Myanmar military||In the first such outreach to Myanmar’s military-backed regime, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla flew for a two-day visit to Naypyitaw and Yangon on Tuesday evening, to meet the State Administration Council (SAC) chaired by General Min Aung Hlaing, who toppled the elected government last February. Officials say that Mr. Shringla, who last visited Myanmar in 2020, is expected to speak to the Tatmadaw (military) about India’s growing security concerns over insurgent groups based along the 1,600-km India-Myanmar border which have carried out attacks in recent months, and will try to assess any moves from the regime on the political process in the country. The visit comes two weeks after a court in Naypyitaw sentenced former State Councillor and Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi to four years imprisonment, a verdict India had expressed “deep concern” about. The visit is a tacit acknowledgement of New Delhi’s recognition of the coup in Myanmar, given that the MEA statement formally referred to the “State Administration Council”, an 11-member group of military officials and civilians set up by Min Aung Hlaing, who subsequently named himself “Prime Minister”. In June, India had abstained from endorsing a resolution that sought to prevent arms supplies to the Myanmar military. In November, India appointed new Ambassador Vinay Kumar to Myanmar, another sign that it has not “derecognised” the Myanmar government despite the coup. Officials denied the visit was a “legitimisation” of the regime, pointing out that the Foreign Secretary’s visit is not a “political” one but an “official” one. They said that India’s desire to discuss democracy moves, and its concerns over security were at the top of the agenda. Mr. Shringla is expected to “broadbase” his meetings with Opposition members and civil society representatives to the extent possible, given that most of the leaders of the “National Unity Government” (NUG) led by Suu Kyi’s National League of Democracy (NLD) are imprisoned and facing trial. Balancing act The visit also underscores the balancing act that New Delhi is trying to maintain on upholding democratic values in the neighbourhood, but also trying to counter China’s influence in Myanmar, which could grow as the regime gets more isolated, and by aligning India’s position to ASEAN policy. In addition, security agencies have warned that the Tatmadaw’s crackdown on NUG and NLD members across the country has allowed insurgent groups along the border with India to increase their activities. Militants along the boundary, allegedly, take refuge across the border after unleashing attacks in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shringla-for-talks-with-myanmar-military/article38008496.ece
22 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Police books SAD leader in drug case||The Punjab Police have registered a case against former Minister and senior Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia under the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, triggering a political furore ahead of the Assembly election in early 2022. The Shiromani Akali Dal, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Punjab Lok Congress hit out at the ruling Congress government, saying the action was influenced by ‘political vindictiveness’ and was “an election stunt”. According to police sources, an FIR has been registered under Sections 25 (allowing premises to be used for commission of an offence under the Act), 27A (financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) and 29 (abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the NDPS Act against the Akali Dal leader at the Bureau of Investigation (BoI) in Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali). Shiromani Akali Dal leaders said the Congress government was indulging in vendetta politics by registering a false case against Mr. Majithia after failing to implicate the top Akali leadership in sacrilege cases as well as to divert attention from its failure in taking action on the recent incidents of sacrilege at Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple) in Amritsar. Punjab Lok Congress chief Capt. Amarinder Singh said the case registered against Mr. Majithia would not stand legal scrutiny as the government had not followed due process of law. He asked on what basis the government had registered the case since the report on drug trafficking was still lying with the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a sealed cover. Capt. Singh also condemned the killing of the sacrilege accused in the Golden Temple and Kapurthala, saying the accused should have been handed over to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-books-sad-leader-in-drug-case/article38008503.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition MPs hold march seeking Ajay Mishra’s ouster||Opposition leaders on Tuesday took out a joint march from the Gandhi statue on Parliament premises, where the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha members have been protesting for the past 21 days, to Vijay Chowk demanding the resignation of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. The Opposition MPs carrying placards demanding Mr. Mishra’s resignation walked to Vijay Chowk, a kilometre from Parliament. ‘Won’t rest till arrest’ Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the Opposition will not rest till the Minister is sent to jail. Mr. Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra, has been arrested in the case. Mr. flagged the SIT report of the U.P. government, which said the mowing down of the protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri was not an isolated incident, but a conspiracy. “We will not spare him [Ajay Mishra] and continue our struggle till he is sent to jail,” Mr. Gandhi told presspersons at Vijay Chowk. “The Prime Minister has not done anything on this. Neither the government nor the media is doing its job,” he said. Mr. Gandhi accused Mr. Modi of doublespeak, saying he apologises to farmers but Mr. Mishra remains in his Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-mps-hold-march-seeking-ajay-mishras-ouster/article38008510.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Ex-promoters of Unitech held in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested former promoters of the Unitech group, Sanjay Chandra and his brother Ajay Chandra, in connection with a money laundering case. The accused persons, who were earlier lodged in separate jails in Mumbai on the court’s direction, have been brought to Delhi and are expected to be produced before a special court soon. The ED arrested them following an approval from the Supreme Court for their custodial interrogation in view of the new evidence gathered by the agency. The ED had earlier detected an “underground office” being run by Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra, which was also visited by his two sons when they were out on bail or parole. Taking cognisance of the findings, the Supreme Court had directed that they be kept in separate jails — Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Jail in Mumbai. The brothers, who are in judicial custody since August 2017 after they were arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi Police, have been accused of cheating home buyers. The agency has so far attached assets worth Rs. 672.52 crore in the case, which involves the total proceeds of alleged crime to the tune of Rs. 7,638.43 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-promoters-of-unitech-held-in-money-laundering-case/article38008525.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. disagrees with India’s rank in World Press Freedom Index||The Centre does not agree with the conclusions drawn by Reporters Without Borders about press freedom in India for various reasons, including very low sample size and little or no weightage to the fundamentals of democracy, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. In a written reply to a question on India being placed 142 out of 180 countries in the World Press Freedom Index, compiled and published by Reporters Without Borders this year, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the adoption of the methodology by the publisher of the report is “questionable and non-transparent”. “The World Press Freedom Index is published by a foreign non-government-organisation, Reporters Without Borders. The government does not subscribe to its views and country rankings and does not agree to the conclusions drawn by this organisation for various reasons, including very low sample size, little or no weightage to fundamentals of democracy, adoption of a methodology which is questionable and non-transparent, lack of clear definition of press freedom, among others,” he said. The Minister said the government was committed to ensuring the right to freedom of speech and expression enshrined under Article 19 of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-disagrees-with-indias-rank-in-world-press-freedom-index/article38008695.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Baghel meets Rahul over ‘Cabinet reshuffle’||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at his residence where the two leaders are said to have discussed plans for a Cabinet reshuffle in the State and the party’s poll preparedness in Uttar Pradesh. There was, however, no official word on the meeting as Mr. Baghel did not speak to the media and left for U.P. Sources, however, claimed that the Chief Minister is keen on replacing some of the non-performing Ministers with new faces. However, it is not clear if the high command has given its go-ahead since Chhattisgarh has witnessed an intense leadership tussle between Mr. Baghel and Health Minister T.S. Singhdeo and any reshuffle will have to factor this in. Mr. Baghel, a senior poll observer for the upcoming Assembly elections in U.P., is also said to have briefed Mr. Gandhi about the party’s poll preparations during his half-an-hour meeting. The Chief Minister has deployed 18 MLAs from Chhattisgarh across U.P. to train and mobilise party workers. On Wednesday, he is scheduled to address two rallies at Ayodhya and Gorakhpur apart from meeting party colleagues from U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-meets-rahul-over-cabinet-reshuffle/article38008489.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Compassionate job not a vested right, says SC||The Supreme Court has held in an order that compassionate employment is not a vested right. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and A.S. Bopanna said the compassionate employment scheme was intended to enable a bereaved family tide over financial crisis caused by the untimely death of a breadwinner while in service. “Compassionate appointment is not a matter of right, but is to enable the family to tide over an immediate crisis which may result from the death of the employee,” the court noted. It said the authorities were allowed to use their discretion to evaluate the financial position of the family. “Undoubtedly, pension is not an act of bounty, but is towards the service which has been rendered by an employee. However, in evaluating a claim for compassionate appointment, it is open to the authorities to evaluate the financial position of the family upon the death while in service,” the Supreme Court has observed. The court was hearing an appeal filed by the Union government against a Madras High Court judgment which upheld a Central Administrative Tribunal direction to consider the compassionate appointment of the widow of a sergeant in the Air Force, who had died of cancer in 2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/compassionate-job-not-a-vested-right-says-sc/article38008487.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||House to review Bill on raising marriage age||“In the 19th century, the age of marriage of girls was 10. In 1940, this was raised from 12 to 14, and in 1978, it was 15. Today, for the first time both men and women on the basis of equality can take a decision to get married at the age of 21. From 2015 until 2020 we have stopped 20 lakh child marriages, according to research. The NFHS-5 data tell us that nearly 23% girls under 18 were married,” the Minister said. Several members of the Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the Nationalist Congress Party, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and the Biju Janata Dal demanded greater scrutiny and urged that the Bill be sent to a standing committee. IUML member E.T. Mohammed Bashir said the Bill be withdrawn as “it was unwanted, unconstitutional and in violation of Article 25 of the Constitution. This Bill will have far-reaching consequences in the country. It is an attack on personal laws and the fundamental rights in the country”. Asaduddin Owaisi of the AIMIM said the Bill was retrogressive and questioned why the age of marriage for girls was being raised to 21 when “18-year-olds can choose a PM, be in a live-in [relationship] and have a sexual relationship under POCSO”. He also sought to draw the attention of the House to the poor employment rates of women in the country and said that the female labour force participation (FLPR) rate in India was lower than that in Somalia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-to-review-bill-on-raising-marriage-age/article38008497.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. decision causing pain to some: Modi||Five years ago, there was “mafia raj on the streets” of U.P. and goons had an influence over the government, and “my sisters and daughters of U.P.” were the biggest victims of this, said Mr. Modi, targetting the previous Samajwadi Party government. “It was difficult for them to step out on the streets and go to school or college. You could not say anything because if you went to the thana (police station), a phone call would be made advocating for the criminal or rapist,” Mr. Modi said. Mr. Modi was speaking at a government programme for women where he transferred Rs. 1,000 crore in the bank account of Self-Help Groups (SHGs), benefiting around 16 lakh women members of the SHGs, according to the government. The transfer of funds was being done under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihood Mission, with 80,000 SHGs receiving Community Investment Fund of Rs. 1.10 lakh per SHG and 60,000 SHGs receiving revolving fund of Rs. 15,000 per SHG. Schemes for women Mr. Modi also listed several schemes and programmes initiated by his government benefiting women, including toilets, free cooking gas for the poor and taps in homes. “The security and honour provided to women in U.P. by the double-engine government and the way their dignity has been enhanced is unprecedented,” said Mr. Modi. The double engine government was continuously working without “discrimination or partiality” to empower the future of women, he said.  Five years ago, there was mafia raj on the streets, and my sisters and daughters of U.P. were the victims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-decision-causing-pain-to-some-modi/article38008499.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sri Lanka detains 13 more Indian fishermen||A Sri Lankan naval vessel [some reports suggested it was the Coast Guard] detained them and confiscated the trawlers when they were fishing in the periphery of the IMBL. They were taken to the Jaffna coast for questioning.  Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday wrote to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, seeking his urgent intervention to secure the release of the fishermen and 75 boats. In the letter, handed over to Mr. Jaishankar by DMK MPs in New Delhi, Mr. Stalin recalled his previous letter to the Minister on Sunday, requesting that the Government of India prevail upon the Sri Lanka Government through diplomatic channels to put an end to the “intimidatory tactics” of its Navy. “The alarming frequency at which these incidents of apprehension and attacks are happening warrants urgent attention. The lives and livelihoods of our fishermen must be protected when they fish in the traditional waters of Palk Bay,” he said. MEA’s initiative Responding to media queries, Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said officials from the Consulate General of India, Jaffna, have met the detained fishermen and were providing all necessary support. This included clothes, toiletries, snacks, dry essentials and masks, besides facilitating phone calls to relatives. They were also arranging legal representation. One indisposed Expressing concern over the arrests, he said as per information, 68 fishermen and 10 boats have been taken into custody. “In the case of one fisherman who was indisposed, the Indian Consular Officer has visited him in hospital to check on his welfare,” he stated. The Indian High Commission in Colombo had taken up the issue of early release of the fishermen and boats with the Government of Sri Lanka. Mr. Jaishankar, who received multiple representations on this issue from political parties, “underlined Government of India’s efforts to secure early release,” he added. (With inputs from Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sri-lanka-detains-13-more-indian-fishermen/article38008502.ece
22 December 2021||Jammu,||PAGD calls delimitation exercise unacceptable||The People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of the regional political parties of Jammu and Kashmir, has said the delimitation exercise of allotting six new seats to the Jammu region and only one to Kashmir is unacceptable to all communities. “It’s unacceptable to all the communities. It will divide the ranks of people and further deepen their alienation,” Gupkar Alliance spokesman and CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said, after a meeting of Alliance members in Jammu on Tuesday. It appealed to the people “to remain united and not fall prey to the divisive and disruptive designs of BJP”. The Alliance meeting was chaired by National Conference president Farooq Abdullah and attended by Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti. Mr. Tarigami said the decisions of August 5, 2019, “which were unconstitutional and unilateral” and “without taking stakeholders from J&K and Ladakh onboard”, have already been challenged before the Supreme Court by political parties and individuals. “Many among us have challenged the J&K Reorganisation Act, under which the delimitation was constituted. The Government of India should have avoided to go forward with this commission in a hurried rush, as it is neither in national interest and not in the interest of people of Jammu and Kashmir,” Mr. Tarigami said. He said the constitutional frame of delimitation, including census, “have been ignored in proposal of delimitation commission”. “The delimitation in J&K should be as per fresh census across country. The criteria of delimitation should have been as per population and followed in letter and spirit,” Mr. Tarigami said. Dr. Abdullah expressed his unhappiness over the report, terming it “not as per the wishes and interest of people” and “a step to create wedge on regional and community basis”. Besides the allocation of six seats for the Jammu division and one for the Kashmir division, the commission has also reserved 16 seats, out of 90, for the Schedule Tribes and Schedule Castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pagd-calls-delimitation-exercise-unacceptable/article38008507.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||No data on mob lynching, says Centre||The Union Home Ministry informed informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) collected data on mob lynching, hate crimes and cow vigilantism in 2017 but it was discontinued as the data were unreliable because these crimes are not defined. The reply was given by Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai in response to a question by Congress member Gaurav Gogoi and Maneka Gandhi of the BJP. Asked if the government had made any efforts to define ‘hate crime’ in the criminal law framework of the country, the reply said, “The intention of the government is to create a legal structure which is citizen-centric, prioritises to secure life, preserve human rights and provide speedy justice to the vulnerable sections of society. The amendments in laws are a continuous process and amendments are made taking into account the views of various stakeholders.” It added that two advisories were sent to States in 2018 for implementation of the Supreme Court judgment in the matter of Tehseen Poonawalla v Union of India. “The government through audiovisual media has also generated public awareness to curb the menace of mob lynching. The government has sensitised the service providers to take steps to check the propagation of false news and rumours having potential to incite mob violence and lynching,” the reply said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-data-on-mob-lynching-says-centre/article38008511.ece
22 December 2021||Srinagar,||Ladakh’s art and craft showcased in Delhi||Eighty-one artisans from the Union Territory (UT) of Ladakh are part of the third edition of ‘Enchanting Ladakh’, an opportunity to exhibit handicrafts and handloom products from the region in New Delhi. “The event will see the presence of the Changpa (nomadic) tribes, who are the actual rearers and herders of Pashmina goats. They will also display value-added products made from the luxury fibre, including shawls, caps, cardigans, sweaters, socks, gloves, etc.,” a spokesman from the Union Territory’s administration said. He said many of the traditional Ladakhi crafts, including stone carving, wood carving, thangka (scroll painting), metal craft, wood craft etc. are also on display this week. The event was inaugurated by the chiefs of the autonomous hill development councils of Kargil and Leh, Feroz Ahmed Khan and Tashi Gyaltson respectively, earlier this week in New Delhi. The artisans will also attend industrial visits and training during the period. The exhibition is on at Dilli Haat, near INA market, till December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ladakhs-art-and-craft-showcased-in-delhi/article38008521.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||No evidence on vaccine efficacy against Omicron yet||There is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on the Omicron variant of coronavirus, though some of the mutations reported on spike gene may decrease the efficacy of existing vaccines, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. “There are limited available data and no peer-reviewed evidence on vaccine efficacy or effectiveness to date for Omicron,” said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-evidence-on-vaccine-efficacy-against-omicron-yet/article38008526.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Piyush Goyal promotes desi app Koo||Union Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal on Tuesday came out in support of Koo, the Indian social media platform. The year-old microblogging platform, having around 1.5 crore users, has found steady patronage mainly because of government support and the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. “Be the first one to know about exclusive ministerial developments. Follow Minister @PiyushGoyal on Koo,” Mr. Goyal said in a message on Koo where he has 1.5 million followers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/piyush-goyal-promotes-desi-app-koo/article38008531.ece
22 December 2021||Pune,||MLA quits BJP, in talks with Trinamool||The tradition of political resignations and defections in Goa continued unabated ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls after Carlos Almeida, BJP MLA from the Vasco da Gama Assembly constituency in South Goa, quit the party and the State Assembly on Tuesday. Mr. Almeida, a two-time MLA who has held the Vasco seat since 2012, claimed he was being “sidelined” by the BJP, while alleging that the saffron party had lost its direction in Goa after (former BJP Chief Minister) Manohar Parrikar’s demise. He is believed to be in talks with the Trinamool Congress, which has had a fair measure of success in recruiting a number of Catholic MLAs in recent months including former Chief Ministers Luizinho Faleiro (Congress) and Churchill Alemao (NCP) and most recently Aleixo Lourenco, who quit the Congress on Monday. With Mr. Almeida’s resignation, the BJP is down to 24 in the 40-seat Assembly. Mr. Almeida’s disenchantment increased ever since it re-inducted Mr. Almeida’s rival, Krishna ‘Daji’ Salkar, into the party fold. Mr. Salkar had quit the BJP some years ago. To Mr. Almeida’s astonishment, his aide — BJP’s Vasco block president Deepak Naik — came out in support of Mr. Salkar’s entry, even going as far to say he would have no objection if Mr. Naik was picked over Mr. Almeida for Vasco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-quits-party-in-goa-in-talks-with-trinamool-cong/article38008492.ece
22 December 2021||Pune,||Lourenco joins Trinamool in Kolkata||A day after he quit the Congress and the Goa Assembly, three-time legislator Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco joined the Trinamool Congress on Tuesday in the presence of party supremo Mamata Banerjee and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata even as the Goa Congress decried Mr. Lourenco’s “betrayal”. Mr. Lourenco, MLA from the Curtorim constituency in South Goa and party’s Goa working president, has dealt a severe blow to his parent party with his decision. This has now whittled down the Congress’s strength in the 40-member Assembly to mere two MLAs. Worthy rival Last week, the Congress had included Mr. Lourenco’s name in the first list of eight candidates in the Assembly poll slated to be held in February, 2022. Remarking that the Trinamool was the only party capable of taking on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Goa, he censured the party’s vacillation in formulating a concrete strategy against the BJP which had forced him into quitting the party. Goa’s political arena continued to be plagued by the “defection malaise” after MGP leader Premendra Shet joined the BJP along with his supporters. Mr. Shet attributed his exit to the party’s “unnatural alliance” with the Trinamool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lourenco-joins-trinamool-in-kolkata/article38008500.ece
22 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Senior Cong. leader joins BJP in Punjab||Senior Congress leader and former Punjab Cabinet Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi, a close aide of former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in New Delhi on Tuesday. Mr. Sodhi is the MLA from Guruharsahai and was the Sports Minister in the Punjab government led by Mr. Singh. He was dropped from the Cabinet after Charantjit Singh Channi took over as Chief Minister. He won from the seat four times consecutively from 2002 till date. Ahead of joining the BJP, Mr. Sodhi tendered his resignation from the Congress saying the party has put State’s security and communal harmony at stake with in-fighting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/senior-cong-leader-joins-bjp-in-punjab/article38008501.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||84 avail EWS quota for govt. jobs, LS told||Eighty-four people had got the reservation for the economically weaker section (EWS), which was introduced in 2019 for appointment in government services, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. Replying to a question by MP Ritesh Pandey, the Minister’s response read: “As per information given by the Department of Personnel and Training, a total of 84 persons have availed the benefit of EWS reservation for an appointment in Government services till date.” The Minister added that 26,983 additional seats in 2020-21 and 20,240 seats in 2019-20 were created in Central universities to provide the 10% EWS reservation. An additional Rs. 4,315.15 crore was provided for implementing the EWS reservation in the past two years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/84-avail-ews-quota-for-govt-jobs-ls-told/article38008506.ece
22 December 2021||Srinagar,||Census data misquoted by Centre: Soz||Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader Saifuddin Soz on Tuesday accused the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) website of tampering with the population figures of Jammu and Kashmir. “The 2011 census shows the population of Kashmir as 69,07,623, Jammu as 53,50,811 and Ladakh as 2,90,492. However, the official website of the MHA shows Kashmir’s population declined by almost 16 lakh. The website states that the Valley houses a total population of 53,50,811 residents, while the Jammu region houses 69,07,623 residents,” Mr. Soz stated. The MHA not only “misquoted census of Kashmir Valley’s population, but it also added up State’s population, erroneously.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/census-data-misquoted-by-centre-soz/article38008508.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||I-T raids detect tax evasion in U.P., Karnataka||The Income-Tax Department on Tuesday said its recent searches on various persons and their entities engaged in the business of civil construction, real estate and running educational institutes in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, led to detection of tax evasion and other financial irregularities. The searches were carried out at more than 30 premises on December 18 in Lucknow, Mainpuri and Mau in U.P., Kolkata in West Bengal, Bengaluru in Karnataka and the national capital region. A Kolkata-based person was also covered during the operation. According to the agency, several entities into civil construction business were involved in claiming bogus expenditure running into crores of rupees. The agency seized Rs. 1.12 crore in unaccounted cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-raids-detect-tax-evasion-in-up-karnataka/article38008512.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||22 died while cleaning sewers in 2021||The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Tuesday informed the Lok Sabha that 22 people had died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in 2021 so far. To a question by MP Bhagirath Choudhary, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale’s written reply showed that five deaths each had taken place in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, four in Delhi, three in Gujarat, two each in Haryana and Telangana and one in Punjab. Last year, there had been 19 such deaths, while the numbers in 2019, 2018 and 2017 had been 117, 70 and 93 respectively. As part of the national policy for mechanised sanitation, 1,416 sanitation workers (1,383 in Andhra Pradesh and 33 in Rajasthan) had been assisted with concessional loans to buy equipment for cleaning in the past three financial years and this fiscal year, the reply said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/22-died-while-cleaning-sewers-in-2021/article38008517.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cyber crime: 266 mobile apps blocked||Union Home Minister Amit Shah told MPs on Tuesday that the National Cyber Crime Threat Analysis Unit had blocked 266 mobile applications so far. Mr. Shah chaired the consultative committee of the Union Home Ministry on “Cyber crime: threats, challenges and response”. The meeting in which Opposition members were present was attended by Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra. The Opposition has stalled Parliament on multiple occasions seeking the removal of Mr. Mishra, whose son is accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh on October 3. Mr. Shah said the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal (NCRP) facilitates victims and complainants to report cyber crimes online. “So far, more than 6 lakh complaints have been received and 12,776 FIRs have been registered,” he said. He said the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) has now been implemented in all 16,347 police stations. “In 99% police stations, 100% FIRs are being registered directly in the CCTNS. This also includes the newly established police stations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyber-crime-266-mobile-apps-blocked/article38008697.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women’s participation critical for eliminating TB, says official||At an event to mark the culmination of Saadhikka Vaa Penne , a two-year-long effort to engage women as TB (Tuberculosis) leaders in four districts of Tamil Nadu, Manish Narnaware, Deputy Commissioner (Health), Greater Chennai Corporation, highlighted the need for women’s participation in the elimination of the disease. “Women’s participation is critical if we are to eliminate TB. We must create more leadership opportunities like this,” he said, according to a press release. He added that Saadhikka Vaa Penne was a model for not just increasing case-finding for TB, but also for improving women’s participation in health. This was an initiative of REACH (Resource Group for Education and Advocacy for Community Health), a non-profit organisation. Ranjani Ramachandran, national professional officer, World Health Organisation, said she was happy to meet the empowered group of women from the community who were committed to helping people with TB and this work must be expanded and sustained across the State and country. An impact report describing the results of the initiative was released. As per the report, over 200 women TB leaders were trained and engaged to work at over 180 health facilities in the State and around 1,200 women were equipped with information on health through audio-based modules. As many as 14 lakh persons were screened for symptoms and 84,000 persons were identified with symptoms. Around 77% were supported with tests for TB diagnosis and over 2,900 persons were diagnosed with TB. A coffee table book Saadhikka Vaa Penne featuring women TB leaders was released. Ramya Ananthakrishnan, director of REACH said the women continued to work during the pandemic and supported people with TB and symptoms of TB at every step of their journey. The women TB leaders from Vellore, Villupuram, Salem and Tirunelveli were congratulated for their achievements, the release said. In a video message from Geneva, Lucica Ditiu, executive director of Stop TB Partnership said it was critical to ensure that there were enough people in the communities to provide care, advice, information and support to people affected by TB, COVID-19 and other airborne diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-participation-critical-for-eliminating-tb-says-official/article38008832.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pig menace in Mamallapuram leaves residents, tourists fuming||Visitors to Mamallapuram are appalled by the sight of pigs roaming around the tourist town. “We find pigs even in the parking lot meant for tourist vehicles. They can be seen foraging for food from plastic bags discarded by visitors. The presence of pigs in the tourist town with ASI monuments comes as a shocker, since one normally does not expect such animals to roam around freely,” said Vijay, who visited Mamallapuram recently. Since the town lacks a proper solid waste management system, garbage can be found dumped on open plots. Pigs are attracted to the waste dumped in these spots. “Those who rear the pigs do not retain them inside enclosures or give them proper feed, instead just let them roam around. You can see them on the roads. They eat whatever they find, which is not necessarily healthy. And since the pigs are reared for their meat, it could cause health problems in those who consume their meat if not cooked well,” said Balan, a resident. Residents have urged the district administration to take steps to prevent pigs from straying inside their gardens too. “They dig up the soil in our gardens, and damage the plants. If agitated, they charge at us, which is scary,” said Srinivasan, another resident. Chengalpattu Collector A.R.Rahul Nadh said that steps were being taken to remove the pigs from the roads. “The town panchayat has been instructed to identify land for solid waste management. Notices are being issued to owners of vacant lands asking them to keep their properties fenced,” he said. He also said that since the district had a problem of wild boars and many a times pigs reared domestically were being confused with wild boars, a committee headed by the District Forest Officer was constituted to look into the issue. “Even during the last farmers’ grievance day, farmers had complained that their crops were damaged by boars,” he said.  The town panchayat has been instructed to identify land for solid waste management. Notices are being issued to owners of vacant lands asking them to keep their properties fenced||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pig-menace-in-mamallapuram-leaves-residents-tourists-fuming/article38008817.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID to probe lawyer’s act on camera||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered a Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) inquiry into an incident in which an advocate was involved in an “erotic act” with a woman during the virtual court proceedings. It also felt it’s time to stop hybrid hearings and return to the old procedure of conducting only physical hearings. Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha were shocked to come across the erotic act, having been shot on video by another participant of the virtual hearing. To top it all, the video was circulated widely on social media with one frame showing a judge of the court hearing a case and another frame containing the obscene act. In the video, the judge was found reading the papers and hearing arguments from an advocate present in the court hall, when another lawyer, who had logged virtually, was seen being intimate with the woman. Initiating suo motu contempt of court proceedings, the judges wrote, “A video clipping showing the online court proceedings of one of our brother judges, in which a male is found engaged in eroticism with a lady, is going viral in social media. This court cannot afford to be a mute spectator and turn a Nelson’s eye when such brazen vulgarity is publicly displayed amidst court proceedings.” Since the video clipping prima facie disclosed commission of cognisable offences under the Information Technology Act, 2000, and other penal laws, the Bench directed the CB-CID to register a suo motu First Information Report. The investigating agency was also directed to file a preliminary report on Thursday naming the dramatis personae . The judges also directed the Greater Chennai Commissioner of Police to take steps to block the circulation of the video in social media and ordered that the High Court’s Registrar (Information Technology-cum-Statistics) liaise with the authorities for removal of the video from the Internet. The Bench, however, directed the Registry to preserve the video recordings of the proceedings in question for handing them to the CB-CID and for the further hearing of the contempt of court proceedings. The Registry was also ordered to share any other evidence, available with it on the issue, with the investigating agency. “We are of the considered view that it is high time that we revisit the procedure of conducting court proceedings in a hybrid mode, especially in the light of the fact that advocates, in large numbers, have started appearing in person in our High Court as well in the District Courts,” the judges wrote. Nevertheless, since a decision could be taken only by the Acting Chief Justice, the judges directed the Registry to place the matter before him. They also ordered the listing of the case again on Thursday for receiving the names of the individuals involved in the act and passing further orders. In the evening, the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry suspended from practice advocate R.D. Santhana Krishnan of Perambur in Chennai “for his indecent behaviour while attending the court proceedings of the honourable High Court of Madras through virtual mode.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-to-probe-lawyers-act-on-camera/article38008808.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro’s weekday average surpasses pre-COVID-19 level||Chennai Metro Rail’s weekday average passenger traffic crossed the pre-COVID-19 levels last week, with nearly 1.31 lakh commuters taking a ride. Before the pandemic struck, the weekday average stood at nearly 1.25 lakh. But the poor patronage at the weekends used to pull the weekly average down to nearly 1.15 lakh. But the introduction of mini-buses at four stations as the last-mile link has had a positive impact, officials say. After the tie-up between Chennai Metro Rail Limited and Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC), 12 mini-buses were introduced at four stations on November 30. Buses S82 and S84 head from the Alandur station to Madipakkam and Porur respectively; S69 and S56 head from the airport to Kundrathur and Manali respectively; S56 take passengers from the Tiruvottiyur station to Manali; and S60 and S51 go from the Koyambedu station to Maduravoyal and Nolambur respectively. The Alandur station has recorded the maximum increase of 17% in ridership and Tiruvottiyur has posted a 9% increase after the mini-buses were introduced. At the airport and Koyambedu stations, the number of commuters has gone up by only 4%.  While there has been an overall increase in the ridership, last-mile connectivity should bring more commuters to the airport and Koyambedu stations. Sources say the routes for the mini-buses from these stations could be changed. “A survey needs to be done to understand where the commuters come from. In fact, there should be a comprehensive study to find out who take Chennai Metro and the expectations of passengers. Otherwise, any measure may not benefit passengers,” a source said. At the airport, for instance, commuters say more areas need to covered by the mini-buses. V. Santhanam, a resident of Chromepet and a social activist, argues that hundreds travel from Sembakkam, Madambakkam, Mudichur, Hasthinapuram, Nemmilicheri, Nanmangalam, AGS Colony and Pallavaram to the airport Metro station. “Many get dropped off at this station or drive to the station. The others take a train from the Chromepet, Pallavaram or Tambaram suburban stations, get off at Tirusulam and take the Metro to Tiruvottiyur, Anna Salai and Thirumangalam. A mini-bus or share-cabs should be operated every 15 minutes at peak hours as it was done earlier,” he says. According to Metro Rail officials, since it has been less than month since the last-mile connectivity was launched, the increase in the footfall has been marginal. They expect more commuters to start using the rapid transit system with the course of time. “We have had an overall increase in ridership at most of the other stations in the past few weeks,” an official points out. As it has been in the past few months, the station that continues to handle the highest number of passengers is Chennai Central, with over 10,000 a day. After this, the Thirumangalam, airport and High Court stations handle nearly 6,000 commuters a day. Three stations with just about 1,000 passengers are Shenoy Nagar, Nanganallur and Nehru Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-metros-weekday-average-surpasses-pre-covid-19-level/article38008828.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rs. 90 lakh bonus given to K.P. Park contractor’||Arappor Iyakkam on Monday released documents showing that a bonus of Rs. 90.9 lakh was disbursed to the contractor, P.S.T. Engineering Construction, for the construction of 864 tenements of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) at K.P. Park in Pulianthope here that were later found to be of substandard quality. The bonus was 1% of the project cost. The Chennai-based non-governmental organisation demanded stringent action under the Prevention of Corruption Act against top officials who served in the board for sanctioning bonus for buildings with substandard quality of construction. The project was executed during the term of the AIADMK government. The bonus was released in August 2020. The Iyakkam has demanded action against Principal Secretary of Higher Education Department D. Karthikeyan, who held the additional charge of Managing Director of TNUHDB at that time, and the Chief Engineer, the Superintending Engineer and the Executive Engineers concerned. In August, the allottees complained of poor quality of construction of the tenements. The Centre for Urbanisation, Building and Environment (CUBE), which was asked to assess the quality, found “unacceptable workmanship” and “extensive defects” in cement plastering work. It raised concerns over the quality of structural elements in one of the four blocks. Common phenomenon Iyakkam convener Jayaram Venkatesan alleged that it had become a routine affair to suspend a few junior-level officials when such complaints were made. In this case, an Assistant Engineer and an Assistant Executive Engineer had been suspended. The entire chain of command must be held accountable, he said. Mr. Venkatesan said his organisation had petitioned the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) to file a case following irregularities in the award of the contract itself. The evidence of bonus being sanctioned supported the Iyakkam’s demand. Officer’s response Mr. Karthikeyan said he held additional charge of the MD of the TNUHDB and was not aware of bonus being sanctioned. He said the release of funds for completed projects happened at the level of engineers and not at the level of MD. The contract had been awarded before he assumed charge. A senior official from the Housing and Urban Development Department, under which TNUHDB functioned, admitted that bonus had been sanctioned under a provision in the contract that allowed such incentives if the project was completed before the deadline. Considering the poor quality of construction, the official said that options were explored to recover the bonus. He said that a Superintending Engineer and an Executive Engineer involved in the project had been transferred, pending disciplinary proceedings. “We will take stringent action. It is still not over,” he said and added that the government was planning to make a strong representation in the case filed by the contractor in Madras High Court. P.S.T. Engineering Construction had contended that it completed the work as per specifications and the same was officially acknowledged by TNUHDB engineers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-90-lakh-bonus-given-to-kp-park-contractor/article38008822.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shanmuganathan dies at 80||K. Shanmuganathan, secretary of late DMK leader and former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi for over four decades, died of age-related ailments here on Tuesday. He was 80. In a condolence message, DMK president M.K. Stalin said Shanmuganathan was “like the eldest brother to me, and an important pillar in the Gopalapuram family has fallen”. DMK general secretary Duraimurugan and MDMK leader Vaiko were among those who paid homage in person. PMK leader S. Ramadoss condoled his death. Karunanidhi’s ‘shadow’ Known in the party circles as Karunanidhi’s “shadow”, Shanmuganathan remained a loyal aide to the DMK patriarch, whether the party was in power or not, until his death in August 2018. A native of Tiruvarur district, Shanmuganathan joined Tiruvarur Cooperative Bank. He learnt typing, cleared a service commission examination and joined the then Madras Police Commissioner’s office as a typist. But his knowledge of Tamil shorthand made him cross paths with Karunanidhi. His report on the then Opposition leader Karunanidhi’s speech at a public meeting resulted in a case being filed against him. “He [Karunanidhi] was impressed that I had transcribed exactly what he spoke. When the DMK came to power, he traced me down,” Shanmuganathan said in an interview to The Hindu Tamil  in 2017. Offer turned down Though he initially turned down a job offer from Karunanidhi, then Minister for Public Works, to be his personal assistant, his father forced Shanmuganathan to take up the offer. Since the DMK leader had already hired people, Shanmuganathan joined the Legislative Assembly Secretariat. On leave for his sister’s wedding in 1969, Shanmuganathan received a telegram that read: “Leave Cancel. Join Chief Minister’s Office as P.A.” On February 16, 1969, he took charge. When the DMK government was dismissed during Emergency, and the AIADMK under M.G. Ramachandran captured power, Shanmuganathan was about to resign on the advice of his boss. But Karunanidhi’s nephew Murasoli Maran suggested that his services could still be requisitioned since the Leader of the Opposition was entitled to a PA. MGR was initially reluctant but later consented. He could always be spotted behind or next to Karunanidhi at public meetings. He had brief spells of differences with the former Chief Minister but he would soon reconcile with him. He was tasked with typing out replies to party workers and political statements as Karunanidhi narrated or penned his thoughts down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shanmuganathan-dies-at-80/article38008838.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Beautification initiative to discourage dumping of garbage||Volunteers of the Korattur Aeri Pathukappu Makkal Iyakkam (KAPMI) started painting walls of Chennai High School in Ellaiyamman Nagar, Korattur on Tuesday aiming at preventing dumping of garbage in the area. A group of students from Government College of Fine Arts, headed by K.Swetha, turned the walls into their canvas and brought alive some scenes from daily life. Members of the KAPMI noted that it was not only an initiative for beautification of the school compound, but also to discourage residents from using the site as a makeshift dumpyard. KAPMI’s secretary S.Sekaran said the initiative was taken up with the support of Greater Chennai Corporation. The citizens’ group is also identifying such spaces in Korattur, which are vulnerable to such problems posing threat to public sanitation. There are plans to carry out more such beautification initiatives in the area and improve sanitation. Moreover, KAPMI plans to launch the 25th weekend Korattur lake clean up this Sunday, and plant saplings along the bund. “Our volunteers usually remove 15-20 bags of trash, including bottles and plastics, from the lake periphery. But, the lake has accumulated more waste during the heavy downpour last month,” Mr. Sekaran said. Though several parts of the lake is covered with water hyacinth, it is also home to numerous birds, attracting many visitors. “We have planted nearly 400 saplings so far. But, maintaining them is becoming a challenge,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beautification-initiative-to-discourage-dumping-of-garbage/article38008824.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 602 new cases of COVID-19, five deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 602 fresh cases of COVID-19 and five deaths on Tuesday. While the cases marginally rose in Chennai, the city did not report COVID-19 deaths for the third day in a row. Besides Chennai, there were no fatalities in 33 districts. Five districts — Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Tenkasi and Theni — had nil COVID-19 cases. There were fewer than 10 cases each in a total of 20 districts. In Chennai, 132 persons tested positive for COVID-19 when compared to 126 the previous day. Tally in Coimbatore Coimbatore’s daily tally remained a little below 100 as 95 persons tested positive for the infection. There were 50 cases in Erode, while Tiruppur and Chengalpattu reported 44 and 42 cases respectively. There were 34 cases in Salem and 32 in Namakkal. Among those who tested positive in the State were two persons who travelled from the United Arab Emirates, and from Karnataka by air. This took the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the State till now to 27,41,013. The State’s toll so far stood at 36,691. There were two deaths in Coimbatore and one each in Erode, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. As many as 691 persons were discharged after treatment. This took the total number of recoveries to 26,97,244. The State has a total of 7,078 active cases. Of this, Chennai has a total of 1,332 active cases followed by Coimbatore with 1,096. A total of 1,00,342 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested to 5,64,16,650. As per Monday’s data, Tiruppur accounted for the highest positivity rate at 1.2%. Chengalpattu and Namakkal followed with a positivity rate of 1.1% each. Chennai’s positivity rate stood at 0.8%.  The State has a total of 7,078 active cases. Of this, Chennai has a total of 1,332 active cases followed by Coimbatore with 1,096||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-602-new-cases-of-covid-19-five-deaths/article38008802.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tighten restrictions to contain Omicron spread, OPS tells govt.||The AIADMK coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, on Tuesday called for tightening restrictions with a view to controlling the spread of for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. In a statement, he quoted the reported observation of the World Health Organisation regarding the need for containing the spread of the variant. Pointing out that norms on personal distancing were not being followed, Mr. Panneerselvam said 50% of the people did not wear face masks and there seemed to be a lack of awareness in this respect. Apart from ensuring that people adhered to the norms, the State government should create awareness even among those who had taken vaccine and see to it that all the uncovered persons be vaccinated rapidly. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should pay special attention to the issue of coverage of all domestic and international tourists coming to Tamil Nadu. Mr. Panneerselvam, in a letter, requested Union Minister of Textiles and Food Piyush Goyal to take up with the Union Finance Ministry the issue of GST on textile and apparel items and ensure that it is reduced from the proposed 12% to the present 5% The party co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, condemned the attack on former Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman in Kothavadi village and blamed the ruling party for the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tighten-restrictions-to-contain-omicron-spread-ops-tells-govt/article38008806.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lacking in last mile connectivity||More commuters will come forward and take Chennai Metro only if there is an affordable and comfortable mode of transportation from their doorstep to the station and the destination, experts say. In six years of running trains, except for a brief period, there have been no share-cabs from stations, leaving commuters to find their way to the destination, either by their own mode of transport or an auto. Urban planning experts say multi-modal transportation is key to ensuring proper utilisation of public transport and it is beneficial for commuters. K.P. Subramaniam, former professor of urban engineering at Anna University, said, “Chennai Metro Rail should make an effort to identify all important stations and start share-cab services or mini-bus services on the essential routes. For instance, if there are 42 stations, at least 25 stations should have the last-mile connectivity. This will certainly boost patronage by at least 30-40%.” According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), they have been exploring a few options of last-mile connectivity for a while now and will soon start something. “This may take sometime. But we certainly want to give such options to passengers,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lacking-in-last-mile-connectivity/article38008829.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre can pay for community kitchen capital, running cost’||While the State government and the local bodies could provide land for establishing community kitchens, the Union government could pay for the capital expenditure and the full recurring expenditure on account of grain, transport and salary, Tamil Nadu suggested on Tuesday. Speaking at a meeting of the State Food Ministers in New Delhi to discuss the model community kitchens scheme aimed at addressing hunger and malnutrition, Tamil Nadu Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani said Tamil Nadu’s experience had been that only the most deserving persons were coming to community kitchens; hence, making it restrictive based on some exclusion criteria might not be required. “For a vast country like India, any uniform system or one single model may not be desirable. It will be appropriate that the States be given the freedom and flexibility within the broad framework and guidelines to decide on the actual model and functioning of community kitchens,” he said. The community kitchens were useful all times and more so in times of natural disasters or a total lockdown. “Therefore, the scheme may have flexibility in terms of ramping up their number and supplies.” Pointing out that three meals were being given away in the Greater Chennai Corporation and two meals at other places in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Sakkarapani said, “It is suggested that a minimum of two meals be provided through these kitchens.” The Tamil Nadu government has been running about 650 community kitchens through the local bodies at a highly subsidised price for the benefit of the poor. At present, the scheme is funded by the State government and the local bodies. “Every year, the State government and the urban local bodies are spending around Rs. 300 crore on it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-asks-centre-to-foot-bill-for-community-kitchen-operations/article38008841.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hero stone unearthed in Villupuram district||A team from the Chennai Circle of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has unearthed a hero stone, likely to be from the 4th to 5th Century CE, at V. Nerkunam village in Vikravandi taluk, Villupuram district. Palaeographic analysis of the inscription on the stone indicated that it was from a period when the script was transitioning from Tamil Brahmi to Vatteluttu script, ASI officials said. “While some of the letters were in Tamil Brahmi, others were in Vatteluttu. It is based on this palaeographic analysis that we are dating the stone to be from the 4th to 5th Century CE,” said R. Ramesh, assistant archaeologist, Chennai Circle, ASI. The team visited the village after being alerted by two residents — Chandramouleeswaran and Gnanavalli. The stone was lying almost fully buried. On unearthing it, it was found to be partially broken with the first line of the inscription missing. According to Mr. Ramesh, the remaining five lines available read that the hero stone was installed in memory of the youngest son of a person named Kizhan Maraiyaman from Nerkundram village, who died in a battle at the village. “The inscription also indicates that the village has retained almost the same name throughout these centuries. It has just transformed from Nerkundram to Nerkunam now,” he said. Apart from this, sculptures of Goddess Maheshwari and Lord Vinayaka from 10th century CE were also found in this village. The team from ASI included M. Prasanna, assistant archaeologist, and P.T. Nagarajan, assistant epigraphist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hero-stone-unearthed-in-villupuram-district/article38008812.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachment near Vayalur checkdam removed||The Water Resources Department cleared encroachment near Vayalur checkdam in Tirukazhukundram taluk on Tuesday. The department is also involved in demarcation of boundaries of more tanks in the taluk to remove encroached structures. The department had acquired nearly 1,800 sq.m. of space near the checkdam along the Palar river bank. Officials said the space at Vayalur was encroached and being used as a place of worship. The drive was carried out with the support of Tirukazhukundram police and tahsildar. There are nearly 95 tanks under the control of the department in Tirukazhukundram taluk and it is in the process of identifying encroachments and demarcating boundaries as a measure to protect the waterbodies. Tirumani tank is one of the waterbodies that has over 80 encroached structures and a detailed land survey is being carried out to demarcate its boundary. Similarly, steps are being taken to identify and remove encroached structures on tanks, such as Nerumbur, Pandur and Vallipuram, officials said. As most of these tanks served for irrigation purposes also, encroachments by agricultural fields were common. Surveys were being undertaken along with revenue department to initiate removal of encroachments, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachment-near-vayalur-checkdam-removed/article38008825.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders notice to Udhayanidhi in plea challenging his poll victory||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin on an election petition filed by a voter from the constituency. Pending cases The petitioner had challenged his victory on the ground that he had allegedly made false statements regarding the criminal cases pending against him while filing nomination on March 15. Justice V. Bharathidasan ordered notices to the Election Commission of India, the Chief Electoral Officer and the Returning Officer too on the election petition preferred by R. Premalatha of Chintadripet. The judge permitted her counsel K. Sakthivel to also take private notices to all the respondents so that they could promptly enter appearance for the next hearing on January 3. According to the petitioner, the MLA had disclosed 22 criminal cases were pending against him before various police stations in the State. However, while mentioning the gist of the cases, he had made an assertion that all cases had been booked against him for the charge of having violated the law during protests conducted for public causes. False assertions Claiming such an assertion was false, the petitioner contended it was intended to mislead the voters. She argued such deliberate and intentional filing of a “false affidavit” had materially affected the outcome of the election, and therefore, the court must declare his election as null and void after ruling that the acceptance of his nomination form was not in accordance with law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-notice-to-udhayanidhi-in-plea-challenging-his-poll-victory/article38008810.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held under POCSO||The Thousand Lights All Women Police arrested a 20-year-old for sexually harassing a 15-year-old girl. The accused, identified as S. Gokul of Choolaimedu, has been detained under POCSO Act. The police said the accused had befriended the victim through social media. ChildLine operates a helpline for children in distress 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-under-pocso/article38008820.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre’s move on AIQ will usurp rights of States’||The Union Health Ministry’s decision to conduct four rounds of counselling for 15% of All India Quota (AIQ) MBBS/BDS seats and 50% post-graduates seats (MS/MD/MDS) would usurp the rights of States, the Service Doctors and Post Graduates’ Association has said. In a statement issued, the association president, P. Saminathan, said that as per an announcement from the Union Health Ministry on December 18, the Medical Counselling Committee would conduct four rounds of counselling for admission to AIQ seats. Till now, only two rounds of counselling had been held. He said that usually, the remaining seats were surrendered to the State quota after two rounds of counselling. “If four rounds of counselling are allowed to be held, Tamil Nadu will stand to lose at least 100 to 150 PG seats,” he said. He mentioned that this could not be accepted as there was no announcement on four rounds of counselling in the exam notification this year. The Central government should withdraw such a move that would usurp the rights of State governments. The State government should take steps to conduct counselling like previous years, the association requested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-move-on-aiq-will-usurp-rights-of-states/article38008799.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contest for innovating solid waste management||The Greater Chennai Corporation has announced a contest inviting the public to come up with innovative technological solutions for effective solid waste management. The solution chosen as the best will receive a prize of Rs. 5 lakh. Solutions adjudged to be second, third, fourth and fifth best will receive rewards worth Rs. 2.5 lakh, Rs. 1.5 lakh, Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 75,000 respectively. The Corporation said the solutions should focus on zero dumping of garbage, plastic waste management, and transparency through digital engagement. The solutions should also be focussed on social inclusion. The contest has been announced under the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 scheme of the Union Government. Those interested to participate can send their proposed solutions to solidwastecorp5@gmail.com by December 31, 2021.  The contest has been announced under the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 scheme of the Union Government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contest-for-innovating-solid-waste-management/article38008834.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hope things change for disabled women athletes: Sameeha’s mother||For N. Salamath, the mother of athlete Sameeha Barwin, the Madras High Court’s directive concerning women athletes with disabilities has brought in a lot of hope. The court has asked the State and Central governments to streamline the policy on allowing the participation of women athletes with disabilities. “I don’t want other parents to discourage their children with disabilities to stop pursuing sports because of the hardships that they might face,” she said on Tuesday. Ms. Barwin’s hopes of competing in the World Deaf Athletics Championships in Poland came crashing down earlier this year after she attended the selections for the same in New Delhi. “Despite meeting the long jump norms, she was told that she had not qualified and would not be a part of the contingent since the All India Sports Council of Deaf authorities could not send a lone woman athlete as a part of the contingent,” Ms. Salamath had alleged. The family moved the court alleging gender discrimination. The Madras High Court intervened, following which Ms. Barwin travelled to Poland to compete in the world championships. Ms. Salamath said that for several athletes, the path to competing in any national level event itself was challenging at present. “Many of them are not given proper accommodation, space for training or even good food during these events. As parents, we end up paying for most of it. How will any athlete be in the right mind frame if there are so many barriers to compete in an event?” she asked. She said the directive issued by the Madras High Court addressed many of the concerns faced by athletes with disabilities. Calling the Madras High Court’s judgment a landmark one, R. Prabhakaran, who was the counsel for Ms. Bwarin, said the directives issued to the governments included providing necessary training, free medical facilities which include physiotherapists and psychological support, provision of disabled friendly material such as prosthetics, clothes and other accessories, as well as financial assistance to one of the family members of the disabled women athletes who would travel with them to international events. Padmini Chennapragada, disability sports researcher who also helped with the case, said it was now up to the government to ensure that a panel was constituted to oversee the implementation of these directives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hope-things-change-for-disabled-women-athletes-sameehas-mother/article38008836.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I-T search at Neyveli exposes Rs. 12 crore in unaccounted cash||An Income Tax (I-T) search and seizure operation last week against a Neyveli-based group, engaged in the business of chit funds, finance and real estate, has fetched more than Rs. 12 crore in unaccounted cash. The tax officials have also found unaccounted cash transactions in immovable properties to the tune of Rs. 250 crore. This particular group also runs educational institutions through its trusts. The search covered around 30 premises located at various places such as Neyveli, Chennai, Coimbatore and the Nilgiris. Cloud server unearthed According to a statement issued by the official spokesperson of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, during the course of the search, a secretly maintained and remotely located cloud server containing a parallel set of books of accounts was unearthed. Documentary and digital evidence has also been seized. The preliminary analysis of the digital and other evidence reveals the details of unaccounted money generated through under-reporting of income from the chit fund business and deposits received in cash from various parties. The evidence indicates that the unaccounted money has been utilised to make ‘on-money’ payments for real estate investments. Further investigations are in progress.  The preliminary analysis of the digital and other evidence reveals the details of unaccounted money generated through under-reporting of income||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-search-at-neyveli-exposes-rs-12-crore-in-unaccounted-cash/article38008844.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apollo Hospitals welcomes SC’s direction to Jaya panel||Apollo Hospitals on Tuesday welcomed the Supreme Court’s order to constitute a medical board to assist the Justice A. Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry, probing the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. The hospital felt the order “fully vindicates” its position that a team of medical experts should have been constituted to aid the Commission in its process. In a statement, it said it had produced 30 volumes of medical records, close to 6,000 pages, of all material relating to Jayalalithaa’s treatment to the Commission, and 50 doctors, 22 paramedical and support staff have deposed before the panel so far. The hospital had approached the Supreme Court on the grounds that the Commission was not equipped with the expertise to inquire into highly complex medical facts, and the inquiry was going off the rails. This was after the Commission in 2019 dismissed the hospital’s application to constitute a medical board. The hospital was confident that the order of the Supreme Court has buttressed the Commission with sufficient checks and balances to enable the inquiry to be now conducted in a fair, accurate and efficacious manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apollo-hospitals-welcomes-scs-direction-to-jaya-panel/article38008800.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Overhead tank operators, conservancy staff stage demo||Hundreds of overhead tank (OHT) operators and conservancy workers employed in rural areas across the State staged a demonstration on Tuesday, demanding reasonable wages and regularisation of work. They demanded in particular, the correction of a government order issued by the previous government in February 2021, which effectively reduced the salary of OHT operators under the pretext of increasing it by Rs. 1,400. “Many of the OHT operators were already receiving salary up to Rs. 5,000. However, the government claimed to increase it from Rs. 2,600 and made it Rs. 4,000 for everyone,” said K.R. Ganesan, State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Rural Development and Panchayat Workers Federation, affiliated to Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU). Pointing out that all the OHT operators were working either on part-time basis or on consolidated pay for several years, he said that the government must regularise their employment. Mr. Ganesan alleged that all the ‘Thooimai Kavalars’ (Cleanliness Protectors) and the conservancy workers engaged in villages were an exploited lot with paltry salaries. “All of them are paid only a salary of Rs. 3,600 per month with no holidays or leave,” he said. He added that no proper employment records were maintained for these workers so that they could be sent away anytime. He said that there were around 60,000 ‘Thooimai Kavalars’ in Tamil Nadu at the moment. Mr. Ganesan demanded that they must be brought under a special time scale pay with decent salaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overhead-tank-operators-conservancy-staff-stage-demo/article38008830.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police rescue team saves man from drowning||The Police Rescue Team, a special unit formed by the Chennai city police to prevent drowning and carry out rescue in beaches, rescued a 30-year-old person who attempted suicide in the Elliots Beach, Besant Nagar, on Tuesday morning. Police said Relangi Panindrakumar, a native of East Godavari in Andhra Pradesh, attempted to end his life due to family problems. Two members of the rescue team — Sabin and Raja — rushed to the beach and rescued the victim from the sea. The police officials, after offering him advice, sent him home. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-rescue-team-saves-man-from-drowning/article38008847.ece
22 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin greets his Andhra counterpart||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday greeted his Andhra Pradesh counterpart Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on his birthday. In a tweet, he wished Mr. Reddy good health and happiness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-greets-his-andhra-counterpart/article38008839.ece
22 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Foxconn to remain closed this week||The Foxconn plant near the city will remain shut this week, according to senior government officials. “The plant will remain shut till Sunday,” an official said and added that the company can resume operations any time following this week. The Foxconn plant was closed following protests by employees, who complained that several women were admitted to the hospital after food poisoning at the hostels they were staying. Around 159 of them were admitted to the hospital last week, and of that, 155 were discharged on Saturday. Senior government officials said all the women employees were fine now and had been discharged.  Officials said all the women employees had been discharged||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foxconn-plant-to-remain-closed-till-sunday/article38008833.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Father, son killed in accident||Three persons, including a father and son, were killed in a road accident near Porur on Tuesday when their car dashed against a stationary truck. The Poonamallee traffic police said Sankar, 60, his son Mahesh, 20, and Chinnaraj, 28, who hailed from Salem, were returning home at Mugalivakkam from Sabarimala. Mahesh, who was at the wheel when the accident occurred on Mount-Poonamallee Road, sustained serious injuries. He was rushed to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where he died while being treated. Sankar and Chinnaraj, sitting at the back, died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-and-son-killed/article38008819.ece
22 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two more lawyers suspended||The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (BCTNP) has suspended two more advocates from practice. A notification issued by BCTNP chairman P.S. Amalraj and secretary C. Raja Kumar stated that advocate A.P. Balasubramani of K. Pudur in Madurai had been arrested in a POCSO Act case booked by the all-women police in Tallakulam. Another resolution was passed against M. Nagaraj of Tiruppallaivanam in Tiruvallur as he had been accused of trespassing into a woman’s house and occupying it. The woman’s father had lodged a complaint with the Bar Council accusing the advocate and his accomplices of demanding Rs. 20 lakh to vacate the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-lawyers-suspended/article38008809.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Wearable LED reflectors for traffic police personnel’s safety||In a move to ensure safety of traffic police personnel who are doing duties such as traffic regulation and vehicle checks at night, the Coimbatore City Police have provided them with wearable LED reflector. The reflector with LED lights can be worn on the shoulder straps. It generates red and blue flashes and motorists can easily identify the presence of the personnel on roads. S.R. Senthilkumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), said the traffic police personnel in the city had been provided with various safety gears including the LED reflectors and reflective jackets. Around 200 LED reflectors had been given to them. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic-West) A. Sitrarasu said the wearable LED reflector came with a charger. “The safety gear is useful in places with very low lighting. Motorists can identify the presence of the police from a long distance,” he said. A head constable attached to the city traffic police said some of the junctions in the city did not have proper lights due to ongoing construction works. The new device would be very helpful while doing duty in such places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wearable-led-reflectors-for-traffic-police-personnels-safety/article38008861.ece
22 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Procedural wrangles delay pipeline leak work near north Coimbatore flyover||Coimbatore Corporation, on December 2, identified a leak in the water pipeline near the eastern side of the north Coimbatore flyover, on Cross Cut Road. The Corporation wanted to attend the leak the day or the next day, December 3, before it charged the line with water for distribution. But it could not. The Corporation went ahead with the distribution resulting in loss of drinking water and flooding of a stretch of the Cross Cut Road, said the civic body sources attributing the delay in attending to the repair work to the procedural wrangles with the Coimbatore City Traffic Police (CCTP). While CCTP field officers insist on written permission from their bosses for taking up any water supply related repair work in the city, no written permission had been issued thus far, the sources said and added that the Corporation was facing similar issues with the CCTP for work on Trichy Road, Kamarajar Road in Singanallur, Avinashi Road and a few other places. The sources said after the Corporation communicating to the CCTP the work to be undertaken, only verbal assent was given. Based on it when the Corporation proceeded with the work, it was stopped by the CCTP officials on the field and station concerned saying that unless there was written permission, no work should be taken up. This was going on for the last three months, the officials rued. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic, S.R. Senthilkumar said accidents at sites where such repair work was undertaken had what led the CCTP to come out with such instruction. His office had come up with such a system only to protect lives and indiscriminate road cutting. If it were the Corporation, the CCTP would have no problem in giving the permission as it owned most of the city roads. But if it were to be a contractor on behalf of the Corporation then written permission was mandatory. Mr. Senthilkumar also wanted to know if the Corporation would own up responsibility in the event of accidents due to digging of roads. The Corporation sources said an agency engaged by the Corporation was doing work only for the latter and therefore it would be a useless exercise to distinguish between the two.  Will the Corporation own up responsibility in the event of accidents due to digging of roads S.R. Senthilkumar Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procedural-wrangles-delay-pipeline-leak-work-near-north-coimbatore-flyover/article38008858.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tribal families of Kozhikamuthi seek better living conditions||Residents of Kozhikamuthi tribal village in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) have sought the intervention of the Coimbatore District Collector in settling a range of issues -- from allotment of patta to provision of basic amenities. In a petition submitted to the Collector, they said only 75 dwellings of the tribal families had homestead patta. The single-room dwellings had three-foot walls with the remaining portions made of bamboo and tin sheets. The residents -- 185 families living in 135 dwellings -- sought concrete houses, pointing out that the existing dwellings did not have attached bathroom or toilet. With no direct road to the tribal village, which is located seven km from Top Slip, the residents use the path through the Kozhikamuthi elephant camp of the ATR. Elephants from the camp also enter the village at times, they said. The villagers belonging to Malasar, Malaipulayar and Kadar tribes are drawing drinking water from a stream which is located around 500 metres from their dwellings. When the stream dries up during summer, water is drawn from a six-foot deep narrow waterhole close to the stream. Wild animals, including elephants, also use the waterhole, the petition said. As there is no anganwadi, tribal children do not get nutritious food and care from health workers. With the village lacking proper road connection, children are forced to study in residential schools from the age of six, leaving their families and village. Children, pregnant women and the elderly people suffer during emergency as ambulances cannot reach the village. The residents also wanted power connection, appointment of more medical staff at the primary health centre at Top Slip and permanent jobs for those working with the Forest Department for over 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-families-of-kozhikamuthi-seek-better-living-conditions/article38008876.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMK workers clash over restoration of Kothavadi tank||Tension prevailed at Kothavadi tank near Kinathukadavu in Coimbatore district on Tuesday after workers of the AIADMK and DMK claimed credit for the restoration of the waterbody, which started overflowing after a gap of 27 years. Unidentified persons hurled slippers at Pollachi MLA V. Jayaraman, who visited the tank at the invitation of AIADMK supporters. Police personnel and AIADMK workers escorted Mr. Jayaraman out of the place. People in the locality had organised an event to celebrate the brimming over of the tank in which puja and other rituals were performed. The police said that AIADMK supporters had invited Mr. Jayaraman to the tank which irked DMK supporters. Members of the two parties had heated argument as each party claimed credit for the restoration of the tank. Sources said that volunteers, farmers, non-governmental organisations and members of political parties had involved in the restoration of the tank over the years. Inflow of water to the tank increased this year after Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram, Coimbatore district administration and the Water Resources Organisation of the Public Works Department ensured steady inflow of surplus water during rainy season from the two sub canals of the Parambikulam Aliyar Project, they said. “At present, water is spread over an area of about 150 acres. Eppinger Tooling Asia Private Limited contributed Rs. 87 lakh through its corporate social responsibility funds to strengthen the tank,” said P.K. Selvaraj of Perur Padithurai Pathukappu Iyakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmk-workers-clash-over-restoration-of-kothavadi-tank/article38008874.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NCF wins grant for human-elephant conflict mitigation project in Valparai||The Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF) has received the strategic partnership grant of Rs. 35 lakh from the Habitats Trust for its project to apply technology to mitigate human-elephant conflict in Valparai region of Coimbatore district. A release from the Habitats Trust said human-elephant conflict was a serious conservation issue with regard to the conservation of Asian elephants. The release said the inevitable dependency of 70,000 people and 120 elephants over space and resources in the Valparai had led to frequent incidents of conflict. Warning systems “NCF has been researching this scenario and with the help of relevant stakeholders, they have implemented simple, unique and participative mobile-based early warning systems - bulk SMS, voice call alerts and GSM based alert system - to facilitate people to avoid fatal encounters with elephants. The technology along with awareness and sensitization programmes aims to create a win-win situation for elephants and people and facilitate co-existence in the region,” the release said. Roshni Nadar Malhotra, chairperson of HCL Technologies and founder of the Habitats Trust, announced the recipients of the Habitats Trust Grants 2021 on Monday. Strategic partnership grant, lesser-known habitats grant, lesser-known species grant and conservation hero grant are the four grants announced under the Habitats Trust Grants annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncf-wins-grant-for-human-elephant-conflict-mitigation-project-in-valparai/article38008966.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NMR services to resume from today||The Salem Division of Southern Railway has announced that the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) train services between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam, which remained cancelled for nearly two months, will resume from December 22. A release said the railway track in the Mettupalayam – Coonoor section of NMR, that was damaged following heavy rain had been restored. Following this, Train No. 56136 Mettupalayam – Udhagamandalam and Train No. 56137 Udhagamandalam – Mettupalayam would resume service on December 22. On October 23, the Salem Division announced that these two trains would be cancelled till further advice as the railway track between Kallar and Coonoor railway stations was obstructed by fallen boulders and trees due to heavy rain in the Nilgiris district. An official from Salem Division said on Tuesday the engineering works in the damaged railway track were delayed due to recurring landslides in the Kallar-Coonoor section. Work in full swing In the past two months, around 30 personnel from the Engineering and Mechanical departments were deployed every day for the engineering works, according to the official. The passengers must adhere to the COVID-19 safety protocol while travelling in the NMR services. Operation of more trains would be decided based on the patronage, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nmr-services-to-resume-from-today/article38008814.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Remand prisoner found dead||A remand prisoner from the Nilgiris, who was accused of murdering his wife, was found dead in the Coimbatore Central Prison on Tuesday. Police said he died by suicide. P. Thambi (47), a resident of Erumad in the Nilgiris, was arrested in March this year on charge of murdering his wife. He was initially lodged in Avinashi sub-jail in Tiruppur district, and then shifted to the Coimbatore Central Prison. Thambi was found dead in his prison cell around noon on Tuesday, said the police, who shifted his body to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. The Race Course police have registered a case.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling ‘Sneha’ 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-prisoner-found-dead/article38008878.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cotton production expected to be more than 350 lakh bales||Cotton production in the country during cotton season 2021-22 (October to September) is expected to be above 350 lakh bales, president of Indian Cotton Federation (ICF) J. Thulasidharan said here on Sunday. At the annual meeting of the Federation, he said the increase in minimum support price had encouraged farmers and helped maintain the area under cotton. It had also incentivised farmers to take up better crop management practices. On the export front too, the demand was robust. The challenges now were the need for fibre quality, proper grading, improved seed and initiatives to realise better yield. “It is important to address these issues at the earliest for a win-win situation for the Indian cotton farmer and the user Industry,” he said. The next revolution should come only from increasing the yield. With the right initiatives, Indian farmers could reach an yield of 1,000 kg. Many brands in the US and Europe were forcing suppliers to go for sustainable tag and Indian cotton had not been recognised as sustainable. The office-bearers of the Indian Cotton Federation for 2021-22 are: J. Thulasidharan (president), P. Natraj and Adhitya Krishna Pathy (vice-presidents), and Nishant Asher (secretary).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cotton-production-expected-to-be-more-than-350-lakh-bales/article38008859.ece
22 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Stalin calls on brother’s bereaved family in Coimbatore||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and his family members called on his brother M.K. Tamilarasu in the city on Tuesday, to pay their last respects to the latter’s mother-in-law, Jayalakshmi (80), who passed away after suffering from a lung ailment. Mr. Stalin, his wife Durga, son Udhayanidhi and sister Selvi arrived in the city by a special aircraft, and drove to Vadavalli to call on the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-calls-on-brothers-bereaved-family-in-coimbatore/article38008862.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Award for college||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) presented its CII Industrial Innovation Award to Kumaraguru College of Technology (KCT) under the 'Top Innovative Research Institutions 2021 – Other Engineering Colleges' category. A press release said that the award was presented at the DST – CII Technology Summit 2021 held recently. The innovative products include the eco-friendly sanitary napkins from natural fibre, low weight modified jacquard for handloom weavers, an autonomous multifunctional agricultural robotic platform and a patient-monitoring robot powered by artificial intelligence. Chairman of Kumaraguru Institutions B.K. Krishnaraj Vanavarayar congratulated the Principal and the faculty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-for-college/article38008865.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Constable transferred to Armed Reserve||Tiruppur Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha on Monday ordered the transfer of a constable attached to a police station to the city Armed Reserve after allegations of a verbal altercation with a shopowner emerged. Police sources said that Alexander, who was a Grade-II police constable at Veerapandi police station, allegedly had an altercation with the owner of a mobile phone shop in Valipalayam on Sunday and had threatened the owner. The CCTV footage of this incident went viral on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-transferred-to-armed-reserve/article38008869.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Railway users’ panel members demand more train services||The 23rd Divisional Railway Users' Consultative Committee (DRUCC) meeting of Salem Railway Division, which was held in online mode on Monday, saw the members placing demands for additional train services. DRUCC member P. Rajendran said the members sought additional MEMU train services between Coimbatore and Mettupalayam and operation of the recently introduced Palakkad – Tiruchendur Express trains from Mettupalayam Junction Claiming that around 30,000 people commute between Coimbatore and Mettupalayam on buses even during the heights of the COVID-19 pandemic, he asserted that increasing the number of MEMU train services will see substantial patronage. In particular, Mr. Rajendran said that the Mettupalayam – Coimbatore MEMU train that was stopped during the lockdown must be resumed immediately. Another DRUCC member K. Jayaraj sought restoration of train services from Coimbatore to southern districts. Around 40 members took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-users-panel-members-demand-more-train-services/article38008863.ece
22 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 95 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 95 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 107 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,096 active cases on Monday. The district's toll increased to 2,499 after two persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1 % on Monday, when it reported 97 cases. Tiruppur district reported 44 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The overall toll remained as 1,017 as no deaths were reported by the Health Department. The district had 512 active cases and 57 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-95-new-covid-19-cases/article38008877.ece
22 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ leader remembered||Minister for Electricity V. Senthilbalaji, DMK functionaries and members of various farmers’ organisations on Tuesday paid homage to farmer leader Narayanasamy Naidu on his 37th death anniversary. The Minister visited the memorial of Narayanasamy in Vaiyampalayam, Annur, and garlanded the bust. Coimbator District Collector G.S. Sameeran was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-leader-remembered/article38008868.ece
22 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||GST extends special drive for liquidation of refund verifications till December 31||A special fortnightly drive for liquidation of pending cases of verifications with respect to risky exporters and their suppliers between December 6 to December 17 stands extended up to December 31. In a release, A.R.S. Kumar, Principal Commissioner Coimbatore CGST and Central Excise said that during the special drive, Coimbatore Commissionerate has disposed all the cases pending for verification for more than six months where the exporters or suppliers had furnished all relevant documents. As a result, verification reports in respect of 27 exporters and 52 suppliers, totalling to 79 were completed and forwarded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-extends-special-drive-for-liquidation-of-refund-verifications-till-december-31/article38008871.ece
22 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on Thursday||In view of the proposed monthly maintenance works to be undertaken at the Peelamedu sub-station on December 23 (Thursday) there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas: Argus Feeder ; Bharathi Colony, SLV Complex Road, VN Industrial Estate, Akilandeswari Nagar, Chinnasamy Layout, Ellaithottam, Arugs Nagar and Hope College: Perumal Kovil feeder; part of Avanashi Road, VK Road, Anna Nagar, Metha Layout, part of Kalluri Nagar, parts of Balan Nagar and Gopal Nagar; Rangavilas Mill Feeder: PKD Nagar, Bala Guru Garden, PVG Road and Avinashi main road; SRC Feeder : parts of Meena Estate and Periyar Nagar, Rajeev Gandhi Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Perks Arch Road, Co-operative Colony and Rajeshwari Nagar; Bharathi Nagar feeder; part of Avarampalayam, Indira Nagar, Gandhi Maanagar, VG Rao Nagar, parts of Bharathi Nagar, KK Nagar and parts of Varadharaja Nagar; PSG Feeder: Thirumagal Nagar, Chandragandhi Nagar, Thulip Apartment, Karunanidhi Nagar, PSG Hospital and Hindusthan Hospital; Jayalakshmi Mill Feeder; Kannapiran Mill Road, Lamboodhra Apartments, Sri Pathi Nagar, Kongu Nagar, Nanjundapuram road (part) and Nethaji Nagar; Ramanathapuram feeder: Pricol Apartment, Old Damu Nagar and Kondaisamy Nagar: Peelamedu feeder: part of Avinashi Road, Peelamedupudur, PSG Tech, Rangavilas Mills, Peelamedu housing unit, PPS Colony, Anna Nagar, Jeganathan colony and Indhra Nagar, RK Puram feeder; parts of Surya Garden, Bharathi Colony, Varadharaja Nagar, Sakthi Road and R.K. Puram, part of Bharathi Nagar, Ashish Nagar and Air Force quarters, Puliakulam feeder: part of Avanashi Road, New Dhamu Nagar, ALG School, Red Fields Road, Manchester Towers and INS Agrani; Lakshmi Mill Feeder: Ammankulam Road, Erimedu, LMC Colony and Bharathi Nagar, Sowripalayam feeder: parts of Sowripalayam, Kannapiran Mill Road, Chinnasamy Layout, TNHB Colony, RVL Colony and Vasantha Nagar, Udayampalayam feeder: Meena Estate, Udayampalayam, Chinna Sowripalayam, Periya Sowripalayam, Annai Velankanni Nagar and Bharathipuram.  Kuniamuthur sub-station on December 23 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Kuniamthur, Puttuvikki, Edayarpalayam, part of Sundarapuram and part of BK Pudur, Kovaipudur, NS Puram, Sundakkamuthur, Ramachettipalayam, Arumugagoundanur, Perur Chettipalayam and Perur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-thursday/article38008872.ece
22 December 2021||Coinbatore,TAMIL NADU||Residents can soon monitor conservancy works on website||Coimbatore Corporation is in the process of making public the details of domestic breeding checkers (DBC) and conservancy workers. Sources familiar with the development said based on orders from Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, the Corporation would, in a day or two, upload details of 200 domestic breeding checkers and all conservancy workers. The Corporation had engaged on contract 200 workers as domestic breeding checkers to control mosquito breeding and check dengue outbreak. Likewise, the Corporation would also share on its website the details of conservancy workers, including those it had engaged on contract through contractors. The information that the Corporation would share would include their phone numbers, the ward and the area within the ward to which it had assigned them among others. The sources said this was to let the public know the persons who would be working with them and check if they were present or absent for work. If workers did not turn up for work, the public could directly call the workers or the sanitary supervisor of the ward concerned or the sanitary inspector. This, the Corporation believed, would not only bring in transparency in administration but also improve civic services. In the absence of such information the public was at a loss to report issues or have their grievances redressed. The other objective that the Corporation tried to achieve through the step towards improved transparency was to make it difficult for contractors supplying workers to manipulate the system, fudge figures on the number of workers on duty or terminate workers at will. This would also give job security to the workers on contract, who often complained of provident fund deduction from wages without being able to get the attendant benefits. The sources also said that the decision to make public the workers’ details followed a suggestion from the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis. For, around Rs. 2 crore was lying unclaimed in accounts linked to conservancy workers with the Employee Provident Fund Office in Coimbatore. The other objective that the Corporation hoped to fulfil with making public the details was to tick a few more boxes in the annual cleanliness exercise for cities, Swachh Sarvekshan , to gain more points, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-can-soon-monitor-conservancy-works-on-website/article38008867.ece
22 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Stolen mobile phones recovered||As many as 66 mobile phones that were reported stolen were recovered and handed over to their owners by the Dharmapuri District Police on Tuesday. Based on complaints received at various police stations in the district since the beginning the year, the police traced the 66 mobile phones and Superintendent of Police C. Kalaiselvan handed over them to the respective owners. According to the police, 33 phones worth Rs. 5.17 lakh were recovered by the Cyber Crime police station, 15 phones worth Rs. 2.43 lakh were recovered in Dharmapuri sub-division, six phones worth Rs. 1.08 lakh in Harur sub-division, five phones worth Rs. 66,499 in Pennagaram division, and seven phones worth Rs. 1.26 lakh in Palacode sub-division. Awareness session An awareness session on cyber crimes was conducted to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stolen-mobile-phones-recovered/article38008976.ece
22 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||480 dilapidated school buildings demolished in Dharmapuri||As many as 480 structures that were in a dilapidated condition on school premises in the district were demolished, said District Collector S. Divyadarshini here. In a release, Ms. Divyadarshini said as directed by the State government, inter-departmental teams were formed to inspect the school premises and unused buildings and structures that were in a dilapidated condition were identified. Measures were on to demolish such structures for the safety of children. Teams including officials from Rural Development, Revenue, Public Works, Municipal Administration and Water Authority had been formed to inspect schools in the district. According to the release, on December 17 and 18, 98 school buildings, 49 mid-day meal buildings, 95 drinking water tanks, 25 school compounds, 202 toilet structures, four laboratory buildings, one physical trainer office building, one anganwadi and six other structures on the school premises were demolished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/480-dilapidated-school-buildings-demolished-in-dharmapuri/article38008967.ece
22 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||DMK, NTK cadre clash||Cadre of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam indulged in a scuffle with Naam Tamizhar Katchi members during a meeting near Morappur on Tuesday. The NTK organised a meeting near Morappur bus stand condemning the State government. Himlar, one of the speakers of the party, was addressing the gathering while the DMK cadre allegedly got on to the stage and clashed with NTK members. The meeting was conducted demanding release of inmates who had been in prison for more than 20 years. Later, the police intervened and dispersed the group. The Morappur police detained a few members from both the parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-ntk-cadre-clash/article38008962.ece
22 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Family stages protest following death of newborn in Erode GH||Family members of a couple whose newborn child died at the Erode Government Hospital staged a protest on the Hospital premises here on Tuesday. They also damaged a few hospital properties. Mangayakarasi (23), wife of Sampath (26) from Adayanpalayam in Nasiyanur, delivered a boy at the Erode Government Hospital on December 19. According to hospital authorities, Mangayakarisi breast fed the baby around 7 a.m. on December 21. As she agreed to undergo family planning surgery, she was taken to the operation theatre by the Hospital staff and the newborn was left in the care of nurses and staff there. While the nurses checked upon the child after a while, they found the baby dead. Hospital staff immediately informed Mangayakarasi and the surgery was cancelled. However, family members, who were waiting outside the newborn ward, picked a quarrel with the staff. In a fit of rage, they broke some glass panes at the hospital and staged a protest in front of the Hospital alleging that poor treatment led to the newborn’s death. Hospital authorities said the cause of death could be ascertained only after autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-stages-protest-following-death-of-newborn-in-erode-gh/article38008972.ece
22 December 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Selvakumar takes charge as Kallakurichi SP||S. Selvakumar assumed office of the new Superintendent of Police, Kallakurichi district, on Tuesday. Prior to this, Mr. Selvakumar was the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Administration, Chennai. He succeeds Ziaul Haque, who has since been transferred and posted as Superintendent of Police, Crime Branch CID-1, Chennai. ‘Free to approach’ Mr. Selvakumar said a top priority would be given to address people’s problems. They are free to approach the police with their grievances. Stringent action would be ensured against anti-social and rowdy elements that are a threat to the maintenance of law and order, he said. The Superintendent of police also warned of stern action against illicit distillation of arrack in Kalvarayan hills in the district. Steps will be initiated to stop the supply of raw materials for making arrack and surprise checks would be conducted to stop the distillation, he assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sp-warns-illicit-brew-makers-of-kalvarayan/article38009200.ece
22 December 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Institute develops method to dry sheet rubber in a day||The Rubber Research Institute of India (RRII) under the Rubber Board has developed a method to dry sheet rubber in 24 hours in place of the traditional method that takes four to five days. The success of a pilot study by researchers has prompted the institute to take up a larger-scale experiment to find out if the technique will work on a day-to-day basis for rubber farmers. Vinoth Thomas and Joy Joseph, scientists at the institute, say rubber plantations are mostly owned by small farmers. They prefer to sell their produce as quality sheet rubber (ribbed smoked sheets or RSS-4 grade) to earn better price in the market. It is estimated that there are around 13.2 lakh small rubber holdings in the country. An area of 8.23 lakh hectares is covered under the crop in the country and production comes up to around 7.15 lakh tonnes annually. Price fluctuation The conversion of raw latex into sheet rubber helps them store the produce and sell according to the market situation as price fluctuation is a constant phenomenon. However, the traditional method of drying sheet rubber takes four to five days. The processing involves coagulation, sheeting and drying. The much quicker method of drying is done by replacing the conventional coagulant — diluted formic acid — with a mixture of the acid and alcohol and an improved sheeting process, says Dr. Thomas. In the new process, coagulation takes only about 30 minutes and the drying can be much quicker after loading the wet coagula in the smokehouse. Quick drying is achieved by increasing the effective surface area through additional rolling. Dr. Thomas says the quality of the sheets processed under the new method compares favourably with the traditionally processed ones. The new method helps get RSS-4 sheets ready within a day, which in turn aids small farmers to dispose of their produce faster. A presentation on the new method was recognised as the best original research paper from among those presented at the recent National Symposium on Plantation Crops (PLACROSYM 24) in Kochi.  Quality of the sheets processed under the new method compares favourably with the traditionally processed ones Vinoth Thomas Scientist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/institute-develops-method-to-dry-sheet-rubber-in-a-day/article38008674.ece
22 December 2021||Kumbakonam,TAMIL NADU||A simple grass that brings out the mellifluous music of nagaswaram||Thiruvavaduthurai, the small town that conjures up the image of nagaswaram wizard Rajarathinam Pillai, is also closely associated with seevali, a reed that is fitted with the instrument to produce the music. If playing nagaswaram demands enormous lung power, making seevali is no less a demanding job. “The process of thirattuthal, shaping the reed into a fine piece, takes a toll on the back of the seevali maker. A rope is tied to a small bar erected on the floor and the other end is tied around the waist of the seevali maker. He has to constantly pull it to fine-tune the reed by tightening the yarn around it,” explained G. Muthuraman, a seevali maker, who won this year’s Fernandes Award instituted by Parivadini, an organisation promoting music, musicians and artisans involved in making musical instruments. Fernandes, known as Parlandu, was the mridhangam maker of Palghat Mani Iyer. “I suffered heavily and underwent a hip surgery to relieve the pain,” said Mr. Muthuraman, whose grandfather N. Natarajasundara Pillai and father N. Ganesan were also seevali makers. A special grass known as korukku thatti is used for making seevali. The bamboo-sized grass is transformed into reed. After being harvested from the river beds, it will be dried and kept aside for a year before being cut into small pieces for making seevali. “We will flatten each piece by placing it in a press. Then we will tie them together and boil. We boil it with paddy as others may simply boil in water,” said Mr. Muturaman. Then comes drying them under the sun for a few days, followed by soaking them in ‘neerakaram’, made by further diluting the water drained after cooking rice and fermented for a day. “The soaking will improve the reed’s texture. After that we subject it to ‘thiratuthal’ and fix a small copper pipe so that it can be inserted into nagaswaram,” Mr. Muthuraman said. The seevalis would be made depending on the pitch of the nagaswaram player. “The reed’s size will determine the pitch. Nagaswaram players from Andhra Pradesh and naiyandi melam artistes from Tirunelveli normally place orders for seevalis with high pitch.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-simple-grass-that-brings-out-the-mellifluous-music-of-nagaswaram/article38008964.ece
22 December 2021||Kumbakonam,TAMIL NADU||Ray of hope for the ruined Chola temple near Kumbakonam||There is a ray of hope for the 12th century Apatsahayeswarar temple at Tukkachi near Kumbakonam, which has been standing derelict for over a century. The Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, which has studied the temple, is preparing a detailed project report for conservation. “We are preparing a detailed project report, and we will be able to submit it to the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments by December-end. The intention is that if we submit it now, the Department can deliberate on it, and in the new financial year, it can start work on the site,” said Arun Menon, Associate Professor, Structural Engineering Group, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT. According to late historian S.R. Balasubrahmanyam, the temple was closely associated with Kulotunga I and Vikrama Chola. Expressing concern over “the magnificent but much-neglected temple”, he had noted that the “temple is of greater significance in the evolution of Chola art and architecture during the later Chola period”. “Apart from that, its importance lies in the fact that it is perhaps the only big temple built during the days of Vikrama Chola,” he had observed in the book Later Chola Temples. Historian Kudavasal Balasubramanian, the author of a monograph on the temple, pointed out that inscriptions referred to it as Thenthirukalathi or Vikramacholeeswaram. “The history of Tukkachchi is the history of Vikrama Chola as he renovated the old Thenkallathi temple and named it Vikramacholeeswaram,” he explained. Vikrama Chola’s father Kulotunga had made contributions to the temple for the singing of ‘Thevaram’. Today, a visitor to this temple, whose architecture closely resembles that of the Darasuram temple, would realise that the neglect would have started at least a hundred years ago. It looks as if it had been subjected to an attack by invaders and left to decay. Time had taken its toll on its structures. The roof had collapsed at many places, leaving one to wonder whether it could be saved at all. The main gopuram and the gopuram in the second prahara and the vimana of the temples are covered with moss and vegetation and have lost their shape. “That was what prompted us to work on the temple in 2018-19. We were terribly upset, seeing the status of the temple. IIT-Madras gave a proposal for a pilot conservation project of the temple just before the pandemic, February 2020,” Mr. Menon said. Subsequently, it signed a memorandum of understanding with the HR&CE Department for preparation of the conservation proposal, factoring in all aspects: archaeological, structural, Ahamic, inscriptions and mural paintings. But there was a delay because of the pandemic. “In the last one-and-a-half years, we have conducted all field documentation... We have also done our surveys, and are also satisfied with the inputs we have received. We have very interesting drone pictures of the entire site and have extensively documented the temple,” Mr. Menon said. Asked whether there was a need for total reconstruction, he said certain parts of the temple would require dismantling and reconstruction. “The mahamandapam of the Durga temple requires dismantling, but the sanctum sanctorum is in good condition. Some portion of the prahara wall needs reconstruction. Otherwise in-situ conservation is proposed...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ray-of-hope-for-the-ruined-chola-temple/article38008916.ece
22 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court dissatisfied with probe in custodial death case||Expressing dissatisfaction over the progress in the investigation into the 2019 Avaniapuram custodial death case, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday observed that there was not only a delay but also lapses on the part of the investigating officer. The CB-CID is probing the custodial death case. A Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana took note of the fact that the incident took place in 2019. But, the probe was yet to be completed. The CB-CID took over the investigation in 2021. The court observed it would not make further comments on the investigation after an assurance was given by CB-CID that the investigation would be completed and the final report submitted by December 31. It was submitted that the CCTV footage was obtained in December. The case was adjourned till January. The court had initiated suo motu proceedings based on the letter written to the High Court Bench by advocate Henri Tiphagne, who represented the father of the victim pro bono. The advocate wrote the letter after the father who earlier sought CBI inquiry decided to withdraw the petition. Mr. Tiphagne said the father withdrew the petition because of threat from local police. The petitioner, P. Muthukaruppan, father of victim M. Balamurugan, 22, alleged his son sustained injuries in police custody and died at Government Rajaji Hospital. It was said Balamurugan and his accomplices were arrested for kidnapping a youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dissatisfied-with-probe-into-custodial-death/article38008845.ece
22 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New facility launched at Regional Cancer Centre||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian inaugurated Equinox 80 digital tele-cobalt facility at the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) at Balarengapuram here on Tuesday. The new facility has come up at a cost of Rs. 3.10 crore. It will help in conventional and palliative care treatment for cancer patients. The RCC, which had facilities for radiotherapy, medical oncology and surgical oncology, had been serving patients from all over southern districts with cost-effective cancer treatment, said Dr. Baskar, Professor and Head of Radiotheraphy. Later, Mr. Subramanian inaugurated 10 waterbeds at Government Rajaji Hospital, which will prevent bedsores for bed-ridden patients. He also inaugurated a roof-top herbal garden at the GRH in the presence of Dean A. Rathinavel. He inaugurated yoga sessions for pregnant mothers at the Urban Primary Helath Centre at Sellur. Yoga practice would help for normal deliveries and give pregnant women mental relaxation, he said. The Minister inspected a six-storey tower block under construction for the GRH where 22 state-of-the-art operation theatre are coming up. When the Rs. 121-crore building would be inaugurated, the State government would provide all modern medical equipment worth Rs. 180 crore, the Minister said. The Minister said COVID-19 mega vaccination camps that were being held on Saturdays would be held on Sundays (on December 26 and January 2, 2022) in view of Christmas and New Year celebrations. The Minister also released the merit list for 19 paramedical degree courses for 2021-22 to fill up 2,276 seats in government colleges and 13,832 government quota seats in self-financing colleges. A total of 64,900 had applied for the seats. Details can be obtainedwww.tnhealth.tn.gov.inandwww.tnmedicalselection. org The counselling will begin on Wednesday for special category and followed by general category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-facility-launched-at-regional-cancer-centre/article38008951.ece
22 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks State’s response on Maridhas’s plea to quash FIR||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the State on a petition filed by YouTuber Maridhas who sought the quash of the FIR registered against him by the Melapalayam police in Tirunelveli. The Melapalayam police had booked Maridhas based on a complaint lodged by the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam functionary Mohammed Khader Meeran. He was booked under the various Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. The complainant said that Maridhas had linked the Tablighi Jamaat’s conference held in Delhi to the outbreak of COVID-19 in Delhi and other parts of the country. Maridhas had called it a new form of terrorism, the complainant said. Justice G.R. Swaminathan ordered notice to the State and sought a response. In his petition, the petitioner Maridhas denied the allegations levelled against him. The hearing was adjourned till December 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-states-response-to-quash-plea/article38008846.ece
22 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||TCE secures second position||The Thiagarajar College of Engineering (TCE), Madurai has secured the second position in the ‘Top Innovative Research Institution (Other Engineering Colleges)’ category at the recently concluded ‘CII Industry Innovation Award 2021’. The CII innovation awards were based on the institute’s innovation ecosystem and actual innovations, said a press statement issued by the TCE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tce-secures-second-position/article38009137.ece
22 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bone bank inaugurated at GRH||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday inaugurated a bone bank at Government Rajaji Hospital and a Cobalt-60 therapy facility at the Regional Cancer Centre at Balarengapuram here on Tuesday. Accompanied by Minister for Commercial Taxes P. Moorthi and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, Mr. Subramanian inaugurated the bone bank, the first of its kind in any government or private hospital in south Tamil Nadu. A similar facility was recently opened at the Cancer Institute in Chennai. The Minister said that the new facility had come up at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh at the Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology. “With an increase in incidences of high velocity injuries and advancements in cancer management, the need for bone grafts and tissue allografts has increased,” Mr. Subramanian said. This would greatly help the poor patients from southern districts, he added. Bones could be grafted from a living donor or a deceased person. Among the living donors were patients who underwent joint replacement or total knee replacement surgeries or amputation surgeries, said Dr. V.R. Ganesan, Professor of Orthopaedics. The bones that were grafted from deceased persons within 24 hours would processed and preserved with deep freezing facility, he said. Such processed and preserved bones could be used for cancer patients. Tissue allografts were done in conditions like spinal fusion surgeries, multi-ligament reconstruction, addressing bone defects in revision joint replacement surgeries, post-traumatic bone loss reconstruction. In the absence of a bone bank, hospitals were dependent on bone substitutes which were inferior to allografts yet very expensive. “The bone bank is a boon to the people of south Tamil Nadu,” said Dr. Ganesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bone-bank-inaugurated-at-grh/article38008942.ece
22 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Remove encroachments from adheenam lands, says HC||Taking a serious note of the fact that several lands belonging to Thiruvavaduthurai Adheenam were under encroachment in Tenkasi district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the authorities to take steps to remove the encroachments. Justice R. Mahadevan directed the Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to issue instructions to the Joint Commissioners to undertake a series of exercises in this regard. The court directed the authorities to find out the nature of occupation/ encroachment on the lands and the details of the persons who were in unlawful occupation of the lands. Notices should be issued indicating the extent of the encroachment, it said. A time frame should be given for removal of encroachment at their own cost. Appropriate action should be taken as per law if the encroachers failed to remove the encroachments within the given time, the judge said. The court took cognisance of a report that stated that as per the records obtained from the Revenue Department officials in Kadayanallur, several lands belonging to Thiruvavaduthurai Adheenam and the panchayat were under encroachment. The persons claiming themselves as the holders of ‘ada olai’ had constructed buildings and were in unlawful possession of the adheenam lands. A detailed inspection should be conducted with the help of the adheenam and appropriate action taken for the removal of the encroachment. ‘Dismal state’ The court observed that the report revealed the dismal state with regard to encroachments on the adheenam and panchayat lands, which was only the tip of the iceberg. A large extent of lands could be under encroachment. The court could not shut its eyes over such rampant encroachments, the judge said, and disposed of a civil revision petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachments-from-adheenam-lands-says-hc/article38008918.ece
22 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC tells State to file details||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday sought a response from the State in a petition filed by a man from Sivaganga district who sought cancellation of employment given to another candidate under his employment registration number. The court was hearing a petition filed by C. Senthil Kumar of Tirupattur in Sivaganga district. He said that he had registered his SSLC and the driving licence holder qualification at the district employment office in 2010. He said that he went on to complete Diploma in Mechanical Engineering and registered the same in the employment office. He was hopeful he would get a suitable government job as per seniority, he said. The renewal of the registration was due. However, due to family situation he said that he could not renew the registration. Later, it was announced by the government that relaxation would be given to those who had not renewed the registration. To his surprise when he logged into his account this year, he came to know the appointment was given to another person under his registration number. He said that when he took up the issue with the authorities, they did not give him a proper reply. Justice B. Pugalendhi was told by the State that the employment given to the other candidate was cancelled and the official responsible for the mistake was punished with compulsory retirement. The judge sought to know as to how the employment was given to another candidate and adjourned the hearing till January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-tells-state-to-file-details/article38008954.ece
22 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 141.90 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 494 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.14 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 797 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,062 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38008956.ece
22 December 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector cautions fishermen||The Mayiladuthurai district administration has cautioned fishermen against going beyond five nautical miles, and has issued a set of directives for strict adherence. The fishers must desist from using motors beyond the capacity of 240 horsepower, and must return to the harbours on the same day. The fishers will be required to leave at 5 a.m. and return before 9 p.m., Collector R. Lalitha has said. Citing an order issued in 2000 by the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Ministry, the Collector said boats powered by engines beyond 240 horsepower would be confiscated. According to the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act of 1983, the hole of the fishing nets should not be less than 40 mm. Those found flouting the directives will have to face legal consequences. Under the Regulation Act, boats of those disobeying the directives will be seized and the fish caught with the banned purse seine nets will be auctioned. Also, the benefits they receive under government schemes will be withdrawn, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-cautions-fishermen/article38008921.ece
22 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. to gift saris, dhotis this Pongal, says CM||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Tuesday said the government was taking steps to provide Pongal gifts instead of remitting money into the account of beneficiaries. Interacting with reporters after providing rain relief to people having red ration cards at the Legislative Assembly, the Chief Minister said the government was in favour of distributing saris and dhotis as gifts instead of providing money. “We are taking steps to revive the scheme,” the Chief Minister said. Rain relief The government had initiated the process to distribute Rs. 5,000 each to red ration card holders as compensation to the loss incurred during recent rain. The government in November had announced a compensation of Rs. 5,000 to people who were affected by the rain. Administrative approval was also given to distribute Rs. 4,500 each to yellow ration card holders as rain relief. “The amount for both types of ration card holders will be remitted into the beneficiaries’ account in the coming days. Around 3.27 lakh card holders, except government employees, will benefit from the government’s gesture. The government will incur an expenditure of Rs. 156 crore,” he said. The government has given approval for New Year celebrations on the Beach Road. He appealed to the public to follow COVID-19 protocol while celebrating. Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan and Minister for Transport Chandira Priyanga were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-to-gift-saris-dhotis-this-pongal-says-cm/article38009195.ece
22 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy seeks PM’s intervention to secure release of arrested fishers||Former Puducherry Minister V. Narayanasamy on December 21 urged for the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in securing the immediate release of 55 Indian fishermen, “wrongfully incarcerated” by Sri Lankan maritime authorities. In a video statement, Mr. Narayanasamy said the arrest of the fishermen from Rameswaram region and impounding of their vessels the other day was the latest incident in what has been a series of acts of “unbridled intimidation and harassment” of Tamil fishers by the Sri Lankan Navy. [Thirteen other fishermen have also been detained.] “The Prime Minister should intervene in not only securing the release of the jailed fishers and their vessels but also prevail upon the Sri Lankan government to cease such acts once and for all,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. Repeated apprehension “Indian fishermen, mostly from Tamil Nadu and Karaikal regions, were being repeatedly apprehended and their boats are seized on foisted charges of transgressing territorial boundaries even when they operated well within Indian territorial waters,” Mr. Narayanasamy contended. The senior Congress leader accused the Narendra Modi government of turning a blind eye to the continual harassment of Tamil fishermen by the Sri Lankan maritime authorities. “Unlike the alacrity with which the Centre had taken up and secured the release of fishermen apprehended by Lankan Navy when the UPA was in power, the Modi government was not in constant engagement with Colombo to take up such maritime atrocities and also appeared not to be bothered about the plight of Indian fishermen,” Mr. Narayanasamy alleged. ‘Disaster for all’ Slamming the Goods and Services Tax (GST) model of the NDA that encroached on and appropriated the revenue of States, leaving them at the mercy of the Centre for funds, Mr. Narayanasamy said the Centre should allow States to opt out of the GST regime without being subjected to punitive measures. “Seven months of the NDA government in Puducherry has been a disaster for all sections,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. “None of the poll promises made by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, whether it was on Statehood or waiver of legacy loans, had been honoured,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. It is against this context of all-round failure that one should see Mr. Rangasamy’s response to a caller from Karaikal enquiring about the promised rain relief, that he was not the sole figure of decision-making authority in the Union Territory. “It was ironic that Mr. Rangasamy, who used to attack the previous Congress government for complaining about interference in implementing welfare measures, was the one pleading helplessness in coming good on his promises,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. “That the caller now faced ‘death threats’ from Mr. Rangasamy’s supporters after an audio clip of the conversation went viral on social media. It is a reflection of his true authoritarian self,” Mr. Narayanasamy claimed. Alleging that there was a breakdown in law and order, he said murders, extortion and abductions were on the rise since the AINRC-BJP government took over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-modis-intervention-sought-to-secure-release-of-arrested-fishers/article38008892.ece
22 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Forum seeks release of 68 fishermen||The National Fishworkers’ Forum (NFF) has appealed to the Union Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishankar to ensure the immediate release of 68 fishermen from Tamil Nadu who were arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy over the last three days. Talking to reporters here, M. Ilango, former MLA and chairperson of NFF, said the fishermen were arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy between December 18 to 20 on the ground that they had been fishing in the Lankan waters. Ten of their fishing boats were also confiscated. No criminal act “Apart from venturing for fishing to earn their livelihood, they have not committed any criminal act. The fishermen and their boats should be immediately released on humanitarian grounds as laid down in the UN Convention on the Law of Sea(UNCLOS),” Mr. Ilango said. The NFF also wanted the fifth round of bilateral talks between fishermen of India and Sri Lanka held without delay. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should intervene and take steps to hold the next round of talks to arrive at an amicable solution. The Centre should announce a proper date for the fifth round of dialogue after holding discussions with the Union External Affairs Minister, representatives from Government of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and fishermen representatives from the two States, Mr. Ilango demanded.  Apart from venturing for fishing to earn their livelihood, they have not committed any criminal act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-seeks-release-of-68-fishermen-held-by-sri-lankan-navy/article38008946.ece
22 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held to prepare plan for 25th National Youth Festival||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy led a consultative meeting to chalk out a comprehensive plan for the successful conduct of the 25th National Youth Festival (NYF) scheduled in the city from January 12 to 16. Among the facilitation measures discussed at the meeting were logistic support, including accommodation for participants, officials and volunteers, supply of food, potable water, transportation, medical facilities and funding. The government is roping in various departments, State and private higher education institutions, and voluntary organisations for the smooth conduct of the festival. The formation of executive committees, appointment of volunteers and moderators and making arrangements for the festival with adherence to COVID-19 protocol also figured in the discussions. The city is hosting the youth festival, planned as part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, to mark the 75th Anniversary of Indian Independence. Designing a specific theme, logo and song for the NYF are also in the works. Ministers A. Namassivayam, K. Lakshminarayanan, C. Djeacoumar and Chandira Priyanga, and Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, high-ranking police officials and heads of government departments discussed the scale and scope of festival arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held-to-prepare-plan-for-25th-national-youth-festival/article38009198.ece
22 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 20 fresh COVID infections||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory even as 20 fresh cases were detected from 2,700 tests on Tuesday. Puducherry recorded eight of the new cases followed by six each from Karaikal and Mahe. No new case was reported from Yanam. With 19 patients recovering, the active cases stood at 132. The toll remained at 1,880, with Puducherry logging 1,468, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,29,345 cases and 1,27,335 recoveries to date. Meanwhile, 6,813 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-20-fresh-covid-infections/article38009196.ece
22 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two men sentenced for murder||Second Additional District Judge Elavarasan on Tuesday sentenced two persons to double life for the murder of a couple, Balakrishnan and Vanaja, relatives of Agriculture Minister C. Djeacoumar. The judge sentenced Kasim alias Mohammed and Illias alias Mohammed Illias for murder and robbery, and slapped a penalty of Rs. 20,000. The couple were murdered at their residence in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-men-sentenced-for-murder/article38008980.ece
22 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Tree branch falls on school premises||A huge branch of a peepal tree fell on the premises of a panchayat union primary school at Kannapatti near Kamudhi on Monday night. However, the tiled-roof of the school building did not suffer major damage. Fortunately, the tree did not fall during the working hours. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Kamudhi led by its Station Fire Officer R. Sampath Kumar removed the branch and trimmed the tree on Tuesday. One killed Meanwhile, in a different incident reported under Sanarpatti police station limits in Dindigul, a man person was killed when the roof of a house under demolition fell on him on Tuesday afternoon. Police said that Muthu, 45, who lived in a dilapidated house in Mettupatti under Marur panchayat attempted to delomish it. When he and another worker, Sekar, 50, were on the demolition job, a part of the concrete roof fell and Muthu was killed on the spot. Sekar sustained bleeding injuries and was rushed to Dindigul Government Medical College hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tree-branch-falls-on-school-premises/article38008960.ece
22 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Five boys booked for kidnap of schoolgirl||Five minor boys, all students of a government school here, have been booked on a charge of kidnapping a minor girl on Monday. Police said that the boys, aged between 15 and 17, asked the girl, studying Class XI in the same school, to come to a temple on Monday. The girl, who was in love with one of the boys, gave a slip to her parents and eloped with the boy. While one of the friends of the boy accompanied the boy and girl, three others returned to their respective homes. During the investigation on the girl missing complaint, the police picked up the three boys from their houses. The boys had said that the couple had little moneywith them. The arrested boys, who had no clue about the whereabouts of the girl, were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and were let off on bail. Chathirakudi police are on the lookout for the boys and the girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-booked-for-kidnap-of-girl/article38008914.ece
22 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Development activities under way at Salem, Erode railway stations’||The Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee meeting of Salem Railway Division was held virtually on Monday. A. Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, P. Sivalingam, Additional DRM, E. Harikrishnan, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, M. Boopathiraja, Senior Divisional Operations Manager and other officials of Salem Division participated. Over 35 members of committee took part, a release said. Mr. Srinivas highlighted the various achievements of the Division over the past year and the status of development at stations across the Division. He said 91 Shramik special trains were operated from the Salem Division to facilitate transport of 1.4 lakh migrant workers to their home states. Seven Oxygen Express Trains were received in the Division from where Liquid Medical Oxygen was taken to various hospitals during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr.Srinivas said development activities were under way at Salem and Erode railway stations and upgradation of passenger amenities through provision of Foot Over Bridges, lifts and escalators were being carried out at various stations. During the meeting, D. Vijaya Ravi from Coimbatore was elected to Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee of Southern Railway from Salem Committee. Members highlighted various requirements at stations under the Division, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/development-activities-under-way-at-salem-erode-railway-stations/article38008974.ece
22 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Collector inaugurates exhibition||Collector S. Karmegham inaugurated an exhibition of Khadi and Village Industries Commission here on Tuesday and visited the stalls set up by rural manufacturers from across the State. Addressing at the event, Mr. Karmegham said khadi varieties and other textile products worth Rs. 220 crore were being produced with the support of the Commission annually and sales to the tune of Rs. 330 crore had been achieved. The Collector said as part of the Centre’s job creation scheme, loans to the tune of Rs. 25 lakh were being provided for manufacturing sector and Rs. 10 lakh for service sector and subsidies were provided for the loans. The Collector advised youths interested in setting up businesses to approach the District Industries Centre to learn about the various State and Centre schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inaugurates-exhibition/article38008969.ece
22 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Girl drowns in drain||A 10-year-old girl drowned in a drain near Periyapudhur here on Tuesday. According to the police, Deepika, a Class IV student, had gone to attend nature’s call along a deep drain near her house in Kodipallam here. She reportedly slipped into it and drowned as water had stagnated in the drain, the police said. Deepika’s parents, who went in search of her after she did not return home for long, recovered the body from the drain. The Pallapatti police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-year-old-girl-drowns-in-drain/article38008975.ece
22 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Solatium to SSI’s family||The Salem City Police offered a solatium to the family of Special Sub-Inspector S. Bhoominathan who was murdered by miscreants in Pudhukottai recently. Salem City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda consoled Bhoominathan’s family and presented a solatium of Rs. 2,77,400 here, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solatium-to-ssis-family/article38008973.ece
22 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||50 fresh COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 50 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. As per bulletin, one death was reported and the district has 572 active cases as on Tuesday. In Salem, 34 cases were reported. According to health officials, 31 cases were indigenous and 22 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 32 indigenous cases were reported. Seven indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri and seven cases in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article38008968.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ranjankudi fort wall damaged in rain||The upper fort wall on the south east corner of Ranjankudikottai, a 17th century fortress near Perambalur, has suffered damage in the recent monsoon rains in the district. The fort, believed to have been constructed by a Jagirdar of the Nawab of Carnatic during the 17th century, was the site of a Battle of Valikondah between the English and the French in 1751. In 1752, the fort was also the scene of surrender of French troops under D’Auteuil, which was sent to relieve the garrison at Srirangam. When D’Auteuil retreated to Ranjankudi, the Jagirdar took the side of the British and denied entry to the French troops to the upper level of the fort. D’Auteuil surrendered in the fort, according to a note on the history of fort in the official website of Perambalur district. The fort is oblong in shape with semicircular bastions and a moat encircling it. There are three fortifications at different levels, built with cut stone blocks. The fort, one of the prominent tourist attractions in Perambalur, is maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). A portion of the wall on the south eastern side of the fort has now suffered damage, apparently during the heavy rain last month. “Several stones on the upper fort wall in the south east corner of the upper fort wall came down during the last spell of rain about 20 days ago. It needs to be urgently repaired,” said A. Hasim (76), a retired guard of the fort, who still lives close to the structure. Mr. Hasim said that several stones had fallen down obstructing the approach to the lower fort. Ramesh Karuppaiah, a heritage enthusiast of Perambalur, said the damage was visible from a long distance. “The stones have slid down, it is almost like a landslide, for more than 10 feet in height,” he said. When contacted, M.Kalimu thu, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Chennai Circle, said restoration works would be taken up soon at the damaged portion of the fort. “The stones have slid down in one of the corners of the fort down due to the rain. As soon as we received information, we sent an engineer to assess the damage and the information was conveyed to our office in New Delhi seeking approval for executing repairs. We have received the permission and preparation of estimate is underway. We will take up the work probably by first week of January,” Mr. Kalimuthu told The Hindu . Both Mr.Hasim and Mr.Karuppaiah have long been pleading for improving basic amenities at the Fort to attract tourists. “Apart from providing toilets and other basic needs, sign boards indicating the historic fort’s location along the Tiruchi-Chennai highway would attract more visitors,” Mr. Karuppaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ranjankudi-fort-wall-damaged-in-rain-asi-to-carry-out-repairs-soon/article38008923.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing on delimitation of local bodies draws flak||Members of various public fora and representatives on Tuesday recorded their strong reservations on the Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission’s move to club a public hearing on delimitation of various local bodies and conducting it in a far-off place from the local bodies concerned. Participants, mainly from Thanjavur district, who took part in a public hearing on delimitation of corporations and municipalities in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Karur districts held here on Tuesday, said the important process should not be conducted in haste. Members of the public were allowed to register their grievances on the newly created Musiri and Lalgudi municipalities in Tiruchi district, Pugalur and Pallapatti municipalities in Karur district and Adhirampattinam municipality in Thanjavur district. A.E. Mohamed Mahir, a representative of “10 rupee movement’ and a resident of Adhirampattinam in Thanjavur district, said the public were kept in the dark about the public hearing. Only a few people knew about the public hearing on delimitation of the newly created Adhirampattinam Municipality by seeing a draft notification of delimitation on Sunday evening. The public had not been given sufficient time to air their grievances. He said people did not have data about the delimitation of local bodies and the methods being followed by officials on reorganising the boundaries of municipalities and the wards. The process were being undertaken in a hurry. “I have travelled about 120 km to attend the public hearing in Tiruchi. It is unfair. It should have been conducted in the headquarters of the respective districts,” he added. Mohamed Thambi, another resident of Adhirampattinam, said at least 15 days time should have been given to the public to prepare representations and to participate in the public hearing. Some wards in Athirampattinam had been reorganised without any rationale. Intervening in the meeting, V. Palanikumar, Chairman, Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission, who presided over the public hearing, said there had been no hurry in the process. There was a need to complete the exercise before December in view of the nationwide census. Regional-level public hearings had been conducted in the past too. The Commission had to cover all districts within a short frame of time. However, there were many avenues for the people to air their grievances on delimitation. They could submit petitions to the Collectors. They had been asked to strictly follow the notified norms on delimitation of local bodies. Based on the merits of the petitions, the Collectors would take action on them. The Commission would take a final call after studying all aspects, Mr. Palanikumar added. S. Karuppaiah of Thuvakudi said there was no transparency in the delimitation process. The people should be disseminated with the proposed change in the boundaries of local bodies before finalising the process. Baskar of Pugalur in Karur district said a few wards proposed in the newly created Pugalur municipality had no geographical connections. A. Sundaravalli, Member Secretary, Delimitation Commission, said the pubic could submit their petitions and suggestions on the process till December 24. P. Ponnaiah, Member, Delimitation Commission and Director, Municipal Administration, Collectors S. Sivarasu (Tiruchi), T. Prabhu Shankar (Karur) and Dinesh Oliver Ponraj (Thanjavur) and senior officials and representatives of political parties attended the public hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-hearing-on-delimitation-of-local-bodies-draws-flak/article38008930.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi police make welcome move||In a move that has been largely welcomed by motorists, the city police on Tuesday opened Anna Nagar Link Road near MGR Statue Junction at Cantonment to provide a direct link to Lawsons Road. Ever since the Anna Nagar Link Road was built and opened in 2015, police had kept barricaded one of the lanes, leading towards the Lawsons Road, apparently to avert congestion at MGR Statue Junction. Consequently, motorists, including mofussil buses, had to take a detour by turning left at the junction and go via the narrow Parangiri Park roundabout. Although a new traffic roundabout was built at MGR Statue junction by the Corporation subsequently, the police persisted with the diversion but for a few short-lived experimental move to open the lane by installing a traffic signal. The roundabout was created after a public outcry over the Anna Nagar Link Road remaining without access to Lawsons Road. After the opening of Anna Nagar Link Road and diversion of mofussil buses through it, the volume of traffic passing through Parangiri Vellupillai Park witnessed a sharp increase. Although the diversion served the purpose to a certain extent, unchecked parking of vehicles along Heber Road and poor road discipline by motorists halting in front of the automatic traffic signal near the Cantonment Police Station made the roundabout a major traffic bottleneck in recent years. City Police Commissioner G.Karthikeyan, who reviewed the traffic situation at the MGR Statue junction on Monday, has ordered the opening of the lane from Anna Nagar Link Road towards Lawsons Road. The lane allowing free left turn near the District Court building has been barricaded now. The move has enabled vehicles, especially mofussil buses coming into the city, to head straight to the Central Bus Stand via the Lawsons Road without having to go through the Parangiri Vellupillai Park roundabout. Mr.Kathikeyan inspected the junction on Tuesday too to identify shortcomings, if any, in the new traffic arrangement. The move has come as a relief for many residents. Terming it a good move, N. Jamaluddin, a resident of Anna Nagar, pointed out that motorists have been facing much hardship due to the detour around the congested Parangiri Vellupillai Park roundabout. “The move will help mofussil buses to swiftly go to the Central bus stand. Many mofussil buses could be seen going via the wrong carriageway of the Anna Nagar Link Road late in the night and early hours of the day to avoid the detour, posing a danger to other motorists. Now the problem has been overcome,” Mr.Jamaluddin said. He suggested that the automatic traffic signal at the MGR Statue Junction could be operationalised and deactivating the one near the Cantonment Police station to further streamline the traffic flow. T. Senthil Kumar, former district president, Youth Exnora, observed that was a good decision as many two-wheelers and autorickshaws were taking recourse to wrong side driving near the Court complex at MGR Statue junction. Traffic cops at the spot could ensure smooth flow of traffic, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-police-make-welcome-move/article38008945.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Emphasis on Mayiladuthurai-Karaikal rail link by U.T. govt. gladdens travelling public||The travelling public in Karaikal are buoyed by the Puducherry government's recent representation to the Railway Ministry for restoration of the railway track between Mayiladuthurai and Tranquebar and extension of the link to Karaikal. The link will pave way for rail connectivity between Puducherry and Karaikal that are separated by almost 135 km, Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said in a letter to Minister of Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw. If the said route is restored, there will be good revenue for the railways, Mr. Rangasamy said in the letter, citing the high level of goods transportation from Karaikal Port. “This will be the shortest route for people from Karaikal to reach Mayiladuthurai, which is connected to the southern network,” Mr. Rangasamy said.  Passenger traffic will be more since there are a lot of places of religious importance such as Thirunallar, Nagore, and Velankanni. Of the 11 km distance between Tranquebar and Karaikal, land in eight km is in the jurisdiction of the Puducherry Union Territory, and, hence, land can be spared without any difficulty. Even the three km of dry land in Tamil Nadu can be acquired easily for extension of the railway track, Mr. Rangasamy said. Revival of Mayiladuthurai-Tranquebar rail link and extending the same to Karaikal for bringing about connectivity to important tourist destinations and according a thrust for the economic development has been a long-felt need of rail travellers in delta region. Based on a petition filed by former MLA Kuttalam Kalyanam, the Madras High Court issued a directive to the Railway Board last year for consideration of the same in right earnest. The Mayiladuthurai Chamber of Commerce has also been emphasising that profitability in the proposed line in the Mayiladuthurai-Thirukadaiyur-Tranquebar-Thirunallar-Karaikal section, which will cater to the transport requirements of thousands of students every day, is a certainty. As per official records, the Railway Ministry carried out a survey in 2005-06 to explore the feasibility of extending the line to Karaikal via Thirunallar for a total length of 47.3 km, heeding to suggestions that the section will provide a circular rail route covering the Cauvery delta linking Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Tranquebar, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, and Tiruvarur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emphasis-on-mayiladuthurai-karaikal-rail-link-by-ut-govt-gladdens-travelling-public/article38008941.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘New technologies not conducive for deep analysis’||New technologies have created environments not conducive for deep analysis and reflection on the information received, Fuat Firat, Professor of Marketing, University of Texas, said while addressing participants at the International Conference of Markets and Development hosted by the Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi. Inclination of people to receive information only on topics of their interest has caused a loss of general knowledge about the affairs of the world, Mr. Fuat Firat said during the event, which also marked the 16th Biennial Conference of the International Society of Markets and Development (ISMD). If all information is stored on technology and not in human memory it can't be reflected upon, which leads to populations being unaware of what affects them and becoming easy to manipulate, he said. The discussions were on multiple topics such as informal markets, marketisation, and hierarchies of knowledge. ‘Democracy sold out’ "Democracy has been sold out to corporations in the first-world countries," he said, drawing attention of policy makers to consider the current state of wealth inequality and pollution, its overarching effect on society, and what academics can do to subvert this crisis. Erosion of democracy and global domination of neo-liberal ideologies have weakened the economic interests of the poor, supplanting them with that of the powerful, he pointed out. Calling the present time "the era of normalisation of the absurd,” Mr. Fuat Firat argued that democracy was always a project in the process of completion but never completed. Marketers need to provide the right insights to humanity to "stop the normalization of absurdity", the Professor said. On behalf of the ISMD Board, Prof. Fuat Firat announced publication of a series of articles to honour the stellar work done by the editors of the journal. ‘Enrich undersatnding’ Director of IIM-Tiruchi,Pawan Kujmar Singh, who presided over, said the conference would enrich students' understanding by way of exploring the domain of marketing in terms of both positive and normative economics and focusing on marketing that helps the overall well-being of customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-technologies-not-conducive-for-deep-analysis/article38008943.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Another elephant arrives at rehabilitation centre in Tiruchi||The Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at M.R. Palayam has received one more captive elephant. A truck carrying Indira from Virudhunagar reached the centre on Monday. It is the second elephant to be shifted to M.R. Palayam within two days. Rohini, a 26-year-old elephant from Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) was brought on Sunday. With this, the number of elephants under rehabilitation at ERRC has gone up to eight. Indira, which was maintained and nurtured by Animal Care Trust in Rajapalayam, was said to be suffering from lumpiness due to foot rot in both hind limbs. It could not bear its body weight and found it difficult to stand. Though the animal was under treatment for a long time, it showed little progress. After studying various aspects of its health condition and field inspection by forest personnel in Virudhunagar district, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wild life Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj issued an order to shift the pachyderm to ERRC at M.R. Palayam. G. Kiran, District Forest Officer, Tiruchi, told The Hindu that Indira had started mingling with other elephants and was behaving well. A forest veterinarian, who accompanied Rohini from ATR, examined the animal. R. Saravana Kumar, Forest Ranger, said the elephant was under close observation. A special diet schedule was being followed for the animal. Preliminary observation showed that it had adjusted to its new environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-elephant-arrives-at-rehabilitation-centre-in-tiruchi/article38008932.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||In Tiruchi, healthcare explores digital avenues for a new generation||With the pandemic-induced isolation and the rise of contactless interactions, the healthcare industry has started reaching out to a new generation of users with the help of digital technology. The trend has percolated to Tiruchi, where YouTube, podcasts and integrated healthcare apps are helping to connect patients with medical professionals both for general information and consultation. “We decided to use social media to spread public service health messages, because it works really fast. Most people usually check the symptoms and information on any disease first online before approaching the doctor,” Veni Varghese, branding head, Kauvery Hospital, told The Hindu . The Tiruchi-origin multi-speciality hospital chain, which also operates out of Chennai, Salem, Hosur, and Bengaluru, maintains a YouTube channel with over 93,800 subscribers. A production team records health messages by doctors and experts associated with the hospital according to their availability. “Diabetes and cardiology are the most searched topics online. Other than this, we also upload explainer videos on trending topics. When actor Rajnikanth was hospitalised recently for example, there was a viral interest in his neurological condition. So we made a video segment on just the medical aspects of the issue,” said Ms. Varghese. The hospital’s health podcast service has over 146 episodes on topics ranging from breast conserving surgery to deciphering blood pressure readings. “We are conscious about keeping our audio-visual content simple. Most of the speeches are in Tamil and English and the doctors speak in an informal style that appeals to a bilingual audience,” said Ms. Varghese. For Mohamed Nizam, the pandemic has helped him to launch ‘Nizcare’, an app that brings together doctors, pharmacies, labs and allied services across India on a common platform to the patient. “I always wanted to be a doctor, but my life took a different track, so I decided to work on developing this app instead,” said Mr. Nizam, who is the secretary and correspondent of MAM College of Engineering in Siruganur. Free download Launched in 2020 after four years of research and development, Nizcare is free to download for the public, and available to doctors on a subscription basis. At present, it has 1,000 doctors on its rolls from across India. “The app has been useful during the pandemic by streamlining the process of consulting a doctor; online registration and uploading of earlier patient records cuts down the waiting time. We were also busy with COVID-19 consultations,” said Mr. Nizam. “We are now looking at wearable devices such as digital glucometers that can help to monitor sugar levels through the app,” he added. Nizcare will be expanding into speciality apps for gynaecologists and paediatricians, besides care and support for the elderly and house visits by doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tiruchi-healthcare-explores-digital-avenues-for-a-new-generation/article38008920.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition on Siddha medicines||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru on Tuesday declared open a two-day exhibition on Siddha medicines on the premises of Mahatma Gandhi Medical College Government Hospital here. The exhibition is being organised by the Indian Medicine and Homeopathy Department as part of National Sidhha Medicine Day. A large number of herbal medicines were displayed at the exhibition, which is aimed at creating awareness among the people of their usage and benefits. Speaking at the programme, Mr. Nehru urged the people to utilise the services of Siddha hospitals and clinics well. Collector S. Sivarasu, Inspector General of Police, central zone, V. Balakrishnan, Dean of the hospital K. Vanitha and District Siddha Medical Officer S. Kamaraj participated in the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibition-on-siddha-medicines/article38008940.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minimally invasive spine surgery now available in Tiruchi||It has become possible for patients to access minimally invasive spine surgery (MISS) as an alternative to conventional procedures in Tiruchi, according to a local hospital that recently operated on a resident who suffered lumbar fracture in a road accident. “Previously, MISS surgeries were done only in metro cities, but this is now available in Tiruchi as well. Though it is expensive compared to open surgery, MISS has many merits. Where a normal operation would require surgeons to make an incision of at least 10-15 cm, in MISS, screws can be inserted into the spinal area with just a cm cut. This leads to less scarring, and quicker recovery. Patients can expect to be discharged from hospital faster,” said Syed Ali S., consultant, brain and spine surgeon at Maruti Hospital, at a press conference on Monday. The cost of the implants used in MISS are nearly double compared those in regular spinal surgery. Depending on the type of bone deformity seen, minimally invasive procedures could also be used to stabilise spine curvature in conditions such as kyphosis and scoliosis, said Dr. Ali. Addressing the media, the patient, a 57-year-old cab company operator, spoke about his experiences. “My car tumbled into a field when I swerved to avoid a pedestrian on the highway near Viralimalai. And though I was able to get up and leave my vehicle, I developed intense pain in my hip and back and was brought to hospital on a stretcher. Since I am a diabetic, I was advised to undergo MISS [percutaneous stabilisation] by Maruti Hospital team on December 10. With the help of physical therapy following the operation, I was able to walk independently, though I still have pain due to injuries sustained in the accident,” he said. K. Anand, Managing Director, Maruti Hospital, and V. Ravi, senior orthopaedic surgeon, Maruti Hospital, were present.  Where a normal operation will require surgeons to make an incision of at least 10-15 cm, in MISS, screws can be inserted into the spinal area with just a cm cut Syed Ali S. Consultant, brain and spine surgeon, Maruti Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minimally-invasive-spine-surgery-now-available-in-tiruchi/article38008919.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||43 fresh cases, zero death in central region||With three of the nine districts reporting no fresh cases of COVID-19, the daily count of the viral infection dropped to 43 in the central region on Tuesday. No death was recorded from the region in the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam and Perambalur had no fresh cases, while Ariyalur reported two and Pudukottai a single case. Fourteen persons tested positive for the virus in Karur, 13 in Thanjavur district, nine in Tiruchi and four in Tiruvarur. Tiruchi, Karur and Thanjavur accounted for the most number of active cases. Tiruchi had 159 patients under treatment, including those under home treatment, Karur 155 and Thanjavur 154. Tiruvarur had 47 active cases, Nagapattinam 33, Pudukottai 26, Mayiladuthurai 19, Ariyalur 16 and Perambalur 14. 20 cases in UT No death was reported in the Union Territory even as 20 fresh cases were detected from 2,700 tests on Tuesday. Puducherry recorded eight cases followed by six each from Karaikal and Mahe. No new case was reported from Yanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/43-fresh-cases-zero-death-in-central-region/article38008927.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ team fired in Tiruchi||A group engaged by the School Education Department under the ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ Scheme in Tiruchi was relieved from duty after its members were reportedly seen purchasing liquor while wearing t-shirts provided to them for the campaign. Viral video They had purchased the liquor from a Tasmac outlet in Thuraiyur town. The School Education Department took action after a video showing the group purchasing liquor and boarding the campaign vehicle went viral on social media, a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illam-thedi-kalvi-team-fired-in-tiruchi/article38008813.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Use Trichy Assault Rifle’||Employees unions of Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, are hopeful that the State government will consider procurement of Trichy Assault Rifle (TAR), developed with indigenous research for modernisation of the police force in Tamil Nadu. The idea was mooted by representatives of employee unions on Sunday during the visit of Minister for School Education and Tiruverumbur DMK MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi to OFT where a public defence exhibition was conducted. Minister’s assurance The Minister sought a formal request from the Officer-in-Charge of OFT Rajiv Jain and assured to discuss the issue with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in deference to the requests made by A. Arul Xavier, General Secretary of the OFT unit of Bharathiya Mazdoor Sangh, and general secretary of DMK's trade union Thozhilalar Munnetra Sangam Kannan. Earlier this year, OFT launched TriCa (Trichy Carbine), a mini-version of TAR, for meeting the specific requirements of para-military forces including CRPF and BSF, and State police forces in Jammu and Kashmir and Maharashtra. Stability “We emphasised that TAR will well suit the modernisation of Tamil Nadu polic. A stability in order position for the sturdy TAR in the long-run is what the employees look for," Mr. Arul Xavier said. Though manpower addition was unlikely, the patronisation of TAR by the Tamil Nadu government will help in sustaining the present extent of workforce of a little over 1,300, according to the employee unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/employees-unions-urge-tn-govt-to-patronise-trichy-assault-rifle/article38008933.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Kani tribal school gets Internet connectivity||Students of the Kani Tribal Residential School close to Papansam dam have been brought within the ‘signal coverage area’ as the school has been given Internet connectivity through the cable laid for about 11 km in the Western Ghats. Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj inaugurated the facility in the presence of Speaker M. Appavu during the regional review meeting held at the Colletorate here on Tuesday. The students interacted with the Minister through a video call. Since the mobile phone transmission towers cannot be installed in Papanasam area as it is a part of Kalakkad– Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve, the mobile phone connectivity would cut off after crossing the ‘View Point’ situated near Tangedco employees’ quarters. So, the school with 43 students and six teachers could not be connected through Internet for all these years. As Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited has now laid the cable for about 11 km from the foothills of Papanasam, the students of this school, started in 1966, are able to browse their online lessons while being in the school situated inside the tiger sanctuary. “This facility will ensure easy understanding of the lessons by the students,” said Mr. Appavu. Ms. Kayalvizhi also handed over community certificate to 12 Kani people, welfare board identity cards to 200 sanitary workers and welfare assistance worth Rs. 85.08 lakh to 265 beneficiaries. She said the government was keen on improving the facilities in the 1,138 Adi Dravida Welfare Schools and 120 Tribal Welfare Schools across Tamil Nadu besides providing free uniforms. Mr. Appavu said the quality of food being served in the hostels for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students had been improved a lot after the new government assumed charge. Principal Secretary, Department of Adi Dravida Welfare K. Manivasan, Additional DGP H.M. Jayaraman, District Collector V. Vishnu, Commissioner for Adi Dravida Welfare S. Madhumathi, Tirunelveli Commissioner of Police N.K. Senthamaraikannan, Superintendent of Police P. Saravanan, Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab and senior officials from the Department of Adi Dravida Welfare participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-school-gets-internet-connectivity/article38008934.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Unsold parottas, noodles seized||Food Safety Department officials checked eateries in Palayamkottai and Melapalayam areas on Tuesday and seized unsold parottas and noodles of Monday, which had been kept in the refrigerator. Following complaints from the public about the liberal sale of unsold parottas prepared the previous day in the eateries in some areas, the officials swung into action. On instructions from Designated Officer Sasi Deepa, Food Safety Officers A.R. Sankaralingam and S. Ramasubramanian checked eateries in Melapalayam and Melapalayam Zones of Tirunelveli Corporation. During the raids conducted in 10 shops since 9 a.m., 15 kg of parotta and 5 kg noodles were seized. “The unsold parottas and noodles, prepared on Monday, had been kept in the refrigerator to be sold to the customers on Tuesday, which will certainly cause food poisoning to the consumers. Though consumption of parotta made from maida is being questioned, the storage of unsold parottas and noodles in the refrigerator for selling them to the consumers on the next day is unlawful. So, we seized and destroyed them,” said Mr. Sankaralingam adding that similar surprise check would continue in the days to come. Those working in the parotta stalls admit that the unsold parottas are mostly used for making ‘koththu parotta’ the next day as the process would make it soft even though it had been prepared the previous day. The officials seized 10 kg of non food-grade plastic covers from the shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-seize-unsold-parottas-and-noodles-from-eateries/article38008957.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Cement plastering peels off at hospital||Patients waiting in the outpatients’ section of 70-year-old Government Siddha Medical College Hospital in Palayamkottai on Tuesday had tense moments for a while after the cement plastering on the roof of this section peeled off. The outpatients section, which is functioning from the old building of the hospital, is waiting for renovation for the past several years as no fund has been allotted. Though several letters have been sent to the Public Works Department on various occasions seeking renovation, no effort has been taken so far to repair the structure. The reason behind the delay is that the government’s decision to establish Siddha Medical University in Tirunelveli district. “If the Siddha Medical University is established here on the new premises, our college will be moved to the new campus from this cramped area. So, our letters seeking renovation of the existing buildings of the college and the hospital are being neglected,” said a faculty member of the college. Against this backdrop, the cement plastering in the roof of the verandah of the outpatients section peeled off around 9 a.m. even as the patients were waiting there to meet the doctors. Though no one was injured in this incident, tension prevailed for a while. The panic-stricken patients, doctors and students rushed out of the block immediately and the five outpatients sections functioning in this area were temporarily shifted to the inpatients’ section. Principal of the college Thiruthani said the functioning of the outpatients section was not affected as all the five sections continued to function from the inpatients section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plastering-peels-off/article38008935.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 140.10 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 682.29 cusecs and a discharge of 704.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 117.60 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 235 cusecs and a discharge of 235 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38009245.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Stone laid for I-T office in Tiruvannamalai||The foundation stone for the proposed two-storey Income Tax office in Tiruvannamalai was laid by Geetha Ravichandran, Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. According to a press release, the office will be built at a cost of Rs. 4.41 crore in the heart of the town. The work is expected to be completed in 18 months. The new office would consist of a car parking facility, Aayakar Seva Kendra and camp office for Range heads. Jahanzeb Akhtar, Principal Commissioner (Chennai); R. Bhoopathi, Joint Commissioner, Vellore range; Pandian, Additional Commissioner for Income Tax (CIT); Vadivelu, Income tax Officer and Lokhande, Executive Engineer, CPWD, participated in the event, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stone-laid-for-i-t-office-in-tiruvannamalai/article38009251.ece
22 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘84 killed in road accidents in the Nilgiris since 2018’||PWD and State Highways Minister E.V. Velu said that since 2018, a total of 557 road accidents have occurred in the Nilgiris, leading to the deaths of 84 people and injuries to 344 others. Mr. Velu, who was in the district to chair a review meeting on road safety, said that a total of 1,039 km. of roads in the Nilgiris are maintained by the State Highways Department and 108 km. of roads by the National Highways Department.  Accident prone zones He said that a total of 50 accident-prone zones have been identified along these roads, as well as nine areas which are highly prone to accident. Out of the nine, seven of these areas are in the national highways and two are along state highways, he said. Mr. Velu also said that retaining walls and road expansion for safety-related reasons were being undertaken along the areas which have been designated as being prone to accidents. These stretches of roads include portions of Kalhatti Ghat Road, as well as the stretch between Kotagiri and Kodanad. The Minister said that as part of the initiative taken by the State government to save lives of people injured in road accidents, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had launched the Innuyir Kappom scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/84-killed-in-road-accidents-in-the-nilgiris-since-2018/article38008880.ece
22 December 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Tea Board distributes subsidies||The Tea Board India in Coonoor has distributed subsidies amounting to Rs. 839.72 lakh to 161 beneficiaries. In a press release, it was stated that the subsidies are from the plantation development scheme for big growers, amounting to Rs. 210.75 lakh for 13 growers, as well as the incentive for orthodox tea production and human resource development, amounting to Rs. 607.93 lakh and Rs. 21.04 lakh respectively, benefiting 148 individuals. This is the third tranche of subsidies distributed, with Rs. 671.51 lakh in subsidies already being distributed to 1,307 beneficiaries under various plan schemes between April and September of this year. “During the current financial year, a total amount of Rs. 1511.23 lakh in subsidies have been distributed to 1,468 beneficiaries,” the press release said. “The Tea Board India, Coonoor, has provided various subsidies to the tea growers to enhance the production, productivity and quality of made tea. It also encourages the production of orthodox teas to ensure remunerative process to growers for quality tea production and help them fetch a higher price in the market,” the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-board-distributes-subsidies/article38008864.ece
22 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 800 school buildings to be pulled down||More than 800 dilapidated school buildings in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur were identified for demolition by the District Education Officers. The move comes in the wake of the death of three students due to the collapse of a toilet wall in a government-aided school in Tirunelveli. Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian ordered the demolition of 112 school buildings, including 77 classrooms, mostly in higher secondary schools, in the district as they were found unsafe. Demolition work began immediately in some schools in the district following an order by the School Education Department to take action within 48 hours. The District Education Officers were given clear instructions to demolish buildings that were not fit for use. In many schools, officials said the old buildings were not being used as classrooms but as storage rooms. Nearby districts “Identified school buildings are being demolished on a war footing. In some schools, only dilapidated classrooms are razed. We are hoping to complete the work by December-end,” D. Bhasakara Pandian, Ranipet Collector, said. Among the four districts, Ranipet has 296 dilapidated school buildings. So far, 33 buildings have been razed. Besides, 159 school buildings in the district are awaiting the structural assessment. On Tuesday, Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha inspected the demolition drive in the district. Of the 265 identified buildings, 19 buildings have been razed. Most of these buildings are over four decades old. More than 80% of total identified school buildings in these districts are government and aided schools. Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh ordered demolition of 143 buildings in the district. Currently, 73 buildings were being demolished. District-level authorities have been instructed to conduct inspections and monitor the quality of buildings as the recent rain may have caused damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-800-dilapidated-school-buildings-in-vellore-nearby-districts-identified-for-demolition/article38009201.ece
22 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs eight fresh infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,398 as eight fresh were cases reported on December 21. With a total of 49,148 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 109. The district's toll is 1141. Other districts In Ranipet district, two cases were reported positive. The total number of cases stood at 43,660. In Tirupattur district, three fresh infections were reported on Tuesday, which took the total tally of positive cases to 29,449. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was five, which took the total number of cases to 55,321. Out of this, 54,582 have been discharged and the number of active cases stood at 66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-eight-fresh-infections/article38009252.ece
22 December 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||PM likely to inaugurate 11 new government medical colleges from Virudhunagar||With the vantage location and completed infrastructure, Virudhunagar Government Medical College (VGMC) stands a good chance to host the function for inaugurating all the 11 new government medical colleges across the State by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. K. Stalin in the second week of January, 2022. After inspecting various buildings that have come up on Virudhunagar Master Complex premises on Tuesday, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian told reporters that various factors were in favour of the VGMC to host the inaugural function. He said the building work had been fully completed. Besides, its location along Madurai-Tirunelveli highway, vast expanse of land and huge auditorium with a seating capacity for 1,000 persons were taken into consideration, Mr. Subramanian said. He inspected the buildings along with Revenue Minister K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran and Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu. “If this venue is selected, the inaugural function for all the 11 new medical colleges will be held here,” the Health Minister said. On Omicron With regard to Omicron infection, Mr. Subramanian said that out of the 98 passengers who tested positive upon arrival from ‘at risk and non-risk’ countries, only one had been detected to have been infected by Omicron. The results of genome sequencing for 13 samples had been received from laboratories of the Union government and other results were awaited. However, he said, 70 patients admitted to government hospitals and seven at private hospitals (the others have been discharged) were all asymtomatic. The health condition of even the Omicron-infected patient was stable. Mr. Subramanian said both Covishield and Covaxin were effective in fighting against even Omicron. Stating that 84% of eligible persons had taken the first dose of vaccine and 55% the second dose, the Minister appealed to the 90 lakh people who were due to get the second dose to do it at the mega vaccination camps to be held on the next two Sundays. On temporary workers who were hired to fight COVID-19 during the first two waves, the Health Minister said that they would be given additional weightage in recruitment in the Health Department. MLAs A. R. R. Srinivasan, S. Thangapandian and A. R. R. Raghuraman, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian and medical college Dean J. Sangumani were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-likely-to-host-prime-minister-stalin/article38008938.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pay victims of custodial rape Rs. 5 lakh each, says SHRC||The case has been pending for the past 10 years for the final report to be filed. Instructions to DGP The SHRC also recommended that the government instruct the DGP to pass the final order, within three months, on the departmental action initiated against the respondents — R. Srinivasan, R. Ramanathan (since retired), R. Dhanasekaran, R. Bakthavachalam and K. Karthikeyan — then attached to the Tirukoilur station in Villupuram district. The SHRC had taken suo motu cognizance of a media report, dated November 27, 2011, that a woman of T. Mandapam village presented a petition to the ADSP, Villupuram, alleging that her husband was picked up by policemen of the Tirukoilur station on November 22 that year. The same evening, policemen came to her house, damaged property, took away cell phones, gold jewellery and cash and picked her along with eight others, the petition said. She further alleged that she, along with three other women, were raped by four policemen. The SHRC called for a report from the police. After hearing arguments from both sides, it observed that all the victims were taken from their homes to the police station at night without the presence of any women police official. Men assaulted They were tortured and harassed by the respondents, who also detained the men at the station unlawfully and assaulted them severely. “It is now a well-accepted proposition in most of the jurisdiction that monetary or pecuniary compensation is an appropriate, indeed an effective, and sometimes perhaps the only suitable remedy for redressing the established infringement of the fundamental right to life of a citizen by public servants,” it said.   The SHRC observed that all the victims were taken from their homes to the police station at night without the presence of any women police official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-victims-of-custodial-rape-rs-5-lakh-each-shrc/article38008815.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eyesore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eyesore/article38008978.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Heralding Christmas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heralding-christmas/article38009244.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Time to sail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/time-to-sail/article38008676.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society & Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thiruppavai, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m.    Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: Painting Expo Third eye inauguration, Kasthuri Sreenivasan Art Gallery, 10 a.m.    KPR College of Arts Science and Research: MoU signing ceremony with Startup Coach, 10.30 a.m.  GRD Institutions: Face-to-Face with Ketan Bhagat, 12 noon  Kovai Kalaimagal College of Arts and Science: Inter-department maths competition on remembrance of birth anniversary of Srinivasa Ramanujam, 9 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Seminar on healthcare, 10.30 a.m.  CMS College of Science and Commerce: Ramanujam commemorative celebrations, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Tackling gynec problems, 2.30 p.m.  KGISL Institute of Technology: Raising awareness plastic hazards, 10.30 a.m.  POLLACHI   Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Youth leadership programme, 10 a.m.; Workshop on Industry 4.0, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38008870.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||Shri Sakthkailassh Women’s College: National Mathematics Day, 11 a.m.; Guest lecture programme on ‘The Great Mathematicians’, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article38008970.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Anti-conversion Bill leaves wide scope for legal action||Bringing several stringent provisions, the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, which was introduced in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday, provides scope for inquiry to be conducted if any objection is received over a proposed conversion, both prior to or after the person has converted. Advance notice While the person desiring to convert is mandated to declare at least 30 days in advance to the district magistrate or the additional district magistrate, the proposed conversion will be notified on the notice board of the office of the district magistrate and in the tahsildar’s office calling for objections. A similar advance notice has to be given by the religious converter performing the conversion ceremony. The person also has to declare the place of conversion. Any converted person, parents, brother, sister or any other person related to him by blood, marriage or adoption or in any form associated or colleague can lodge a complaint of conversion from one religion to another by misrepresentation, force, fraud, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by promise of marriage. Post objections If any objection is received within 30 days, an inquiry will be conducted through officials of Revenue or Social Welfare department with regard to genuine intention, purpose, and cause of the proposed conversion. If the conversion is in contravention of the proposed law, criminal action can be initiated. Similar inquiry provision is part of the Bill if an objection is received post conversion as the person is mandated to declare before the district magistrate or the additional district magistrate. The district magistrate should record the name and particulars of objectors and nature of objection, and get an inquiry conducted on intention, purpose, and cause of conversion. The conversion can be declared illegal and void if the provisions of the proposed law are contravened. Only if objections are not received for conversion, the district magistrate will declare and confirm in a register maintained for the purpose and issue an official notification. TheBill also states that any institution which violates provisions of the law is liable for punishment and withdrawal of government grants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-conversion-bill-leaves-wide-scope-for-legal-action/article38008783.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Weavers stage protest near Suvarna Soudha||Members of Karnataka State Weavers Awareness and Agitation Committee staged a protest in Belagavi on Tuesday, demanding compensation for losses suffered during the lockdown and also some incentives. They sat in dharna near the Suvarna Soudha and shouted slogans. They listened to some leaders who made speeches. Then, they submitted a memorandum to the government and dispersed. The weavers have, in the memorandum, demanded that weavers should get all the benefits that are given to farmers, including interest-free loans, free power supply for powerlooms, incentives under Kisan Samman Scheme and scholarships for their children under the Vidya Nidhi Scheme. They demanded a rebate of 20% on all cloth produced by weavers cooperatives as extended in Tamil Nadu and 40% rebate, as on Khadi, a rejuvenation fund of Rs. 500 crore for the Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation and Cauvery handlooms and extension of Rs. 1 crore subsidy scheme, to all weavers. Ravindra Kalaburgi, Parashuram Dhage, Pandurang Dhotre and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weavers-stage-protest-near-suvarna-soudha/article38008990.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. planning to develop central business district, says Chief Minister||The Karnataka Government is planning to develop Bengaluru’s Central Business District (CBD) as a model area with the help of various departments as well as civic agencies, going beyond the Smart City project. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, replying to Congress member and former Minister K.J. George during the Question Hour in the Assembly, said as per plans, the police in the CBD will get different uniforms while the traffic signal lights would be replaced. He had held consultations in this regard with the officials concerned. The model would be replicated in other areas depending on the feedback, he added. Referring to the ongoing works under the Smart City project in Bengaluru, he said while the entire project cost is around Rs. 1,000 crore, development of roads had been taken up at a cost of Rs. 550 crore. Development of Cubbon Park and K.R. Market too had been taken up at a cost of Rs. 42 crore and Rs. 60 crore, respectively, as part of the project. In all, 38 different works had been taken up under the project in Bengaluru. The Chief Minister said development of roads under the Smart City project in Bengaluru will be completed by March, 2022. The Chief Minister also said the State Government has taken up the initiative to maintain a road history register in Bengaluru to avoid duplication of road works. He responded to Congress member P.R. Ramesh’s appeal to avoid duplication of road works raised in the Zero Hour in the Legislative Council in writing. Mr. Bommai said the register was being maintained in BBMP to avoid repeat of works. “Soon after completion of each work the details including the money spent, the extent of the work taken will be recorded online, along with the geo-coordinates. This will be done before clearing the bills. With this, the repetition of works could be avoided”, he said. As on December 10, the CM said out of 470 arterial and sub-arterial roads of Bengaluru, 311 roads (834 kms) had been pothole free. The work on the remaining 159 roads was going on. The improvement of 180 km-long road would be taken up in a phased manner. Besides that, white topping of 100 km-long road had been completed and 30km-long TenderSure road had been developed, he said. The CM said the BBMP has spent Rs. 20,060 crore since 2015-16 for road development. It included white-topping and TenderSure Roads, bridges, widening of roads signal-free roads, elevated corridors and railway works. Mr. George demanded that the Chief Minister, who also holds Bengaluru City Development protfolio, hand over the additional responsibility to somebody else as he may not be able to get the required time to focus on it. He argued that Bengaluru needs a full-fledged Minister. Mr. Bommai argued that he had been doing justice to Bengaluru’s development and that he would continue to do so. Pointing out that he also holds Finance portfolio, the Chief Minister argued that, ideally, the person holding the Finance portfolio should handle Bengaluru city development as the city needs huge funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-planning-to-develop-central-business-district-says-chief-minister/article38008755.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Council members urge Govt. to complete key irrigation projects||Members of the Legislative Council, on Tuesday, appealed to the State Government to take up the implementation of the third phase of the Upper Krishna project, Mahadayi project and shift important offices to North Karnataka to address the backwardness of the area. Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil, taking serious exception to the delay in getting the final order of Krishna Tribunal notified in the gazette, said the State Government should give attention to complete the project in record time. Kaleshwaram project Drawing a comparison with Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation project of Telangana State, Mr. Patil said a newly born small state had completed the project with an estimated cost of Rs. 1.2 lakh crore in record three years. “The third phase of the UKP requires only Rs. 60,000 crore and only 1.32 lakh acres had to be acquired. This can be completed within one-and-half-a-year. Let the government take it as a challenge and complete it,” he said. The people of seven districts to be benefited by the project would be ever grateful to the government if the work was completed. He also took objection to the government’s move to acquire the land in a phased manner. “Taking away farmer’s land for any project is like taking away his life. If you acquire his land in a phased manner, it is nothing but torturing him. Acquire the land required for the project at one go,” he said. Mahadayi project Regarding the Mahadayi project, the Congress leader said the project had been delayed due to the delay in getting the forest clearance. The project was originally planned by former Chief Minister S.R. Bommai. His son Basavaraj Bommai had taken out a padayatra demanding the implementation of the project. “Now Basavaraj Bommai himself has become the CM. He has got an opportunity to implement the project. He should make use of the occasion,” Mr. Patil said. Shifting of offices He also urged the State Government to shift a few offices concerned to Water Resources Department, Social Welfare Department to Kittur Karnataka and Kalyana Karnataka to ensure development of backward areas. JD(S) member K.T. Srikante Gowda, who began the debate on the issue, said former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda had played a major role in the irrigation projects of north Karnataka. “In order to clear the hurdles in taking up the third phase of UKP, the State Government should take an all-party delegation to Union Government and meet the Prime Minister,” he said. Congress member C.M. Ibrahim intervened to suggest the State Government adopt a resolution in both the Houses of Legislature on pending irrigation projects. “Both the Houses should adopt unanimous resolution in the interest of north Karnataka,” he said. JD(S) members K.A. Thippeswamy, Marithibbe Gowda and BJP member Hanamanth Nirani also spoke on the issue. Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti had allotted time to discuss issues concerned to North Karnataka on the day, taking note of comments in media criticising the way the session was being conducted.  Taking away farmer’s land for any project is like taking away his life. If you acquire his land in a phased manner, it is nothing but torturing him. Acquire the land required for the project at one go. S.R. Patil Leader of the Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/push-to-complete-irrigation-projects/article38008999.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Compensation for crop loss hiked||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday announced enhanced compensation for crop losses suffered by farmers in the State, which will cause an additional burden of about Rs. 1,500 crore to the exchequer. Replying to the discussion on rain- and flood-related damage in the State, Mr. Bommai said the Government would increase the compensation for crop loss in dry land from Rs. 6,800 to Rs. 13,500 per hectare while the compensation for irrigated crops would go up from Rs. 13,600 to Rs. 25,000 per hectare. The compensation for horticultural crops would increase from Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 28,000 per hectare. Earlier, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said 62 persons had died in the State in rain- and flood-related incidents between July and November 2021 and crops on 12.52 lakh hectares had been damaged. A total of Rs. 1,437 crore had been disbursed as compensation so far. Responding to the discussion on flood and rain damage in the State, the Minister said 45,119 km of roads, 3,306 bridges, and 44,119 electricity poles, and 54,716 houses had been damaged in the floods. He also said that 953 tanks and 13,419 government buildings had also been damaged. Refuting the allegation that the Government had been slow in seeking compensation from the Centre, Mr. Ashok said the Government had sent memorandums within one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/compensation-for-crop-loss-hiked/article38008780.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Seminar on medical ethics today||BLDE (Deemed to be University) will organise a seminar on medical ethics at B.M. Patil Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre in Vijayapura on Wednesday.  The seminar is supported by Karnataka Science and Technology Academy, DST, Government of Karnataka, and endorsed by UNESCO/UNITWIN Network under UNESCO Chair holder in Life Sciences and International Science Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seminar-on-medical-ethics-today/article38008991.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Congress padayatra from Mekedatu from January 9||The Congress will launch a padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru on January 9 to press for early implementation of Mekedatu drinking water project across the Cauvery. The 10-day padayatra will cover a distance of about 170 km and 15 Assembly constituencies. “Since there is no case pending in the Supreme Court and the project has been approved by the National Green Tribunal, there is no reason to delay it. The BJP is not committed to any irrigation project, including the UKP,Upper Bhadra, Yettinahole, and Mahadayi,” Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah told reporters here after chairing the Congress Legislature Party meeting where the padayatra and the anti-conversion Bill were discussed. Once implemented, the project is expected to benefit a population of about 2.5 crore in 10 districts besides bringing down pressure on other reservoirs in theCauvery basin, he said. “Currently, only 30% of Bengaluru is receiving Cauvery water. The project will help address drinking water woes in Bengaluru, Kolar, and Chickballapur districts. Tamil Nadu will benefit more than Karnataka.” The tagline of the padayatra will be ‘Namma neeru, namma hakku’ (Our water, our right) and organisations, associations, and NGOs across Karnataka have been invited to join the padayatra, said the former Chief Minister. When asked if the Janata Dal (Secular) would be invited, he said, “We will not invite those who will not come.” KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said the padayatra would pass through Kanakapura, Ramanagaram, and Bidadi before culminating in Bengaluru. “We have chosen routes that will have double road to prevent any inconvenience to the public. The padayatra will culminate in either Basavanagudi or Freedom Park in Bengaluru.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-padayatra-from-mekedatu-from-january-9/article38008774.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Speaker Kageri frowns upon excise targets||Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Tuesday directed the Government to desist from setting any targets for sale of liquor in rural areas and stop illegal sale of liquor in villages. Endorsing the views of Congress member Tukaram, he said people’s lives are more important than excise sales targets. Senior officials who set such sales targets should be made to camp in villages for some time so that they would come to know how their action has created a negative impact. Mr. Tukaram alleged that even degree college students had become alcoholic in some of the villages in his constituency of Sandur. However, Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah denied that such targets had been set. He said he would soon hold a meeting of officials in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speaker-kageri-frowns-upon-excise-targets/article38008779.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Crimes against women, children on the rise||The number of crimes against women and children has gone up in 2021 when compared with previous years, according to the statistics submitted by the State Government in the Legislative Council. Minister for Women and Child Development Halappa Achar submitted the statistics in a written reply to a question raised by Congress member U.B. Venkatesh during the question hour on Tuesday. Since 2018, there has been a steady increase in the cases of rape reported in the State. So far in the current year, 507 rape cases have been reported. Incidents of sexual assault on children and rape have increased at an alarming rate. So far 1,761 cases of rape of children have been reported in the current year. Child marriages When schools and colleges were closed owing to COVID-19, many girls were forced to get married before they attained the age of 18. As many as 223 cases of child marriage were reported in the State this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crimes-against-women-children-on-the-rise/article38008776.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||400 cadets take part in trek||Over 400 NCC cadets participated in the All India Belagavi Trek that ended on the NCC Campus in Jadhav Nagar Belagavi on Monday. As many as 15 Associate NCC Officers from seven directorates in 12 States and Union Territories also participated. A variety cultural performance was held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/400-cadets-take-part-in-trek/article38008989.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Pakistan comment riles HDK||Heated exchange between the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa ensued after the latter said that the Congress wants to “convert India to Pakistan”. Mr. Eshwarappa contended that population of Hindus had declined from 24% to 3% in Pakistan and could happen in India also. “We will protect Hindus and India,” he said. Taking serious objection to this, Mr. Kumaraswamy said such remarks should be removed from the record. Mr. Eshwarappa asked in response, “Should conversion of Hindus to Islam or Christianity happen? The Congress is opposing the Bill to satisfy Muslims and Christians.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pakistan-comment-riles-hdk/article38008784.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Subdued Christmas and New Year celebrations this time too||It will be subdued Christmas and New Year celebrations in the city for the second consecutive year as the Government has banned any large public gatherings from December 30 to January 2. Suhail Yusuf, president, Brigade Road Shops and Establishments’ Association, said like last year, this year, the association had not done any “lighting decoration” of Brigade Road, which is the attraction for crowds to gather on the busy street on New Year’s eve. “Even before the government imposed restrictions banning public gatherings, we decided not to encourage crowds in light of the Omicron scare and opted out,” he said. Initially, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced 50% restriction on occupancy at restaurants, pubs and clubs during the period, which left the hospitality industry crestfallen and lamenting about the loss of business for the second year in a row. However, hours later when Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar issued guidelines, the 50% occupancy restriction was dropped. Sources in the industry said they were looking forward to the season to recover some lost ground due to the pandemic and 50% occupancy rule would have killed business. Representatives reached out to the government and impressed upon them to drop the rule. However, the government has banned special events, parties, group dances and live performances at all venues during these days, which many have objected to. Ajay Nagarajan, CEO, Windmills Bangalore, said many venues, including theirs, had already planned for events, booked bands and artists for performances and all of them have to be cancelled now, causing huge losses to both establishments and artists. “These guidelines should have come earlier. And if the government allows to serve patrons, we don’t understand why those patrons can’t enjoy a live performance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/subdued-christmas-and-new-year-celebrations-this-time-too/article38008765.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||How former BPO employees were hired as recovery agents||When Hemanth and his friend Chiranjeevi approached the police earlier with a cheating complaint against a company that had recently hired them, little did they know that they would become part of a massive mobile loan app scam with alleged links to Chinese nationals. The two men, both in their early 30s, had put up their CVs on job recruitment sites earlier this year, and were surprised when an HR manager reached out to them with a deal that seemed too good to be true. They were offered ‘director’ posts and an assured salary with little else to do. All that was required of them was to submit their personal documents, including their Aadhaar and PAN cards. They didn’t even have to report to an office. However, after two months of not receiving even a single rupee from their employer, the duo approached the police in November. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police, which took charge of the case, unearthed a network of 52 companies that were allegedly fleecing customers by offering loans with high interest rates and processing fees via apps. At the helm of this network was Licorise Technology Pvt. Ltd., a firm in Munnekolala, Marathahalli, that was allegedly employing out-of-work BPO employees as loan recovery agents. The firm was allegedly operating at many levels: offering short-term loans on various mobile applications like Cash Master and Crazy Rupees; hiring former BPO employees to work as recovery agents, and setting up benami companies in the names of employees. The accused offered micro-loans of as little as Rs. 1,000 with interest rates as high as 15- 20% of the total loan amount. The interest rates were also compound on a weekly or fortnightly basis. They also charged high processing fees, almost half of the loan granted. The apps, once installed by the borrowers, would allow access to all of their phone contacts, gallery and other sensitive information. The management ran a full-fledged ‘call centre’ with 50 to 80 employees whose job it was to convince people to download the apps and apply for a loan. By downloading the apps, clients gave them access to their contacts and other information. Former BPO employees as recovery agents So far, the CCB has announced that it has arrested Licorise Technology’s HR manager Kamaraj More, 25, and team leader Darshan Chavan, 21, for making threat calls to debtors. CCB officials refused to divulge details on the other suspects and people higher up in the firm’s management. The call centre executives were offered salaries based on the percentage of loan recovered from clients who had downloaded the apps. “They were asked to get the dues from clients by hook or by crook using coercion, abuse and blackmail if necessary,” a police officer said. Defaulters were humiliated in front of friends and acquaintances with messages going out that the victim had “cheated” someone. Others had their pictures morphed and shared on social media as blackmail. Benami companies Licorise allegedly floated multiple benami firms and bank accounts using documents of employees. “The accused were handling U.P. and Bihar clients from the Munnekolala office. Loan payments and other transactions were routed to multiple accounts belonging to companies like ‘Fesolovo Pvt. Ltd., Leadbolt Pvt. Ltd., and Zeter Pvt. Ltd., which Licorise had floated using Aadhaar and PAN cards of Hemanth and Chiranjeevi,” said a senior official. Even though the bank accounts opened on their behalf showed transactions running into lakhs of rupees, the duo was informed that the companies were running into losses. The CCB uncovered 52 such firms. The Chinese angle When CCB Economic Offences Wing carried out a raid in November, they said that the firms had tie-ups with registered non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) for loan disbursal. “These companies did not even offer loans. They get loans granted from NBFCs, cheated customers. Any windfall was transferred out of the country to China,” said a CCB official at the time. Another official said that the CCB was looking for the handlers who are suspected to be from China. “The accused told the police that they had been hired by a Chinese national through online interviews and were getting instructions on phones and messages,” he said.  These companies did not even offer loans. They get loans granted from NBFCs, cheated customers. Any windfall was transferred out of the country to China CCB official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/loan-app-scheme-how-former-bpo-employees-were-hired-as-recovery-agents/article38008753.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||230 new buses, including e-buses, to hit the roads by year end||The city will have a new addition to its roads before the new year. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which had deferred induction of new buses citing financial distress induced by the pandemic, is all set to introduce new buses by the year end. BMTC Managing Director Anbukumar said in the last week of December, 230 new buses will be inducted into the existing fleet. Of the 230 buses, 200 are BSVI diesel and 30 electric. The last induction of new buses happened two years ago, he said. “After the outbreak of the pandemic, to reduce the financial burden, investment on new buses was postponed. Now, with the support of the State Government, we are inducting 565 new BSVI buses. On the other hand, under the Smart City project, we are inducting 90 electric buses. Among the e-buses, we have already received 16 buses and 14 more are expected to reach in a couple of days. For the first time, the BMTC is introducing BSVI services in the city and 200 such buses will be inducted by year end.” he explained. He added the BMTC is waiting for the dates of the Chief Minister to launch the new services. The electric buses that are going to be inducted will be operated as “metro feeder services”. All the 30 buses will be operated from Kengeri depot. The BMTC has identified routes such as Kengeri to Yeshwanthpur, Kengeri to Electronics City, and Yeshwanthpur to Kengeri. “Fare of existing ordinary buses will be applicable to e-buses. We are finalising the routes on operating e-buses in consultation with the BMRCL” the official said. Since 2014, the BMTC has made several attempts to introduce e-buses. For various reasons, the attempts did not yield results. The corporation had failed to avail subsidy provided under FAME 1 (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles ). However, under FAME II , the BMTC is inducting 300 e-buses. “In six months, all the buses under FAME II and Smart City Project will be part of our existing fleet. We are also introducing the rest of BSVI buses. This helps us weed out old buses,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/230-new-buses-including-e-buses-to-hit-the-roads-by-year-end/article38008760.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka police to recruit transgenders||Karnataka police has decided to include transgenders in the force. A notification was issued on December 20 by the recruitment and training department inviting eligible men, women and transgenders to apply for the 70 posts of RSI rank. The department had amended the Karnataka Civil Service Rules (General Recruitment) Act, 1977 to accommodate 1% reservation for transgenders. First time This is the first time that the police department has decided to include transgenders in the force. Sangama, a Bengaluru-based NGO working for the welfare of the community, has welcomed the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-to-recruit-transgender-persons/article38008758.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fog goes the whole hog at KIA||Bad weather at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) resulted in the delay of departure of 39 flights on Tuesday morning. In the current winter season, Tuesday recorded the highest number of delays. Though the poor visibility impacted departures, not much impact was seen on the arrival of flights. A spokesperson of BIAL said that despite drop in visibility, the arrival of 46 flights handled in CAT III conditions. The south runway of the airport is CAT III B compliant which enables flight operations even during low visibility during inclement weather. “On Tuesday, 46 flights landed under CAT III conditions, while two flights were diverted to Chennai as the crew were not qualified for CAT III operations. CAT II/III operations come into effect when the visibility drops below 550 metres. As per the DGCA mandate, crew must be qualified and trained for instrument approaches to lowest CAT I, II/III conditions,” said a spokesperson. A SpiceJet flight from Hyderabad was diverted to Chennai. An international flight from Abu Dhabi to Kannur via Bengaluru was also diverted to Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fog-goes-the-whole-hog-at-kia/article38008768.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man fires during row with brother, injures friend||The Sadduguntepalya police arrested a 25-year-old man who, while firing three rounds from a licenced pistol over a row with his elder brother, injured his 22-year-old friend at his house in HSR Layout on Sunday night. The accused has been identified as Salman K.S, the son of a former councillor, and has been booked under Section 308 (Attempt to commit culpable homicide) and under various sections of the Arms Act. Salman has been arrested and remanded in judicial custody, while the police seized the pistol for further investigation. The incident occurred when Salman returned home with his friend Faisal Ahmed, 22, around 9.30 p.m. According to the police, Salman’s elder brother Sana Miandad, a businessman, was upset that Salman did not take up any responsibility and shouted at him. Feeling humiliated in front of his friend, Salman pulled out a pistol from the drawer and tried to shoot himself, the police said. Sana and Faisal jumped to snatch the pistol, but Salman pulled the trigger thrice. As a result, Faisal sustained injuries and was admitted to hospital and is said to be out of danger, the police said. Panic gripped the residential area as residents heard firing shots from the house and alerted the police. The police rushed to the spot and took Salman into custody.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-fires-during-row-with-brother-injures-friend/article38008757.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC stays criminal case initiated against Byrathi Basavaraj||Ina relief to Minister Byrathi Basavaraj and two others, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday stayed further proceedings in a criminal case initiated against him by a special court on a private complaint of alleged forgeryand fabrication in registration of a partition deed and a sale deed of a private land at Kalkere village in Bengaluru East taluk way back in 2003. The criminal proceedings against Mr. Basavaraj has rocked the ongoing session of the State legislature in Belagavi with the Opposition demanding his resignation. A Bench of Justice S. Sunil Dutt Yadav passed the interim order of staying further proceedings before the special court on a petition filed by Madappa, 83, Shankar, and Mr. Basavaraj. The petitioners had questioned the special court’s September 9, 2021, order of rejecting the ‘B’ report filed by the jurisdictional police and November 25, 2021 order of issuance of summons to them. The special court had in 2018 ordered registration of an FIR against them based on a private complaintlodged by one A. Madappa of Kalkere. The complainant had made allegations against 83-year-old Madappa and Pillamadhappa, 75, both cousins of the complainant, Mr. Basavaraj, Mr. Shankar, and Arun V. Kalguchkar, a retired sub-registrar who was serving in K.R. Puram during 2003. It was alleged in the complaint that partition deed amongst the family members and the subsequent sale deed (related to some portion of land in the partition deed), which is registered in favour of Mr. Basavaraj in 2003 were, fabricated with forged signatures of his father, Annaiyyappa. However, the petitioners have contended that “the complainant has systematically and conveniently suppressed the quashing of all his earlier complaints and the present complaint is a clear case of abuse of the process of law and also against the judgment and decree suffered by him in the civil suits earlier.” Also, the petitioners have contended that the complainant had lodged a series of private complaints against them in 2012 in relation to same land, questioning the genuineness of the GPA. The criminal proceedings initiated based on 2012 complaints were quashed by the High Court in 2020,and all these facts were suppressed in the complaint lodged in 2018, it has been alleged in the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-stays-criminal-case-initiated-against-byrathi-basavaraj/article38008777.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Akshaya Patra, IISc. to study child food security||Akshaya Patra Foundation, in association with the Indian Institute of Science, has set up Akshaya Patra Research Lab to conduct comprehensive studies in child food security, community participation for social welfare, elimination of malnutrition, policy development, and advocacy for battling hunger. The aim of the foundation is to develop a knowledge epicentre for building its efforts towards ending classroom hunger and malnutrition. Anjula Gurtoo, chair, The Centre for Society and Policy at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, said, “ The young team, comprising some of our PhD scholars, professors and project associates, is dedicated to working towards child’s food security policy development and advocacy.” Shridhar Venkat, CEO, Akshaya Patra Foundation, said, the pandemic did not only change how children learned and played, but also how they consumed nutritious meals. “Together with IISc., we look forward to creating a country where the journey of realising a hunger-free India where children need not toil before they eat, where children need not earn before they learn. Thus, the focus on research is imperative than ever before.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/akshaya-patra-iisc-to-study-child-food-security/article38008772.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC to examine whether caste-based corporations violate concept of secularism||Rejecting the preliminary objection raised by the State Government on maintainability of PIL petitions questioning creation of caste-based corporations, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday said it requires to consider various issues, including whether creation of caste-based corporations and spending huge amount of public money violate the concept of secularism as envisaged in the Constitution of India. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order while hearing a batch of PIL petitions questioning creation of various caste-based corporations, including Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation, Brahmin Development Corporation, Karnataya Arya Vysya Community Development Corporation, and Karnataka Maratha Development Corporation. The court also said it requires to examine whether the State Government had legal right to create such corporations, which are allegedly caste-based, under the Entry 32 of List II of the Constitution. Another question framed by the court for examination is whether spending of public money for development of a few castes would be violative of the Article 27 (freedom as to payment of taxes for promotion of any particular religion) of the Constitution. The court adjourned hearing till February 2, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-to-examine-whether-caste-based-corporations-violate-concept-of-secularism/article38008771.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cybercrime police on the lookout for owner of app||The South Division cybercrime police are on the lookout for the owner of an app for allegedly running a money laundering racket under the pretext of crypto currency trade. The racket came to light on Thursday when three persons, identified as Aravind V., Sadhu SS. and Ankith Hariskirshnan from Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam in Kerala, filed a complaint with the South CEN police. They worked for Nike, the owner of Dobith and Diyona app, for a few months before realising that they are part of a racket . In their complaint, they said Nike got in touch with them offering them a job in crypto currency trade last November. As per his instruction, the trio submitted the required documents, including the KYC and bank account details. The job involved converting Indian currency they get in their account into crypto currency and transferring the same to the different wallets mentioned by Nike. They worked from November to February this year before realising that they are part of the money laundering racket. They also learnt that there are complaints against him in Bengaluru, Mumbai, and Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cybercrime-police-on-the-lookout-for-owner-of-app/article38008756.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest march today in Bengaluru||A coalition of 40 organisations will take out a protest march in Bengaluru from Mysore Bank Circle to Freedom Park on Wednesday, against the anti-conversion Bill. Peter Machado, Archbishop, Archdiocese of Bangalore, said the Bill was an “onslaught that has come on the eve of Christmas”. He further said, “We will take it in our stride and pray for them too... The Government seems to be under pressure from certain groups to push their agenda.” ‘Will affect service’ Commenting on the provisions of the Bill, the Archbishop said it was “all encompassing” and would affect the service provided by the community. “Any help or concession provided by any of our institutions working in the fields of education, health, senior citizen care, and orphanages, to any member not from the Christian community, can be construed as an inducement for conversion”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-march-today-in-bengaluru/article38008781.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free bus pass for garment workers||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) in collaboration with the Labour Department will issue free monthly bus passes to women garment workers in the city. Passes will be issued under the “Vanitha Sangathi” scheme in which garment workers and the Labour Department will bear 40% of the fare cost each and the BMTC will bear 20%. The passes will be issued from January. The BMTC has asked the garment factories to submit a list of women employees to the Karnataka Labour Welfare Board which will verify the applications. Pass holders will be allowed to travel in all ordinary bus passes. The scheme is expected to benefit over 2.4 lakh women garment workers working in 850 factories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-bus-pass-for-garment-workers/article38008754.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held||The KS Layout police arrested a 27-year-old cab driver and his associate for allegedly setting fire to a condiments shop. The accused have been identified as Mounesh Karihole and his associate Mounesh Sanagoudar, 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held/article38008766.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 295 new cases, 5 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 295 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30. 02 lakh. Of these, 204 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With five deaths, the toll rose to 38,295. Besides this, there were 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 290 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking total recoveries to 29.57 lakh. The State now has 7,074 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.39%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.69 %. As many as 75,639 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 52507 lakh RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-state-reports-295-new-cases-5-deaths/article38008761.ece
22 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||29 new cases in a day in Uttara Kannada||In the wake of 29 fresh cases of COVID-19 being reported in a single day, Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kannada Mullai Muhilan has said that there is no need for people to panic as all adequate precautionary measures have been taken. In a press release issued in Karwar on Tuesday, Mr. Muhilan has said that of the 29 cases, 19 were from Morarji Desai Residential School at Ramnagar in Joida taluk and all infected students have been isolated in a building and given treatment. This apart, swab samples of 155 students have been taken and sent for test. And, they too have been sheltered separately. Assistant Commissioner of Karwar Sub Division Vidyashree Chandragi visited the spot and taken requisite measures, he said. He said that health, revenue and other officials too visited the spot to oversee and review the arrangements made in the containment zone. An ambulance has been stationed at Ramnagar. And, one wing has been converted into a COVID-19 Care Centre. Of the remaining 10 cases, three each were from Haliyal and Sirsi and two each from Siddapur and Yellapur. Appeal The Deputy Commissioner has appealed to the general public in the district not to panic as all requisite precautionary measures have been taken. He has also appealed to them to wear face masks, maintain physical distancing and follow other COVID-19 guidelines. He has urged the people to celebrate Christmas and the New Year with caution and cooperate with the district administration in keeping the pandemic under control. Violators will be dealt with strictly, he has warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29-new-cases-in-a-day-in-uttara-kannada/article38008992.ece
22 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bicycle expedition to mark 1971 victory||A three-day bicycle expedition to commemorate the golden jubilee of the victory of the Indian Armed Forces in the 1971 Indo-Pak war was taken out by Indian Navy personnel in Uttara Kannada district. According to a press release issued by the Navy, the bicycle expedition was organised by Indian Naval Ship Vajrakosh, a premier missile base of the Indian Navy. A total of 14 personnel from Karwar Naval Base participated in the expedition, covering a distance of 200 km over three days. The participants visited various schools and colleges during the three-day expedition. They delivered talks and interacted with students to create awareness among the youth about the 1971 war as well as career options in the Armed Forces and the Indian Navy. The participants also met and interacted with the veterans of the 1971 war in the region as part of Indian Navy’s outreach programme, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bicycle-expedition-to-mark-1971-victory/article38008994.ece
22 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘More trains once new platforms are ready at Mangaluru Central’||Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas on Tuesday said that more trains can be introduced from Mangaluru Central and some trains operating out of Mangaluru Junction to other parts of Karnataka and Mumbai may be brought once the work on two new platforms is completed at Mangaluru Central. Interacting with media persons during his inspection of railway installations in Mangaluru region, Mr. Thomas was responding to demands from Paschima Karavali Railway Yatri Abhivriddhi Samithi in this regard. He said that the existing pit-lines were demolished and new ones are being constructed on the Attavar-side of Mangaluru Central. The new platforms (4 and 5) will come up in the space where the old pit-lines existed, he said and added that the introduction of more trains from Mangaluru Central could be possible after the next monsoon. Mr. Thomas said that Mangaluru Railway region is one of the highest revenue earning regions of the zone. Southern Railway is committed to providing all the required facilities and amenities at Mangaluru Central and Mangaluru Junction. The General Manager refuted a suggestion that the zone was neglecting the region and using it mainly to cater to Kerala-bound trains. He said that the Railways has been a pan-India organisation and does not discriminate between regions. People in the region should not feel being discriminated against, he added. Meanwhile, the samithi submitted a list of demands for railway facilities in Mangaluru. The demands included hastening the construction of new pit-lines and platforms at Mangaluru Central, shifting the existing goods shed from Bunder to Ullal to avoid frequent closure of level crossing gates at Pandeshwar and Hoige Bazaar, extension of two services of Mangaluru-Puttur-Mangaluru Passenger train up to Subrahmanya Road; extension of Train Nos 07377/07378 Vijayapura-Mangaluru Junction-Vijayapura Special Express to Mangaluru Central, extension of Train Nos 16575/16576 Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur Tri-weekly Express to Mangaluru Central with revised timings; extending Train Nos 12133/12134 Mumbai CSMT-Mangaluru Junction-Mumbai CSMT Superfast Express to Mangaluru Central and resuming Train No 56661 Charavattur-Mangaluru Central Passenger train for the benefit of students. Mr. Thomas said that he will consider the demands depending upon their feasibility. Samithi president G. Hanumanth Kamath, technical adviser Anil Hegde, DRUCC Member Ahmed Bava and member G.K. Bhat were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-trains-once-new-platforms-are-ready-at-mangaluru-central/article38009146.ece
22 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Home Minister to inaugurate conference||Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists (DKUWJ) will hold its district-level conference for 2021 at the Town Hall here on December 28, from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra will inaugurate the conference. Senior journalist Manohar Prasad will be the president of the conference. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, president of the union Indaje Srinivas Nayak said that Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel will release a souvenir having details of the activities carried out by the union in the last three years. Students of government school at Kutlur in Belthangady taluk will be given away sports uniforms and students of government school in Madappady in Sullia taluk will be given away books. There will be sessions on coastal development covering education and tourism in the forenoon. The afternoon session will be on social responsibility of media, he said. Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya will deliver the valedictory address. There will also be a host of cultural programmes and a magic show from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. Ministers V. Sunil Kumar, S. Angara and Kota Srinivas Poojary, MLAs, officials and journalism students, teachers will participate, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-minister-to-inaugurate-conference/article38009152.ece
22 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Parishat to remove names of deceased members from list||Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Mahesh Joshi said here on Tuesday that the parishat will revise its existing list of members to ensure that the names of those members who are no more are deleted from the list. Addressing presspersons, he said that as per the list the parishat has 3.4 lakh members. Of them, some are dead and their names will be deleted following due legal procedure. The process is expected to be completed in the next three months. He said that the total membership of the parishat will be taken to one crore during his next five-year term through an app. Mr. Joshi said that the parishat will also amend its byelaws to ensure that those having criminal cases against them did not contest the elections of the parishat in future. In addition, amendments will be made to prohibit the presidents of taluk, district and State units to re-contest the elections for the same positions. For example, once elected as president of the State unit the same candidate cannot contest for the same position for the second time. If a candidate gets elected as president of the taluk unit, they cannot contest again in the elections to the post of president of any taluk unit next time. However the candidate can contest to the elections to the position of president of the district unit. Likewise those who have become presidents of district units can not contest again to the posts of district presidents. But they can contest to the post of State president. The initiative is to ensure that other eligible candidates get a chance to serve in the parishat and there should be no monopoly of anyone for long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parishat-to-remove-names-of-deceased-members-from-list/article38009153.ece
22 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Southern Rly. carries out annual inspection||Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas conducted annual inspection in Mangaluru-Kannur section of the Palakkad Division on Tuesday, including a review of passenger amenities at Mangaluru Central and Mangaluru Junction. Arriving with Palakkad Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari, Principal Heads of Departments and other officers, he reviewed the status of various passenger amenities at Mangaluru Central in the morning. He inspected the Concourse, second entrance (Attavar), new passenger reservation system counter, among others. Mr. Thomas inspected the newly commissioned Electronic Interlocking Cabin at Mangaluru Central and participated in a tree plantation drive. In the parking lot, he inspected the exhibits of various departments showcasing their innovative prototypes and distributed spot awards and merit certificates for their outstanding works. Later, he inaugurated the Railway Institute which provides recreation facilities for staff and family members. He then visited the Mangaluru Railway Colony and interacted with residents. Mr. Thomas inspected the Railway Health Unit at Mangaluru Central and interacted with doctors, matrons and paramedical staff. He appreciated the altruistic service rendered during COVID-19 and felicitated them with merit certificates and awards. Mr. Thomas then visited the Mangaluru Junction-Kulashekara stretch, including Padil, that had witnessed landslips earlier and reviewed the situation. He inspected the operational Kulashekara tunnel and the twin tunnel under construction. A team of senior officials of Southern Railway inspected Yard and reviewed the proposed Electronic Interlocking arrangement at Panambur, Traction Substation at Jokatte, among others. Mr. Thomas conducted a speed trial between Nethravathi Cabin and Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/southern-rly-carries-out-annual-inspection/article38009147.ece
22 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Advocate in police custody||A Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) Court in the city on Tuesday remanded advocate K.S.N. Rajesh, accused of sexually harassing a law intern in his chambers, to four days in police custody. Rajesh, who remained at large after a complaint of sexual harassment was registered with the women’s police station on October 18, surrendered before the III JMFC Court in Mangaluru on Monday. He was remanded in judicial custody at that time. Earlier, his petitions for anticipatory bail were rejected by the District and Sessions Court, Mangaluru, as well as the High Court of Karnataka. The public prosecutor aided by the Investigating Officer submitted before court on Tuesday that the accused should be remanded in police custody to facilitate a probe into the charges of sexual harassment. While the police sought a week’s custody, judge Ashwini Kore granted custody for four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocate-in-police-custody/article38009148.ece
22 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Legal training||The Department of Backward Classes Welfare has invited applications from law graduates for a four-year free training from 2021-22 under a government advocate. The candidate should have enrolled in the Bar Council. The annual income of the family should not exceed Rs. 3.5 lakh. A monthly stipend of Rs. 4,000 will be given during the training period. Apply by December 27. Call Ph: 2225078.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legal-training/article38009151.ece
22 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘State apathetic to Belagavi incident’||The condemnation and protests against the recent Belagavi incident in which the statue of Sangoli Rayanna was vandalised, continues unabated in Mysuru. While social activists and progressive groups dubbed it as a fallout of apathy and failure of the State Government, other activists including former MLA and pro-Kannada leader Vatal Nagaraj held demonstrations. Writer and activist K.S.Bhagawan said the State Government was apathetic towards the cause of Kannada and Karnataka and this was responsible for the Belagavi incident. He told mediapersons here on Tuesday that though the Supreme Court has stated that the Mahajan Committee report was final on the question of border issue, Maharashtra Ekikarana Samiti members were repeatedly raising the issue and instigating the State. The recent developments including vandalising the statue of Sangoli Rayanna were unpardonable crimes and should be treated as such, said Mr. Bhagawan. He described MES activists as “pseudo-patriots and people with convoluted mindset” and should be externed from the State. The president of Karnataka OBC Forum Shivaram said those responsible for the Belagavi incident should be booked for sedition. He said a massive rally will be held in Mysuru on December 24 condemning the incident. He flayed the Government for its ‘inaction’’ on the issue and said though time had come for Kannadigas to assert their pride and safeguard the language and culture of the State, the BJP Government was content conducting meetings, introducing anti-conversion bill. “When it comes to issue pertaining to the BJP it is taken up on a priority basis but when the issue pertains to Kannada and those insulting the State, the Government dithers to take any action’’, Mr. Shivaram added. The Government should have taken up the issue to assert the pride of Kannada but instead it was mired in engaging in vote-bank politics, he alleged. The forum members also warned of launching an intense agitation to uphold and protect the interest of Kannadigas across the State. Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj flayed the State Government for not banning MES. He said the agitation will be intensified in the days ahead in case no stern action was initiated against the MES. Mr. Nagaraj said a meeting has been convened in Bengaluru on Wednesday to discuss the next course of action including calling for a State Bandh. A few other organisations raised slogans against MES and Shiv Sena and demonstrated in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office.  Vatal Nagaraj said a meeting has been convened in Bengaluru today to discuss the next course of action, including calling for a State bandh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-apathetic-to-belagavi-incident/article38009163.ece
22 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Use mother tongue as medium of education’||The 3-day International Conference of Linguistic Society of India (ICOLSI-43) cohosted by the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysuru, got underway in the virtual mode on Tuesday. It is being held in association with the Linguistic Society of India, Pune. G. Umamaheshwara Rao, president of LSI, inaugurated the conference and delivered the inaugural address with focus on ‘Languages of India and their Economic Contributions’. He said languages are the landmarks of human heritage, as they reflect the way of life and thoughts and also preserve the diversity of human civilisation. He said linguistic diversity may increase employment opportunities and also stressed upon the importance of mother tongue. Prof. Rao emphasised the significance of education in mother tongue and said that both developed and developing countries should continue to use mother tongue as the medium of education in accordance with the principles of social and civic justice. Where there is no space for mother tongue instruction, the classroom becomes irrelevant, said Prof. Rao adding that the concept of teaching in the language of people is the source of strength for democracy. Martin Haspelmath of Max Planck Institute for Science of Human History, Germany, delivered the keynote address on the topic ‘Language descriptions and language universals’. Shailendra Mohan, Director, CIIL, in his presidential remarks emphasised the social roles of linguists and said that to realise the vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ linguists have the additional responsibility of promoting interaction and mutual understanding between people of different cultures and traditions through their academic efforts and initiatives. Delving on the research activities of CIIL Prof. Mohan said the institute will release the language archive repository for Indian languages in due course, and this will include major as well as minor languages, especially that of the North-Eastern region and other indigenous communities. CIIL also plans to release language archive and children literature databank for the stakeholders of language education and academic researchers, he added.  G. Umamaheshwara Rao, president of LSI, said linguistic diversity may increase employment opportunities  Shailendra Mohan, Director, CIIL, said linguists must promote interaction and mutual understanding between people of different cultures and traditions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-mother-tongue-as-medium-of-education/article38009164.ece
22 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MMCRI gearing up to counter fears of third wave over Omicron threat||As the fear of a possible third wave lingers over the rise in Omicron cases, the healthcare infrastructure in Mysuru that handled the first two waves of COVID-19 is being ramped up. Experts of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) and hospitals attached to it have been asked to deal with any shortage and ramp up facilities, including procurement of essential drugs for treatment. As the demand for medical oxygen rose exponentially in the second wave, nearly 80% of beds in hospitals under MMCRI have been converted into oxygenated ones, establishing a dedicated channel for medical oxygen supplies. Another 6 kl oxygen tank is being set up at K.R. Hospital. K.R. Hospital, that was at the forefront of the fight, has ramped up beds with centralised oxygen supply. It now has 680 oxygenated beds and 80 beds with ventilators. This is in addition to 100 beds for non-COVID-19 patients, 10 ventilator beds for non-COVID-19 cases, and 150 oxygenated beds for paediatric care. MMCRI Dean and Director Dinesh told The Hindu that the new hospitals – the super speciality hospital and the trauma care center on KRS Road – have 100 oxygenated beds each. The super speciality hospital was converted into a COVID-19 hospital in the last wave when cases surged, and was designated to handle COVID-19 cases in children when preparations were being done a few months ago following fears of a third wave. It is equipped with 30 paediatric ventilators, 20 HDUs and 100 oxygenated beds. The ICU beds at the super speciality hospital were managed under PPP . Around 80 beds at PKTB have been converted into oxygenated beds for mild cases, Dr. Dinesh said, adding that procurement of drugs has been stepped up. There will be no shortage of drugs as all medicines will be made available to the patients. Even the manpower needs will be met as the required numbers would be outsourced and clearances in this regard would be taken from the government well ahead of time, he added. The MMCRI has also submitted a list of healthcare essentials to the State government for the requirement of the hospitals to combat the third wave. It is also making efforts to procure essential supplies such as paediatric ventilators under CSR initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mmcri-gearing-up-to-counter-fears-of-third-wave-over-omicron-threat/article38009167.ece
22 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. apathy led to death of pourakarmika’||The Aam Aadmi Party said in Mysuru on Tuesday that the death of a pourakarmika due to asphyxiation after he entered a manhole to clean the UGD is not just unfortunate but unforgiveable. It argued that the death would not have occurred if the government had strictly implemented the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation (PEMSR) Act, 2013. AAP Mysuru president Malavika Gubbivani said in a statement that the town municipal council and/or the government must rehabilitate the aggrieved family by providing them a government job. Strict action must also be taken against the person who made him enter the manhole. “Another reason for recurrence of such incidents is that the local bodies have failed to procure enough sucking machines for cleaning the manholes,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-apathy-led-to-death-of-pourakarmika/article38009165.ece
22 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MMCRI turns 100 in 2024||MMCRI, one of the country’s oldest medical colleges, will be completing 100 years in 2024. It was founded in 1924. The associations of old students and others have started drawing up plans for the celebrations. These will be discussed with the Minister for Health and Medical Education soon so that the works can be executed accordingly. As the college building and the attached hospitals – K.R. Hospital and Cheluvamba Hospital – are housed in heritage buildings and are in need of restoration without altering the original building architecture, the restoration is being timed ahead of the centenary celebrations. MMCRI has also sent a proposal on restoring its hospital buildings too, to the government, seeking approval and budget allocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mmcri-turns-100-in-2024/article38009166.ece
22 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||BJP’s women wing protest against Ramesh Kumar||The women’s wing of BJP held a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here against the former Speaker and MLA. K.R. Ramesh Kumar for what they labelled ‘an insensitive remark’ on rape and demanded a resignation from him. Lalitha Anpur, State vice president of the women’s wing, and Nagarathna Kuppi, who led the protest, said that, “Mr. Kumar made such a derogatory statement on women and the words he used about rape were insensitive. Thus, he should immediately resign from the post as MLA as he has no right to be there in the house,” they added. Veena Modi, district president, Prabhavathi Maruti Kalal, vice-chairman of Yadgir CMC, Sneha Rasalkar, Manjula Kattimani, Gangamma Shahapur, Sridevi Shettihalli, Nirmala Gogi, Kalpana Jain, Bheemabai, Manjula, Anjamma, Chandrika Swami and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjps-women-wing-protest-against-ramesh-kumar/article38008996.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘We’ll urge PM to ban MES’||He criticised the Congress for speaking in different voices about the MES. On the one hand, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah says the MES should be banned. But on the other hand, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar says we should not blame the MES before a police inquiry, he added. This shows that the KPCC president is trying to help his supporter Lakshmi Hebbalkar [Congress MLA] whose constituency has a significant number of voters who are supporters of the MES, he said. Earlier, Mr. Eshwarappa slipped while climbing the pedestal of the statue. But his staff helped him regain balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/well-urge-pm-to-ban-mes/article38008997.ece
22 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Rs. 745-cr. projects on in Kuttanad||The State government is implementing development projects worth Rs. 745 crore in Kuttanad and nearby areas, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has said. He was speaking at a high-level meeting convened to discuss issues pertaining to the Kuttanad region at the Rice Research Station, Mankombu, on Tuesday. Mr. Cherian said the government was trying to find lasting solutions to all major problems in Kuttanad with people’s participation in the next four-and-a-half years. Strengthening bunds The meeting, attended by Agriculture Minister P. Prasad, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine and other officials, decided to deepen canals and strengthen outer bunds of paddy polders in the region. The Irrigation department will initiate measures to renovate spillway shutters at Thottappally. Dilapidated roads will be repaired. The meeting also decided to complete land acquisition for the Kuttanad drinking project. Officials said the project work would commence in April 2022, with a completion deadline of two years. Measures to find a permanent solution to prevent frequent flooding in Kuttanad during the monsoon season, implementation of the second Kuttanad package, waterlogging caused by high tide in low-lying areas of Kuttanad, Aroor and Cherthala, among other issues, were discussed. Coordination committee A district-level coordination committee, with District Collector A. Alexander as chairman and District Development Commissioner K.S. Anju as convener, has been constituted to oversee the implementation of development projects in Kuttanad. Kuttanad MLA Thomas K. Thomas, Alappuzha district panchayat president K.G. Rajeshwari and various department heads are members of the committee. It will meet every month and review the progress of the project. Besides, ministerial-level review meetings will be held every three months. Ahead of the meeting, Mr. Prasad and Mr. Augustine visited various parts of Kuttanad and held discussions with farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-745-cr-projects-on-in-kuttanad/article38009111.ece
22 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Greens blame govt. policies for man-animal conflicts||The Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti (WPSS) has alleged that the persons who are responsible for the increasing man-animal conflict in the district are now trying to create insurgency in society. The recurring incidences of wildlife attacks had triggered panic among the villagers and it posed a serious threat to the life and property of the public, the organisation said in a release here. The leaders of successive governments should be held accountable for the present crisis as the wrong policies of the governments had led to it. The total forest area of the district was 1,100 sqkm, of which nearly 350 sqkm had been planted with teak and eucalyptus after clear-felling the natural forest. Teak had been planted on 50,000 hectares of forestland as mono-culture in the State, of which 36,000 hectares was in Wayanad, the organisation said. The remaining patches of forest land were now either covered with invasive alien plants such as Senna spectabilis and lantana or used for tourism. Cattle grazing was also so common inside the forest areas. Those issues led the disturbed wildlife entering adjacent human habitations in search of food and water. Now, the people’s representatives, including the MLA and a councillor of the ruling front, were motivating the public to attack the Forest personnel verbally and physically, the samiti alleged. Those representatives should answer the public what steps were adopted by their parties and governments to mitigate the man-animal conflict, instead of attacking the Forest personnel. When the government had invited suggestions from political parties, various organisations and NGOs on what steps were to be adopted to address the man-animal conflict in the district two months ago, all political parties and other organisations had kept silent, except the WPSS. Modern training The organisation also raised demands such as providing modern training to Forest personnel to meet any crisis, ensuring adequate compensation to farmers for their loss, setting up a Rapid Response Team in South and North forest divisions, and banning tourism as well as cattle grazing inside forest areas. Meanwhile, the search for the wandering tiger continued in the Begur and Tholpetty forest ranges under the North Wayanad forest and Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary divisions for the 21st day on Tuesday with two kumki elephants (trained elephants). But the trackers could not spot the animal. However, no animal kill by the tiger was reported in the area in the past five consecutive days, Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary warden S. Narendra Babu said. The tiger was not included in the database of the National Tiger Conservation Authority prepared in 2018. But its camera trap image was recorded from the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary in September 2021 during the recent national tiger census, Mr. Narendra Babu said, adding that its image was also captured in the Rajeev Gandhi National Park at Nagarhole in Karnataka in 2020. The combing would continue on Wednesday, Mr. Narendra Babu said. As many as 40 cameras traps, apart from a CCTV camera were installed inside the forest to monitor the movement of the elusive tiger, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-blame-govt-policies-for-man-animal-conflicts/article38009057.ece
22 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Second phase of UDF’s anti-SilverLine stir soon||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said the protest against the Left Democratic Front government’s flagship SilverLine rail project is mounting and the second phase of the United Democratic Front’s (UDF) agitation against it will be declared soon. Speaking to mediapersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Satheesan said the government was showing undue haste to implement the semi-high-speed rail project. People’s opposition to the project, undertaken by the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-Rail), was on the rise and the government should halt the land acquisition plan. He pointed out a self-immolation bid by a family protesting against the project in Kollam. Mr. Satheesan said the UDF began its agitation on December 18 after a detailed analysis of the project. The Opposition demand for a debate in the Assembly went in vain. The government was not ready for discussions and there was lack of transparency in the project and a lot to hide. On Tharoor’s stance “It is not possible to go on strike by convincing everyone. Shashi Tharoor did not support K-Rail. He said he would study the project and respond,” Mr. Satheesan said about Mr.Tharoor’s stance on the project. “After studying, Tharoor would clarify his position. The party is examining Mr. Tharoor’s statement on the issue,” he added.  The government is not ready for discussions and there is lack of transparency in the project and a lot to hide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-phase-of-udfs-anti-silverline-stir-soon/article38009127.ece
22 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Waterway project ill-conceived: Satheesan||Opposing the government’s decision to go ahead with creating an artificial inland waterway from Mahe to Valapattanam, several people staged a protest march to the Kannur collectorate on Tuesday. The protesters walked with their cattle, carried chairs, tables, and beds to mark their protest. Socio-environmental activists and political leaders cutting across party lines took part in the march called Kudiyiraka Dhuridayatra, which was organised by the Anti Artificial Inland Waterway Committee. Inaugurating the protest, Opposition Leader V.D. Satheesan said the government was going ahead with the project bypassing protocols. The project, which would displace people and create environmental destruction, had been approved without conducting a socio-environmental assessment study. He said the artificial inland waterway would require deep excavation of ground, which would affect the groundwater level and the saline water incursion would occur. More than the evicted people, those who live on the banks of the water course would be affected, he opined. Not just drinking water, even agriculture would be affected. “It is unfortunate that this government is implementing projects without any consultation and discussion with the Opposition parties and even people affected by the projects,” Mr. Satheesan said. The issue would be taken up in the Assembly and the government would have to give an answer, Mr. Satheesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waterway-project-ill-conceived-satheesan/article38009056.ece
22 December 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||NEP will nurture talent: President||President Ram Nath Kovind has said the task of the government is to help create the right environment in which young minds will be fired with creativity. The President, the chief guest at the fifth convocation ceremony of the Central University of Kerala (CUK) here on Saturday, said the National Education Policy (NEP) of 2020 was a well-planned roadmap to develop an ecosystem that would nurture talent of the young generation. The NEP’s aim was to prepare students for the world of tomorrow, while also equipping them with the best of India’s own traditions. Mr. Kovind said the outstanding feature of the NEP was that it aimed to promote both inclusion and excellence. Through its varied curricula, the NEP promoted liberal as well as professional education, because each stream of knowledge had a role to play in society and nation-building. “That way, the NEP can become instrumental for India to harness and reap the demographic dividend,” he said. Knowledge power Acknowledging Kerala, the President said the Union government had recommended the names of three cities for being listed in UNESCO’s Global Network of Learning and two of them were from Kerala. These two cities were Thrissur and Nilambur. Being part of this global network would support the achievement of sustainable development goals, especially the goal of ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting life-long learning opportunities for all, he said. He said knowledge power would determine the place of a nation in the global community and Kerala had led the other States on the critical parameters of literacy and education. . Mr. Kovind handed over gold medals to three graduates. A total of 742 students graduated in which 29 were awarded bachelor degrees, 652 postgraduate degrees, 52 PhD degrees, and nine PG diplomas. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan attended the ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nep-will-nurture-talent-president/article38009125.ece
22 December 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||MP, MLA decry exclusion from CUK event||Kasaragod MP Rajmohan Unnithan and Uduma MLA C.H. Kunhambu have expressed their displeasure over their exclusion from the convocation ceremony held at the Central University of Kerala at which President Ram Nath Kovind was the chief guest on Tuesday. ‘Saffronised’ Expressing his discontent on Facebook, Mr. Unnithan alleged that it had turned out to be a completely saffronised programme involving only BJP leaders. This was objectionable and completely undemocratic. University officials had also insulted the President by this. This extraordinary move by the Central University of Kerala was the latest example of how saffron culture had infiltrated the higher education sector in the country, he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Kunhambu wrote a letter to the Vice-Chancellor of the CUK expressing his dissatisfaction. Citing that he was the MLA of the area where the university was located, he expressed his displeasure being excluded from the ceremony. Mr. Kunhambu said that this was a continuation of the bad attitude adopted by the Central University authorities for some time. People’s representatives were important in Indian democracy. Democratic values were being abandoned and blind political allegiance was being expressed, he said. ‘Invites sent’ Meanwhile, the university clarified that invitations had been sent to the offices of the MP and MLA as they were unavailable in the district. Journalists too protested against exclusion of some of them from the event in the name of accreditation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-mla-decry-exclusion-from-cuk-event/article38009055.ece
22 December 2021||KHAMMAM,KERALA||Bodies of therapists fished out||The bodies of three Ayurveda therapists from Kerala, who drowned during a weekend trip to the NSP canal here at Danvaigudem on Sunday evening, were fished out from the irrigation canal on Tuesday after a dawn-to-dusk search operation by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel. Split into two separate teams, the NDRF personnel along with the local police launched the search operation in two small inflatable motor rescue boats early on Tuesday morning. They recovered the three bodies of Sonu Parakal, 35, Abhay, 25 and Vivek, 22, at different locations near V V Palem and Pedagopathi villages, about more than 5 km away from Danavaigudem, sources said. The family members and friends of Sonu, a senior manager of the Khammam branch of a Ayurveda hospital, wailed inconsolably as his body was fished out from the canal late on Tuesday afternoon. Boy saved His 11-year-old son Sharon narrowly escaped from drowning following timely rescue effort by Pradeep, a youth also from Kerala, on Sunday evening. Meanwhile, the Khanapuram Haveli police handed over the bodies of the trio to their relatives and friends after post-mortem on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bodies-of-three-therapists-fished-out-from-nsp-canal/article38009003.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vypeen fest lays out cultural potpourri||Scraping clean the highway-facing mildewed wall of the out-of-use Sujatha theatre in Elamkunnapuzha on the Vypeen island, a group of artists are drawing outlines along which some others are applying long handle paint rollers. The graffiti that’s taking shape is a contemporary style pot-pourri of Kerala’s folk performing arts along with the environs of the island endowed with mangroves, fish, outstretched beaches, the birds of the region and a vast sky. “We are just seamlessly blending them all in this graffiti,” says Manu Mohan Pallivathukkal, who’s leading a team of artists who’re creating 75 such street art pieces across the island. The month-long Vypeen Folklore Festival, which has been been under way for over a fortnight now, uses the island’s natural beauty from a tourism point of view. The cultural vistas and sprawling beaches such as the ones in Kuzhuppilly, Cherai, Valappu, Elamkunnapuzha, and Munambam come alive during the fest, says K.N. Unnikrishnan, MLA, and the force behind the festival. ‘Annual event’ While Fort Kochi hosts art of western origin, just a jhankar (ferry) ride away, the Vypeen island is hosting a festival of folk arts, dance and theatre. It has the potential to become an annual event, says Bonny Thomas, artist, writer and trustee of the Kochi Biennale Foundation, who coordinates the project. The multi-layered fest sees portraits of Vypeen natives and renaissance figures such as Sahodaran Ayyappan, A.G. Velayudhan, and M.K. Krishnan in the Government Arts and Science College. There are folklore-based films curated by filmmaker Kamal, food fests, theatre, kite-flying at Kuzhuppilly beach, folk songs, padayani and the like by the Folklore Academy besides ghazals. Mayor M. Anil Kumar is slated to inaugurate folk dance and theatre including Mappilappattu, Chavittunadakam, Theyyam and Thira at Bhagavathi Vilasam School at Nayarambalam on Wednesday. G. Sankara Pillai's one-act play is also scheduled to be staged there. The Kudumbashree-steered food fest, featuring delicacies acquired by the islanders from various cultures, will open at Kuzhupilly beach on Thursday. Mobile exhibition  Mr. Unnikrishnan says various State departments, academies and educational institutions have come together to support the festival held in collaboration with the panchayats in the island. The State Lalithakala Akademi is organising a mobile exhibition as part of the festival. A carol and ‘walk with Santa’ will also be held at the Our Lady of Perpetual Succour Church at Valappu on Thursday evening. A total of 101 Santas will be part of the procession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vypeen-fest-lays-out-cultural-potpourri/article38009076.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Noise levels high in residential areas near BPCL unit: PCB||The noise level in residential areas close to the Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) in Ambalamughal was found to exceed the permissible limits during night hours, according to a study conducted by the State Pollution Control Board (PCB). The agency had carried out sound monitoring in 10 residential areas based on a directive by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) after the residents complained of high noise pollution from the industrial unit. All the residential stations showed exceeding values of noise during the night time (standard 45 decibels for residential area). Except Kakkad, Adoorkara and Puliyampally, all other stations were showing exceeding concentrations of noise intensities (standard 55 decibels for residential area) during the day time, said the report. The board recommended having continuous ambient noise monitoring along the residential areas and other strategic points close to the industry in view of the allegations raised by the people that low sound levels were observed during the monitoring period. Since the operation of the industrial plants in question was on a 24x7-basis, surprise inspections should be strengthened,it said. The report said that there were certain practical hurdles in the monitoring or noise generated from such a large industrial unit. Hence it was decided to monitor sound intensities for minimum one hour at almost all the residential spots identified and other industrial premises. As per environmental clearance, the ambient noise levels in and around the plant areas during day/night time are 75/70 decibels. Along the residential areas, the ambient noise levels as per Noise Rules are 55/45 decibels during day and night times respectively. The company management said they were functioning as per the environment and safety standards prescribed by various statutory bodies. “We have also complied with all industry-relevant requirements,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/noise-levels-high-in-residential-areas-near-bpcl-unit-pcb/article38009084.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police stations need functional CCTVs: HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday expressed its dissatisfaction with a report filed by an Inspector General (IG) of Police on the progress of the investigation into a crime registered against a person who was allegedly chained to a railing of the Thenmala police station in Kollam when he sought receipt for a complaint lodged with the police. When the petition by K. Rajeev came up for hearing, Justice Devan Ramachandran orally observed that it was very unfortunate that a citizen who had come to make a complaint was chained to the railing and then slapped with the offence under Section 117 (e) of the Kerala Police Act for obstructing a police officer from discharging his duties. Police stations should not be allowed to function in this manner and that ‘this brutality will stop only when we have functional CCTV cameras there.’ Despite the court coming down heavily on the police, instances of police brutality were still being reported, the Judge observed. DySP’s inquiry In the report, the IG said the CCTV footage of the incident had to be retrieved and only then could the case against the petitioner be closed. The court observed that such a statement was fraught with some problems because had such footage been available at the time when the Deputy Superintendent of Police made an inquiry, the entire incident would have come out in the open. However, the officer was aware that the DySP had stated in his report that there were no such CCTV visuals even at the time of inquiry in May. Therefore, it could not understand how the IG now seeks to retrieve the CCTV visuals for completing the investigation. The court orally observed that the police were trying to keep the case pending against the complainant so that it could later bargain with him to drop his allegations against two officers, especially the ones who had chained and lodged the FIR against him. Will not permit it: Judge ‘‘I will not permit that,’’ the Judge said and added that because the police and the state were defending errant officers in this manner, they are "not scared of the rule of law". "If you want officers to be scared of the rule of law, then the state has to take strict action against them in such cases," the court added. The court directed the police to file an affidavit answering the claims of the petitioner for compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-stations-need-functional-cctvs-hc/article38009126.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||City suburbs come alive with tourism festivals||Tourism stakeholders are upbeat, thanks to a slew of tourism festivals that are on in the city suburbs, coinciding with the peak tourist season in the State. While the month-long Vypeen Folklore Fest began from December 1 at beaches and other destinations in the Goshree islands, the curtains went up on Monday for the Cheranalloor Village Tourism Fest that is being hosted till the end of the month. The fest that showcases Cheranalloor’s ethnic tourism potential is being hosted jointly by Kerala Tourism, Ernakulam District Tourism Promotion Council and Cheranalloor panchayat. A tree house surrounded by huts readied by members of the tribal community from Pooyamkutty, a food fest, an eating contest, amusement park, exhibition ground for birds, domestic animals, oxen and camels, and pavilions displaying bullock carts and similar modes of ferrying cargo that were in vogue till a few decades ago are among the attractions. There are also stalls selling forest and tribal produce, backwater fish and Kuttanad ducks. A State-level tug of war contest in which 32 teams will participate and one exclusively for women, staging of martial and traditional art forms like Kalaripayattu, Chavittunadakam, and Theechamundi Theyyam, a Kudumbasree arts fest would also be organised, said Cheranalloor panchayat president K.G. Rajesh. Cochin Carnival A total of 60 clubs are participating in the Cochin Carnival, the flag hoisting of which was conducted on Sunday. A bicycle speed race was held in the Fort Kochi-Kannamaly-Chellanam-Fort Kochi corridor, in sync with the carnival’s tradition of hosting sports, cultural and arts events. A Konkani song contest was held for the first time, as the Mattancherry-Fort Kochi region is a melting pot of different cultures, said P.J. Josey, treasurer and advisor of Cochin Carnival Society. The carnival that will end on December 31 with a contest for making papanjis , will see contests in kayaking, angling, quiz and treasure hunt. The popular beach bike race and the carnival procession have been cancelled, considering the difficulty in ensuring physical distancing. But a State-level wrestling match will be held on the Fort Kochi beach. A kolam contest and cultural events at Pallathu Raman Square, Vasco da Gama Square, Nehru Park, and Bastion Bungalow too are on the cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-suburbs-come-alive-with-tourism-festivals/article38009071.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bitra islanders make bumper catch of tuna||The islanders of Bitra in Lakshadweep were in for a surprise on Tuesday as they received around 4,000 tuna fish in a chakara catch, mudbank formation that brings in shoals of fish to the shore. C.G. Rafeeue, an islander, said this was the third chakara in recent times, but the biggest. Whenever the phenomenon occurred, the fish would be divided among the 330 or so people of the tiny island without going in for sale. The chakara was spotted at 8 a.m. and all people gathered to catch the fish. “The tuna will be pickled or dried and subsequently shipped in bulk to Beypore or Mangaluru for sale,” he said. Dried tuna was in great demand, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bitra-islanders-make-bumper-catch-of-tuna/article38009082.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rs. 2.12 crore disbursed as COVID ex-gratia in district||About Rs. 2.12 crore has been disbursed as ex-gratia for the kin/legal heir of those who died of COVID-19 in Ernakulam district. Around 424 applicants have received the assistance. About 1,436 applications were received before the district administration. Of this, 846 applications were resolved. The process of taking action on the remaining applications is progressing. The applications to get the relief have to be submitted online through www.relief.kerala.gov.in. The applications should be accompanied by copies of the death certificate/death certificate issued by the ICMR or death declaration document, ration card of the applicant, Aadhaar card and bank passbook and a document establishing the relationship of the applicant to the deceased. An official communication issued here on Tuesday said that the applications should not be rejected on the ground that it was not submitted by the beneficiary. Village officers concerned have to ensure that all eligible applicants receive the financial assistance. They need to process the application and provide it to the kin/legal heir of those who died of COVID-19. No application should be rejected without any valid reason. The guidelines drawn up by the ICMR for determining what constitutes a COVID-19 death is more inclusive and it states that deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a COVID-19 case will be treated as deaths due to COVID-19, even if the death takes place outside the hospital/in patient facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-212-crore-disbursed-as-covid-ex-gratia-in-district/article38009083.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KC(M) meet elects Usha Mohandas as chairperson||The Kerala Congress (B) unanimously elected Usha Mohandas as its chairperson at a meeting of the party State committee here on Tuesday. This is the first time the State committee meets after the demise of R. Balakrishna Pillai, former chairman and one of the founders of the united Kerala Congress, in May this year. She is the daughter of Balakrishna Pillai. Party working chairman and former MLA M. P. Mani said the election of Ms. Mohandas was unanimous. The meeting was attended by presidents of 10 district committees and party workers and leaders from all 14 districts. Districts presidents from Wayanad and Malappuram were among those who did not attend the meeting. Though the party’s constitution calls for the State committee to meet within six months of the chairman’s post falling vacant, the meeting had not taken place for seven months, said Paul Joseph, vice chairman. Mr. Mani hoped that the Left Democratic Front (LDF), of which the Kerala Congress (B) is now a part, would welcome the election of the chairperson even as K.B. Ganesh Kumar, son of Balakrishna Pillai, would continue in his position as a member of the State legislature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-meet-elects-usha-mohandas-as-chairperson/article38009134.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Concerns over losing Brahmapuram land||Alienating the land owned by the Kochi Corporation at Brahmapuram would cost the civic body dearly, warned Opposition councillors. The government’s decision permitting the firm selected for setting up the waste to energy plant to pledge the holding at Brahmapuram to raise funds would eventually lead to the civic body losing the holding, feared the councillors. The Opposition councillors highlighted the reported financial crisis into which the firm, which was earlier picked for setting up the plant in Kochi, has landed to prove its point. Once the firm, which pledges the property of the local body to raise funds, becomes bankrupt or runs into other issues, the property could be attached by the funding agencies to recover their money. Eventually, the civic body will be the loser, said Antony Kureethara, leader of the Congress in the Kochi Corporation Council. He also criticised the Mayor M. Anilkumar's request to the State Government to take back the land at Brahmapuram. The UDF was of the firm view that the holding should be retained with the local body, he said. Mr. Anilkumar said all the procedures including selection of the agency for the waste to energy plant were completed by the State Government much before the current regime was sworn in. As the bid had been finalised, there was not much room for negotiation. It was the inability of the previous council to set up a scientific and effective waste treatment plant that invited the intervention of the State Government in the issue, he said. The civic body was keen to restore its annual plan fund, which was being cut on account of the government spending for the purchase of the land at Brahmapuram. Care would be taken to ensure that the local body did not run into litigations and financial issues on account of the setting up of the facilities at Brahmapuram, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concerns-over-losing-brahmapuram-land/article38009080.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||President accorded warm reception||President Ram Nath Kovind was accorded a warm reception on his arrival at the Naval Airport here on Tuesday. The Air Force special flight carrying the President, his wife Savitha Kovind, and their daughter Swathi landed at the airport around 6.10 p.m. Mr. Kovind, who reached here from Kannur, was received by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, Mayor M. Anilkumar, MLA K.J. Maxi, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, District Collector Jafar Malik, District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju, Coast Guard Commander of Kerala and Mahe DIG N. Ravi, and State Protocol Officer B. Sunilkumar, according to an official communication. At SNC The President will view the operational demonstration of the Navy at the Southern Naval Command (SNC) here from 9.50 a.m on Wednesday. He will visit the Vikrant cell at the Naval Base. He will leave for Thiruvananthapuram from the Naval Airport at 10.20 a.m on Thursday. After attending various programmes, he will leave for New Delhi by 9.50 a.m. on December 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/president-accorded-warm-reception/article38009073.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CBI probe sought into RSS worker’s murder||A petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Tuesday seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the murder of RSS worker A. Sanjith allegedly by Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) workers in Palakkad on November 15. In her petition, S. Arshika from Kinassery, wife of the deceased, said the culprits behind the gruesome murder of her husband were still at large and the State police could not make any headway in their investigation despite the revelation about the involvement of SDPI and Popular Front of India activists in the crime. She pointed out that SDPI and PFI activists had committed similar murders in various parts of the country against RSS workers. These activists had roots abroad. The police had failed to conduct a proper and effective investigation into an earlier attempt on the life of her husband The investigation agency could have prevented the murder had it conducted a proper and effective investigation then. The police would not be able to zero in on the real culprits as the conspiracy was hatched beyond the jurisdiction of the State police and it had international ramifications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbi-probe-sought-into-sanjiths-murder/article38009085.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Online PF adalat in Jan.||The Kochi Regional PF office will hold an online adalat and grievances settlement meet “PF Near You” on January 10 from 3 p.m. Those who like to join the online adalat can submit details such as their UAN, PF account number/ PPO number, mobile phone number, Aadhaar and e-mail identity and details of the grievances they want addressed at pro.pfkochi@gmail.com before December 31. Applicants must mention “PF Near You” when they make their submissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pf-adalat/article38009072.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC issues notice on plea against parking fee at mall||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the State Government, Kalamassery Municipality, and the Lulu international shopping mall in Ernakulam on a writ petition against the collection of parking fees from customers. Justice N. Nagaresh issued the notice when a writ petition filed by Pauly Vadakkan, a filmmaker, came up for hearing. According to him, parking fees were collected from him when he had visited the mall. He alleged that he was threatened when he had initially refused to pay the fee. The petitioner contended that the management of the mall had no right to levy the parking fee. The parking area in a commercial complex was a public place meant for the customers visiting the commercial complex and the mall management could not collect parking fees. It was a violation of Rule 20 of the Kerala Building Rules and Section 475 of the Kerala Municipality Act. The petitioner sought a declaration that collection of parking fees by the mall was illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-issues-notice-on-plea-against-parking-fee-at-mall/article38009079.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No decision taken, says KMRL||With reference to the news report ‘KMRL to build 22-m road along Thripunithura metro corridor’ published in The Hindu on December 21, Kochi Metro Rail Limited has said that it has not taken any decision on this. “We have received a memorandum regarding this and no decision has been taken by the competent authority,” said the metro agency.  The Hindu had mentioned in the same report that the State government’s nod for the road project was awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-decision-taken-says-kmrl/article38009077.ece
22 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hashish oil seized, 2 held||Two persons were arrested for possessing hashish oil weighing 1 kg. The arrested were identified as Muhamad Aslam of Kakkanad and Clint Xavier of Thrissur. Aslam, a law student in Bengaluru, allegedly brought the contraband from Bengaluru. Xavier was arrested from Angamaly when he reached there to collect the narcotics drugs from Aslam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1-kg-of-hashish-oil-seized-2-held/article38009068.ece
22 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||New agri schemes to curb price rise||The State government has been implementing new schemes in the agricultural sector to curb post-pandemic price hike, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani said here on Tuesday. She was inaugurating a Christmas and New Year Fair opened at the Supplyco district depot compound. Interventions “While prices of essential commodities are soaring across the country, the State government has made effective interventions to prevent that. Supplyco fairs will curb surge in prices during the festival season. We also have mobile sales units that deliver essential items to the common man at reasonable rates,” said the Minister, who made the first sale. M. Naushad, MLA, who presided over the function, said the government was moving forward with measures to bring life back to normal while still fighting COVID-19. This year, a lucky draw and cash prizes had been introduced in the fair and the winners woould be selected from customers who buy maximum products, he said. Fair till Jan. 5 Former MLA Younus Kunju, taluk supply officer B. Wilfred, quality assurance assistant manager V.S Anuja and depot manager V. Baiju were among those present. The fair concludes on January 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-agri-schemes-to-curb-price-rise/article38009113.ece
22 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Aid for COVID deaths soon, says Collector||Financial assistance to the dependents of those who died due to COVID-19 will be handed over at the earliest, District Collector Afsana Parveen said here on Tuesday. Special camps will be organised at taluk level with the help of Akshaya centres for processing applications without delay. While the kin will receive an ex gratia assistance of Rs. 50,000, dependents who belong to the BPL category will be provided Rs. 5,000 per month for three years, the Collector said. Death declaration certificate is issued after verification of details of COVID-19 victims, and one of the dependents is required to apply online for the ex gratia payment. Upon receipt of the one-time password (OTP), registration can be completed by keying in the complete details of the deceased person and the heir (Aadhaar, ration card). Applications should be submitted on the website www.relief.kerala.gov.in .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-covid-deaths-soon-says-collector/article38009117.ece
22 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Math launches second instalment of COVID aid||The Mata Amritanandamayi Math here has launched the second instalment of a COVID-19 aid package on the occasion of AmritaSREE (Self-Reliance Education & Employment), its women’s empowerment programme, entering the 17th year. Currently, AmritaSREE comprises 15,000 groups with more than 2.5 lakh members in 21 States, and most members are from villages and isolated rural areas. The package consists of financial assistance, grocery kits and clothes worth Rs. 35 crore. Aid will also be provided to people affected by recent floods in the State, according to a press release here. Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Mata Amritanandamayi Math has provided close to Rs. 50 crores in direct financial assistance to AmritaSREE SHG members, the release added. “Many of the AmritaSREE members in different units have been able to put in money and start their own businesses. Many have been able to build houses for the homeless with profit from their businesses. Many were able to conduct weddings with the money. Many were able to give money to others for medical treatment. Even though those people did not have much, they were ready to contribute what they had earned through their hard work,” said Mata Amritanandamayi. C.R. Mahesh, MLA, was present on the occasion. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan attended the event virtually.  AmritaSREE comprises 15,000 groups with more than 2.5 lakh members in 21 States||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/math-launches-second-instalment-of-covid-aid/article38009114.ece
22 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Private hospital employees’ meeting held||A meeting of the State committee of the Kerala Private Hospital Employees Congress (INTUC) was held in Kollam on Tuesday. The union will soon launch State-wide protests demanding minimum wages and constitution of a welfare fund board, said the leaders. State committee president Mangalath V. Raghavan Nair presided over the function. Working president K.B. Shahal and vice president Mukhathala Gopinathan spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-hospital-employees-meeting-held/article38009115.ece
22 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||10 new study depts. at MGU||Establishing an e-library and an e-journal network for affiliated colleges and research centres, a chatbot system to address students’ grievances, an enterprise resource planning and internship programme for postgraduate and research students and the formulation of a volunteer team for social service figure prominently in the annual Budget of Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam, for the next year. The Budget, approved by the syndicate on Tuesday, envisages an expenditure of Rs. 6,24.35 crore against an income of Rs. 691.07 crore, with a deficit of Rs. 67.97 lakh. It seeks to offset the deficit in the form of an additional financial assistance from the government and through the mobilisation of additional resources.  Academic initiatives Key academic initiatives proposed in the Budget include opening of 10 new study departments, formulation of a consortium involving scientists and teachers, rating of affiliated colleges and establishing knowledge networks and centres of excellence, among other things. Taking a cue from the services rendered by the various NCC and NSS units in disaster-hit regions over the years, the Budget proposes to put in place a permanent volunteer force under the banner MGU Team On Spot. Any healthy person aged between 18 and 30 may volunteer to join. Cash awards The Budget proposes institution of cash awards to the best performing colleges in the annual youth festival and to the best NCC unit. A special package for sports events, cash awards to colleges that perform at the national and international stage, construction of an indoor stadium and indoor badminton court are proposed. As part of modernising the examination system, the examination manual will be revised, while an enterprise resource planning will be executed through the Information Technology (IT) cell. Information kiosks and online examination centres too will be established. A campus fitness drive will be launched for colleges, while the non-teaching staff will be given special training by the varsity’s human resources centre. The Budget also proposes a single-window admission to programmes with no common entrance tests and the organisation of a global academic carnival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-new-study-depts-at-mgu/article38009105.ece
22 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KPPL to begin operations on January 1||Marking the end of a long process involving complex legal disputes, the defunct Hindustan Newsprint Limited at Velloor will resume operations as Kerala Paper Products Limited (KPPL) on January 1. According to Industries Minister P. Rajeeve the new company under the State government will achieve full-scale operation in four phases over a period of 46 months and the unit will be able to provide employment to more than 3,000 people upon being fully operational. A three-member board comprising Industries Secretary A.P.M. Mohammad Haneesh, Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) Managing Director Santosh Koshy Thomas and special officer Prasad Balakrishnan, will lead its operations. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will do the formal inauguration of the unit in May next year. “A sum of Rs. 34.3 crore has been allotted for modernisation of the factory. In the second phase, production will start in three to six months at an expenditure of Rs. 44.9 crore and it also requires a working capital of Rs. 75.15 crore,” the Minister said adding the factory will run its operations on a trial basis in the first few months. Imported pulp “The company will mostly use imported pulp. Small quantities of recycled pulp, virgin pulp and mechanical pulp will be used for paper making. The third phase will require an investment of Rs. 650 crore and the company will see a significant change in profits in nine months. After the commencement of operations, funds will be raised through the company's own system and with the support of banks,” Mr. Rajeeve said adding the company is expected to churn in profits worth Rs. 350 crore with a production of 3.50 lakh tonnes in the fourth phase in 17 months. While the production will begin with newsprint, it will be diversified into premium paper products including tissue paper in the subsequent phases. In the final phase, it is expected to become a leading company with a turnover of Rs. 3,200 crore. Meanwhile, the Minister clarified that the company had been taken over after paying all dues as per the resolution plan for the old company and hence the new company would not take up any liabilities of the existing employees. “Depending on the nature of the work, the company will hire workers on a contract or daily basis with due consideration to the outgoing workforce,” he said. The State government took over the company after the Union government initiated plans to privatise the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kppl-to-begin-operations-on-january-1/article38009129.ece
22 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut-Southeast Asia flights found unviable||An ambitious plan of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to open a window to Southeast Asia from Malabar region via the Calicut International Airport is unlikely to work with the experimental service of the Air India Express flights operated via Tiruchirapally to Singapore for a month failing to yield the desired results. As part of network planning and collecting data, Air India Express had operated a weekly service from Calicut via Singapore in November. Approximately, 20 passengers from Calicut took each flight to Singapore. The flight departed on Thursdays from Calicut at 7.15 p.m. and arrived at 4 a.m. the next day in Singapore. The return flights arrived at Calicut at 8.15 p.m. on Fridays. “The experiment was unsuccessful for many reasons. Unlike Tiruchirappally, Calicut is not an East-bound airport. Then again, passengers, both tourists and business class, may not opt for weekly flights. Besides, the flights were operated during the COVID-19 pandemic with Singapore imposing travel restrictions,” R. Mahalingam, Calicut Airport Director, told The Hindu on Tuesday. West-bound airport He said Calicut was basically a West-bound airport whereas flights from Tiruchirappally to Singapore and Malaysia were usually fully booked. “In fact, Air Asia, the low-cost airline headquartered near Kuala Lumpur, operated its first India flight from Tiruchirappally sensing the potential of the sector”, he said. Two years ago, proposals had been sent to Air Asia, Malindo Air, Malaysia Airlines, Tiger Airways, and Scoot to operate at least one non-stop direct flight from Calicut to Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. This was mooted so that flyers would also take connecting flights to other destinations including Manila, Seoul, and Bangkok. However these proposals failed to take off. He said Calicut airport was carefully looking at options of improving domestic connectivity. Now flights are available to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-southeast-asia-flights-found-unviable/article38009062.ece
22 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. council has no achievement to show: UDF||The UDF councillors of Kozhikode Municipal Corporation have alleged that the present council was far worse than the previous one in matters of executing developmental activities. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, the UDF council party leader K.C. Shobhita said that the new council had nothing to show as an achievement a year after it came to power and that no developmental activity had taken place in any of the wards in the past one year. The corporation had come up with a hygiene protocol and had been holding training classes one after another. The officials were always occupied in these classes or some other work associated with it, that had nothing to do with their actual job. As a result, they had been unable to complete their actual job, Ms. Shobhita said, pointing out that the revenue inspectors had not been able to collect more than 20% of the taxes so far. The waste-to-energy plant that was announced much earlier, had reached nowhere. In fact, waste dumping had now reached the gate of Njeliyanparamba and may soon spill over. Other local bodies, such as Mavoor panchayat had built many homes for the landless and homeless people under the PMAY scheme. Here, the corporation had not even been able to identify land for the purpose, Ms. Shobhita said. The “never ending” renovation of the corporation office was also raised at the press meet. Ms. Shobhita said that the estimated cost was Rs. 9 crore in the beginning. But now, the corporation had spent more than Rs. 19 crore with no result to show. “There is a need to check the quality of the work done also. The designs are unscientific and not adequate for the employees, who are struggling to fit into the facilities provided”, Ms.Shobhita said. The incomplete work of automated street lights under KEONICS was also brought up. The councillors still have to point out which lights were not functioning, even though the company claimed that it would be detected automatically. Ms. Shobhita questioned why the LDF-led corporation did not pressure the LDF-led State Government to return the money it had lost as the government withdrew the pension funds and SC/ST funds from the corporation’s accounts. IUML council party leader K.Moideen Koya said that despite many unauthorised buildings coming up, the corporation was losing its cases in the court. He also questioned the lack of action in connection with the closing down of Mahila Mall. “However, the loans taken by the Unity Group that ran the Mahila mall, may soon be written off”, he said. The UDF is organising a protest against the slow pace of development on January 22. Opposition leader in the Legislative Assembly, V.D. Satheesan, will inaugurate the protest at 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-council-has-no-achievement-to-show-udf/article38009064.ece
22 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Salary slashed by half, allege guest teachers||Around 200 guest teachers in government higher secondary schools in Malabar region have alleged denial of salary after resumption of offline classes. They also claimed they were being paid a paltry sum when the pandemic forced academic sessions to the online mode earlier. A guest teacher working in a government higher secondary school in Wayanad district said on Tuesday that those hired as senior teachers were asked to work for six days and junior teachers three or four days a week. Senior teachers are to be paid Rs. 1,455 and juniors Rs. 1,209 a day. He alleged that some of the principals had held an unofficial meeting at the Regional Deputy Director’s office in Kozhikode and decided that since these teachers were attending classes only till the afternoon, they should be given only half of the salary. This was applicable to the teachers in Kozhikode, Kannur, and Wayanad districts. “There is no government order to this effect. Though the classes are there only till the afternoon, most of us wind up the academic work only by the evening,” he said. When classes were being held in the online mode, these people were paid Rs. 2,000 a month from the PTA fund. A junior guest teacher from Kozhikode district said that her principal had bluntly told her that it was not possible to give a full day’s salary. Incidentally, the guest teachers in lower primary, upper primary, and high school classes are given full day’s salary, she said. Sources in the Regional Deputy Director’s office said there was some lack of clarity about the salary payment of teachers appointed on daily wages who are handling the classes earlier handled by principals. An official said that these temporary appointments were actually yet to be ratified by the Higher Secondary Education section. A clarification had been sought from the government on the issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/salary-slashed-by-half-allege-guest-teachers/article38009065.ece
22 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Senior citizens protest against cancellation of benefits by Railways||The Senior Citizens’ Friends Welfare Association will conduct protests at every major railway station in the State from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Thursday against the “anti-elderly” policies of the Central Government and demanding that the benefits for them that have been cancelled in the Railway should be reinstated. State president of the association, V.A.N. Namboothiri, told reporters here on Tuesday that the Railways had withdrawn the benefit in ticket fares to the elderly on March 20, 2020. The move was taken under the pretext of discouraging senior citizens from travelling at a time when COVID was spreading fast. However, there were reports that the move was in fact to compensate for the losses incurred by the Railways. The Railways used to give 50% off ticket fares to women above 58 years of age and 40% off to men who were aged 60 and above. The Railways claimed in the Madras High Court recently that it had lost Rs. 5,475 crore by means of such relaxations to the elderly and others during 2016-2019. “Now that the COVID restrictions have been relaxed and more trains have started running regularly, why can’t the Railways reinstate the benefits to the elderly”, Mr. Namboothiri questioned. The association also complained that the Railways no longer provided the lower berths to senior citizens by default and that they needed to apply separately for it, while booking their tickets. It also raised a suspicion that the cut in benefits was to aid the slow privatisation of Indian Railways. The protest at the Kozhikode Railway Station will be inaugurated by former MLA, A. Pradeep Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-citizens-to-protest-against-cancellation-of-railway-benefits/article38009069.ece
22 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Seminar on Centre’s labour codes||Legal activist Prashanth Bhushan will inaugurate a seminar on ‘Central labour codes’ being organised by the Federation of Indian Trade Unions at K.P. Kesava Menon Hall in Kozhikode on Thursday. National president of the federation Razak Paleri told reporters here on Tuesday that the seminar was part of the nation-wide labourers’ protest from December 1 to 31 demanding cancellation of the labour codes, controlling fuel prices, reinstating cooking gas subsidies, creating job opportunities and stopping sale of PSUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seminar-on-centres-labour-codes/article38009063.ece
22 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||P.A. Ibrahim Haji passes away||Prominent non-resident Indian businessman and entrepreneur P.A. Ibrahim Haji, 78, died at a private hospital here on Tuesday morning. The Haji had suffered a stroke in Dubai on December 11 and he was admitted at Dubai Healthcare City. Later he was moved to Kozhikode in an air ambulance. He was one of the directors of Muslim Printing and Publishing Company Limited which brings out Chandrika , the organ of the Indian Union Muslim League; founder vice chairman of Malabar Gold and Diamonds; founder chairman of the Pace Group, a leading educational group; and vice chairman of Indus Motor Company. Born to Abdullah Haji and Ayesha on September 6, 1943 in Pallikara, Kasaragod, Ibrahim Haji had moved to the Gulf in 1966. Later he became successful in the field of textiles, jewellery and garments. He entered the education sector in 1999 through the Pace Group. It has grown into a large group of thousands of teachers and staff. About 20,000 students from 25 countries study there. The Pace Group has operations in India, the UAE and Kuwait. In Kerala, Kannur RIMs International School and Manjeri Pace Residential School are educational institutions owned by the Haji. His body was buried at Manjeri Vettekkad Juma Masjid graveyard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pa-ibrahim-haji-passes-away/article38009123.ece
22 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||PMSSY block to be inaugurated in January||Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya has promised M.K. Raghavan, Kozhikode MP, that the inauguration of the building block constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, would be held in January. Mr. Raghavan said in a release on Tuesday that the Centre had allocated Rs. 120 crore for the construction of the seven-storey building. Mr. Mandaviya told the MP that the date of inauguration would be fixed after consulting the Prime Minister. Ayurvedic and homeopathy treatment would begin at the Central Government Health Scheme Wellness Centre in Kozhikode city. More private hospitals would be empanelled for treatment there. Mr. Mandaviya said that follow-up action would be taken as soon as the State Government handed over land for the setting up of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Balussery in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pmssy-block-to-be-inaugurated-in-january/article38009066.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||152 species spotted in bird race||Eight teams exploring bird diversity as part of the Thiruvananthapuram Bird Race 2021 reported 152 species of birds from eight sites in and around Thiruvananthapuram. Rare birds such as the chestnut-winged cuckoo, Eurasian blackbird, black baza, and the orange-breasted green pigeon were also observed by birders who visited Bonacaud forests, Arippa forests, Kallar-Ponmudi forests, Palode forests, Akkulam-Veli wetland complex, Punchakkari wetlands, Kottoor forests, and the bird-rich areas of the city on Sunday. Palode tops The highest count was from Palode — 84 species. The bird species observed in the Ponmudi forests numbered 64, Arippa 40 species, Bonacaud 44, Kottoor forests 50 , Akkulam-Veli wetland 56, and Punchakkari wetlands 54 species. The city zoo compound, paddy fields near Kesavadasapuram, and the Kannammoola thodu located in the city yielded 32 species. A data and experience-sharing get-together was held later at the YMCA here. Sanjayankumar, Chief Conservator of Forests, Southern Circle, Kerala Forests and Wildlife department, Kollam, was the chief guest. Forests in Kerala, he said, were better protected, either as protected areas or reserve forests, and hence the biodiversity within them too. However, this was not the case with biodiversity outside forests, mainly because the varied habitats lay in pockets across the State, including coastal area, waterbodies, mangroves, sacred groves, and so on. Volunteering for citizen science initiatives of documenting biodiversity was very significant for long-term protection of such biodiversity-rich habitats, he said. 15th year Renjan Mathew Varghese, State Director (Kerala), WWF India, said the Thiruvananthapuram Bird Race, part of the volunteer engagement programme of WWF-India and the green partnership programme of the Social Forestry Division of Kerala Forests and Wildlife department, was now in its 15th year. Besides visiting birding hotspots, observing the birds and overall positive and negative changes in habitat, and documenting these, the bird race had been able to attract many youngsters to nature and birdwatching and develop a cadre of bird experts in the city. Koshy M. George, president, YMCA, Thiruvananthapuram chapter; Reji Kunnumpuram, chairman, public relations, YMCA; and A.K. Sivakumar, Senior Education Officer of WWF-India and coordinator of the bird race, spoke. Experiences Sharing its experience, the birding team that visited the Punchakkari wetlands expressed grave concern over the habitat loss and degradation owing to drastic land use changes and recent heavy rain. Another team observed that the NCESS campus, near Akkulam Lake, was rich in bird diversity as compared to the open Akkulam wetland area on the other side of the road, now a dump for waste. Less disturbance There was less disturbance in the Kallar-Ponmudi forests owing to tourism closures, and bird activity was pretty high. Seven species of birds of prey, including the migratory booted eagle, were observed at Ponmudi. Bonacaud was also quieter owing to low maintenance of tea plantations and less human intervention. However, the bird count in the Arippa forests was slightly lower as compared to earlier observations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/152-species-spotted-in-bird-race/article38009228.ece
22 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||50% roadwork in two months||Nearly half of the ongoing Smart Road works in the capital is expected to be completed by February, providing some respite to passengers who have been facing difficulties due to the closure of key connecting roads in the city. However, some of the other roadworks are likely to take some more months to complete. Out of the 40 stretches of Corporation roads, totalling 9.87 km, work has begun only on 15 stretches of 3.2 km. Work on the rest of the stretches will be taken up only after completion of the ongoing work, to avoid more difficulties to road users. The major component of the Smart Road project will be the 36.94 km of around 50 stretches of roads under the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) in the core city area. Work on close to 10 of these roads has already begun. Underground cables The Smart Road work involves shifting of all cables, including electrical utility cables, telecom cables, digital TV cables and optical fibre cables, to underground ducts. Manholes are provided at 30 m intervals. Ducting and manhole works as well as the surfacing of Manaveeyam Veedhi as well as the Charithra Veedhi in Fort are expected to be completed by the end of January. However, work on the culture street on Manaveeyam Veedhi, which involves the construction of a permanent stage and related electrical works, is likely to take six more months. Traffic will be allowed through this stretch once the surfacing is completed. The roadworks and cultural street works are being handled by different contractors. Lack of experience According to officials of Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited, there have been challenges for the contractors too, as not many are experienced in Smart Road works. “Till now, there have been only a few Smart Road works with underground ducting taken up in the country. Even these are mostly small stretches serving as model roads, to be replicated on larger stretches in the future. We are one of the few cities to take up 45 km of Smart Road works within the city. Some of the work is complicated as we are not sure of the drainage and other networks which are passing underground. The narrow roads near residential areas, especially inside the Fort area as well as the Mathrubhumi Road, have proved to be challenging. The excavations have to be done carefully, as damage to existing networks can lead to us losing time in rectification work,” said an official. The Smart Road project has been delayed due to a ban on excavations during rain, which meant that many days of work were lost during the incessant rain that hit the State in recent times. The limitations on the maximum number of workers allowed, as part of COVID-19 protocols, also contributed to delays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50-roadwork-in-two-months/article38009232.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||75% of eligible in State fully vaccinated||The proportion of eligible persons in the population (above 18 years) who have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 has reached 75%. A total of 97.38% of those above 18 years (2,60,09,703) has been administered at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 75% (2,00,32,229) received both the doses. The proportions are way ahead of the national average of 88.33% first dose and 58.98% of second dose. No scarcity There is no vaccine scarcity in the State and a buffer stock of over 10 lakh doses have been maintained. Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Ernakulam, Wayanad and Kannur districts have achieved nearly 100% first dose coverage. 98% in capital Malappuram has achieved a coverage of 99%, Thiruvananthapuram 98%, and Kottayam and Kozhikode districts have 97% first dose coverage. Wayanad has fully vaccinated 85% of its eligible population, followed by Pathanamthitta with 83% coverage. 91% health-care workers Among health-care workers, 91% is fully vaccinated and front-line workers, 93% and COVID front-line workers Those who are due for the second dose should not delay it, Health Minister Veena George has appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/75-of-eligible-in-state-fully-vaccinated/article38009240.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SDPI accuses State police of witch-hunt, high-handedness||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has accused the State police of witch-hunt. At a press conference here on Saturday, SDPI State general secretary Ajmal Ismael alleged the Alappuzha police had forced SDPI workers detained in connection with the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ranjith Sreenivas to chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’. He termed the detention illegal and said the police had tortured the SDPI workers in custody. Mr. Ismael demanded action against the errant officers. He linked the murder of SDPI State secretary K.S. Shan in Alappuzha to the presence of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader Valsan Thillankeri in the district for a few days before the crime. He accused Mr. Thillankeri of orchestrating the murder. Mr. Thillankeri has since denied the SDPI allegation and called it a baseless insinuation prompted by political enmity. The Alappuzha police behaved in a discriminatory manner towards SDPI workers. They have detained scores of party workers. SDPI district secretary Salam was in illegal police custody for several days, Mr. Ismael said. He said the SDPI would march to the Secretariat on Wednesday in protest against police high-handedness. SDPI State vice president Thulasidharan Pallickal would inaugurate the rally. State general secretary Roy Arackal would preside. State general secretary P.K. Usman and State secretary P.R. Siad would address the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sdpi-accuses-state-police-of-witch-hunt-high-handedness/article38009131.ece
22 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to ensure water supply on outskirts||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has made arrangements for providing 24 hours of water supply on alternate days at Vizhinjam, Kottappuram, Azhakulam, Mukkola, Mulloor, Kovalam, Vellar, Thiruvallam Punchakkari and parts of Venganoor. The new system will become effective on December 23, with supply from the Azhakulam tank to Mulloor, Vizhinjam, Kottappuram, Azhakulam and Mukkola in the first 24 hours and Venganoor, Kovalam, Vellar, Thiruvallam and Punchakkari in the next 24 hours. Following complaints The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by the KWA Managing Director with executive engineers to discuss the complaints regarding drinking water availability in these areas. Currently, supply is being provided from Vellayani Lake. The new arrangements are being made as the existing system was found to be insufficient to meet the increased number of water supply connections in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-ensure-water-supply-on-outskirts/article38009234.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More help at hand for differently abled kids||The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has launched 1,500 special care centres to provide individual support to differently abled children studying in State schools. The special care centres are set up in schools that have differently abled students and adequate space. Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, had appointed special educators in schools to support teachers by providing adapted learning materials. However, the number of special educators – just 2,886 – is very low as compared to that of differently abled students. Academic support The specialisation of special educators, deployment pattern of children to schools, and lack of suitable learning material are some of the other challenges. Not all the differently abled students attending school as part of inclusive education are able to participate in the learning process fully for health or treatment reasons or attain the learning outcomes that other children do. The special care centres are aimed at providing such students individual support in addition to what they learn in the classroom. The centres provide academic support to all differently abled children in State schools in a panchayat. Not more than five children attend the special centres at a time. The centres usually function in the afternoon, but on Saturdays are open from the morning. Hence, children whom special educators are not able to reach out to during a week can attend the centres on Saturday. Learning material Learning material suited to each category of disability is made available at these centres. Therapies that are provided through the 169 autism centres in the State are also being decentralised and made available through these care centres for better access and effectiveness. Children with the same category of disability are given the same time slots for providing additional support. Parents of children receiving home-based education are given orientation at these centres how to become actively involved in their wards’ academic and skill development. Samagra Shiksh hopes to attain the target of 2,000 special care centres. These centres are also expected to help bring to public attention the academic, infrastructural, and social requirements or problems of these children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-help-at-hand-for-differently-abled-kids/article38009118.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,748 fresh cases, 3,202 recoveries in the State||The State reported 2,748 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 56,808 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The cumulative COVID-19 burden now stands at 52,22,567 cases. The active case pool has now shrunk to 28,035 patients, of whom, 8.8% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals. A total of 3,202 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Monday. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 45,155 on Tuesday with the State adding 233 deaths to the list. The current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals was 520 on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 184. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 500, followed by Kozhikode 339, Ernakulam 333, Kottayam 310, Thrissur 244, Kannur 176, Kollam 167, Pathanamthitta 166, Wayanad 107, Alappuzha 106, Malappuram 97, Palakkad 86, Idukki 61, Wayanad 46, and Kasaragod 56 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2748-fresh-cases-3202-recoveries-in-the-state/article38009132.ece
22 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to identify the poorest under way||The process to identify five lakh of the poorest families in the State, as part of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s programme to alleviate acute poverty, is progressing and will be completed as per schedule, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said. For the smooth conduct of the process, a nodal officer has been appointed at the State level while committees have been formed at the district, block, local body and ward levels. Enumeration teams have been appointed. Training is currently being provided to around four lakh officials, people’s representatives, resource persons and super-check team members to ensure that none of the deserving families are left out or undeserving included. A total of 49,501 focus group discussions have been completed, through which 42,512 people have been included on the probables list. Enumeration of 19,998 people out of this has been completed. After the completion of each phase, 20% of the entries will be super checked and objections addressed. The final list will be published after clearance from the grama sabha and the respective local body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-identify-the-poorest-under-way/article38009120.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Food safety checks held||The Food Safety Department conducted inspections at bakeries and restaurants at Aruvikkara, Nedumangad and Vamanapuram in connection with Christmas and New Year. This follows the Food Safety Commissioner’s directions to intensify raids in view of the festive season. Inspections were held in 32 establishments. Notices were issued and fine imposed on five units that had not renewed their licence, bakeries that had stored milk that was past its ‘use by’ date and hotels that had stored artificial food colours. The inspections were led by senior food safety officer Sakkeer Hussain A. and food safety officers Indu V.S. and Arshitha Basheer. The inspections will continue till December 31, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-safety-checks-held/article38009223.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Utilise opportunities fully, women told||Women should try to utilise fully the opportunities in front of them, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. She was speaking here on Tuesday after inaugurating a job fair organised by the Kerala Knowledge Economy Mission for women who had taken career breaks. The Collector said women often had to give up jobs they desired owing to family issues and pressure from kin. Many a time they did not get an opportunity to select their line of work. Only if women were able to overcome such pressures would they become successful in life. Such job fairs were a platform provided by the government to equip women to take such a step, she said. New skills She pointed out that many women were still unable to come out of the cycle of marriage, children, and household chores. Despite good education, they were not entering job sectors accordingly. During the pandemic, many opportunities were there in call centres, malls, home delivery, online sales and so on. There were opportunities to learn new skills through various online classes. Whatever time they got should be used productively. The district administration had a huge responsibility to equip them for this, she said. Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation managing director Bindu V.C. presided over the job fair at the LBS Institute of Technology, Poojappura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/utilise-opportunities-fully-women-told/article38009229.ece
22 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Roadwork at Kallattumukku to be completed soon||The first phase of the ongoing roadwork at Kallattumukku to address waterlogging issues in the area will be completed at the earliest, Minister for General Education and Labour V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking to reporters after assessing the work on Tuesday. The Kallattumukku road, along the Attakulangara-Kovalam route, has been getting waterlogged even during light rain, causing trouble to road users and people in the area. Mr. Sivankutty had visited the area, which is located in his constituency, along with Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas, soon after taking charge, and directed Public Works Department officials to formulate a project to address the issues. Comprehensive project Following this, a comprehensive project at a cost of Rs. 7.5 crore was prepared to prevent flooding and another Rs. 25-lakh project for paving the damaged section of the road with inter-locking tiles. The roadworks are currently progressing. The project to prevent flooding would begin as soon as all the sanctions are secured, said Mr. Sivankutty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/roadwork-at-kallattumukku-to-be-completed-soon/article38009233.ece
22 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three shops gutted in fire at Kumarapuram||Three shops were gutted after a fire broke out near Kumarapuram on Tuesday afternoon. According to information from the Chacka fire station, the fire was reported at a fancy store around 3.30 p.m. Three fire tenders from the Chacka station and one unit from the Chenkalchoola station were rushed to the spot. By the time the Fire and Rescue Services personnel reached the spot, the fire had spread to two other adjoining shops, including a medical store. The team managed to put out the fire within one hour. Short circuit A short circuit in one of the shops is suspected to have caused the fire. Most of the materials stored in the shops were destroyed in the fire. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel were led by Station Officer K.N. Shaji and Assistant Station Officer F. Suresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-shops-gutted-in-fire-at-kumarapuram/article38009235.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||GST officials bust Rs. 500-cr. tax evasion racket||The State GST department has arrested an areca nut trader from Malappuram on the charge of tax evasion amounting to about Rs. 500 crore by submitting bogus bills to claim input tax credit. Arrested from Thrissur Officials of the GST investigation wing led by Johnson Chacko, Deputy Commissioner, Investigation wing, Ernakulam; and Jyothilakshmy, Intelligence Officer, IB wing, Thrissur, arrested the main accused in the case from Thrissur. The department said the arrest had blown the lid off one of the major tax evasion rackets since the GST regime came into being. Last month, GST officials had carried out raids in Palakkad, Malappuram and Thrissur and collected evidence about the racket. The accused reportedly had benami GST registration in several States that was used to create bogus bills for tax evasion for areca nut trading in Palakkad, Malappuram, Kasaragod and Thrissur districts. He has been booked under Section 69 of the GST Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-officials-bust-tax-evasion-racket/article38009067.ece
22 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VC posting: Chennithala disagrees with Bindu’s claim||Reiterating his allegation that Higher Education Minister R. Bindu has violated norms by recommending the reappointment of Kannur University Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran, former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has disagreed with her claim that she was well within her authority as Pro Chancellor to express her views to the Chancellor. Taking a swipe at the Minister, the senior Congress leader accused her of feigning ignorance regarding her responsibilities and powers in the functioning of universities. She is not empowered to submit her recommendations to the Governor on such matters. Academic autonomy “Universities enjoy complete academic autonomy and do not function as part of the Secretariat. The Minister does not have any role in choosing Vice Chancellors. Besides, the position of the Pro Chancellor is merely ornamental and held no special powers,” he said. He also claimed that the Chancellor too had a limited role in selecting Vice Chancellors. He could only select from among a panel submitted by the selection committee formed for the purpose, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-disagrees-with-bindus-claim/article38009109.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Helicopter tours at Kovalam||With the aim of offering a memorable New Year to holidayers, the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) is arranging helicopter tours at the popular beach destination of Kovalam. Visitors will get to enjoy a sweeping view of the Kovalam beach, Arabian sea, and the capital city on December 29, 30, 31 and January 1 . The project has been conceived by the DTPC keeping in mind the possibilities of helicopter tourism. A helicopter can be chartered by families or friends at low rates as compared to that in foreign countries. The DTPC is implementing the project in association with the tour operator, Holiday Shop. There was great scope for helicopter tourism in the State, DTPC secretary Sharon Veettil said. For details and bookings, call: 99610 41869, 99611 16613.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helicopter-tours-at-kovalam/article38009224.ece
22 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||500 COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 500 COVID-19 cases and 343 recoveries on Tuesday. The number of active cases stood at 5,399. The test positivity rate was 6.6%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/500-covid-cases-in-capital/article38009230.ece
22 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Brothers held on charge of ganja peddling||The Fort police on Tuesday arrested two brothers from Karimadom colony for allegedly peddling ganja. The police identified the accused as Haja, 38, and Raji, 37. They have been accused of supplying ganja in the colony and various parts of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brothers-held-on-charge-of-ganja-peddling/article38009231.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel to manage human-wildlife conflict||The State government has constituted an inter-departmental coordination committees at the district and State levels to manage human-wildlife conflict. The committees would focus on deterring wildlife crime and ensure coordinated action against those who capture, kill or snare wildlife outside forests. The committees would ensure better intelligence gathering and have a stake in deciding the quantum of award to farmers who lost crops and stock to marauding wildlife. They would work in tandem with the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau. The committees would review the cases of revenge killings of wildlife for raiding farmlands and ensure prompt legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-manage-human-wildlife-conflict/article38009106.ece
22 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Train services being restored in phases||The restoration of train services in the Thiruvananthapuram division of Southern Railway will continue in a phased manner and steps will be taken to provide the best possible passenger amenities, a meeting of the Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee was informed on Tuesday. Committee members raised several demands, including doubling of tracks, introduction of additional train services, addition of unreserved coaches, additional stops, and more amenities and infrastructure at railway stations. Punctuality Divisional Railway Manager R. Mukund who chaired the meeting said the division was committed to meeting passenger expectations and ensuring safety, security and punctuality. Nominees of MPs, MLAs, the Chamber of Commerce, registered passenger associations, Handicapped Welfare Corporation, and Railway Board attended the meeting held on a virtual platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-services-being-restored-in-phases/article38009121.ece
22 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Body of newborn found||Body of a newborn baby was found in a canal near here on Tuesday. The body was found in a carry bag in the canal on the Punkunnam-Kuttur MLA road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-newborn-found/article38009191.ece
22 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Route map of Omicron patient being prepared||The condition of a woman who has tested positive for the Omicron variant of SARS -CoV-2 has been reported to be stable. Omicron was confirmed in an 18-year-old woman who came from Kenya. Two others, her mother and a doctor who examined her, with symptoms of the virus are under observation. Though their samples had been sent to the virology lab in Pune, results are yet to come. Further steps will be taken after getting the results, Health department sources said. Preventive measures Meanwhile, the District Medical Officer, heads of various departments at the Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, and experts discussed the preventive measures to be taken against Omicron, effectiveness of vaccines against it, and its severity. The Health department is preparing the route map of the woman who tested positive. A 25-bed wing has been kept ready at the Chest Hospital attached to the medical college. A medical board led by the Medical College Principal has been constituted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/route-map-of-omicron-patient-being-prepared/article38009192.ece
22 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Mahindra Thar goes to bid winner||The Guruvayur Devaswom management committee has decided to give the Mahindra Thar which was offered by the Mahindra Group to the Sreekrishna temple to NRI businessman Amal Mohammed Ali who won the bid. Ending all confusion, a special meeting attended by the administrator and other management committee members approved the auction for Rs. 15.1 lakh. Mr. Ali, a Bahrain-based businessman hailing from Edappally, can own the vehicle by paying around Rs. 18 lakh, including GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mahindra-thar-goes-to-bid-winner/article38009130.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Green beginning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-beginning/article38009059.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||It’s that time of the year||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-that-time-of-the-year/article38009054.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Leaving no stone unturned||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leaving-no-stone-unturned/article38009108.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pilgrims’ progress||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pilgrims-progress/article38009136.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Star attraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/star-attraction/article38009190.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For saving coop. sector||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-saving-coop-sector/article38009237.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For welfare measures||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-welfare-measures/article38009239.ece
22 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna Sampurna Gruha Hakku launched||Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana congratulated the beneficiaries of the ‘Jagananna Sampurna Gruha Hakku’ scheme and said nothing better could have happened to them with regard to gaining the absolute right over the house and land they live in, and that each one of them was now eligible to legally sell it, raise loans on it or gift to someone. The Minister along with District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan, ZP Chairperson Boya Girijamma, and Singanamala MLA Jonnalagadda Padmavathi formally launched the One-Time Settlement Scheme ‘Jagananna Sampurna Gruha Hakku’ at Bukkarayasamudram in the district on Tuesday. Cutting a massive cake on the occasion of the birthday of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy set the tone of the programme, at which everyone watched the live telecast of Mr. Jagan launching the scheme in West Godavari. Joint Collector Nishant Kumar, Revenue Divisional Officer Madhusudhan and other officials attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-sampurna-gruha-hakku-launched/article38008719.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amid protests, anti-conversion Bill tabled in Karnataka House||Amid vociferous opposition, the anti-conversion Bill — The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 — was introduced in the Legislative Assembly by Home Minister Araga Jnanendra here on Tuesday. Opposing the introduction of the Bill without it being on the agenda, Congress members staged a walkout. While the agenda for Tuesday did not mention the Bill, it was added in the supplementary agenda and introduced soon after the House proceedings started after lunch, inviting wrath from the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) members. While many Congress members, including Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, were outside the Assembly, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri asked Mr. Jnanendra to introduce the Bill, which was opposed by other members. Soon, Congress leaders trooped into the hall opposing its introduction. “You are bringing the Bill surreptitiously. The Bill is in violation of Article 25 of the Constitution,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. As tempers rose with Opposition and treasury benches arguing, he asked, “Are you trying to bulldoze the House? Is it a priority? What is the emergency? The Bill is being brought with malafide intention.” Intervening in the din, Mr. Kageri said that the Bill was not in the agenda circulated on Monday evening since Bill copies were not ready. “Bill copies came from the printing press this morning and the Government said that it wanted to introduce the Bill. We will take up the discussion on Wednesday,” said the Speaker. However, Congress members remained unrelenting, and Mr. Siddaramaiah questioned the hurry since Acts passed in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have been questioned in courts. Mr. Shivakumar added, “We want to have a say before it is introduced.” He tore copy of the Bill. Heated exchanges ensued when Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said that the Government was not bringing the Bill in surreptitiously since it was discussed in the Business Advisory Committee, and many Ministers and the Chief Minister had said they would bring the Bill. However, Mr. Siddaramaiah and Janata Dal (Secular) Legislative Party leader Bandeppa Kashempur said that it was not discussed in the Business Advisory Committee. Later, Congress members walked out. The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy asked what was the use of the Bill when the discussion should be on North Karnataka development. “You brought an anti-cow slaughter Bill. What has been its use except that farmers have been burdened,” he said. Meanwhile, terming the Opposition as “irresponsible”, Mr. Bommai told reporters that the Opposition members have come to Belagavi “only for speeches and dharnas”. “The Bill has been introduced after Cabinet approval. Conversion is a serious problem. There is an opportunity for discussion,” he said.  It has been brought in surreptitiously, says Congress; JD(S) too opposes Bill||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-conversion-bill-tabled-in-karnataka-amid-opposition/article38008667.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clear detailed project report of Mekedatu, Karnataka tells CWMA||Karnataka has demanded that the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) give clearance for the detailed project report (DPR) of Mekedatu Balancing Reservoir Project in its next meeting. Replying to Congress member Sharat Bachhe Gowda during the question hour, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the CWMA had held two meetings in this regard and they had remained inconclusive. Karnataka wants the DPR to be cleared in the next meeting, he said, in response to the demand by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar that the Government commence work on the project at the earliest. He explained that Karnataka, which had submitted the DPR on Mekedatu project to the Central Water Commission, had agreed to get clearance from the Cauvery Water Management Authority too. In addition, the Government had requested the authorities concerned to provide details on the terms of references related to forest clearance so that the Government could prepare the relevant documents for submission, Mr. Bommai said. These two aspects were major challenges with respect to getting clearances for the Mekedatu project, he said, while observing that other clearances would follow if these were resolved. Defending the Mekedatu Balancing Reservoir Project, the Chief Minister said it would help store surplus water during good monsoon years so that it would be possible to handle deficient situations. “It is not possible to manage distress if excess water is not impounded during the surplus season,” he said. “Though the project is useful to Tamil Nadu as well, the neighbouring State has raised legal objections to it,” he said, adding that the neighbouring State had been opposing all irrigation projects of Karnataka.He sought to clarify that the project would not allow use of water for irrigation, though a certain quantum would be used for drinking water requirements of Bengaluru city. Earlier, Minister for Major and Minor Irrigation Govind Karjol said the DPR for taking up the Rs. 9,000-crore project that would help store 67.16 tmcft of water was submitted to the CWC on January 18, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clear-detailed-project-report-of-mekedatu-karnataka-tells-cwma/article38008668.ece
22 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka bans New Year parties, mass gatherings||Karnataka has banned public celebrations and mass gatherings to mark the New Year in the wake of continued threat of COVID-19 and its Omicron variant. The restrictions will be enforced from December 30 to January 2 to ensure that New Year revelry does not lead to spread of the virus. Restaurants and clubs too have been barred from holding New Year parties or any special events, like music and dance programmes. However, they have been allowed to function with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols. Two doses of vaccination would be mandatory for entry to clubs and the staff have to undergo RT-PCR test. The Government has made it clear that no specific guidelines had been issued with respect to Christmas as mass would be held indoors. The decisions were taken at a high-level meeting of ministers, officials and experts convened by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Belagavi on Tuesday. Briefing journalists after the meeting, the Chief Minister said the New Year revelry had been banned following recommendation of experts. “Apart from celebrations, public gatherings too have been banned throughout the State,” he said, specifically making it clear that no mass gatherings would be allowed on M.G. Road and Brigade Road. Apartment complexes too are barred from holding any New Year parties. The Chief Minister said that the responsibility of ensuring adherence to COVID-19 regulations and protocol would be on the residents’ welfare associations of apartments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-bans-new-year-parties-mass-gatherings/article38008669.ece
22 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A forgettable year for Chittoor||It has been a forgettable year for Chitttoor district. Topping the State in terms of COVID-19 deaths (1,960 fatalities as of Friday), and second in terms of overall cases (2.48 lakh), the district has been left badly scarred by the pandemic. As denizens look forward to putting the worst behind them and welcome the new year, the pandemic is once again rearing its head in the district, with around 30 to 40 cases being reported daily in the past week. The uptick in cases has sparked renewed fears among people in the district, especially in the backdrop of the Omicron variant which has been detected at several places across the country. Denizens say the present situation is similar to what the district experienced close to a year ago, when the first wave of the pandemic had subsided after peaking in September. By February 2021, the district was witnessing only around 20 COVID-19 cases a day, with the public heaving a sigh of relief, believing that the worst was over. However, the pandemic curve shot up again sharply in April, bringing the district to its knees in the next two months as the number of deaths crossed the 500-mark and the daily tally exceeding the 3,000-mark on most days. SVRR tragedy The tragic death of eleven COVID-19 patients at SVRR Hospital in Tirupati on May 10 due to failure of oxygen supply sent shockwaves in the district. Roads wore a deserted look, particularly in the areas bordering Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, as panicked residents stayed indoors fearing the worst. The months from April till July saw a vexed public clamouring for oxygen beds at COVID-19 hospitals run by the district administration in Chittoor, Madanapalle, and Tirupati. The second wave of the pandemic also had a debilitating impact on the economy of district as the pilgrimage centers remained closed. Thousands of families dependent on spiritual tourism saw their livelihood being wiped out overnight. The APSRTC Tirupati region also suffered losses of Rs. 2 crore per day as its operations came to a grinding halt. Hundreds of farmers cultivating vegetables in the western mandals were worst-affected by the closure of the Koyambedu market in Chennai. As COVID-19 cases peaked in the middle of 2021, vegetable traders had to curtail their business. Over 5000 weavers’ families in Madanapalle spent four harrowing months with no income as their businesses remained closed. Thousands of youth from Palamaner, Madanapalle, and Kuppam regions, who work in the unorganised sectors in neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, returned to their native villages, having lost their jobs to the pandemic. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer P. Ravi Raju said that the Chittoor district administration is gearing up to meet any eventuality given the Omicron threat looming large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-forgettable-year-for-chittoor/article38008718.ece
22 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM, Governor, Naidu greet Jagan on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the occasion of his 49th birthday. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Modi said, “Greetings to AP CM Shri @ysjagan Garu on his birthday. May Almighty bless him with a long and healthy life.” Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu were among those who greeted the Chief Minister. Actors Chiranjeevi, Nagarjuna, Mahesh Babu and others took to Twitter to convey their birthday wishes to the Chief Minister. Earlier, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy celebrated the occasion by cutting a cake at his camp office. Priests from the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) blessed the Chief Minister on the occasion. Ministers, MLAs, and officials were among those who extended their wishes to the Chief Minister. Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Rama Krishna Reddy participated in the birthday celebrations at the party’s central office, where a photo exhibition, blood donation camp, and planting of saplings were organised. ‘Good governance’ Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the Chief Minister’s governance had boosted the confidence of the people in their future. “The Chief Minister has been striving to steer the State on the growth path with comprehensive development plans. People’s support has risen to 70% in the local body elections compared to 50% in general elections,” he said. A few vested interests were striving to obstruct good governance, he alleged, and said people would teach them a lesson. Elsewhere in the State, the celebrations were held on a grand note. Party leaders organised blood donation camps, distributed fruits to the patients in hospitals and clothes and essential commodities to the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-governor-naidu-greet-jagan-on-his-birthday/article38009182.ece
22 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP supporter ‘set alight’ after drunken brawl||A man suffered severe burn injuries after allegedly being attacked by a mob at Boyapalem village of Pedanandipadu mandal on Monday evening. K. Venkata Narayana (45) was reportedly consuming liquor in a field when he got into an argument with some persons over the decision of the State government to reduce liquor prices. Mr. Venkata Narayana said that he was a TDP supporter and reportedly warned the others not to make adverse remarks against TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu. Mr. Venkata Narayana alleged that the group of persons then poured liquor on him and set him alight. He was admitted to the Government General Hospital with 40% burns. Police have registered a case and are investigating the incident. Lokesh reacts Reacting to the incident, TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh tweeted that YSRCP supporters were not sparing anyone who dared to criticise Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “Does this incident indicate the intolerant attitude of YSRCP? Will they kill anyone who is criticising the government?” questioned Lokesh. He also referred to the attack on a YSRCP worker in Ongole who was allegedly attacked by members from his own party for reportedly protesting against senior party leaders.  Mr. Lokesh termed it as ‘alarming’ that the YSRCP activists were not sparing even their own party members. “A YSRCP leader named Subba Rao from Ongole was thrashed just for making certain comments against his party leaders,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-supporter-set-alight-after-drunken-brawl/article38009180.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uncertainty continues over paddy procurement||The uncertainty over procurement of paddy produced in Telangana during the 2021-22 Kharif season, beyond 60 lakh tonnes already agreed upon by Food Corporation of India (FCI), continues even after a delegation of half-a-dozen Ministers and several MPs of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) met Union Minister of Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal in New Delhi on Tuesday. Apart from explaining the Union Minister about non-lifting of rice pertaining to the last (2020-21) Rabi season by the FCI — although the custom milled rice was ready with the millers — they also brought to his notice the misinformation being spread by State BJP leaders including Union Minister for Culture and Tourism G. Kishan Reddy. The delegation has explained to Mr. Goyal about the letters written by the Civil Supplies Commissioner of Telangana and District Collectors to the FCI on lifting the Rabi rice to ease storage space with millers for Kharif procurement. It was again reiterated that there would be no parboiled rice procurement from this Rabi season. Speaking to mediapersons after their meeting with Mr. Goyal, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy along with others said they had requested the Centre to give clarity whether it would procure paddy beyond 60 lakh tonnes already agreed upon, since more than half of the grain produced was yet to reach the procurement centres. They also wanted to know whether the State had to continue procurement centres or not. On the FCI delay in lifting the rice pertaining to the last Rabi, Mr. Niranjan Reddy said it was the responsibility of the FCI to lift the milled rice from millers. He stated that Mr. Goyal had spoken to FCI authorities over the issue and was informed that there was shortage of railway rakes due to the brisk movement of fertilizers. In turn, Mr. Goyal had told them to speed up lifting rice milled in last Rabi. Mr. Niranjan Reddy stated that the Union Minister had told them that it would take 1-2 days’ time to look into the matter and they have decided to stay put there and would return to Hyderabad only after meeting Mr. Goyal again after two days. They had reminded Mr. Goyal that he (Mr. Goyal) had been repeatedly stating that the FCI was ready to procure any quantity of raw rice and it was time the word was kept.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uncertainty-continues-over-paddy-procurement/article38009043.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||A chance encounter with rare species||On a routine birding trip to Sirnapalli forest in Telangana’s Nizamabad, Manoj Kumar Vittapu, and Shravan Kumar Poshetty, a mountaineer and an international forest forensic investigator, had a chance encounter with the rarely found species of Albino Indian Flapshell turtle a couple of months ago. And, to his delight, Mr. Vittapu got confirmation from the scientific authorities and also details about the spices and habitat. “Yes, it was a thrilling experience for the simple reason that there were only two instances earlier of having ‘recorded’ the presence across India. And, finding them in our own Telangana is something we are really proud of,” says Mr. Vittapu, who is also engaged by the Forest Department often to indulge in census activities. “We first spotted this Albino Indian Flapshell turtle in August this year at Sirnapally after our routine trip for birding failed to generate the desired interest for want of activity,” he said. “After shooting a few shots of woodpecker and babblers, we chanced upon this gentle beauty. As the sun was setting on the horizon, we were on our way back home. Then, suddenly we did notice some activity in the pond. Then, Shravan and myself turned our attention to a white bug slipping into the pond swiftly. The mystery was slowly unfolding with the eyes staring out of the water and admitted our presence. In a blink, I could identify it as a baby turtle but was not sure of it for quite some time,” he said. “After a 45-minute wait, to our delight we could finally identify the species as Albino Indian Flapshell turtle. Remarkably, there were two, not one and our joy knew no bounds,” he said. “We took the pictures and videos. And, our research later suggested they were traced only twice before in 2020 — once in Odisha and then in West Bengal,” Mr. Manoj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-chance-encounter-with-rare-species/article38008665.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dept. levies to fund Harita Nidhi||The State government has decided to raise corpus for the proposed green fund through levies that will be collected from different departments. The government proposes to collect 0.01 per cent of the value of contract works of the Irrigation department while 10 per cent of the constituency development fund given to the MLAs and MLCs annually would be earmarked towards Green Fund. Similarly, Rs. 50 from every registration done by the Registration and Stamps department. Likewise, Rs. 1,000 each will be collected from the amount generated through licences to shops, business establishments, renewal of permits to bars and wine shops towards the Green Fund. The Education department, on its part, will contribute Rs. 10 per student for admission up to X standard, Rs. 15 in case of Intermediate admissions and Rs. 25 for degree students while Rs. 100 per student would be charged in respect of admissions into professional courses. The Environment and Forests department had recently issued a circular asking the departments to initiate necessary action for issue of orders/amendments to statutes/rules as may be necessary for levy of charges and transfer the collected amounts to the Telangana Green Fund. The development follows the announcement by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the Assembly in October first week about the constitution of Telangana Harita Nidhi (Green Fund). The fund envisaged enhancement of massive plantation activity and sustainability in the long run. The Telangana Harita Nidhi would receive contributions from different sources including public representatives, government employees and other sections of the society besides a pre-defined portion of taxes, fee and other levies collected by the government. The fund would be utilised for establishment of nurseries, raising plantations, watering, protection of plantation, capacity building and other areas. A high level committee headed by Forest Minister had already been constituted by the State Government to manage the fund and submit reports on a regular basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dept-levies-to-fund-harita-nidhi/article38009039.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goyal slams TRS govt. for paddy procurement ‘failure’||Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal on Tuesday condemned the statements and ‘abuses’ hurled against the Centre by the TRS Government especially Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the paddy procurement issue and slammed the latter for “total failure” in completing the procurement on time . “Paddy procurement has been increased by four times from Telangana ever since the Modi Government came to power and this season, we have already extended the deadline three times but the TS Government is yet to complete the process. We have even agreed to buy more than the agreed quantity whether it is raw or boiled rice. All other allegations have no basis and only meant to mislead the farmers,” he said. Addressing a press conference after meeting a delegation of BJP leaders from Telangana led by Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy at his chambers in New Delhi, Mr. Goyal said the Food Corporation of India (FCI) was ready to lift the stocks supplied by the Government as it was the States’ responsibility to procure directly from the farmers. “How are they concerned about the railway wagons availability, it is the FCI which has to look into the matter and there is no shortage of rakes. It is not fair about my denying appointment to TS ministers since I was in Uttar Pradesh and later in Mumbai, in any case I did not invite them. I was told all this is because of continuous defeats of the TRS in the recent bypolls,” he said. ‘State commitment’ The Centre was ready to take any amount of rice for the central pool through the Food Corporation of India (FCI) as per the country’s requirements and the State Government can use the same for public distribution too. “The TRS Government has given a commitment not to supply boiled rice from next season and cannot make any kind of baseless charges now. Telangana farmers should know the BJP and the Modi Government are with them,” he reiterated. Mr Kishan Reddy said paddy procurement was discussed in detail with Mr. Goyal and said the TRS Government was yet to procure 4.6 lakh metric tonnes of boiled rice and 13.25 lakh metric tonnes of raw rice - 27.39 lakh metric tonnes in total. “The TRS Government has to explain the delay in procurement and why it is unable to meet the targets for this season. Farmers and others of TS have the right to know on what basis the Government here had has accepted not to supply boiled rice from next season and what steps it has taken to mitigate the farmers woes,” he added. Senior leaders D. Aravind, E. Rajender, D.K. Aruna, Vijayashanti and others were part of the delegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/piyush-goyal-slams-trs-govt/article38009044.ece
22 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arya Vysyas stage protest||Members of the Arya Vysya community staged a protest at Gandhi statue and Potti Sriramulu statue in Rajampet town on Tuesday demanding action against the people who had allegedly attacked community member G. Subba Rao in Ongole recently. Mr. Rao, owing allegiance to the ruling YSR Congress Party, had reportedly made some comments against certain Ministers and top leaders of the party for bringing disrepute to the party by their misdemeanour and ‘foul language’, for which he was allegedly thrashed by unidentified persons, though reportedly belonging to the party. The community leaders also demanded that Minister for Power Balineni Srinivasa Reddy respond on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arya-vysyas-stage-protest/article38008724.ece
22 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘cheating public’||A man was arrested by the Kadapa police on Tuesday for reportedly cheating the public in the garb of helping them draw cash from ATMs. According to Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, who produced the arrested, Mohammad Riyaz(45), before the media here on Tuesday, the victims have collectively lost several lakhs of rupees. The police seized 21 ATM cards and Rs. 3.4 lakh in cash from the accused. Riyaz has as many as 56 cases on him in police station limits in Chittoor, Nellore, Kadapa and in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-cheating-public/article38008725.ece
22 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1.16 lakh people opted for OTS scheme in East Godavari: Minister||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Tuesday claimed that over 1.16 lakh beneficiaries have opted for the One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme in East Godavari district. Mr. Kannababu, Jaggampeta MLA J. Chantibabu, and East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran on Tuesday launched the scheme here. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Kannababu said that the OTS would be ‘voluntary’ and there would be no coercion from the State government to enrol for the same. “Over 3.17 lakh families are falling under the OTS purview and are eligible to claim the OTS benefit to be able to sell their respective piece of house. The beneficiaries should explore the benefits of the scheme,” Mr. Kannababu said. Mr. Hari Kiran claimed that East Godavari district stood first in terms of the number of beneficiaries opting for the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/116-lakh-people-opted-for-ots-scheme-in-east-godavari-minister/article38009204.ece
22 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APGDC seeks more time to finish work on gas pipeline||The Andhra Pradesh Gas Distribution Corporation Limited (APGDC) has sought more time to complete the laying of gas pipeline between Kakinada and Srikakulam via Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGB) had authorised the Rs. 1,070-crore project in 2014. It was targeted to complete the Rs. 628-crore Kakinada-Visakhapatnam section of the project by June 2021 and the Visakhapatnam-Srikakulam section by June 2022. On Monday, Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas Rameswar Teli had announced that the APGDC sought more time to complete the scheduled pipeline project as the work on it was delayed due to COVID-19 pandemic. The execution of the project had also been delayed due to rains, he said. Mr. Rameswar was responding to a question posed by Visakhapatnam MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in Rajya Sabha. Mr. Rameswar further said that the Kakinada-Visakhapatnam section would now be completed by September 30, 2022 and the Visakhapatnam-Srikakulam section by September 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apgdc-seeks-more-time-to-finish-work-on-gas-pipeline/article38009183.ece
22 December 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC rejects plea against PM photo in CoWin certificate||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed a writ petition seeking a directive to remove the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from paid COVID vaccine certificates and imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on the petitioner. Dismissing the petition, Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan observed that “this was a frivolous petition filed with ulterior motives and I have a strong doubt that there is political agenda also to the petitioner”. The court added that it was a publicity-oriented litigation. The court observed that once a Prime Minister was elected as per the Constitution, he was “the Hon’ble Prime Minister of our country and that post should be the pride of every citizen, whether the Prime Minister is ‘X’ or ‘Y’.” When the country was facing a pandemic situation and the Prime Minister gave a message in the vaccination certificate with his photograph to boost the morale of the citizen, “I do not understand why the petitioner says before this court that it is an intrusion to his privacy,” the court added. The petition was filed by Peter Mayaliparambil from Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-against-pm-photo-in-cowin-certificate-rejected/article38008670.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Got plaints regarding conversions’||The Ministry of Home Affairs informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that complaints have been received against 18 FCRA-registered associations in Andhra Pradesh regarding their alleged indulgence in conversion to Christianity. It is mandatory for all non-government organisations and associations to register under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) to receive funding from foreign countries or organisations based abroad. In a written reply, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai listed the names of the associations against which “complaints have been received for their indulgment into Christian conversion by inducements, allurement and misrepresentation since 2018”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/got-plaints-regarding-ap-conversions/article38008532.ece
22 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Troubled YSRCP leader seeks police protection||A local YSR Congress Party leader G.Subba Rao, who was thrashed by a group of his own partymen, sought police protection on Tuesday saying he feared threat to his life and that of his family members. Meanwhile, the Prakasam police, who had booked a case in connection with the incident, arrested one Subhani who was seen beating up Mr. Rao in a video which went viral on the social media. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy assured the troubled YSRCP leader, hailing from the Arya Vysya community, that nothing would happen to him and his family. Later, taking part in the birthday bash of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy here, the Minister alleged that the Telugu Desam Party was trying to create rifts in the party by distancing the Arya Vysya community. He said police had already initiated action in connection with the incident in which he was unconnected and that law would take its course. Meanwhile, YSRCP Traders wing State president Kuppam Prasad called on Mr. Subba Rao along with Arya Vysya Sangham leaders as part of damage control exercise initiated by the ruling party as the incident evoking widespread condemnation across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/troubled-ysrcp-leader-seeks-police-protection/article38008720.ece
22 December 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job drive at Nannaya varsity tomorrow||Adikavi Nannaya University Vice-Chancellor Prof. Mokka Jagannadha Rao on Tuesday said that a mega job drive would be conducted on the university campus to fill 1,400 vacancies in various fields on December 23. Candidates who have completed intermediate, degree, post-graduation, or B.Tech can attend the job drive. TCS, Tech Mahendra, ICICI, and HDFC are the leading companies and banks that are taking part in the campus placement drive. For more details, call 82974-00666. Prof. Jagannadha Rao and university placement officer B. Jaganmohan Reddy released a brochure on the campus placement drive on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-drive-at-nannaya-varsity-tomorrow/article38009205.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. among top States contributing to cattle slaughter: official||Andhra Pradesh is one of the top States contributing to cattle slaughter. The official figure pegs the beef production at 9.5 lakh metric tonnes a year, which is a cause for concern, says S.K.Mittal, Director, Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and convenor of the Union government’s Jallikattu Inspection Committee. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, he called Andhra Pradesh a leading contributor to Al Kabeer abattoir near Hyderabad, followed by Karnataka and Telangana. “At least 80 lakh to 1 crore heads of cattle are slaughtered every year to generate 9.5 lakh metric tonnes of beef,” he said. He termed it unfortunate for the State to be at the forefront in cow slaughter in spite of having enviable native breeds like Punganur and Ongole. “The State government has made promising steps by providing insurance for dead cows, but what about the living ones?”, he wondered. Mr. Mittal found the shrinking grazing lands in and around villages as a disadvantage to meeting the growing fodder needs. He urged the State government to get the encroachments removed on a war footing. Similarly, he suggested that goshalas be allowed to use such grazing lands in their vicinity to feed their cattle. Speaking on the Centre’s initiatives on cow protection front, he said goshalas could get support of up to Rs. 25 lakh for construction, Rs. 7 lakh towards veterinary ambulances, besides regular grants, funds for Animal Birth Control (ABC) of dogs, support for development of native breeds under Gokul Mission and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-among-top-states-contributing-to-cattle-slaughter-animal-welfare-official/article38008721.ece
22 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Never call it quits: SP tells personnel||“Never call it quits at any time. Fight till the last minute,” Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu told the personnel on Tuesday. Addressing the policemen after formally declaring open the District Police Sports Meet here, the SP stressed on the need for perseverance and determination, be it while on duty or while playing. Personnel from the level of constable to Deputy Superintendent of Police are participating in the various sports and games at the three-day event. The day witnessed events like 100m and 400m run for men and women, volleyball, long jump and high jump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/never-call-it-quits-sp-tells-personnel/article38008723.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. plans to double income through cinema theatres||The government is gearing up to introduce a seamless online movie booking system on the lines of Indian Railways online ticketing system. The move is, apparently, part of its plans to double its income through cinema theatres in the State. According to information, there were instances where there was no connection between a theatre’s collections and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) accruing to the State government. The exhibitors were allegedly not disclosing the actual ticket sales to the government. Also, they “were violating the rules and regulations” in the name of benefit shows. Besides, there is a black marketing of the tickets. Also, anywhere between Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 on each ticket was being collected through benefit shows. The online ticketing system, the government feels, would bring in transparency in the system and plug holes in the revenue generation from films. “At present, the government nets about Rs. 50 crore per annum. The idea is to take the collections to about Rs. 100 crore,” says an official, who did not want to be named. The number of theatres in the two Telugu States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana fell to 1,750 from about 3,000 about 20 years ago. Of the 1,750 theatres, Andhra Pradesh has 1,090 theatres. The seating capacity of these theatres range between 350 and 400. It takes the total seats to about 4 lakh seats across the State. Going by the seating capacity, number of shows etc parameters, there was no parity in the tax being collected and theatre collections, officials say. The exhibitors, however, argue that the occupancy has fallen drastically in the recent past. It had impacted the theatre revenues, they say. Telugu Film Chamber secretary K.L. Damodar Prasad says that the industry was not against the online ticketing system onlines of railway ticketing system but the approach of the government. The industry suggested to the government that all the theatres in the State be computerised. The exhibitors would give a link to the government relating to the sale of tickets. The exhibitors would get their money instantly. Besides, the government would get a fair idea of the number of tickets sold, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-plans-to-double-income-through-cinema-theatres/article38009185.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers lay foundation stones for slew of works||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana laid foundation stones and inaugurated works worth Rs. 7.80 crore in various wards of the city on Tuesday. Mr. Satyanarayana, along with Minister for Endowments and West MLA Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi and local corporators, inaugurated the CC road between Meesala Rajeswara Rao bridge and Errakatta, a pathway and sitting plaza in Kedareswara Pet, a badminton court and a park in the 34th municipal ward. In the nearby divisions, the Ministers laid foundation stones for construction of a drinking water reservoir, a CC pavement between Chittinagar Junction and Nehru Bomma Centre, and a mineral water plant at Annapurna School. Mr. Satyanarayana said that the State government was committed to providing basic amenities and infrastructure required in the city. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the drinking water reservoir works will be completed in eight months and the people of RR Pet will get water twice a day once it is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-lay-foundation-stones-for-slew-of-works/article38009255.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports another COVID death, 95 new infections||The State reported one more death due to COVID-19 and 95 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,481 and 20,75,974 respectively. The lone death was reported from Krishna district. Recoveries increased to 20,60,061 with 179 recoveries in the past day and the recovery rate remains at 99.23%. The number of active cases fell to 1,432. Kurnool has only five active cases while Vizianagaram, Anantapur and Kadapa together have less than a hundred active cases. Meanwhile, Chittoor and Guntur alone reported 41 of the 95 infections reported in the past day in the State, while Vizianagaram and Kurnool reported no infection. Chittoor reported 26 while Guntur reported 15 cases. They were followed by West Godavari (9), Kadapa (9), Krishna (8), Nellore (8), Srikakulam (6), East Godavari (5), Visakhapatnam (5), Prakasam (2) and Anantapur (2). The daily test positivity rate of the 27,233 samples tested in the past day was 0.35%. The daily test positivity rate was less than 0.5% continuously during the past week. The overall test positivity rate of the 3.103 crore samples tested so far was 6.69%. The district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,95,021), Chittoor (2,48,568), West Godavari (1,79,954), Guntur (1,79,201), Visakhapatnam (1,58,769), Anantapur (1,58,199), Nellore (1,47,038), Prakasam (1,38,787), Kurnool (1,24,214), Srikakulam (1,23,654), Krishna (1,20,611), Kadapa (1,15,953) and Vizianagaram (83,110).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-another-covid-death-95-new-infections/article38009177.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sand operations going on in a transparent manner in State’||Principal Secretary (Mines and Geology Department) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi has said that the sand related operations are going on transparently in the State and that the government is taking all steps to make sand available for the public. Mr. Dwivedi said tenders for sand operations were called by the Central government's MSTC Ltd and the tender was awarded to JP Power Ventures through which all the sand operations are taken up in the State. He said JP Power Ventures could engage subcontractors but was responsible for any issues arising out of it. He said that firm was taking offline orders for sand and it was asked to take only online orders from consumers. He said issues in the online booking system would be addressed. Mines and Geology Department DMG V.G. Venkata Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sand-operations-going-on-in-a-transparent-manner-in-state/article38009179.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition misleading people on OTS scheme, says Kodali Nani||Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) on Tuesday slammed Opposition leaders for “misleading people of the State on the housing scheme”. Addressing a meeting at Gudivada, organised to distribute house documents under One Time Settlement scheme, the Minister said while the government was facilitating beneficiaries of the housing scheme to secure full rights over their properties, the Opposition leaders resorted to a smear campaign alleging that the YSR Congress Party government was harassing them. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been working relentlessly to fulfil the promises he had made to the people of the State during his Praja Sankalpa Yatra during the election time. He had met nearly two crore people in 150 constituencies, to get a first hand account of their problems and formulated ‘Nava Ratnalu’ to address the issues that surfaced during his yatra. Listing out the various welfare schemes rolled out by the Jagan government in the State, the Minister said three capitals would facilitate equal benefits of these programmes to people across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-misleading-people-on-ots-scheme-says-kodali-nani/article38009257.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga competition held||Inter Zone Battalion Yoga Competition-2021 was held at the 10th Battalion of the National Disaster Response Force at Adavinekkalam in the district on Tuesday. According to officials, four teams of the 1st Battalion Guwahat from East and North East Zone, 7th Battalion, Punjab from North Zone, 11th Bbattalion, Varanasi from West Central Zone and 10th Battalion, Vijayawada from South and South Central zone competed in five events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-competition-held/article38009253.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC drivers to be imparted safety training||Even as a probe into the recent accident involving an Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) bus at Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district is in progress, officials at the helm of the corporation are focussed on strengthening the preparedness of the fleet’s drivers. “We want our drivers to gain perfection and ensure accident-free driving. Passenger safety is paramount and we will leave no stone unturned to achieve our goal,” said APSRTC Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao. He said two senior supervisers who rose from the rank of driver and are equipped with the technical know-how of driving, have been engaged to go around the depots and train the drivers, mainly in safety aspects and also in ways to increase the mileage. Wary of the high stakes involved, corporation officials are insisting that the staff ensure good maintenance of the vehicles, inspection of the bus before each trip and checking of brakes regularly. The drivers in the corporation are being given lessons on basic rules such as slowing down in under-construction zones, keeping a safe distance from vehicles in front, and defensive driving. Speaking on the ghastly accident that left 10 persons dead, including the bus driver, Mr. Rao said an enquiry was in progress to identify the cause of the mishap. Initial reports suggested that in order to avoid a head-on collision with a vehicle coming from the opposite direction, the driver swerved to the left, resulting in the bus hitting the railing of a bridge and plunging into the rivulet. “However, it is also being said that no big vehicle was coming in the opposite lane at the time of the accident. The exact cause of the mishap can be established only after the committee submits its reports,” he said.  ‘Finances in dire straits’ When asked if there was any proposal to revise APSRTC bus fares given the steep hike in petrol and diesel prices, he said it was for the government to decide. “It is true that the Corporation is in dire straits as far as finances are concerned. APSRTC bus fares were last revised in 2019. After that, diesel has become costlier by over 50%. There is no denying that this is putting an enormous burden on the corporation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-drivers-to-be-imparted-safety-training/article38009175.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector’s surprise visit to theatre||Krishna District Collector J. Nivas made a surprise visit to a cinema theatre in Gandhi Nagar on Tuesday. He inspected Apsara single screen theatre and interacted with the movie patrons and inquired about online and offline tickets booked. He inspected the washrooms and asked the management to ensure proper maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collectors-surprise-visit-to-theatre/article38009254.ece
22 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chandy takes part in semi Christmas fete||All India Congress Committee general secretary and incharge of the party affairs in Andhra Pradesh Oommen Chandy participated in semi-Christmas celebrations at Andhra Ratna Bhavan here on Tuesday. Mr. Chandy arrived here on a two-day visit and was received by APCC president S. Sailajanath. Mr. Chandy held a meeting with the party’s senior leaders like Mastan Vali and Gidugu Rudra Raju and others at Andhra Ratna Bhavan. Later, he cut a cake as part of semi-Christmas celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chandy-takes-part-in-semi-christmas-fete/article38009186.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slight increase in road accident cases in district in the year||There was a slight increase in the number of road accident cases in Visakhapatnam district in the year compared to the previous years. Around 670 people have died in road accidents, while nearly 2,000 people were injured. A majority of the accident cases involved two-wheelers. Police attribute the curfew restrictions which made a difference in the statistics. They say that compared to previous years, the restrictions were limited to only a few months this year. Moreover the NH-16 passing through the city, increase in vehicle movement, no major road extension or re-engineering works are a few other reasons, the police said, which could have led to an increase in road accidents. 67 blackspots A total of 67 blackspots have been identified by the city police between Lankapalem and Tagarapuvalasa stretch this year. As per police findings, Anandapuram to Yendada and Old Gajuwaka to Kurmannapalem are the stretches reporting more number of accidents. In the district police limits, the NH-16 stretch from Anakapalle to Payakaraopeta contributes the most number of accidents following the ghat roads in the Agency. The district police have identified as many as 40 blackspots in the rural region. Nakkapalle Circle which also includes Payakaraopeta and S.Rayavaram Police station limits under it has the most of 13 blackspots, while Anakapalle (Town and Rural) limits have 12 blackspots. Similarly, Yelamanchali has about nine blackspots. Police observe that many road accidents were reported on the highway, when two-wheelers were hit by heavy vehicles while overtaking or overspeeding. Many fatal accidents were also reported due to dangerous and drunken driving. Helmet use One major concern is that many two-wheeler riders are not wearing helment. After the recent four deaths due to no-helmet in November, the city police started a special drive and it was evident that despite awareness, some percentage of two-wheeler drivers are still found not using helmets or using sub-standrard and uncertified helmets. Over 40,000 e-challans were generated against motorists for not wearing helmet in a span of just 20 days. Stopped in March 2020, the city traffic police have resumed drunken drive checks from November 30. The police have been booking about 40 cases per day. With the majority of accidents occurring involving heavy vehicles which are passing through the city, officials as well as people bat for construction of flyovers as well as foot overbridges. There has been a long-pending demand from residents of Madhurawada, Maddilapalem, Kancharapalem, Isukathota, Gajuwaka and a few other localities to construct a foot overbridge to prevent accidents. Similarly, in the year 2020, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has mooted four flyovers at Hanumanthuwaka, Car Shed Junction, Maddilapalem and Gajuwaka Junction. However the proposals did not move further. People urge the officials to speed up work on these proposals. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch Adinarayana said curfew due to COVID-19 restrictions in the last two years made the difference. The traffic police have been conducting awareness camps to ensure people follow traffic norms. Special drives were organised on helmet use and preventing dangerous driving to bring down road accidents, apart from enforcement on unauthorised use of number plates/stickers, loudspeakers and high beam lights. He said that there was an increase in helmet use, but still some are still violating basic norms. According to the district police, ghat roads in the Agency have turned death traps for many. Overloading of private vehicles is a major issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slight-increase-in-road-accident-cases-in-district-in-the-year/article38009260.ece
22 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||War against weed in Visakhapatnam Agency||In 1973, the Visakhapatnam District Police had faced a dilemma when they caught a person trying to smuggle a small quantity of dry ganja from the Agency area. This was the first recorded case of ganja smuggling, and the police had no proper and well-defined IPC section to book a case for drug smuggling as the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act had come into force only in 1985. But things have changed in the pristine and salubrious Agency areas since then. Today, nine out of the 11 mandals in the Agency area have become the ‘ganja capital’ of the State and stand next to the Chamba Valley of Himachal Pradesh when it comes to cultivation and smuggling. The ‘Sheelavathi’ variety grown in the Visakha Agency is among the most sought-after weeds that has a pan-India demand today. The crop has not come up overnight. It has taken the middlemen from Kerala and Tamil Nadu several years to motivate and train the Adivasi farmers, who mostly belong to the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG), to switch from the traditional ‘podu’ (shifting) cultivation to grow marijuana on their fields. The middlemen were none other than the smugglers who once flourished growing marijuana, or cannabis, on the hilly tracts of Dindigul and Idukki, and were driven away by the personnel of the Department of Excise in those States. “Later, they might have come and settled down in the Visakha Agency,” said DIG, Visakhapatnam (Range), L.K.V. Ranga Rao. That appeared to be the genesis, as all the 11 ‘unexplored’ mandals in the Agency provided the ideal setting. The climate and soil conditions were conducive. The innocent Adivasis could be influenced by offering them a little more than what they had been earning till then. And, most importantly, they had the patronage of the banned CPI(Maoist), which had made its presence felt in the region from the early 1980s. Vigil had been stepped up in the last one decade, and the quantum of seized contraband was in hundreds of kg. Drone mapping done a couple of years ago had indicated that over 20,000 acres was under ganja cultivation, especially in the mandals where the Maoists held a sway such as Pedabayalu, G. Madugula, Munchingput, G.K. Veedhi and Chintapalli. To step up the enforcement, the State government had constituted the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB). This year, the SEB was entrusted with the task of destructing the ganja crop. Both the SEB and the police had registered about 800 cases, arrested 1,879 accused, seized 809 vehicles, and confiscated close to 122 tonnes of dry ganja that was worth about Rs. 61 crore. “While the arrests and seizures are just one part of the operation, the main agenda is destructing the crop and motivating the tribal farmers to take up an alternative crop system under the ‘Parivarthana’ programme,” said SEB Joint Director Satish Kumar. The SEB and police had so far destroyed the crop in 7,124 acres in eight key mandals, the value of which, as per conservative estimates, could be Rs. 1,700 crore. “There is still a long way to go. We are covering every village. But the best part is that a few farmers have volunteered to destroy the crops themselves after being explained the consequences of the NDPS Act and the ills of growing ganja to society. So far, crop in about 400 acres has been destroyed voluntarily,” said Mr. Satish Kumar. “Efforts are on to catch the kingpins,” he said. To evade checks, ganja smugglers are now crushing the leaves and converting them into liquid ganja, or hashish oil. “A litre of hashish oil is 20 times the value of one kg of dry leaves. It can be smuggled easily,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/war-against-weed-in-visakhapatnam-agency/article38009188.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||One Time Settlement scheme extended till April 2: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that with the Jagananna Sampoorna Griha Hakku Scheme, the dream of owning a house has become a reality for the poor. He said that through this scheme, the State Government is also providing legally registered documents to the beneficiaries. The Minister was speaking to the beneficiaries during the launch of the scheme at VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Tuesday. He said that the government has been providing welfare schemes to all the eligible beneficiaries in a very transparent manner. The Minister said that Jagananna Sampoorna Griha Hakku Scheme has been extended till April 2 and appealed to all eligible beneficiaries to utilise the scheme. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that till now, about 14,140 people have availed of the scheme and their loans varying from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 60,000 have been waived off. YSRCP MLAs T. Nagi Reddy and A. Adeep Raju, GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha, Joint Collector (Housing) Kalpana Kumari and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-time-settlement-scheme-extended-till-april-2-minister/article38009262.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vidya Volunteers continue protest braving cold weather||The protest being staged by AP Vidya Volunteers with support from the Andhra Pradesh Girijan Sangham (APGS) demanding resolution of their long-pending issues continued for the second consecutive day, as there was no response from the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) officials, at Paderu. Braving the cold weather conditions in the Agency, a large number of volunteers, including women, slept before the ITDA office on Monday night and continued their protest even on Tuesday. The protestors alleged that ITDA Project Officer had shown no concern though they have been pleading for help for the last three weeks. APGS leaders alleged that the volunteers have been demanding payment of their pending wages and also renewal of their posts. ITDA officials from East Godavari have renewed the posts of ‘Basha Volunteers’ in their limits, but why is the officials from the ITDA Paderu delaying in taking a decision, they questioned. “ITDA Project Officer who had returned to his home on Monday evening, did not visit the protest camp or took a decision to put an end to the agitation. Though a number of tribal women have slept before the office bearing the cold weather, he had not approached us. APGS members and volunteers condemn this behaviour,” said Andhra Pradesh Girijan Sangham leader Appala Narasayya. It may be remembered that the volunteers have staged protest at ITDA office on Monday and tried to barge into the office. Several volunteers were detained by the police. A few protestors alleged lathi-charge by the police, which the APGS and CPI(M) party leaders condemned. The protest would continue on Wednesday and till our demands are met, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vidya-volunteers-continue-protest-braving-cold-weather/article38009212.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Additional coaches to be attached for some trains||Additional coaches will be attached to some trains to clear the extra rush of passengers. Train no. 17243 Guntur- Rayagada Express, leaving Guntur, will be attached with two General Second Class coaches with effect from December 24 to 30 and 17244 Rayagada- Guntur Express, leaving Rayagada from December 25 to 31 will be provided with two additional General Second Class coaches. Train no. 17239 Guntur- Visakhapatnam Simhadri Express, leaving Guntur, will have two additional General Second Class coaches, with effect from December 24 to 30 and 17240 Visakhapatnam- Guntur express, leaving Visakhapatnam from December 25 to 31, will be attached with two additional General Second Class coaches, according to A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R). Passengers have been asked to note the changes. They should adhere to the COVID-19 protocols, while under taking the journey. Dial 139, the integrated helpline number, for enquiries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/additional-coaches-to-be-attached-for-some-trains/article38009210.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP members celebrate birthday of Jagan||Blood donation campaigns, sapling plantations and, distribution of clothes and essentials to the poor marked the birthday celebrations of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in the Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and supporters took part in the celebrations at the YSRCP office at Maddilapalem. Mr Srinivasa Rao cut a cake and distributed sweets in the office. Welfare schemes Speaking during the programme, the Minister emphasised on the welfare schemes initiated by the Chief Minister. He also inaugurated the blood donation campaign at the office. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari and other YSR Congress Party leaders were present. MLAs, MPs and leaders conducted celebrations in their constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-members-celebrate-birthday-of-jagan/article38009263.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM inks MoU with Pfizer||GITAM deemed to be University signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Pfizer Healthcare India Private Limited, here on Tuesday. As per the MoU, the university will offer a specially designed B.Sc; (chemistry) programme (6 semesters) from the academic year 2021-22. Pfizer India Ltd will pay the tuition fee for the proposed programme per annum per student admitted. The MoU was exchanged between the university Registrar D. Gunasekharan and Pfizer India Ltd Visakhapatnam site head Vikram Shukla, in the presence of V-C K. Sivaramakrishna and pro Vice-Chancellor Jayasankar Variyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-inks-mou-with-pfizer/article38009265.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 kg tumour removed from tribal woman||Gayatri Institute of Health Sciences and Medical Technology removed an ovarian tumour weighing about 10 kgs successfully from a tribal woman, here on Monday. The team of doctor was headed by T. Padmavathi, HoD, obstetrician and gynaecology and A. Ramesh, surgical oncologist. The case was detected during a medical camp conducted by the hospital at Mondigedda village in Paderu mandal. The 60-year-old woman K. Lakshmamma was suffering from abdomen distension, pain and loss of appetite. The health camp team brought her to the hospital at Marikavalasa, for follow-up treatment and it took two hours to perform the surgery successfully, said Somaraju, Secretary GVP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-kg-tumour-removed-from-tribal-woman/article38009264.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on digital forensics concludes||The five-day short-term training programme on ‘Recent Trends in Digital Forensics and Crime Investigation’ under the ISEA Project Phase-II, concluded here at Andhra University College of Engineering, on Tuesday. According to convenor V. Valli Kumari, the students were exposed to various aspects of hardware security, digital forensics and trends in cyber crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meet-on-digital-forensics-concludes/article38009266.ece
22 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job mela evokes good response||A large number of tribal youth took part in the Mega Job Mela organised by the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) in collaboration with AP Skill Development Corporation, at Youth Training Centre (YTC), Chintapalle, in Visakhapatnam Agency on Tuesday. During the inaugural meeting, TDA Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna said that representatives form 17 MNCs are taking part in the job mela to recruit youth in 545 various vacancies. He said that with the efforts of the District Collector and public representatives, they are able to conduct job melas for every 15 to 30 days. The next job mela will be conducted at Paderu on January 30, 2022, he said. Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi said that the main motto of organising job melas is to ensure all qualified youth secure jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-mela-evokes-good-response/article38009208.ece
22 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All sections of people happy with our govt., says YSRCP||YSR Congress Party leaders on Tuesday heaped praise on the government, stating that there was a ‘newfound hope among people of all sections in the State’. Celebrations were held at the party office here to mark the 49th birthday of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy cut a large birthday cake weighing 49 kg at the party’s zonal office. At another function, party MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu and leaders Avanapu Vikram and Vijay distributed saris to the poor. District Cooperative Marketing Society chairperson A. Bhavana and party members also celebrated the Chief Minister’s birthday. The leaders said many flagship programmes were being implemented effectively in the State. Several charitable activities were organised on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-sections-of-people-happy-with-our-govt-says-ysrcp/article38009207.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unedifying sight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unedifying-sight/article38009214.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attention, please!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/attention-please/article38008727.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth raises SC categorisation issue in Parliament||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Lok Sabha member A. Revanth Reddy demanded that the Centre amend the Constitution to sub-categorise Scheduled Castes into groups. Raising the matter under Rule 377 in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, Mr. Revanth Reddy said that the reservation policy without special protection to most backward castes within Scheduled Castes was creating new inequalities in terms of education and employment. ‘Dalit movement’ "The Dalit movement in Telugu States has been divided into groups along the lines of new inequities. The shared list of Scheduled Castes, both advanced and backward, is establishing new disparities and setting the groundwork for division within Scheduled Castes," he said. Mr. Revanth Reddy pointed out that today in every village, it was increasingly seen that the Madigas, Rellis and Mehtars were in juxtaposition to Malas and Adi-Andhra. "According to the Justice (Retired) Usha Mehra Commission, 22 of the 59 Scheduled Castes in Telugu States have seen no progress. Backward groups within Scheduled Castes s, such as the Madigas, Rellis, and Mehtars, are the most backward within Scheduled Castes in Telugu States. All the committees and commissions formed to investigate different concerns relating to application of reservations to scheduled castes suggested that special reservations be granted to the most backward scheduled castes within Scheduled Castes ," he said. The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCCP chief urged the Centre to sub-categorize the Scheduled Castes (SCs) into groups and allow the State Governments to distribute reservation benefits in order to provide equitable social justice in the word and spirit of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-raises-categorisation-of-scs-in-parliament/article38009030.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Peace and safety for all in Telangana, assures KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said all residents of the State, irrespective of their faith and affiliation, will be assured peace and protection, and that the inclusive character of Telangana will be preserved. Wishing happiness and prosperity for everyone, he conveyed Christmas greetings at the State-organised celebrations held at the grandly-decked L.B. Stadium here on Tuesday. “Faith becomes problematic only when it turns fanatic, like some of the Muslim rulers who had demolished temples. Love and peace, like baby cries, are universal. There is no bigger faith than loving one another,” he said, assuming a tone of preaching. Describing every resident of the State as “a shareholder in the progress of Telangana”, Mr Rao said the State, like gross domestic product or per capita income, will remain inclusive, and in harmonious cohabitation. He added that the State celebrations of Ramzan, Christmas, Bathukamma and other festivals, depict the inherent quality of Telangana. Touching upon a few issues raised by leaders of the Christian community such as incidents of attacks and other disturbances, the Chief Minister said they were part of a temporary phase, “but humanity, which is a reality, lives on,” he said, reassuring peace and safety for all. He even hinted at a Cabinet-level resolution. Intervention sought Archbishop of Hyderabad, Poola Anthony, who spoke earlier, requested for intervention of the government with issues regarding incidents of attacks on the minority population. He also made requests to address the shortage of burial space for all Christian denominations and for allotment of unique number to each parish priest. The grand event was certainly State-organised with at least nine Ministers making their presence felt, and top bureaucrats taking over the proceedings of the whole celebrations. A large part of the venue which was decked with the traditional bright red, green and gold ribbons, the 28-foot tall Christmas tree, glow sign boards bringing on a starry night sky, Christmas animals, the bugle bells and choir performances, and the nativity scene, together displayed a Bethlehem-like celebration at L.B. Stadium. An elaborate dinner menu was also part of Tuesday’s Xmas celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/peace-and-safety-for-all-in-telangana-assures-kcr/article38009011.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1.4% of State population yet to take vaccine first dose||Around 1.4% of the eligible population in Telangana remain to receive the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while 40% more are yet to receive the second dose. Of the 2,77,67,000 eligible beneficiaries above the age of 18 years, a total of 2,73,84,439 persons have received the first dose, which is 98.62% of the target population in the State. As far as the second dose is concerned, 1,67,92,902 have taken it. That takes the fully-vaccinated population to 60.4% of the target. Health Minister T. Harish Rao has earlier set December-end as the deadline to achieve cent per cent vaccination. Ground-level health staff were dedicated to administer vaccines. However, after the first cases of Omicron started being detected in Telangana about a week ago, the staff had to focus on tracing contacts of the people diagnosed with the variant. 172 new cases Telangana recorded 172 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total to 6,79,892. While 39,919 samples were put to test, results of 5,146 were awaited. One more COVID patient died. The death toll now stands at 4,016. The new infections included 86 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region and 20 from Rangareddy. Of the total cases, 3,625 were active as of Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/14-of-state-population-yet-to-take-vaccine-first-dose/article38009013.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Blame pandemic for learning loss’||State Planning Board Vice Chairman, B. Vinod Kumar has suggested to the Central and State governments to declare the 2022-23 academic year the year of ‘coping with learning loss’ as school students have immensely suffered academically and loss of learning abilities. Mr. Vinod Kumar, who released the findings of national survey on “Learning Loss in School Education during the Pandemic”, said school students cannot be faulted for the pandemic and it was the responsibility of the teachers to plug their learning gaps through special measures, and the government should come out with a draft on this to be adopted by the school managements in both government and private sectors. The survey was conducted by the National Independence Schools Alliance (NISA) and some of its findings include students suffering from loss of reading skills apart from writing and understanding challenges. The big challenges were seen in languages and mathematics with one in three students struggled in mathematics across rural and urban areas. Referring to the findings of the survey, Mr. Vinod Kumar said he would bring this serious issue to the notice of the Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao and how the students can be brought back to the learning platform. The learning abilities were seriously affected as students stayed away from classrooms for nearly two years. “If we don’t bring them back on the learning curve this gap would continue to haunt them forever. This is more so in the rural and semi-urban schools, and also in majority of urban schools except international schools,” he felt. Mr. Vinod Kumar felt that teachers have to be sensitised apart from parents in understanding the poor academic show and lessened learning capabilities. Let the students not be chided or derided for poor performance in the exams for sometime and this is important to infuse confidence among them, he argued. One of the aspects to be considered is creating bridge course with the curriculum lost in the two years and containing key chapters that help students in understanding the higher classes better. E. Prasada Rao, Research Convenor, and Y. Shekhar Rao, president of Telangana Recognised School Managements Association (TRSMA), said the survey came up with interesting recommendations from the students of lower classes who wanted learning through practical methods than book-based learning. The survey was done with samples from across the country including Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blame-pandemic-for-learning-loss/article38009041.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Industry-academia partnership key to popularise core engineering courses’||A senior official in the Department of Collegiate and Technical Education on Tuesday mooted a collaboration between manufacturing sector and autonomous engineering colleges to address the issue of fewer students opting for Civil and Mechanical engineering courses. Developing a curriculum customised to needs of the industry as well as through offer of internship for students, the later possibly for a semester or more after second year of the course, ought to be facets of such a collaboration, said Navin Mittal, Commissioner, Department of Collegiate and Technical Education. “We need to collaborate... it is becoming imperative,” the senior official said, addressing the 3rd edition of EDU Summit on ‘Academic excellence in higher education through industry collaborations’ organised by CII Telangana in partnership with the Department and the Telangana State Council of Higher Education. “If group of industries can collaborate with some of the autonomous engineering colleges... the students will get a flavour [of working environment] and gain confidence,” he said, pointing to how the move would help reverse, in coming years, the trend of core engineering courses attracting less students. Highlighting the importance of manufacturing sector growth too for the economy, he said “students will go where jobs are, they are very smart. They will select a field and institution which will ultimately result in a job at the end of it.” Mr. Mittal stressed on the need for enhancing popularity of the core courses, while citing how B.Tech admissions that closed last week saw about 40,000 students taking admission in computer science and related courses; around 11,000 in electronics and communication engineering and related fields; and close to 5,000 in EEE (electronics and electrical). Only 2,600 opted for Civil and 1,900 for Mechanical engineering programmes. He said this would pose a challenge, in terms of getting manpower, for the manufacturing sector, something that could be addressed through the collaboration. In support, the official cited the success of CII-ALPLA’s dual apprenticeship programme, which has positive transformation in the select diploma students in one year. “More and more members of CII can come forward to partner... we will be solving the conundrum... industry’s complaint that students are not ready when they pass out,” he said. Mr. Mittal added some soft skills have been made part of the core curriculum and about 24,000 seats have been added in new and emerging areas. CII Telangana chairman Sameer Goel said with education system in the country focusing more on knowledge acquisition and less on skills development and employers expecting new hires to become productive as soon as they join there is a clear case for effective On the Job Training for youth to become employable.  With such collaboration, students will get a flavour [of working environment] and gain confidence. Navin Mittal, Commissioner, Department of Collegiate and Technical Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/industry-academia-partnership-key-to-popularise-core-engineering-courses/article38009014.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Realtor aspiring to be ‘don’ held||A realtor was arrested and two pistol and 44 live rounds of ammunition were seized from his possession, police said on Tuesday. The accused is Farook Ahmed (44) and goes by aliases Javeed and Saithan Farook. A native of Mahbubnagar, the accused is a resident of Gagan Pahad. He was apprehended after a during a joint operation of the Shamshabad Special Operations Team and RGIA Police Station. According to police, the accused is involved in as many as 11 cases registered previously against him. These include those at Kalwakurthy, Vangoor, Saifabad, Humayun Nagar, Nampally and Saifabad. He has been booked under relevant sections of the Arms Act in some of these 11 cases. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shamshabad) N. Prakash Reddy said that Farook left for Saudi Arabia in 2005 to earn a livelihood. In 2011, he returned, got married, and entered the real estate business but lost money. He then began borrowing money from people in Mahbubnagar but failed to return it, police said. In 2016, he a bought a firearm from one Khadeer and murdered two people on the same day, and was sent to jail, police added. Police said that after his release, he procured three firearms from Faisal and Khaled who are from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. He then began to commit robberies and extortion using those firearms. He was detained under the Preventive Detention Act in 2018. After his release the following year, he bought two firearms from Faisal for committing further offences, police said. In the latest case, police said the accused met two persons named Jaber and Kaleemuddin in connection with settling grudges against a history sheeter of Rajendranagar Police Station identified as Murtuza. He bought two pistols and 44 live rounds from Faisal. Murtuza, police said, informed the Task Force and the accused was apprehended. He was interrogated and released. Police said that the accused got to know that Murtuza planned to get rid of him. In order to thwart his plans, the accused planned to murder Murtuza with the help of his accomplices, and was busy in recce activity for eight days, police said. This would have earned him the reputation of a fierce ‘don’ and helped him in his real estate business, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/realtor-aspiring-to-be-don-held/article38009020.ece
22 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State govt. releases Rs. 250 crore for Dalit Bandhu||The State Government has released Rs. 250 crore to four mandals selected for the ambitious Dalit Bandhu, aimed at financial empowerment of dalit families with a grant of Rs. 10 lakh each to promote entrepreneur skills. Accordingly, Rs. 50 crore each has been released to Tirumalgiri mandal in Suryapet district, Charugonda mandal of Nagarkurnool district, Nizamabad mandal of Kamareddy district and Rs. 100 crore for Chintakani mandal in Madhira constituency of Khammam district. Incidentally, Madhira, represented by Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, received the highest allocation. Criticism The release follows criticism of the opposition parties that the government has cold shouldered the scheme after bypolls to the Huzurabad Assembly constituency where its candidate received a drubbing at the hands of former Minister Eatala Rajender who resigned from the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Substantiating the opposition"s criticism was the launch of Dalit Bandhu in Huzurabad assembly constituency where the project was implemented on a saturation mode. Following the criticism it faced, the government selected four mandals for implementation of the Dalit Bandhu project. The Scheduled Castes Finance Corporation which released funds to the accounts of collectors of districts said the scheme should be implemented on a saturation mode in the mandals for which the funds had been released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-govt-releases-rs-250-crore-for-dalit-bandhu/article38009027.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IAS officer’s counsel presents arguments in HC||CBI had not moved the courts challenging the State government’s decision rejecting prosecution of IAS officer D. Muralidhar Reddy in Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy’s ‘disproportionate assets’ case, said the officer’s counsel on Tuesday before Justice Ujjal Bhuyan in Telangana High Court. The IAS officer filed petition in the HC seeking a direction to quash the FIR issued against him by the CBI in Jaganmohan Reddy’s disproportionate assets case. Presenting arguments, the petitioner’s counsel Shivaraju Srinivas said State government’s permission was mandatory for prosecution of a government officer under section 197 of Criminal Procedure Code. The CBI had sought permission of the Central government to prosecute the officer under Prevention of Corruption Act. But even the Centre did not give any permission stating that Mr. Reddy was not conferred IAS by then and it was for the State government to take a call on the matter, the lawyer said. Listing the reasons for rejection of permission to prosecute the officer, the State government explained the officer granted No Objection Certificate to Lepakshi Knowledge Hub project like all other companies. The government contended that there were no undue financial favours secured by the official in the matter. The petitioner’s counsel told the court that HC had quashed FIRs issued against some officials in Jagan’s disproportionate assets cases. The case against B. Shyambabu, who was the eighth accused in Lepakshi related matter, too was set aside by the court, the lawyer said. Mr. Reddy, who served as Andhra Pradesh Industrial and Infrastructure Corporation executive director then, discharged his duties as per the directions of the corporation’s vice-chairman and managing director, counsel argued. The matter was posted for Wednesday for presentation of contentions by the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ias-officers-counsel-presents-arguments-in-hc/article38009028.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress Rachabanda with farmers from December 24||Taking the fight on the problems of farmers one more step ahead, the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has decided to hold ‘Rachabanda with farmers’ beginning December 24. This will be continued till January 3, 2022. The programme will be held at Medak and Siddipet (December 24), Sircilla and Karimnagar (25), Warangal Urban and Rural (27), Khammam and Bhadradri Kothagudem (28 and 29), Mahaboobabad and Bhupalpally (30), Peddapally and Mancheryal (Jan 1, 2022) Khanapur in Nirmal district and Jagityal (2) and Nizamabad and Kamareddy (3). The programme will be organised by the Kisan Congress State unit in association with district units. Disclosing these details at a press conference along with Professional Congress president Shravan Kumar Reddy here on Tuesday, Kisan Cell president Anvesh Reddy said that hat the party had been taking up ‘Rachabanda with farmers’ from Dec 24 to explain to farmers how both Central and State Governments were cheating them and to understand the problems being faced by them. “Farmers can produce only paddy and boiled rice or parboiled was the problem of millers and not farmers. State Government has been trying to divert the issue of not fulfilling the promise of farm loan waiver. Farmers are receiving notices from banks as the loan waiver was not implemented by the government. Not only that, some banks are not releasing the Rytu Bandhu amount being credited by the government and instead adjusting the amount against the pending loans,” they said adding that some farmers in Gajwel constituency, represented by KCR had also received notices. They demanded implemenation of loan waiver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-plans-rachabanda-from-dec-24/article38009031.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS reviews arrangements for President’s southern sojourn||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials concerned to work in coordination to make arrangements for President Ramnath Kovind’s southern sojourn at Rashtrapati Nilayam from December 29 to January 3. The Chief Secretary who held a meeting with senior officials of different departments to review the arrangements for the southern sojourn wanted the GHMC and Cantonment Board officials to take up road repair works as well as erection of barricades at important locations for smooth flow of traffic. The Energy department should take steps to provide uninterrupted power supply and the Health department should deploy medical teams. Other departments should make arrangements required as per protocol. The President’s southern sojourn should be seen as an opportunity to further enhance the prestige of the government and get recognition to the city, he said. Officials should accordingly see to it that there was no scope for any shortcomings by working with utmost coordination and making the President’s visit a comfortable one. DGP M. Mahender Reddy, senior officials of different civic departments, and officials from Cantonment Board participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-reviews-arrangements-for-presidents-southern-sojourn/article38009038.ece
22 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 assaulted for ‘stealing’ batteries, heads tonsured||Two men were allegedly tied to an electric police, assaulted and their heads were tonsured in Ahmednagar area in Ranga Reddy district, after locals accused them of stealing autorickshaw batteries. Police identified the victims as Mohammed Khuddus (24) and Mohammed Khaja (25). The incident happened on Saturday under RGIA police station limits. According to the police, the five accused have been booked under Sections 342, 355, 324 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The accused have been identified as Mohd Ghouse, Md Zubair, Abdul Rahman, Mohd Ali, and Mohd Feroz. They allegedly dragged the victims out of their homes, led them to the Ahmednagar crossroads, tied them to a pole, assaulted them and hung batteries around their necks before shaving parts of their heads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-assaulted-for-stealing-batteries-heads-tonsured/article38009022.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre confers IPS on 22 Telangana officers||Twenty-two police officers of the rank of non-cadre Superintendents of Police (SPs) of Telangana State have been conferred IPS on Tuesday. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has issued a notification giving details of the officers. The officers who were conferred IPS are N. Koti Reddy, L. Subbarayudu, K. Narayana Reddy, D.V. Srinivasa Rao, T. Srinivasa Rao, T. Annapurna, P.V. Padmaja, Janaki Dharavath, P. Yadagiri, K.R. Nagaraju, M. Narayana, Y. Saisekhar, G. Janaki Sharmila, V. Thirupathi, S. Rajendraprasad, D. Udaykumar Reddy, K. Suresh Kumar, B. Anuradha, C. Anasuya, Shaik Saleema, R. Giridhar and Ch. Praveen Kumar. Of these 22 officers, P. Yadagiri, K.R. Nagaraju, M. Narayana, V. Tirupathi, S. Rajendraprasad and D. Udaykumar Reddy joined the Police department as Sub-Inspectors. They got promoted as non-cadre SPs and eventually were conferred IPS. The remaining officers joined police service as DSPs. A police officer V. Bhaskar Rao, who retired and passed away, too was conferred IPS as he was eligible before the date of his retirement. He joined Police department as SI. The notification stated that conferment of IPS on Y. Saisekhar and G. Janaki Sharmial was subject to clearing disciplinary proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-confers-ips-on-22-telangana-officers/article38009029.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City dancers to perform at R-Day parade in Delhi||Hyderabad-based dance institute Sri Rama Nataka Niketan, run by veteran Bharatanatyam dancer Manjula Ramaswamy, has won a national-level contest to perform at the 75th Republic Day Parade, at Rajpath, Delhi. Called Team Manjula Ramaswamy, the group of dancers competed at Vande Bharatam Nritya Utsav organised by the Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Defence, and won at the district and state levels to reach the national finals on December 19 to win the coveted position. Dancers of the institution have won several laurels in the past, participating in national TV reality shows and other contests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-dancers-to-perform-at-r-day-parade-in-delhi/article38009015.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notice to accused in PMLA case||Special investigating agencies like Enforcement Directorate probe cases like police but they were not bound by the Criminal Procedure Code, said Additional Solicitor General T. Suryakaran Reddy. Presenting contentions before Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court in a petition seeking to set aside an order of trial court not remanding an accused in judicial custody, the ASG said the trial court erroneously believed that ED authorities had to adhere to section 41-A of Cr.P.C. CBI authorities registered a case against Kamma Srinivasa Rao, director of special purpose company called Ranch Expressways Limited, following a direction from Jharkhand High Court. Earlier, Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) presented a report stating that funds to the tune of Rs. 264 crore sanctioned by National Highways Authority of India for laying four-lane roads from Ranchi to Jamshedpur were embezzled allegedly by REL. Subsequently, ED authorities summoned Rao for questioning about the alleged diversion of funds. Stating that Mr. Rao, who was facing a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), could not give satisfactory replies, the ED authorities presented him before the ED special court judge who declined to send the accused in judicial remand. Stating that ED officials had complied with all legal procedures into the investigation of the case against Mr. Rao, the ASG requested the bench of Justice K. Lakshman to set aside the trial court’s order and remand the accused in judicial custody. After hearing contentions of the ASG, Justice K. Lakshman issued notices to Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notice-to-accused-in-pmla-case/article38009220.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PM urged to allot IIM, NID & NISER to TS||Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday requested the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, to consider establishing three top line educational institutions in the state including an Indian Institute of Management (IIM) in his constituency Karimnagar. In a letter to the PM, a copy of which was released to the media, Mr. Sanjay Kumar said though there was no mention of setting up of an IIM in TS post bifurcation under the Andhra Pradesh Bifurcation Act, however, the Government had earlier assured to establish one here too. Since, Hyderabad already has many reputed educational and research institutions, it will better to set it up in a second tier city like Karimnagar for all round development of the TS. The Government should also consider setting up a National Institute of Design (NID) and the National Institute of Science and Educational Research (NISER) in a city other than Hyderabad. The BJP leader said this institution too was not promised when TS was formed and two such new institutes were given to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pm-urged-to-allot-iim-nid-niser-to-ts/article38009036.ece
22 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Doctor infected with Omicron||A doctor of a corporate hospital, who had attended an international COVID-19 patient with Omicron, has been diagnosed with the new variant. Close contacts of the healthcare professional have been subjected to coronavirus tests. However, it was unclear whether the doctor was one among Tuesday’s four Omicron cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctor-infected-with-omicron/article38009024.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man booked for ‘misbehaving’ with minor girl||A man allegedly lured a minor girl into his house and misbehaved with her in Jubilee Hills Police Station limits. According to the police, the accused Koteshwara Rao, a painter by profession, lives in the same neighbourhood as the girl. The accused allegedly lured the victim into his house by luring her with food. He then allegedly proceeded to misbehave with her. “Koteshwara Rao misbehaved with the girl after offering her biryani. Their houses are close to each other in the same locality,” police said. Police booked a case against Rao and invoked the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act of 2012. An investigation is underway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-booked-for-misbehaving-with-minor-girl/article38009021.ece
22 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||appointed||Eminent scientist Atul Dinakar Rane was appointed Director General, BrahMos, DRDO, and CEO and MD BrahMos on Monday. Mr. Rane has significantly contributed to the missile programmes and was a core member during the foundation of the Brhamos Aerospace. A graduate from Guindy Engineering College, Chennai, he did his PG in guided missiles from the University of Poona and joined the DRDO in 1987 and has worked in various capacities in the Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL) and Research Centre Imarat (RCI) here, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/appointed/article38009009.ece
22 December 2021||hyDERABAD,TELANGANA||Do we need this Chief Minister? Asks Sharmila||YSRTP president Y.S. Sharmila said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has no moral right to continue in that position as he has been cheating the farmers. She alleged that he was responsible for the suicide of farmers. Ms. Sharmila continued here third day of Rytu Aavedana Yatra on Tuesday in Rajanna-Sircilla district and consoled the families of Ragula Devaiah of Mucharla village in Ganbhiraopet mandal, Mandadi Mallaiah of Akkapalli village in Illareddypet mandal and Gouraveni Rajaiah of Javaripet village in Illantakunta mandal and interacted with the family members of the deceased farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-we-need-this-chief-minister-asks-sharmila/article38009033.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Page - picture briefly Named State coordinator for membership drive||Senior Congress leader Harkara Venugopal has been appointed Chief State Co-ordinator of Telangana for AICC Digital membership programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-picture-briefly-named-state-coordinator-for-membership-drive/article38009035.ece
22 December 2021||MULUGU,TELANGANA||Tiger skin seized||The Wazeedu police on Tuesday arrested five persons and seized tiger skin from their possession at Jagannadhapuram village in Wazeedu mandal. Acting on specific information, the police launched a vehicle checking drive near Jagannadhapuram on Tuesday morning and apprehended five persons moving under suspicious circumstances on two bikes on the outskirts of the village. The police recovered a tiger skin and three mobile phones from them. Among those arrested, four hail from Mulugu district and one from Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. Police said the prime accused Vignesh, a native of K Kondapuram in Venkatapuram mandal, along with his accomplices had gone to Avupally village in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Monday. The accused allegedly purchased the tiger skin from suspected poachers at Avupally and headed back to Mulugu district on their bikes to sell it when caught by the police during the vehicle checking drive. Speaking to mediapersons in Mulugu on Tuesday afternoon, Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil said efforts were on to apprehend the remaining accused in the case. The offence attracts several penal provisions of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972, and the case is being handed over to the Forest Dept.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tiger-skin-seized/article38009222.ece
22 December 2021||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Contact-tracing revved up as new COVID variant reaches Sircilla village||A day after the district reported its first confirmed case of Omicron with a Gulf returnee of Gudem village in Mustabad mandal testing positive for the COVID-19 variant, health authorities have intensified efforts to trace all his contacts and carry out tests on them in adherence with contact-tracing protocols. The 26-year-old youth arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport from Dubai on December 16 and his samples were collected and sent for genome sequencing the same day, sources said. His test results returned positive for Omicron on Monday and the report was immediately communicated to the district health authorities. Shifted to TIMS He was shifted to the designated State-run health facility in Hyderabad on Monday afternoon. A medical team conducted rapid antigen tests on his mother, wife and two children on the same day. Their test results returned negative. They were advised home isolation, sources said. Sanitisation drive A sanitisation drive was conducted in the village by spraying sodium hypochlorite and medical teams were deployed for contact tracing and testing. Around 62 primary and secondary contacts of the infected person have been identified and efforts are on to conduct tests on all of them, sources in the health department said. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 vaccination drive has been stepped up all over the district to achieve 100% inoculation of the eligible population by this month end. “All the COVID-19 precautionary measures are in place in Gudem village, which reported the first Omicron case in the district on Monday,” said District Medical and Health Officer Suman Mohan Rao. Nearly 97% of the total eligible population of the district have received one dose of the COVID vaccine and around 70% had taken both doses till Monday, Mr Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contact-tracing-revved-up-as-new-covid-variant-reaches-sircilla-village/article38009017.ece
22 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat government cancels head clerk exam after paper leak||The Gujarat government on Tuesday cancelled the exam to recruit head clerks after the paper leaked on December 12. Police have lodged an FIR and arrested eight persons for their alleged involvement in leaking the exam paper in which 88,000 people had taken the test for 186 vacancies. The exam was conducted by the Gujarat Subordinate Service Selection Board (GSSSB). Minister of State (Home) Harsh Sanghavi said the new exam would be conducted next year. He said eight persons had been arrested in the case. The exam paper leak triggered a major controversy pushing the BJP government on the back foot as the opposition Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party launched a State-wide agitation. A day after over 88,000 candidates took the December 12 examination, both AAP and Congress leaders claimed they had evidence that the question paper was leaked a night before the examination and sold for Rs. 6 lakh-12 lakh in various parts of the State. The government had initially maintained that it had not received any concrete evidence about the leak. Later, the police in north Gujarat lodged an FIR and arrested eight persons who had allegedly procured the exam paper from a staff member of an Ahmedabad printing press contracted by the recruitment agency. The GSSSB is a State government agency mandated to recruit government staff for subordinate services. It is headed by Asit Vora, former Ahmedabad Mayor and BJP leader. “Those who have bought the leaked paper will also be held. We will ask the legal department to ensure that the case is tried in a fast-track court,” Mr. Sanghavi told media persons in Gandhinagar. He said the decision to re-conduct the exam was taken by the Chief Minister in consultation with board and police officials. “All those who had applied this year will be eligible to appear in the exam,” he added. However, the State government remains non committal on the resignation of board chief Mr. Vora, during whose tenure the paper was leaked earlier also. Cong. demands probe On Tuesday, a delegation of Congress leaders met the Chief Minister demanding a probe by a High Court judge into the issue. On Monday, around 500 members of the AAP gathered at the State BJP headquarters to hold a protest. Subsequently, AAP’s top leaders in the State have been arrested for allegedly creating ruckus at the BJP office.  Those who have bought the leaked paper will also be held. We will ask the legal department to ensure that the case is tried in a fast-track court Harsh SanghaviState Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gujarat-government-cancels-head-clerk-exam-after-paper-leak/article38008907.ece
22 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Patnaik govt. to provide house repair assistance in pre-poll sop||In what is being perceived as a pre-election sop, the Naveen Patnaik government in Odisha on Tuesday announced that it will spend Rs. 1,444 crore towards providing house repair assistance in the range of Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 5,000 for every family that is eligible. Panchayat and urban body polls are due in the State early next year. The State Cabinet has decided that the assistance will be directly transferred to the accounts of beneficiaries. “We had decided to convert all mud houses to concrete ones in the first Cabinet meeting in 2014. A lot of work has been done in this direction. Odisha is the leading State in construction of houses in rural areas in the country. Since 2014, the State government has spent Rs. 22,000 crore for rural housing,” said Mr. Patnaik. “The poor are facing problems in carrying out small repairs and painting walls of houses. I can feel the pain. The State Cabinet has taken a historic decision to help the poor in this regard. Our government is the first in the country to make such a decision,” he said. He stated, “Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana, Pucca Ghar Yojana (Mining), Nirman Shramik Pucca Ghar Yojana beneficiaries will get Rs. 3,000 towards the repair of houses.” The Chief Minister said that those who have not been able to get a pucca house under the Central housing scheme — Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) — will get Rs. 5,000 assistance from the State Government for house repair work. Money in bank accounts “The assistance will be directly credited to the bank accounts of all beneficiaries. About 30 lakh families will benefit. The government will spend Rs. 1,444 crore from the Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/patnaik-govt-to-provide-house-repair-assistance-in-pre-poll-sop/article38009094.ece
22 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Two Omicron cases detected in Odisha||Two foreign returnees were found infected with the Omicron variant following genome sequencing of their samples — the first cases of Omicron reported in Odisha. The Director of Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar, Ajay Parida, on Tuesday confirmed about the detection of the variant of concern. While one person had returned from Nigeria, the other one had come from Qatar. They are from Jagatsinghpur and Khordha districts. Their condition is stated to be stable. “Since November 21, we have been keeping people returning from foreign soil, irrespective of ‘at risk’ or other countries, under surveillance. More than 8,800 international passengers have entered Odisha. The number of passengers from ‘at risk’ countries is around 1,600,” said Niranjan Mishra, State Director of Public Health. Dr. Mishra said, “Of the total 8,800 passengers, only 12, who had undergone RT-PCR tests, have tested positive. These samples were then sent for genome sequencing. We have been informed that only two of them tested positive for Omicron.” Dr. Mishra added, “Since the symptoms are extremely mild with slight coughing, there is no need to panic. They have been isolated since their arrival. Due diligence has been taken to track all those who have come in contact with the two. We will do genome sequencing of all those who would be found positive after RT-PCR tests.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-omicron-cases-detected-in-odisha/article38009096.ece
22 December 2021||Haldia (W.B.),||Three killed in IOC’s Haldia refinery fire||Three persons were killed and 44 suffered injuries in a fire that broke out in the Haldia Refinery of the Indian Oil Corporation in West Bengal’s Purba Medinipur district on Tuesday, the police said. The IOC in a statement said the incident occurred at a unit of the refinery during shutdown related works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-killed-in-iocs-haldia-refinery-fire/article38008910.ece
22 December 2021||Mumbai,||MVA govt., BJP set to cross swords over OBC quota issue||As the winter session of the Maharashtra Assembly begins on Wednesday, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is set for a face off with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the issues of scrapping of OBC reservation in local civic bodies, arrest of former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and leak of recruitment exam papers held by various State government departments. “The State government wasted two years by not collecting empirical data on OBCs which has led to the Supreme Court scrapping OBC reservation in local civic bodies. It is the MVA government which is responsible for the same and we will make them answerable in the House,” Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said. The opposition boycotted the tea-party organised by State government on the eve of the session. Mr. Fadnavis reiterated his earlier demand of handing over the probe of exam papers leak to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), claiming it has its roots in the Mantralaya. State Minister Nawab Malik slammed the BJP saying that the issue of paper leaks goes back to the previous BJP-led State government and that is the reason why Mr. Fadnavis is asking for CBI probe. The winter session of the Assembly is usually held in Nagpur. But this is the second time in a row when the session is being held in Mumbai owing to COVID-19 and the new threat from Omicron variant. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who has been out of public eye for some time due to his surgery, will be making his presence in the session. Mr. Thackeray virtually attended the Cabinet meeting on the eve of session on Tuesday and did not hold any press conference. The opposition also announced to rake up the issue of law and order situation in the State and allegations of extortion against some officers in the police force. State’s former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh is currently under arrest by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an alleged money-laundering case. Mr. Deshmukh had resigned after allegations by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh that the Minister had extorted Rs. 100 crore from Mumbai’s hoteliers. Extortion cases Mr. Singh himself is facing a number of extortion cases and has been suspended by the State government. The arrest of Mr. Deshmukh and suspension of Mr. Singh are two of the issues that the BJP is likely use to attack the MVA government. Minister Nawab Malik has been levelling serious charges against the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede. He had also confronted Mr. Fadnavis on the issue. It is likely to resonate in the session too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mva-govt-bjp-set-to-cross-swords-over-obc-quota-issue/article38008905.ece
22 December 2021||Mumbai,||Panel imposes fine on Deshmukh||A Judicial Commission set up to probe corruption allegations against Anil Deshmukh, former Maharashtra Home Minister, imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000 on him on Tuesday for seeking an adjournment. The one-member Commission, headed by Justice (Retd.) K.U. Chandiwal, imposed the fine after a lawyer from Mr. Deshmukh’s team sought an adjournment. Earlier this month also, the Commission had imposed a fine of Rs. 15,000 on him for seeking an adjournment. The Commission was set up by the State government to inquire about corruption allegations against Mr. Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. Dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze’s cross-examination by Mr. Deshmukh’s counsel Girish Kulkarni will continue on Wednesday. The case goes back to April 5, 2021, when the Bombay High Court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry against Mr. Deshmukh. On April 21, the Enforcement Directorate registered an FIR against Mr. Deshmukh under sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/panel-imposes-fine-on-deshmukh/article38008909.ece
22 December 2021||Mumbai,||Assembly to elect new Speaker; rift over voting||Months after the post of Speaker fell vacant following resignation by Nana Patole – who went on to become the State Congress chief – the Maharashtra Assembly will elect a new Speaker in the winter session starting on Wednesday. The selection process is, however, unlikely to go smoothly as the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is insistent on secret ballot while the ruling coalition want open voting. The rules committee of the Assembly has already passed a resolution to change the existing rule of secret ballot for Speaker’s election. On Wednesday, it will be placed in front of the House for sanction, where the BJP is likely to oppose the move. Once cleared, the process for seeking nominations will begin and election could be held on December 23 or 24. According to sources within the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the BJP MLAs had opposed move on open voting in the rules committee meeting. “Chief Minister is insisting on open voting, which is a norm even in Parliament and also in the State Council,” said a member of the rules committee. In the 288-member Assembly, the ruling MVA enjoys support of around 170 MLAs as against 106 of the BJP. Twelve BJP MLAs are suspended, bringing down the opposition tally. However, according to sources, even if the victory of the MVA is certain, the ruling coalition is not willing to take any chances and want to avoid cross-voting of even a single MLA. Candidates in race Congress leader Patole’s resignation from the Speaker’s post without consulting with the coalition partners, the Shiv Sena and the NCP, was not liked by the leadership of both the parties. During the second wave of COVID, the election of Speaker was kept postponing due to short tenure of the sessions. Senior Congress MLAs Sangram Thopte, Amin Patel, Suresh Varpudkar are likely faces in the race for the post. Former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan is also one of the front-runners but his association with the G-23 leaders within the Congress may push his claim backwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assembly-to-elect-new-speaker-rift-over-voting/article38008901.ece
22 December 2021||Mumbai,||BMC issues guidelines for Christmas, New Year gatherings||In view of the upcoming Christmas and New Year’s celebrations and the possibility of a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases affected by the Omicron variant, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday issued directives for gatherings, functions and parties allowing only 50% attendance in case of indoor events. As per the directions issued by the civic body, any programme, function, gathering, wedding, party, meeting or activity — whether it is social, religious or political — can take place with only 25% of the total capacity of the space in case of an outdoor event. Prior permission In cases where the owners or the organisers claim that the capacity of their space is such that following COVID Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) and six feet by six feet distance between individuals is possible, and the number of attendees is more than 200, then in all such cases prior written permission of the Assistant Commissioner of the municipal ward concerned need to be obtained by them. The officer would send their representatives to supervise to ensure adherence of rules regarding CAB and any other rules prescribed by the State government from time-to-time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bmc-issues-guidelines-for-christmas-new-year-gatherings/article38008908.ece
22 December 2021||Mumbai,||Khadse’s wife gets protection from arrest||The Bombay High Court extended the protection from arrest to Nationalist Congress Party leader Eknath Khadse’s wife Mandakini till January 12, in a case of alleged dubious land deal in Pune. A single Bench of Justice Nitin Sambre was hearing a plea filed by Ms. Khadse on October 13 seeking pre-arrest bail in the case. She is charged under several sections of the money laundering Act and the IPC. Her plea, filed by advocate Mohan Tekavde, said she is a senior citizen and listed a number of medical conditions she suffers from. The plea mentions that this is the only case against her and she has been cooperating with the investigation and appeared before the Enforcement Directorate 15 times. On October 21, the Bench had granted interim protection to Mr. Khadse in the same case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/khadses-wife-gets-protection-from-arrest/article38009093.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Salesmen threaten to disrupt supply chains of essential goods||A vast number of salesmen and distributors spread across the country have threatened to disrupt supply chains of essential goods. In a statement to The Hindu , P.M. Ganeshraam, founder and national president of the Original Federation of All India Distributors’ Associations (OFAIDA), said big business houses such as Reliance were “eating into” the domain of the distributors. The representatives of the distributors network met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday. “If a particular product costs Rs. 100, distributors supply the product at the market price of Rs. 75. But Reliance supplies the same product at Rs. 60 through JioMart. This is disrupting our traditional role in the Indian economy. Over 75 years, so many products succeeded in the Indian market because of the hard work of the ground level distributors. It is us, the distributors, who nurture products,” said Mr. Ganeshraam. He said the distributors had been lobbying with various political parties to drive home the argument that the e-commerce policy of the Modi government had been harming the interests of crores of honest distributors who keep the supply chains of the Indian economy well oiled. ‘Financial setbacks’ “Ever since the government focused on the e-commerce sector, we are facing financial setbacks. There are eight crore traders who are involved in the distributor network and we generate employment for crores of others. We are trying to meet Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. We will try to convince him that distributors cannot compete with RelianceMart,” said Mr. Ganeshraam. In a statement, the Congress extended support to the commercial distributors and slammed the “anti-competitive behaviour of big businesses and monopolies”. “This is about price manipulation to grab market share by the big players to squeeze out the smaller players and abuse of market power through preferential access to foreign capital for the big businesses,” said Praveen Chakravarty, chairperson, Data Analytics of the Congress. “This is a very serious issue which if not addressed soon will blow over to disrupt our society,” said Mr. Chakravarty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/salesmen-threaten-to-disrupt-supply-chains-of-essential-goods/article38009160.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC orders social disability audit of public transport in six weeks||The Delhi High Court has called for a social disability audit of the existing public transport infrastructure, including the Delhi Metro, with regards to facilities for persons with disability within six weeks. Justice Najmi Waziri said that “the non-availability of requisite and enabling infrastructure for persons with disability is glaring and apparent throughout the city”. “It is also a violation of the Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the judge said. The High Court said all agencies in Delhi, who provide facilities to the public, including road maintaining authorities, DTC, DMRC, Railways, airports authority, etc., shall coordinate with the nodal officer appointed by the Government, who will conduct the social disability audit. The court’s direction came while hearing the plea of a young school girl, who became permanently disabled in a motor vehicle accident and now is wheelchair-bound. “A person such as the present petitioner, who as a young school girl has been permanently debilitated below the waist and is now wheelchair-bound, is inconvenienced or unable to use footpaths, narrow streets, and transportation facilities be it through bus or metro, and other forms of public transport,” the judge said. The court was of the view that the young girl and other similarly placed persons should be given due facilities to make their commuting through public transport less daunting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-orders-social-disability-audit-of-public-transport-in-six-weeks/article38008893.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 102 new COVID-19 cases, 1 death||A total of 102 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 14,42,390, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Tuesday. There was one death in 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,102. A total of 51,544 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.20%. Of the total cases, there are 557 active ones. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said there are 54 Omicron cases in Delhi, of whom 34 patients are at Lok Nayak Hospital and 17 have recovered. “There are four genome sequencing labs in Delhi which are capable of testing Omicron cases. Two labs are run by the Central Government and two by the Delhi Government. The Delhi Government labs have the capacity to do genome sequencing of more than 100 samples per day. As per the instructions of the Chief Minister , sequencing of all COVID-19 samples is being done here,” Mr. Jain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-102-new-covid-19-cases-1-death/article38008894.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Resident doctors return Union Govt.’s ‘ tali ’, ‘ thaali ’||Hundreds of resident doctors, who have been boycotting work, performed a “ tali and thaali waapsi ” and “ phool waapsi ” outside the Health Ministry (Nirman Bhawan) in Delhi on Tuesday by beating plates and showering flowers on a white coat on which “Dear Union Health Ministry Govt. of India” was written. “The Prime Minister had asked people to beat thaali for the frontline workers and the Government had also showered flowers on us. But it’s now meaningless as we have been on the road for the last 15 days. So, there is no point in such pseudo appreciation and we are giving it back,” said Dr. Kulsaurabh, general secretary, Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA). More than 5,000 resident doctors boycotted work for the fifth day on Tuesday, as a protest against the delay in PG NEET counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/resident-doctors-return-union-govts-tali-thaali/article38008896.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Three arrested for murder of IAS aspirant||Three persons have been arrested in connection with the murder of a 20-year-old man, an IAS aspirant and private tutor, in Mangolpuri, the police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Ronak, Mukesh and Rohit. According to DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh, on December 14, they received a PCR call regarding stabbing of a person. The victim, Amardeep, was declared brought dead by doctors while one Sagar, 20, is undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-arrested-for-murder-of-ias-aspirant/article38008898.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality in Capital turns ‘severe’ again||The air quality in the city slipped into the “severe” category again on Tuesday and the Air Quality Index (AQI) is likely to be in the upper end of the “very poor” level for the next three days, as per the Centre-run monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research. The AQI was 402 on Tuesday, up from 332 on Monday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is the average of the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-in-capital-turns-severe-again/article38008897.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Gold worth Rs. 1.82 crore seized at IGIA this year||The Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) has witnessed a spurt in gold seizure this year as smuggled gold worth Rs. 1.82 crore has been seized till December 14, compared to just Rs. 5 lakh last year, showed official data from the CISF. The data showed that the number of cases of gold seizure also increased from one case last year to 11 cases this year. However, detection of drug smuggling cases has decreased with drugs worth Rs. 10.13 lakh seized so far this year, a reduction from Rs. 23.25 crore drug seized last year. Cases of fake e-tickets, passports and IDs have dropped from 27 to 12. The data showed that there were seven cases of human trafficking and impersonation cases last year whereas five were reported this year. Arms smuggling have also reduced, the data showed. CISF officials said that passengers employ creative ways to smuggle items into the city. “We have had several cases where passengers carry cash by creating false bottoms in suitcases,” a senior CISF personnel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gold-worth-rs-182-crore-seized-at-igia-this-year/article38008899.ece
22 December 2021||NUH,||Nuh residents seek access to Delhi-Mumbai Expressway||Residents of Nuh district have launched a campaign seeking access to the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway near Marora village for the region’s all-round development. The Expressway is 1,380 km long and passes through six States. Former Sarpanch Gopi Kisan said Marora’s residents have been raising the demand for access to the Expressway for the past two years, but all their pleas had fallen on deaf ears. The locals might even be forced to obstruct the construction of the Expressway as a last resort if the region is continued to be denied access, he added. Led by Mewat RTI Manch, the campaign was kicked off at Khanpur Ghati village of Ferozepur Block on Monday. The Manch’s convener Rajuddin Meo said that access to the Expressway near Marora village would benefit a large number of devotees from Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh visiting the holy places such as Tijara, Vrindavan, Kashi, and Mathura.  Khanpur Ghati resident Chaudhary Ilias Khan said Marora’s locals had lots of hope from the road being constructed at the cost of Rs. 1 lakh crore, but it was disappointing that the village was being denied access. The locals plan to collect 20,000 signatures in support of their campaign and send a petition to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. Social worker Mubarak Aterna said access to the Expressway near Marora village on the Hodal-Nagina State Highway would ensure complete development of the region, else several cities would be left out from urban development. Besides access to the highway, the locals have also been campaigning for a university, trauma centre and upgradation of around a dozen schools in the district during the ongoing two-week celebrations to mark Mewat Diwas.  An access to the Expressway would benefit devotees visiting the holy places such as Tijara, Vrindavan, Kashi, and Mathura Rajuddin Meo Mewat RTI Manch convener||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nuh-residents-seek-access-to-delhi-mumbai-expressway/article38008912.ece
22 December 2021||Pune,||Former Maharashtra exam council head held for alleged malpractices||More corruption in the conduct of government exams in Maharashtra was unearthed with the Pune police arresting a former commissioner of the Maharashtra State Council of Examination (MSCE) in connection with alleged malpractices in the Teachers' Eligibility Test (TET) held in 2018. The police took former MSCE commissioner Sukhdev Dere into custody late on Monday after the authorities found proof of his alleged malpractices in the 2018 TET. Evidence of Mr. Dere’s complicity in the 2018 TET came to light during an ongoing police investigation into the alleged irregularities in the 2020 TET. The latter scam had led to the arrest of current MSCE commissioner Tukaram Supe along with a number of persons, including the director of a software firm contracted by the State Government for conducting such exams. “A separate case has been registered against Dere for his alleged involvement in malpractices in the 2018 TET while another person was nabbed from Bengaluru last night. The modus operandi of tampering with the marksheets in order to make candidates eligible is the same as that followed by the other accused arrested in the 2020 TET malpractices case,” said Pune Commissioner of Police Amitabh Gupta. Thus far, eight people have been arrested in the case, including Mr. Supe and Pritish Deshmukh, director of the software firm which was tasked for conducting a number of State government exams. Mr. Supe and Abhishek Savarikar, a consultant to the State Education Department, had been arrested by the Pune police last week for allegedly taking money to change the results of some candidates so that they can clear the 2020 TET. The police had also recovered unaccounted cash and gold ornaments worth over Rs. 2 crore from Mr. Supe’s home during a search and seizure operation. Premier exam body The MSCE is the State’s premier exam conducting body which organises the TET where diploma holders are required to be declared as ‘eligible candidates’ in order to secure jobs in schools and institutions run by the State Government and local self-governing bodies. According to authorities, the alleged malpractices in the TET were coming to light only now due to the probe into the recent question paper leak before the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) examination. The MHADA exam had been accordingly postponed by the State Government on December 12 and is now scheduled to be held in mid-January next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/former-maharashtra-exam-council-head-held-for-alleged-malpractices/article38008900.ece
22 December 2021||Rajpura,||‘Killing for sacrilege bids absolutely unacceptable’||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday condemned the killings of two unidentified men for their sacrilege attempts at Amritsar and Kapurthala, saying it is “absolutely unacceptable”. Two men were beaten to death for their alleged desecration bids at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday and at a gurdwara in Kapurthala district on Sunday. “Sacrilege is wrong, but it is also wrong to kill a person. What is this way? If you take him (the accused) to the SGPC office, interrogate him and then kill him. Is this the way? This is absolutely unacceptable,” said Capt. Amarinder. He said the accused should have been handed over to the police and added that no civilised society can and should approve of such killings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/killing-for-sacrilege-bids-absolutely-unacceptable/article38008911.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Making up for lost school time in Assam||The two-room Salpara Lower Primary School has been the landmark of Rongsai village since 1994. But the centre of attention has been a shed the villagers built on the school’s compound 23 months ago. The shed is where Karishma Rabha helped Rajmahanta and Utpal – two of more than a dozen COVID lockdown-induced dropouts – relearn their basics and more to be promoted to Class 6 at the Bodahapur High School nearby. The two Government-run schools in western Assam’s Goalpara district are about 140 km west of Guwahati. Karishma Rabha is an education facilitator, one of 45 engaged by the non-profit Centre for Microfinance and Livelihood (CML) across four districts since September 2019. The other districts are Bongaigaon, Baksa and Nalbari. She is currently teaching numerical and fundamental literacy to 12 dropouts and slow learners of Classes 1-5 at Salpara’s makeshift classroom three alternate days a week. She devotes the other three days to a similar set-up at the Bodahapur school for students from Classes 6-8. It took weeks for her to make Class 4 student Bitupan Jyoti write his name and other words in English, although he finds the lower cases a tad difficult. The rate of progress in the Assamese language has been similar for his friend Rikiraj. “From his inability to read the alphabets a few months ago to managing words and sentences has been a marked improvement,” school management committee president and Rikiraj’s father, Sukhdhan Rabha said. At the Kongkera LP School a few kilometres away, education facilitator Kabita Sangma has had a tough time bringing Chuname back to school after a long gap since March 2020. She had to start from scratch with the girl who had dropped out of Class 5. Chuname’s ability to calculate and frame sentences have been ranging from levels 1 to 3, but her talents in music, sports and creativity such as origami have come to the fore. “Our three-year project covers 2,363 children of 90 schools across six education blocks of four districts catering to 122 villages. The objective is to reduce and prevent dropout at the elementary level,” Kandarpa Kalita, CML’s area manager told The Hindu . “We found that one of the main reasons for children dropping out of school is their inability to catch up with the faster learners, who the schools tend to focus attention on,” he said. No online access Barely had the project taken off when COVID struck. “Our field workers visited the homes of the project children who had no access to online learning. Schools reopened in October 2021 but some children continued to skip classes,” said Kuldeep Das, CML’s programme associate for Goalpara district. The organisation identified 236 children who did not attend school from October 19 to November 11 and began Mission Sanjog for them. Only about 10% of these children are yet to be back to school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/making-up-for-lost-school-time-in-assam/article38008903.ece
22 December 2021||Beijing,||China slaps sanctions on U.S. govt. officials over Xinjiang||China announced sanctions on Tuesday on four members of the U.S. government’s Commission on International Religious Freedom in retaliation for penalties imposed on Chinese officials over complaints of abuses in the country’s northwestern Xinjiang region. The tit-for-tat sanctions add to spiralling tension over Xinjiang. Tit for tat Washington has banned imports from the region that might be made with forced labour, while activists are calling for a boycott of February’s Winter Olympics in Beijing. China has denied accusations of abuses and earlier retaliated by publicising calls for boycotts of foreign shoe and clothing brands. The chairwoman and three members of the U.S. panel are barred from visiting mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau, and any assets they have in the country will be frozen, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. Mr. Zhao identified those targeted as chairwoman Nadine Maenza, deputy chairman Nury Turkel and members Anurima Bhargava and James Carr. Mr. Zhao gave no indication whether they have assets in China. China threatened to retaliate after the U.S. Treasury announced sanctions on December 10 on two officials accused of involvement in repression of Uighurs and other mostly Muslim minorities in Xinjiang. Beijing is accused of mass detentions, forced abortions and other abuses. U.S. Treasury sanctions Treasury targeted Shohrat Zakir, chairman of the region’s government from 2018 until early this year, and Erken Tuniyaz, who holds the position now and previously was deputy chairman. “The United States should withdraw the so-called sanctions and stop interfering in Xinjiang’s affairs and China’s internal affairs,” Mr. Zhao said. “China will make further responses in accordance with the development of the situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-slaps-sanctions-on-us-govt-officials-over-xinjiang/article38008484.ece
22 December 2021||Kabul,||Taliban allow protest calling for aid||Around 200 Afghans marched in Kabul on Tuesday to demand the release of billions of dollars of assets frozen by the international community — a rare protest allowed by the Taliban as the country battles a major economic crisis. There were no women in Tuesday’s march, organised by a little-known group called the Afghan People’s Movement which in the past has held peace rallies in the capital. The Taliban have outlawed protests unless approved, cracking down hard on several demonstrations held by women clamouring for the right to jobs and education. Tuesday’s march clearly had the blessing of Afghanistan’s new rulers, with Taliban social media accounts featuring multiple images and video clips saying participants spoke for ordinary citizens. Call to U.S. “Our main demand is that the United States should release our assets as soon as possible,” organiser Shafiq Ahmad Rahimi said. “This is the wealth of the nation, not of any single person, group or government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-allow-protest-calling-for-aid/article38008480.ece
22 December 2021||Washington,||Biden to pledge 500 mn free COVID tests to beat Omicron||With the Omicron variant on the march, U.S. President Joe Biden plans to announce 500 million free rapid tests for Americans, increased support for hospitals under strain, and a redoubling of vaccination and boosting efforts. In a speech scheduled for Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Biden is announcing major changes to his COVID-19 winter plan. The White House provided details on the proposals Mr. Biden will announce in his speech. A cornerstone of the plan is Mr. Biden’s decision for the government to purchase 500 million coronavirus rapid tests and ship them free to Americans starting in January. People will use a new website to order their tests, which will then be sent to them by U.S. mail at no charge. The federal government will also establish new testing sites and use the Defense Production Act to help manufacture more tests. White House officials said they’re working with Google so that people will be able to find them by searching “free COVID test near me.” To assist hospitals buckling under the new COVID-19 wave, Mr. Biden is prepared to deploy an additional 1,000 troops with medical skills. Omicron has raced ahead and is now the dominant version of COVID-19 in the U.S., accounting for 73% of new infections last week, health officials said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-pledge-500mn-free-covid-tests-to-beat-omicron/article38008482.ece
22 December 2021||Brussels,||EU to push for nine-month vaccine validity||The European Union is poised to limit the validity of vaccine recognition in its EU COVID certificate to nine months, its executive said on Tuesday, in a bid to encourage boosters. The European Commission said in a statement it has adopted “a binding acceptance period of nine months (precisely 270 days) of vaccination certificates for the purposes of intra-EU travel”, to come into force from February 1. The measure — which needs approval of EU member states to come into effect — comes as the bloc races to get booster jabs into arms. The EU move seeks to harmonise acceptance of its COVID certificate across the bloc by making the validity of each jab nine months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-to-push-for-nine-month-vaccine-validity/article38008475.ece
22 December 2021||Sanaa,||Saudi-led strikes halt aid flights into Yemen capital||UN aid flights into Yemen’s rebel-held capital Sanaa have been halted by air strikes carried out by the Saudi-led coalition which supports the government, an airport official said on Tuesday. Because of coalition air strikes targeting the Houthi rebels, “the airport is no longer able to receive aircraft operated by the United Nations or international humanitarian organisations”, the official said. Flights into Sanaa airport have been largely halted by a Saudi-led blockade since August 2016, but there have been exemptions for aid flights that are a key lifeline for the population. The airport official called on the United Nations to secure a halt to the raids so that the airport could resume operations. On Monday evening, the coalition said it had carried out “a limited number of precision strikes on legitimate military targets in Sanaa international airport”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-led-strikes-halt-aid-flights-into-yemen-capital/article38008478.ece
22 December 2021||Shah Alam,||14 dead, 70,000 displaced in Malaysian floods||The Malaysian military used boats on Tuesday to distribute food to desperate people trapped in their homes after massive floods, as the death toll rose to 14 with over 70,000 displaced. Days of torrential rain triggered some of the worst flooding in years at the weekend, swamping cities and villages and cutting off major roads.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/14-dead-70000-displaced-in-malaysian-floods/article38008474.ece
22 December 2021||London,||London court orders Dubai ruler to pay 'record' divorce settlement||The ruler of Dubai was on Tuesday ordered to pay his former wife and children around £550 million ($730 million) in what is thought to be the highest divorce settlement set by an English court. 72-year-old Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum and 47-year-old Princess Haya Bint Al Hussein, were locked in a bitter legal battle.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-court-orders-dubai-ruler-to-pay-record-divorce-settlement/article38008477.ece
22 December 2021||Cairo,||UN: Over 160 migrants drown in shipwrecks off Libya||More than 160 migrants drowned in two separate shipwrecks off Libya over past week, a United Nations migration official said. The fatalities were the latest disasters in the Mediterranean Sea involving migrants seeking a better life in Europe. The new deaths have brought the tally in the central Mediterranean route to around 1,500 migrants drowned this year.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-over-160-migrants-drown-in-shipwrecks-off-libya/article38008485.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Stemming the onslaught of Omicron||After the massive second wave of COVID-19 caused by the Delta variant, India has been in the endemic phase. This is the much-awaited respite that permits further relaxation of curbs on social interactions and reopening of all educational institutions. As these are implemented in different States at different paces, India now faces the threat of an Omicron wave. Some experts seem to believe that there will not be another wave since the Omicron variant is not causing severe disease in other countries. We cannot predict whether extensive transmission of Omicron will cause a wave. For some four months there was unrestrained circulation of the Delta variant before it showed up as the second wave of disease. Omicron will take less time as it spreads faster. We did not flatten the Delta wave curve with vaccination; we must use vaccination now to block another wave. The risk of a disease wave may be small but it is not zero. The case for booster doses Our best defence against Omicron is to bolster population immunity with vaccination. Omicron tends to evade immunity induced by infection or two doses of the vaccine. But the evasion is partial. The higher the antibody level, the better the protection. A recent report of cross-protection showed that all convalescent sera neutralised Omicron, albeit with low titres. A booster shot of a vaccine raises antibody levels at least an order of magnitude higher than those induced by infection or two vaccine doses. That is why many countries are providing booster jabs. What we believe is that the entire population should be vaccinated with two doses, including children (as Omicron causes more infection in children than Delta), and booster doses provided for those who had their second dose six or more months earlier. Policymakers argue that Omicron will not cause serious illness, as initial trends suggest elsewhere, and so booster doses are unnecessary now. Everyone agrees that Omicron is spreading faster than even Delta. These observations must be seen against a background of the high prevalence of immunity in the population. Omicron’s true virulence in the non-immune population will be known only in due time. Should we therefore decide against booster doses now? Do we not know that booster doses will inevitably be necessary tomorrow, if not today? So, why not administer them earlier since we know that boosted immunity lasts longer? All those who have followed COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and stayed safe may not be spared infection from Omicron. Diabetics; cancer patients; patients with autoimmune disease, chronic cardiovascular, renal or liver diseases; those who have had organ transplants; and those aged 60+ with immune senescence face the risk of disease. The World Health Organization (WHO) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advise a third dose for them to ensure adequate immunity. Apart from these categories of people, healthcare workers occupationally exposed to the virus are a priority. However, everyone who has taken two doses will need a booster sooner than later. If we wait for evidence on how many cases of serious disease and hospitalisation Omicron can cause, we may be too late in protecting these segments with the simple measure of administering a booster. We know that breakthrough infection in two-dose recipients is common with Omicron. They will act as links in the chain of further transmission. We must slow down virus circulation and this can be achieved only by increasing the proportion of people who are adequately immunised. Is there evidence that booster doses will protect us? Studies show that 70% of immunocompromised individuals show rapid increase in neutralising antibody titre with a booster dose. A booster dose with an mRNA vaccine protects well against symptomatic disease caused by Omicron. Will vaccines in India boost immunity against COVID-19? We must assume they do, but we also need to investigate this for confirmation. All these efforts should run in parallel. It is a well-accepted principle in vaccinology that booster doses consistently and exponentially enhance immunity. To face Omicron, which is highly transmissible and has a tendency to evade low levels of immunity, we must act now. Waiting for evidence is unwise – while anticipating evidence, we should offer boosters. A second argument against booster doses is that India should share its vaccines with countries where the vaccination programme is lagging instead of administering booster jabs for its own citizens. The government has primary responsibility towards the Indian population. And India is doing its best to fulfil its obligations to low-income countries — more so than many developed countries. Some argue that the two-dose vaccination programme for the entire eligible population will suffer if booster doses are administered. These two objectives are not in competition. Booster doses are to be administered after a six-month interval after the second dose. There is no reason why the two-dose programme and the booster programme cannot go hand in hand, especially since vaccine supplies are sufficient. When responding to a crisis, decisions must be made quickly, with foresight, integrity and humanity. To wait for firm evidence to emerge before taking action or to take hasty, wrong decisions will entail a price. Foresight shows the middle path. WHO is reluctant to advise boosters now as its duty is to advocate vaccine equity. We must rely on our own integrity to enable us to balance our immediate needs and altruistic allocation for other countries. Immunity is a spectrum ranging from protection from severe disease and death, to preventing even the mildest disease, to preventing infection itself. When we consider the nation’s health, our humanity demands that we protect the vulnerable from risk of severe disease and death. Retarding virus circulation and even inhibiting asymptomatic infections becomes a priority. This is the rationale for offering booster doses. On child vaccination It is urgent that we vaccinate children, already back in schools, as a defence against Omicron. The experience in other countries warns us that children without immunity get infected causing disruptions in school and transmission in households. Even children with asymptomatic infection will carry the virus home. Further, if we vaccinate children in a well-organised school-based vaccination programme, we will reduce the size of the potential ‘virus reservoir’ of that unvaccinated population segment. We need to fast-track approval processes for Emergency Use Authorisation for children. That will enable the next step of recommendation by the Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation. One vaccine manufacturer has made an intranasal vaccine in India. The need for it is now. Hence, its evaluation by a regulatory agency must be fast-tracked in an emergency mode. How do we ensure that those who are immunocompromised get the booster dose? It is time that the vaccines already approved with the EUA are licensed quickly. This will enable physicians to assess the risk in individual patients and counsel them — thereby ensuring that those in need of booster jabs get them quickly. We may be right in assuming that Omicron is relatively harmless. But we may also be wrong and the price we will pay then could be hefty. Instead, if we assume it to be ominous and take all precautions even before evidence clarifies the true picture of Omicron’s behaviour, society can go back to pre-COVID normalcy sooner. T. Jacob John is retired Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC Vellore, and M.S. Seshadri is Medical Director of the Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stemming-the-onslaught-of-omicron/article38008468.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Changing the iconography of power||With two massive electoral mandates in 2014 and 2019; with the meek popular acceptance of the economic setback created by demonetisation in 2016; with the effective cancellation of Kashmir’s political aspirations and residual autonomy in 2019; with the inauguration of Ayodhya’s Ram Temple on the long-disputed ruins of the Babri Masjid in 2020; and finally, with the lack of any public outcry about the mishandling of the pandemic despite the loss of millions of lives in 2021, the Narendra Modi government is perhaps justified in proceeding as though it has a carte blanche, not least on the cultural front. One of the ways in which this regime’s apparently unshakeable confidence in its ideological plank of Hindutva can be gauged is by its systematic takeover and makeover of a number of spaces and structures that have powerful symbolic significance in the public life of the nation. Nationalism of refurbishment From the Gandhi Ashram in Sabarmati to the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, from the Parliament House on Raisina Hill to the Vishwanath Mandir in Varanasi, from Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati Riverfront to the capital’s Central Vista Avenue, from Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar to Teen Murti House in Delhi, all kinds of historic sites, whether sacred or secular, ancient or modern are being subjected to extravagant renovation. As architect Bimal Patel, responsible for most if not all of the Modi administration’s most ambitious redevelopment projects in Gujarat, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, said to a university audience in the capital recently: “We are interested in changing the iconography of power.” One could hardly ask for the agenda of the Hindu Right to be more explicitly spelt out. Patel and his Ahmedabad-based firm HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt. Ltd., along with other Government functionaries and spokespersons, Ministers and bureaucrats, State and central officials, as well as right-wing culture warriors producing media commentary, have a uniform justification for these massive undertakings: India needs to transition from dilapidated Mughal grandeur, leftovers of the British Raj and remnants of Nehruvian socialist frugality, to its own 21st century self-image of a rising Asian Giant. The Chinese model is preferred, where the past is unsentimentally obliterated, differences are brutally homogenised, and so far as possible, things are made brand new, enormously large and technologically advanced. Special Economic Zones, Smart Cities, international airports, multi-lane expressways and glitzy malls have already erupted all over the country. Refurbished heritage structures are the latest emblem in this ideologically driven visual and aesthetic transformation of Modi’s India. People should visit Sabarmati not as Gandhians but as tourists; so too Kashi Vishwanath not merely as devotees of Shiva, nor the Janmabhoomi as just believers in Ram, but also as tourists; similarly the National Museum or India Gate not only as citizens but also as tourists. Parliament itself needs to attract tourists, as the arena for debate and legislation. It is no longer enough to seek a functioning polity, society or religious community — we need a staging of Indian democracy. Citizenship as viewership We should not see India for what it is — old, diverse, incoherent, complex, messy, inclusive, subtle and resilient — but instead be overwhelmed by the simulacrum of a Hindu Rashtra, an imposing edifice that has no space for the wretched of the earth. The relationship of the people to the nation is no longer that of participation and agency. Rather, we are reduced to passive awe-struck viewers of an impressive scene whose narrative we cannot question, much less determine through our choices. In exchange for “amenities” like toilets and parking lots, we should be ready to give up all ownership of our neighbourhoods, places of worship, hubs of commerce, and the intricately woven fabric of our sociality, evolved organically over centuries. Residents of Sabarmati Ashram or Kashi Vishwanath for generations can simply be bought out of their ancestral homes and done out of their traditional livelihoods. Muslims have to fight for a legitimate dwelling, mosque, trade or locality — a form of state-led exclusion and marginalisation perfected in Gujarat, now pervasive in Uttar Pradesh. The current dispensation’s taste for monumentality, spectacle and grandeur is reminiscent of imperialist and fascist regimes the world over. Gandhi’s ethic of service and humility embodied in the routines and rituals of his ashram; Nehru’s commitment to inculcating democracy and engendering secularism in the first years of the Indian republic; Ambedkar’s egalitarian campaigns to open temples, tanks and roads to all Indians regardless of caste and gender; the true seeker’s quest for liberation in a sacred city of prayer and pilgrimage like Banaras or Ayodhya — none of these habits and practices familiar to Indians is recognised as valid. Because, all of these ways of being, for individuals and communities, require tolerance of difference, coexistence with others, respect for nature, accepting the finitude of life, and most importantly, remaining mindful of the evanescence of power. The same Ganga that bore away thousands of bodies of the Covid dead during the Delta wave just a few months ago, is without shame, irony or apology supposed to serve as a scenic backdrop for the ostentatious “Vishwanath Dham” inaugurated by the Prime Minister. The scriptwriters of his speeches, architects of his corridors, curators of his sound-and-light shows and designers of his outfits forget that in the 17th century, Kashi bowed to neither Aurangzeb Alamgir nor Chhatrapati Shivaji. Even today, Banaras is no mere electoral constituency — from a truly Hindu perspective, infused with faith, it is the eternal stronghold of Shiva Tripurantaka, Destroyer of the Three Demon Cities. The manufacturers of Mr. Modi’s vaunted image seem not to know that Banaras produced both Tulsidas and Kabir, the greatest poets of medieval north India who represent two alternative imaginations of divinity and use the languages of their region in radically dissimilar ways. They fail to acknowledge that from the weaving of Banaras’s famed brocades to the carving of its colourful wooden idols, the city is unimaginable without its Muslim artisans. They gloss over the fact that none of the defining work of Banaras — from religious rituals to learned scholarship, from making music to plying boats, from cooking to cremation — is possible without an intricate ecology of communities. Comprising all manner of religious, sectarian, caste and occupational identities, these groups have evolved a modus vivendi through the ages in defiance of the ham-fisted interventions of any state. What is needed Like all Indian cities, crumbling and collapsing Varanasi desperately needs better urban infrastructure. Like all Indian rivers, the highly polluted Ganga urgently requires cleaning up. One of the most revered and visited places on the subcontinent could certainly do with the governance, investment and development it has not had in decades. But bulldozing the very heart of Banaras, the Vishwanath Temple and Gyanvapi Mosque complex, to erase its historically multi-religious character and make an opulent display of Hindu pride, is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, and shockingly insensitive and wasteful in a pandemic. The Bharatiya Janata Party leadership expects to reap the rewards of its blatantly communal messaging and magnification of Hindu symbols in the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh elections. But it should not underestimate the famed insouciance of the denizens of Kashi, their abiding scepticism about illusions and appearances, be it the magic of Modi or the chimera of the world. “ Maya maha thugni hum jaani ,” sang Kabir, that canny bard of the cynical city. Ananya Vajpeyi, an intellectual historian, is a fellow at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/changing-the-iconography-of-power/article38008460.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||How the Code on Wages ‘legalises’ bonded labour||Debt bondage is a form of slavery that exists when a worker is induced to accept advances on wages, of a size, or at a level of interest, such that the advance will never be repaid. One of India’s hastily-passed Labour Codes — the Code on Wages, 2019 — gives legal sanction to this horrifically repressive, inhuman practice, by allowing employers to extend limitless credit advances to their workers, and charge an unspecified (and hence, usurious) interest rate on them. Despite previously existing legal protections, vulnerable agricultural, informal sector and migrant workers were already becoming trapped in a vicious cycle of mounting debt and dwindling income, stripping them, their families and future generations, of their most basic rights. It remains one of the most pernicious sources of control and bondage in India, and is incompatible with democracy. What is shocking is that instead of preventing such enslavement of workers and protecting their fundamental rights, the present government appears to openly abet the practice, by undoing even the weakest safeguards earlier in place under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (now subsumed in the Code). A free pass to debt bondage Rule 21 of the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950 (corresponding to the Act) spelt out certain ‘deductions’ permissible from the wages of workers. The sub-rule (2)(vi) allowed for “deductions for recovery of advances or for adjustment of over payment of wages, provided that such advances do not exceed an amount equal to wages for two calendar months of the employed person”. Additionally, it stated, “in no case, shall the monthly instalment of deduction exceed one-fourth of the wages earned in that month”. Compare this with Section 18(2)(f)(i) of the Code on Wages, which introduces two major changes to the foregoing. This section allows deductions from wages for the recovery of “advances of whatever nature (including advances for travelling allowance or conveyance allowance), and the interest due in respect thereof, or for adjustment of overpayment of wages”. The subtle manipulations introduced have huge implications. One, it has done away with the cap of ‘not more than two months’ of a worker’s wages under the earlier Act, that an employer can give as advance. This allows employers to lend unlimited advances to their workers, tightening their grip. Two, it has legalised the charging of an interest rate by the employer on such advances, by adding the clause on interest, and with no details on what might be charged. The net impact is an open sanction for the bonded labour system to flourish. Moreover, the Code increases the permissible monthly deduction towards such recovery, up to one-half of the worker’s monthly wage, as compared with one-fourth under the earlier Act. Not that the presence of any law under our Constitution even before the Labour Codes — such as The Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976 — or various Supreme Court judgments, have ever deterred the bonded labour system from being widespread across sectors, from agriculture to quarrying, spinning, and more. Cases in Rajasthan In Baran district, Rajasthan (2011-12), a series of Sahariya (a primitive tribal group) families boldly came out one after the other and spoke of their harrowing experiences of violence and even rape at the hands of Sikh, caste Hindu, and Muslim landlords, for whom they had worked as ‘halis’ for generations. The mostly upper-caste government officials from the Collector onwards put up a wall of resistance in acknowledging them as bonded labourers as per the Act, thereby denying them any sort of relief or rehabilitation, till pressure was mounted. In a large-scale primary survey in a mining cluster of Nagaur district, Rajasthan for the Mine Labour Protection Campaign (2015), we found that one in three workers interviewed had taken advances from their employers ranging from Rs. 1,000-Rs. 1,50,000 at the time of joining work. Of them, about 50% said they took the amount “to pay off the earlier employer or a moneylender”. But in Parliament, the existence of bonded labour has simply been denied among elected representatives, or grossly understated. Debt bondage and forced labour flourish because the Government has done nothing to ensure the economic security of labourers. And it is set to worsen if this labour code provision is allowed to take shape. Need for state intervention It is no coincidence that the disproportionate effect of this huge regression in the Labour Code will fall on Dalits and the landless. In the Nagaur study, for instance, we found that 56% of the workers were Dalits, as contrasted with only 3% of the mine owners. The vast proportion of landless agricultural labourers in India, to date, are Dalits. Anand Teltumbde powerfully writes in Republic of Caste , “The dominant castes understood that if dalits came to own the means of survival, they would repudiate their servile status and its attendant social bondage... Economic independence is an aspect of liberty and its absence, as a corollary, spells slavery.” Indeed, this is exactly what B.R. Ambedkar feared would play out in India, and hoped to prevent, through his pamphlet , States and Minorities , released in the 1940s (see Article 2). In her Ambedkar Lecture, 2018 at the University of Edinburgh, Rupa Viswanath, Professor of Indian Religions at the Centre for Modern Indian Studies, University of Göttingen, expounds on Ambedkar’s later-age line of reasoning that “what makes the translation of ‘one-man-one vote’ to ‘one-man-one-value’ possible, is the worker’s economic freedom”. Ambedkar understood that economic enslavement was an extreme form of coercion that rendered political freedom meaningless, and that democracy itself required state intervention in the economic structure to prevent such practices, she says. While he proposed a complete recast of rural and agrarian land structures, and state ownership of land as crucial to this, she explains, he also defined democracy as resting on two premises that required the existence of economic rights. The first, relevant to the present discussion on Labour Codes, was that “an individual must not be required to relinquish his Constitutional rights as a condition precedent to the receipt of any privilege”. But that is exactly what the unemployed are forced to do — merely for the sake of securing the ‘privilege’ to work and to subsist, she notes. Deepening inequality The larger picture we must keep in mind, therefore, is this. Government after government, under the garb of being pro-worker, has schemed to intervene in exactly the opposite direction as desired — by maintaining and deepening economic inequality to the advantage of the privileged castes and classes, thereby keeping true political freedom out of the workers’ reach. And it is this line that the Central government has pursued with even more gusto, in the recasting and passing of these retrogressive labour codes. If the farm laws could be repealed, then these anti-labour codes, with numerous other dilutions that snatch away the mostly non-existent rights of the far more vulnerable class of workers, must surely go. Sowmya Sivakumar is an independent writer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-the-code-on-wages-legalises-bonded-labour/article38008463.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Gabriel Boric’s acid test||The 2021 presidential election in Chile, which resulted in the victory of the Left candidate Gabriel Boric, actually began in October 2019. During that month, the government of President Sebastián Piñera raised transportation prices, which resulted in a cycle of unending protests. These protests were led by young people, including schoolchildren, which is why Mr. Boric opened his victory speech by thanking the children for their work on his campaign. Unusual around the world, Chile’s students have a high participation rate in high school and college organisations. “I am 35 years old,” Mr. Boric said. “And I know that history does not start with us”. But it is clear that this election campaign owed much to the youth upsurge that put social issues on the table and forced the government to confront the growing income inequality in the country. The ghost of Salvador Allende hung over the election campaign and the victory night. “Go home,” Mr. Boric said at the end of his victory speech, roughly quoting Allende, “with the healthy joy of the clean victory we have achieved.” It was indeed a clean victory, with a high voter participation rate and a clear majority for Mr. Boric. When we met Mr. Boric a few months before the final vote, he brimmed with confidence that his country would like to restart the positive dynamic started by Allende in 1970 and cut short by the U.S.-backed coup of General Augusto Pinochet in 1973. The week before the election, Pinochet’s wife – Lucía Hiriart – died, sending a signal that the era of the old General is now fully over. An emphasis on dignity Mr. Boric began his political life in the student movement, leading the University of Chile Student Federation alongside the Communist Party’s Camila Vallejo into the student protests of 2011. It was in these struggles that the linkages grew among the students of the Left, with some such as Ms. Vallejo going into the communist movements and others such as Mr. Boric going into the new Left formations. Mr. Boric joined the socialist formation called Social Convergence, which became part of the political coalition named Broad Front. The Broad Front is committed to environmental and social rights as well as building an economic model that will move towards socialism. In this election campaign, the Broad Front joined forces with the Communist Party – with Mr. Boric and Ms. Vallejo as the most public faces of the unity – to run a campaign built on the social protests since 2019 and against Chile’s growing inequality. Mr. Boric’s electoral coalition was called Approve Dignity. Mr. Boric’s close ally Giorgio Jackson in Santiago told us that it was clear that the social temperature in Chile favoured the Left: the majority believed in women’s rights and gay rights as well as in environmentalism. Part of the impact of the term ‘dignity’ is that it amplifies the importance of these rights and the meaning they have for a large section of Chile’s population. The possibility of attaining social rights, however, rests on addressing the fundamental problem of Chile’s high rate of income inequality. Make the economy sing Chile’s economic indicators swing from high per capita income – which allows it to remain a member of good standing in the OECD – to high income inequality. Reliance upon copper exports has made the country dependent on the price of copper in the world market, which has plummeted since 2010. When copper prices are high, the profits and royalties from copper sales have helped improve the fortunes of the country. But this long decline is part of the reason why there have been cycles of protests since 2012 against governments unwilling to come to terms with the structural problem in the country. When Gen. Pinochet came to office, he brought in a set of economists called the ‘Chicago Boys’ to experiment with neo-liberalism. He privatised most services, including pensions, and allowed the private sector to prey on the population. With the decline in copper revenues and the rise in the price of private services, the situation became dire for the public. Mr. Jackson told us that a Boric government is going to do a few reasonable things to take control of the situation: raise taxes on the wealthy, demand an increase in the share of copper revenues against multinational corporations, reform the pension system, and tackle the decline in public services. Whether Mr. Boric will be able to raise the funds to conduct large-scale redistribution and accelerate the diversification of the economy is to be seen. When Allende was in office, U.S. President Richard Nixon said he would fight the socialists by making the economy scream. Mr. Boric will have to see if the Chilean oligarchy will allow him to make the economy sing. That’s what he was voted in to do. Taroa Zúñiga Silva and Vijay Prashad write for the global news syndication service Globetrotter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/gabriel-borics-acid-test/article38008473.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A deeply insecure Union Territory||Just a day before the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act of 2019 was passed, Ladakh enjoyed a classical three-tier administrative system. The Autonomous Hill Development Councils of Leh and Kargil read along with the framework of J&K’s special status and its bicameral legislative system gave Ladakh autonomy and participatory democracy. This also kept the interests of the tribal majority population of Ladakh secure. The Hill Councils, the biggest elected bodies in Ladakh, were further enabled by the State government through the State Assembly and both the institutions worked in a synchronised manner. The Hill Councils had the powers over land in Ladakh while the majority of the bigger concerns regarding land remained protected under Article 370 and J&K’s robust land protection laws. Similarly, gazetted officers were recruited through the State Public Service Commission. The District Service Selection Board made recruitments at the district level. But today, there is no Public Service Commission in Ladakh and the Hill Councils’ power to make recruitments at the district level has also been affected by the Lieutenant Governor (LG)’s presence. Technically, there also exists no law in Ladakh now that protects the land or even the jobs. The Union Ministry of Tribal Affairs had recommended in 2019 that Ladakh to be declared a tribal area but that recommendation has disappeared into thin air. Besides making Ladakh a vulnerable Union Territory (UT), the Reorganisation Act has taken away participatory democracy from Ladakh — first by taking away the six seats of the Members of Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council and second by wakening the functioning of the Hill Councils. The only elected representation from Ladakh outside of Ladakh is a lone MP. On the one hand, there is a political vacuum in Ladakh, and on the other, there has been a tightening of bureaucratic power. The fundamental constitutional dichotomy between the LG’s office and the Hill Councils aside, the functioning of the LG and his offices has been very different from the way the institutions in Ladakh functioned earlier. The office of the LG and his team have their feet in Ladakh but their heart is in Delhi. The LG’s office has followed a corporate model of working — a majority of the officers are of the Hill Councils and the rest have been recruited through outsourcing agencies. The officers are overworked. There has been a focus on creating a new work atmosphere without addressing the issues that have arisen due to the transition from State to UT. These include issues of transport operators who are not able to renew their permits and the transfer and promotion of employees of higher education. There is more focus on amplifying on social media the work done rather than actual engagement with the people on the ground. The fact that the LG’s office has not been able to strike a chord with the people of Ladakh is best manifested by the emergence of two major groups in Ladakh: The Apex Body Leh and the Kargil Democratic Alliance. These groups represent nearly all the religious and political bodies of Ladakh. Though they initially had different demands, they now have a common agenda: statehood. They also advocate for other constitutional safeguards on the lines of what is given to the Northeast. The two bodies have mass acceptance in Ladakh. Calling their emergence as an outcome of their disdain for the UT administration would be a misnomer, though. Rather, it has dawned upon the people of Ladakh that a UT without even a legislature is nothing but a reminder of disenfranchisement and collective despair. Mustafa Haji is a lawyer, J&K and Ladakh High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-deeply-insecure-union-territory/article38008470.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking before linking||An unwillingness to allow meaningful debate and invite wider consultation can undo even the progressive aspects of problematic legislation. Ignoring protests, the Union government has managed to push through a Bill in Parliament to link electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem. On the face of it, the Bill’s objective — to purify the rolls and weed out bogus voters — may appear laudable, and the seeding of Aadhaar data with voter identity particulars may seem to be a good way of achieving it. Indeed, this can also allow for remote voting, a measure that could help migrant voters. The four qualifying dates for revision of rolls will help in faster enrolment of those who turn 18. However, other aspects hold grave implications for electoral democracy. The Opposition underscored the possible disenfranchisement of legitimate voters unwilling or unable to submit Aadhaar details, the possible violation of privacy, and the possibility that demographic details may be misused for profiling of voters. Each is a valid concern that ought to be considered by a parliamentary committee. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju has said the proposal has been unanimously approved by the Parliamentary Committee on Law and Justice. But, it is not clear if the specifics of the Bill had been discussed widely and public opinion sought. There are indeed complaints that some electors may be registered in more than one constituency and that non-citizens have been enrolled, but these can be addressed by other identification processes. In fact, the Aadhaar database may be irrelevant to verify voter identity because it is an identifier of residents and not citizens. And the complaints of wrongful enrolment have come up even against the unique identity number allotted to more than 90% of the population. Mr. Rijiju is confident that the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill satisfies the tests laid down by the Supreme Court — a permissible law, a legitimate state interest and proportionality. However, this has to be rigorously examined. Even though the Aadhaar requirement is said to be voluntary, in practice it can be made mandatory. The Bill says the election registration officer may require the submission of the Aadhaar number both for new enrolments and those already enrolled. The choice not to submit is linked to a “sufficient cause”, which will be separately prescribed. Whether the few permissible reasons not to intimate one’s Aadhaar number include an objection on principle is unknown. If an individual’s refusal to submit the detail is deemed unacceptable, it may result in loss of franchise. Therefore, the measure may fail the test of proportionality. If the Government really has no ulterior motive in the form of triggering mass deletions from the electoral rolls, it must invite public opinion and allow deeper parliamentary scrutiny before implementing the new provisions that now have the approval of both Houses of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/thinking-before-linking/article38008454.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A foul cry||In a disturbing sequence of events, two men were beaten to death over alleged attempts to “commit sacrilege” in the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar and on the Sikh flag in a gurudwara at Nijampur village in Kapurthala earlier this week in Punjab. With passions now running high as the State heads to polls early next year, political parties have jumped into the fray seeking tougher laws and alleging conspiracies. Prominent political leaders cried foul over the alleged attempts at committing sacrilege, but few questioned the murders of the alleged perpetrators without even investigating their crimes. The use of vigilantism as retaliation for their alleged acts is clearly illegal but it is also deeply problematic in other ways as it has disallowed any possibility of unravelling why these incidents occurred and if they were attempts to foment communal tensions. In the Nijampur incident, the police have said the unidentified man who was lynched by sewadars at the gurudwara was most likely a thief, which suggests that the police must book those who took the law into their own hands. Upholding law and order is paramount in defusing tensions related to inflamed religious passions and, unfortunately, the proximity of elections seems to deter this possibility. The rabble-rousing State Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu, for example, upped the ante by seeking a “public hanging” for those convicted of crimes of committing sacrilege. Earlier in 2018, the State cabinet had sought to pass amendments to the Indian Penal Code (IPC) seeking life imprisonment for those convicted of committing sacrilege against the holy books of major religions, a problematic proposal that sought punishment far disproportionate to the crimes. The proposal itself was redundant as the Supreme Court clarified that Section 295A of the IPC “punishes the aggravated form of insult to religion when it is perpetrated with the deliberate and malicious intention of outraging religious feelings”. Besides, if invoked, it could be used to jail miscreants for up to three years. It is a Section misused to prosecute people in the name of protecting the sentiments of sections of society, thereby dampening freedom of expression. Seeking extraordinary punishment for crimes that are vaguely defined such as “sacrilege” would be an even more retrograde step as the application of stringent “blasphemy laws” elsewhere has shown. The State must now allow the police to conduct thoroughgoing inquiries. It must also bring to justice those engaged in vigilantism. Meanwhile, political parties committed to peace in the State must seek to defuse any public anger over the alleged acts of “sacrilege” and not let it descend into communal tensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-foul-cry/article38008455.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Depend less on foreign aid: P.M.||New Delhi, Dec 21: A full meeting of the Planning Commission to-day considered measures to re-orient the Plan to meet the new situation arising from the two-week war with Pakistan and liberation of Bangla Desh. At least two factors, prospects of reduced foreign aid and the need to assist Bangla Desh in its economic reconstructions, figured prominently at the meeting which was held to discuss the mid-term appraisal of the Fourth Plan. The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, who presided, made it clear that the country would have to do with reduced foreign aid. At the moment, she said, the net foreign aid constituted less than one per cent of the national income and indications were that there would be further reduction in the years to come. So, she underlined the need for quickening the pace of self-reliance. Without naming any country, Mrs. Gandhi pointed out that at critical times the donor countries used the aid to the disadvantage of the recipient countries. Mrs. Gandhi felt that the assumption in the Fourth Plan regarding external aid would need adjustment. She was confident that the country could do with reduced foreign aid when once the productive assets were fully utilised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/depend-less-on-foreign-aid-pm/article38008464.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Digitisation push to see IT firms log 9-12% dollar revenue growth’||IT services companies are expected to log dollar revenue growth of 9-12% in FY22, driven by accelerated demand for digital technologies from enterprises globally and partly on account of last year’s low base due to the COVID-19 impact, ratings agency ICRA said. Industry growth is expected to moderate marginally to 6-9% in FY23, partly also on account of the base effect, ICRA said on Tuesday. “In line with the growth trajectory witnessed over recent quarters, Indian IT services companies are expected to report healthy growth over the near term due to aforementioned favourable factors,” ICRA Assistant Vice-President and Sector Head Deepak Jotwani said. He added that the growth had been supported by uptick in all key verticals such as BFSI, telecom, manufacturing, retail and distribution. However, concerns have emanated from elevated attrition levels due to strong demand for digital technologies and lack of adequate skilled manpower to service the same. Firms are reskilling employees to overcome this challenge. Moreover, they have also been able to achieve higher employee productivity through increased deployment of technology. Hiring by IT companies is at an all-time high buoyed by strong demand and net addition over past four quarters has been increasing exponentially, Mr. Jotwani noted. ICRA said IT services companies remain focused on enhancing the share of fixed price contracts as it assures better revenue visibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/digitisation-push-to-see-it-firms-log-9-12-dollar-revenue-growth/article38008439.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s crude oil output extends slide, declined 2% in November||India’s output of crude oil, which is refined to produce petrol and diesel, continued to decline in November, with lower output from state-owned firms leading to a more than 2% drop, official data showed on Tuesday. Oil production in November was 2.43 million tonnes, down from 2.48 million tonnes a year earlier and 2.5 million tonnes in October. Oil and Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) produced 3% less crude oil at 1.6 million tonnes in November due to delays in mobilising equipment at western offshore fields. Oil India Ltd. (OIL) produced 2,41,420 tonnes of crude oil in November, down from 2,43,200 tonnes a year earlier and 2,52,990 tonnes in October. India is 85% reliant on imports to meet its crude oil needs as domestic output is insufficient to meet demand. During April-November — the first eight months of the current fiscal year — crude oil production fell 2.74% to 19.86 million tonnes. ONGC produced 4.18% less oil at 12.94 million tonnes. Natural gas production was, however, 23% higher at 2.86 billion cubic meters (bcm) in November, mainly due to output from newer fields in the KG-D6 block, operated by Reliance Industries Ltd. and BP plc. ONGC produced 5.28% less gas at 1.72 bcm, while the output from eastern offshore — where KG-D6 is situated — jumped 1,251% to 581.34 million cubic meters. The data did not give individual field output. Reliance-BP last year started gas production from newer fields in KG-D6 block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-crude-oil-output-extends-slide-declined-2-in-november/article38008446.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,||‘5G today is akin to WiFi; will change in 2022’||Today’s 5G is not significantly different or better than WiFi in most use cases, but this will change soon as more modern, capable versions of 5G become available to enterprises in 2022 and beyond, said John Roese, Global Chief Technology Officer, Dell Technologies. “Markets are expected to see higher performance and more scalable 5G along with new features such as Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communications (UR-LLC) and Massive Machine Type Communications (mMTC), with dialogue becoming much more dominant than traditional telecommunications,’’ Mr. Roese explained. Enterprise use of 5G was still early, he said, adding that the opening of the private mobility ecosystem would accelerate with more cloud and IT industries involved on the path to 5G. “We are living in a do-anything-from-anywhere economy, enabled by an exponentially expanding data ecosystem,” he observed. “It’s estimated 65% of global GDP will be digital in 2022.” ‘Dialogues about edge’ He expects the dialogues around edge computing to split into two: edge platforms that provide a stable pool of secure capacity for the diverse edge ecosystems, and software defined edge workloads/software stacks that extend application and data systems into real world environments. Edge is a distributed computing paradigm that helps bring computation and storage closer to the data sources, improving response times and saving bandwidth. As corporates extend public and private cloud data and application pipelines to the edge along with local IoT and data management edges, they can be delivered as software-defined packages leveraging the common edge platform of IT capacity, explained Mr. Roese. “This means that your edge workloads can evolve and change at software speed because the underlying platform is a common pool of stable capacity,” he said, adding that the industry was already witnessing such a shift. In 2022, “we expect these platforms to become more capable and pervasive.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/5g-today-is-akin-to-wifi-will-change-in-2022/article38008432.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cautiously optimistic on FY22 growth, says ACMA||The auto component industry remains ‘cautiously optimistic’ about the growth of the sector in the current fiscal year despite concerns of another wave of the pandemic, industry body ACMA said on Tuesday. The turnover of the automotive component industry stood at Rs. 1.96 lakh crore ($26.6 billion) in April-September 2021, registering a growth of 65% over the first half of the previous year. “Despite resurgence of demand for vehicles, supply-side issues of availability of semiconductors, increasing input costs, rising logistics costs and availability of containers, among others, continue to hamper recovery in the automotive sector,” said Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) President Sunjay Kapur. “Increased value addition to meet regulatory compliance, fast recovery in external markets and traction in the domestic after-market have contributed to the growth in the first half of FY21-22,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cautiously-optimistic-on-fy22-growth-says-acma/article38008437.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. cuts import duty on refined palm oil to 12.5%||Concerned over high prices of cooking oils, the government has reduced the basic customs duty on refined palm oil to 12.5% from 17.5% till March next year to boost domestic supplies and bring down rates in the domestic retail markets. With reduction in the basic custom duty (BCD), the effective levy (including social welfare cess) on both refined palm oil and refined palmolein will come down to 13.75%, from 19.25%, the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA) said. Late on Monday, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) issued a notification which “seeks to reduce BCD on refined palm oil and its fractions from 17.5% to 12.5% till March 31, 2022”. The new rate is effective from Tuesday. The average retail prices (per kg) of groundnut oil on Monday stood at Rs. 181.48, mustard oil Rs. 187.43, vanaspati Rs. 138.5, soyabean oil Rs. 150.78, sunflower oil Rs. 163.18 and palm oil Rs. 129.94, data with the consumer affairs ministry showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-cuts-import-duty-on-refined-palm-oil-to-125/article38008443.ece
22 December 2021||MUMBAI,||SBI picks up minority stake in JSW Cements||The country’s largest public sector lender State Bank of India (SBI) has acquired a minority stake in JSW Cements by investing Rs. 100 crore via compulsorily convertible preference shares (CCPS), the company said. “The conversion of such CCPS into the common equity of the company will be linked to the company’s future business performance and valuation determined at the time of the proposed initial public offering,” JSW Cements said. “This capital infusion will support JSW Cement’s capacity expansion from current 14 mtpa to 25 mtpa,” the cement manufacturer added. “I take this opportunity to welcome SBI as a strategic investor at JSW Cements and look forward to a fruitful association with them,” said MD Parth Jindal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-picks-up-minority-stake-in-jsw-cements/article38008434.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||Snapdeal files IPO papers with SEBI||E-commerce platform Snapdeal has filed preliminary documents with SEBI to raise funds through an initial public offer (IPO), joining the league of Internet-led businesses looking to list on domestic stock exchanges. The public issue comprises fresh issuance of equity shares worth Rs. 1,250 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) of 3.07 crore equity shares, according to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP). According to market sources, potential listing could value Snapdeal at $1.5-1.7 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/snapdeal-files-ipo-papers-with-sebi/article38008444.ece
22 December 2021||Mumbai,||Cost of State debt soars past 7% mark||For the first time in the third quarter, the cost of State debt soared past the 7 percentage points levels with the weighted average cost settling at 7.01%, up 16 basis points over the past week, at the auctions held on Tuesday. The rating agency attributed the hardened rates to the sharp 46% higher-than-indicated demand for the week at Rs. 15,100 crore, which comes after a gap of seven auctions. In spite of this, the overall issuance declined by 17.7% so far during this fiscal. The issuance was high as five States borrowed Rs. 8,300 crore more than the amounts indicated in the auction calendar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cost-of-state-debt-soars-past-7-mark/article38008447.ece
22 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘IPO pipeline seen swelling by Rs. 2 lakh cr.’||After the record-breaking IPO rally this year, with as many as 65 issuers generating a whopping Rs. 1.35 lakh crore, the market frenzy is set to continue in 2022 with new issues worth over Rs. 2 lakh crore ($26 billion) in the pipeline, according to a report. The year 2021 saw the highest-ever IPO volumes in the country, with the volumes surging to $15.3 billion, from $4.2 billion in 2020. That means the Street saw more IPOs in 2021 than in the year past three years combined, both in the number of listings and amount raised, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company told reporters on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ipo-pipeline-seen-swelling-by-rs-2-lakh-cr/article38008453.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Piramal jumps 4% after Yapan Bio stake buy||Shares of Piramal Enterprises jumped 4% on the BSE after its Piramal Pharma unit acquired a 27.78% stake in Yapan Bio, a contract process development and manufacturing organisation (CDMO) in Hyderabad’s Genome Valley, for Rs. 101.77 crore in cash. The acquisition adds to Piramal Pharma’s global capabilities in the development and manufacturing of large molecules for human clinical trials, the company said on Tuesday. Biologics and related development services were the fastest growing CDMO segments over the past decade, said Peter DeYoung, CEO - Pharma Solutions, Piramal Pharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/piramal-jumps-4-after-yapan-bio-stake-buy/article38008430.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||IOC acquires 5% stake in IGX||Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) on Tuesday said it had acquired a nearly 5% stake in Indian Gas Exchange Ltd., the country’s first automated national level exchange for trading of natural gas. IOC joins the likes of ONGC, GAIL, Torrent Gas and Adani Total Gas, which have acquired 5% equity each in IGX.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ioc-acquires-5-stake-in-igx/article38008441.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi,||RBI empanels CSB Bank for govt. transactions||Private sector lender CSB Bank on Tuesday said it has been empanelled as an ‘agency bank’ by the RBI. This appointment will allow CSB Bank to undertake general banking business of the central and state governments which may be entrusted by the RBI, the bank said in a statement.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-empanels-csb-bank-for-govt-transactions/article38008435.ece
22 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Galetia, Prashant star as HP stuns UP to enter semifinal||Vinay Galetia led a superb exhibition of seam bowling and Prashant Chopra backed it up with a patient, strokeful 99 as Himachal Pradesh stunned Uttar Pradesh in the quarterfinals of the Vijay Hazare Trophy at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium here on Tuesday. The five-wicket win was HP’s first over UP in List-A cricket, and the semifinal berth its first in the competition since 2015-16. Galetia made a big impact on the contest in the first hour itself, dismissing three top-order batters and leaving UP struggling at 39 for four in the 15th over. The team was left playing catch-up for the rest of the day. The reliable Akshdeep Nath and Rinku Singh (76, 102b, 6x4) revived the innings the way they did in the pre-quarterfinal, but this time they couldn’t make a big impression on the result. HP opener Prashant Chopra’s well-paced innings of 99 (141b, 10x4, 2x6) shepherded the team home. He negotiated the first 10 overs with caution, in the company of Shubham Arora, before combining with Nikhil Gangta, whose free-flowing 58 (59b, 5x4, 3x6) put the team on course. Despite a brief stumble, HP crossed the finish line in the 46th over. Breathing fire Choosing to field, HP was on top quite early due to Galetia’s fiery spell, as the UP batters were unable to counter the inswinging deliveries. Akshdeep and Rinku blocked and nudged their way in order to keep wickets in hand for the business end. But on a pitch where they couldn’t score freely, they couldn’t employ the long handle and take the team to a fighting total. Akshdeep and Rinku rode their luck too in their partnership of 64. HP, on the other hand, looked assured in the chase when Prashant and Gangta were in the middle. Between the 31st and 37th overs, the two went after the bowlers. Just when it seemed that they would seal the issue, Ankit Rajpoot and Shivam Mavi precipitated a collapse. However, that didn’t hurt, thanks largely due to Prashant’s elegant knock. He ensured that his team didn’t buckle under the pressure of the chase by thwarting UP’s potent seamers. Yash Dayal (0 for 25) and Shivam Mavi (3 for 34) bowled with precision, but couldn’t dislodge Prashant, although there were a few half-chances.  The scores (quarterfinals):   Uttar Pradesh 207/9 in 50 overs (Rinku Singh 76, Bhuvneshwar Kumar 46) lost to Himachal Pradesh 208/5 in 45.3 overs (Prashant Chopra 99, Nikhil Gangta 58).   Tamil Nadu 354/8 in 50 overs (N. Jagadeesan 102, M. Shahrukh Khan 79 n.o., R. Sai Kishore 61, Dinesh Karthik 44) bt Karnataka 203 in 39 overs (S. Sharath 43, R. Silambarasan 4/36).   Wednesday’s fixtures: Quarterfinals: Kerala vs Services; Saurashtra vs Vidarbha .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/galetia-prashant-star-as-hp-stuns-up-to-enter-semifinal/article38008887.ece
22 December 2021||Jaipur,||Jagadeesan and Shahrukh decimate Karnataka||Tamil Nadu, riding on N. Jagadeesan’s century (102, 101b, 9x4, 1x6) and Shahrukh Khan’s sensational power-hitting at the end (79 n.o., 39b, 7x4, 4x6), dominated Karnataka and notched up a crushing 151-run win in the quarterfinals of the Vijay Hazare Trophy here on Tuesday. This was Tamil Nadu’s second win against Karnataka in this edition after the victory in the group stage. Put in, TN posted 354 for eight before R. Silambarasan’s four-for and newly appointed vice-captain Washington Sundar’s three-for helped the side bowl out its opponent for 203 in 39 overs. Tough phase Under helpful conditions, Karnataka removed B. Aparajith early. But Jagadeesan and R. Sai Kishore, who was promoted to No. 3 to negotiate the tough phase, played with authority and displayed solid technique against the pacers. After surviving the initial period, Jagadeesan opened out and played some superb shots on the off-side, driving and punching off the backfoot. At the other end, Sai Kishore lofted left-arm pacer Prateek Jain for a six before giving leg-spinner Praveen Dubey the same treatment. The two reached their half-centuries at a brisk rate. Karthik’s cameo After Sai Kishore’s dismissal, the experienced Dinesh Karthik chipped in with a valuable cameo (44, 37b), the two sixes and a boundary off Prateek in the 34th over being the highlight. Karnataka fought back through its spinners K.C. Cariappa and Dubey (three for 67) who picked up quick wickets as Tamil Nadu slid to 252 for five in the 41st over. In walked Shahrukh to take the game away from the opponent. Tamil Nadu lost three wickets in pacer Prasidh Krishna’s 46th over to go from 290 for five to 290 for eight. With just Silambarasan for company, Shahrukh launched into Prasidh and seamer V. Vyshak, plundering 59 runs in the last four overs as the duo added 64 for the ninth wicket. The youngster’s clean hits down the ground sailed over the ropes and he pulled and flicked over the leg-side fence to power Tamil Nadu at the death. Karnataka was never in the hunt despite a few decent partnerships. The steep asking rate meant that it needed to go after the bowling, playing into the hands of the Tamil Nadu bowlers.  The scores: Tamil Nadu 354/8 in 50 overs (N. Jagadeesan 102, M. Shahrukh Khan 79 n.o., R. Sai Kishore 61, Dinesh Karthik 44) bt Karnataka 203 in 39 overs (S. Sharath 43, R. Silambarasan 4/36).   Uttar Pradesh 207/9 in 50 overs (Rinku Singh 76, Bhuvneshwar Kumar 46) lost to Himachal Pradesh 208/5 in 45.3 overs (Prashant Chopra 99, Nikhil Gangta 58).   Wednesday’s fixtures: Quarterfinals: Kerala vs Services; Saurashtra vs Vidarbha .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jagadeesan-and-shahrukh-decimate-karnataka/article38008738.ece
22 December 2021||Johannesburg,||Bumrah a threat, says Elgar||South Africa captain Dean Elgar feels the Indian pace attack has improved immensely, especially overseas, and Jasprit Bumrah is best placed to exploit the “spicy” conditions in the rainbow nation. The home team also lacks in experience with the likes A.B. de Villiers, Dale Steyn, Faf du Plessis, Hashim Amla and Vernon Philander, who were all part of the 2018 series, retired from the game. Bumrah made his Test debut in that series and has gone on to become one of the leading bowlers in international cricket. In a virtual media interaction, Elgar acknowledged the Bumrah threat but said the whole Indian attack will be tough to face. “He (Bumrah) is a world class bowler. If there is one bowler who can exploit South African conditions pretty well, it would be him. But again, we don’t focus on one guy. India as a whole is a pretty, pretty good side.” Strong bond Elgar added that the players had turned a stream of “bad news” — against a backdrop of administrative instability, accusations of racism and the loss of key strike bowler Anrich Nortje — into an advantage by forming a strong bond within their dressing room. The 34-year-old leads his Proteas team into the first Test against India on Sunday “We’ve kind of gotten used to some bad news around us, the last year, year-and-a-half,” Elgar told a press conference. “What happens off the field is irrelevant now,” said Elgar. “We’ve been through such bad times that we’ve formulated such a good bond within our group. Our culture has been tested and pushed to levels that I didn’t think it could be pushed to in my short term as captain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-a-threat-says-elgar/article38008694.ece
22 December 2021||TENHIPALAM,||Ernakulam’s Chanthini breaks Tintu Luka’s 13-year-old record||Tintu Luka’s 13-year-old record, in the Under-20 girls’ 800m, was broken on day two of the State junior athletics championship at the University Stadium here on Tuesday. New meet records were set in four other events. Tintu’s record was broken by Ernakulam’s C. Chanthini. M. Akshay and Anand Manoj (Under-20 boys’ pole vault), Kessia Mariam Benny (Under-20 girls’ hammer throw), Akila Raju (Under-18 girls’ discus) and Abhina (Under-14 girls’ ball throw) were the other record-breakers of the day.  The winners: Boys: Under-20: 100m: Mohammed Sajeen (Tsr) 10.96s. 800m: J. Rijoy (Pkd) 1:54.05. High jump: Gilbert Jose (Tsr) 1.91m. Pole vault: M. Akshay (Ktm) & Anand Manoj (Ktm) 4.72m: NMR; OR: 4.71m, A.K. Sidharth (Ekm), 2019. Discus: P.S. Ajinas (Ktm) 38.61m.   Under-18: 100m: Muhammed Shan (Mlp) 11.06s. 800m: S. Indranathan (Tvm) 1:58.32. Long jump: S. Abhinand (Pkd) 6.87m. High jump: Afnan Muhammed (Kkd) 1.94m. Pole vault: Bibin Siju (Ekm) 3.75m.   Under-16: 100m: Vijay Krishna (Tsr) 11.55s. 800m: Muhammed Swalih (Ktm) 2:07.97. 2000m: J. Bejoy (Pkd) 5:49.28.   Under-14: 60m: P. Amal (Kkd) 7.42s. 600m: M. Amruth (Pkd) 1:34.10. Long jump: Adhil Ayoob (Idk) 5.70m.   Girls: Under-20: 100m: Ann Rose Tomy (Tsr) 12.2s. 800m: C. Chanthini (Ekm) 2:08.71: NMR; OR: 2:09.00, Tintu Luka (Kkd), 2008. 5000m: K.S. Silpa (Ktm) 19:05.83. Long jump: V.M. Abhirami (Ekm) 5.73m. Discus: P.A. Athulya (Ktm) 35.5m. Hammer: Kessia Mariam Benny (Ekm) 47.81m: NMR; OR: 46.33m, Kessia Mariam Benny (Ekm), 2021.   Under-18: 100m: K. Ardra (Tvm) 12.80s. 800m: Aleena Maria John (Ekm) 2:21.95. Discus: Akila Raju (Kgd) 39.25m: NMR; OR: 36.96m, P.A. Athulya (Tsr), 2018. Hammer: Ann Maria Terin (Ekm) 49.10m.   Under-16: 100m: G. Thara (Pkd) 12.55s. 800m: J.S. Nivedya (Kkd) 2:21.34. 2000m: R. Rudhra (Pkd) 6:55.17.   Under-14: 60m: P.V. Anjali (Kkd) 8.51s. 600m: Neha R. Shenoy (Ekm) 1:46.83. Long jump: Minsara Prasad (Kkd) 4.85m. Shot put: Dena Dony (Kkd) 11.15m, Megha Mariyam Mathew (Tvm), 2013. Ball throw: Abhina (Pkd) 45.15m: NMR; OR: 38.85m, S. Aswini (Tvm), 2021 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ernakulams-chanthini-breaks-tintu-lukas-13-year-old-record/article38009103.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Extra pressure on Kohli as he looks for a legacy-validating win||There is a folktale about a shepherd boy who pronounced judgement that was both fair and sagacious. An otherwise ordinary boy, he was inspired while sitting on a mound to mete out justice. This intrigued the villagers enough to dig up the mound in search of the magic — and they found it. It was the buried throne of Vikramaditya, a wise and just king. So powerful was it that anyone who sat nearby became like the king himself. I’ve always thought of that as a wonderful metaphor for one of the most powerful thrones in India — that of the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India. Except that while Vikramaditya’s throne elevated one, the board’s did the opposite. When Sourav Ganguly ascended that throne, there was much celebration. Here was a cricketer, a former captain now in charge. He had seen the game from both sides and had once stated that as captain he had the second most difficult job in the country after the Prime Minister. And yet, here we are again. Same old same old. Transparency and accountability remain out of the window; anyone who thinks things have changed needs to think again. Allowed to snowball The cricketing public in India has been presented with an issue they don’t want to decide on. Either their board president is lying or their captain is. The former says he spoke to the latter about white ball captaincy, the latter says he didn’t. Only one of them can be right. Indian captains have generally enjoyed the backing of the board president. Think M.S. Dhoni and Srinivasan. Or before that, Ganguly himself and Jagmohan Dalmiya. Now a matter that is easily resolved with a chat has been allowed to snowball. Virat Kohli says he was given just 90 minutes’ notice of being sacked from ODI captaincy. But that’s 90 minutes more than many former captains were given. The low point came in 1979, when the team returning from a tour of England was told by the pilot on the flight that Srinivas Venkatraghavan had been replaced by Sunil Gavaskar as captain! But just because that was how it was in the past — unthinking, unrespectful, undignified – is no reason to continue that tradition. Especially with a cricketer now heading the administration. The issue is not with the removal of Kohli but with the squandering of a chance to treat an Indian captain with respect and dignity. Earlier, the board’s behaviour was often put down to the fact that politicians ruled, and they were not expected to understand a cricketer or indeed handle him with tact. So either Ganguly is reading from the wrong playbook or the politician in the mix — the secretary, who is the Home Minister’s son — is the one calling the shots. Neither explanation is good for the game. Few Indian captains have taken on the cricket board in the manner Kohli has, and that too before an important tour. As captains get older, they begin to think about their legacy. And a maiden series win in South Africa after wins in Australia and England would mean that Kohli’s place in the pantheon of captains is assured. Long memories Now he has put greater pressure on himself to succeed as both batter and captain. For another traditional characteristic of the board is its vindictiveness. Kohli has laid himself open to yet another sacking. Officials have long memories for slights real and imagined. For the moment, Ganguly has decided that dignified silence is the best response to Kohli’s charge, but it is an uncomfortable silence. From past experience one knows that a plan is being put in place, and any excuse to further cut Kohli down to size could be used post-South Africa. Psychological reversal Not so long ago, a draw was considered the equivalent of a win for Indian cricket since the alternative usually was a loss. Times have changed. Today a draw is considered a defeat because India are expected to win everything. Skipper Kohli has had a major role to play in this psychological reversal. Yet he could pay the price for his own positive record (39 wins against 16 losses, and a success percentage exceeded only by Steve Waugh and Ricky Ponting). It has raised expectations. It is important to get that first series win in South Africa out of the way. It breaks a mental barrier. India had not won a series in Australia till 2018-19, and now they have won two in a row. Once the first ball is bowled on Sunday at the Centurion to signal the start of the series, cricket will push the politics into the background. If India win the series, it will strengthen Kohli’s hand; if they don’t, the BCCI will be emboldened to take a call. It feels like something has to give.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/extra-pressure-on-kohli-as-he-looks-for-a-legacy-validating-win/article38008450.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Boumous reignites ATK MB||ATK Mohun Bagan regained its winning touch under a new head coach as it downed NorthEast United FC 3-2 to bag full points in an Indian Super League Season 8 fixture at Fatorda on Tuesday. Juan Ferrando, who replaced Antonio Habas as ATKMB coach, proved lucky as his side ended a winless run of four matches. Striker V.P. Suhair’s brilliant glancing header found the target as NEUFC went 1-0 up in the second minute. The former Mohun Bagan striker showed superb anticipation as he outran his marker and positioned himself well to divert the corner home. The Highlanders kept ATK MB at bay for most part of the opening session while the Kolkata side tried to regroup after the early reverse. Manvir Singh had an open goal in the 12th minute but his wayward shot saw sent the ball sailing over. There were more attempts from the ATK MB attackers but a goal remained elusive, thanks to some great saves from NEUFC goalkeeper Mirshad Michu. Liston Colaco finally found the breakthrough in added time of the first half when he bulged the net with a looping header, making the most of a long floater from Roy Krishna. Taking over Boumous took over after the change of ends. The playmaker found his rhythm as he scored twice and gave a two-goal cushion for ATK MB. Mashoor Shereef, who came in as a late replacement for NEUFC, brought some excitement into the game by narrowing the lead with a rasping long-ranger in the 87th minute. However, the ATK MB defence stayed firm and prevented further damage.  The result: NorthEast United FC 2 (Suhair 2, Shereef 87) lost to ATK Mohun Bagan 3 (Colaco 45+3, Boumous 53 & 76).   Today’s match: Chennaiyin FC vs Kerala Blasters, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boumous-reignites-atk-mb/article38008681.ece
22 December 2021||Dhaka,||Japan stuns India, enters final||Defending champion and Olympic bronze medallist India suffered a stunning 3-5 defeat against Japan in the second semifinal of the Asian Champions Trophy men's hockey tournament here on Tuesday. India was the overwhelming favourite before the start of the match after having thrashed Japan 6-0 in its last round-robin match, and also on head-to-head record, but the Japanese had other plans.  Japan looked a completely different side on Tuesday as it toyed with the defence of the Manpreet Singh-led side from the beginning. Japan scored through Shota Yamada (1st minute, penalty), Raiki Fujishima (2nd minute), Yoshiki Kirishita (14th), Kosei Kawabe (35th) and Ryoma Ooka (41st). India's goals were scored by Hardik Singh (17th, 58th minute) and vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh (43rd). India and Japan had met 18 times before with the hosts winning 16 games, while Japan emerged victorious on one occasion and one ended in a draw. Japan will now take on South Korea in the summit clash, while India will be once again up against Pakistan in the bronze medal clash on Wednesday. The tournament ended in a anti-climax for India as after having topped the round-robin stages with an unbeaten record. In the other semifinal, South Korea beat Pakistan 6-5 in a thrilling contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/japan-stuns-india-enters-final/article38008687.ece
22 December 2021||Bengaluru,||The PKL is back with a bang after a hiatus||After a 20-month hiatus forced by the COVID-19 pandemic, the ProKabaddi League (PKL) returns on Wednesday. To ensure that Season 8 progresses without incident, all matches will be held at a single venue — The Sheraton Grand Bengaluru Whitefield Hotel here. “We have imbibed the best practices from other Indian sports leagues. We have a comprehensive, stern and stringent process to ensure safety," PKL commissioner Anupam Goswami said in a press conference on Tuesday. Action kicks off with a triple header — Bengaluru Bulls vs U Mumba, followed by Telugu Titans vs Tamil Thalaivas and Bengal Warriors vs UP Yoddha. Bulls rely heavily on captain Pawan Kumar, who was the top points scorer in the previous season. U Mumba is led by experienced Iranian Fazel Atrachali, who is among the best defenders in the league. Telugu Titans and Tamil Thalaivas will look to improve upon their disappointing performances in Season 7. Titans will hope that its stellar raid duo of Siddharth Desai and Rohit Kumar comes to the party. Thalaivas, meanwhile, will back Surjeet — he has the highest number of successful blocks in PKL history (116) — to stay strong in defence. Bengal Warrior has unsurprisingly retained the same core of players who helped the side claim the title in the previous season. UP Yoddha will be bolstered by the addition of star raider Pardeep Narwal, the most expensive signing in PKL auction history (Rs. 1.65 crore). Dabang Delhi brings a wealth of experience to the mat, with the likes of veteran players Ajay Thakur, Sandeep Narwal and Manjeet Chhillar in the squad. Patna Pirates captain Prashant Rai exuded confidence in the media interaction, saying, “Come February, Patna Pirates will be in the final."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-pkl-is-back-with-a-bang-after-hiatus/article38008690.ece
22 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Vedhalakshmi surprises Madhurika||Tamil Nadu’s Vedhalakshmi Devi pulled off a come-from-behind win over former National champion and international Madhurika Patkar (PSPB) in the women’s first round of the UTT-National ranking South Zone table tennis tournament held at the Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium here on Tuesday. Representing TNTTA, the 18-year-old from Chennai troubled Madhurika on both the flanks, winning 9-11, 7-11, 11-9, 12-10, 8-11, 11-9, 11-8. Qualifier Vedhalakshmi reeled off the last three points in the seventh and deciding game with ease as Madhurika was unable to handle the backhand push of her opponent. “I played my natural game and I found out that she was finding it difficult to take my backhand push/block and I capitalised on it,” Vedhalakshmi told The Hindu . PSPB’s Harmeet Desai, one of the contenders for the men’s title, defeated Divyansh Srivastava of Uttar Pradesh 11-8, 11-9, 11-6, 11-7 in a second-round contest.  Important results: Men (second round): Mandar Hardikar (Mah) bt Ali Mohammed (TS) 10-12, 11-6, 11-13, 9-11, 11-8, 11-6, 11-7; Sougata Sarkar (LIC) bt Soham Bhattacharya (Ker) 7-11, 11-6, 11-5, 11-8, 4-11, 11-5; Jubin Kumar (PSPB) bt Pankaj Vishwakarma (RSPB) 11-9, 10-12, 4-11, 9-11, 11-9, 11-4, 11-4; Sushmit Sriram (TTTA) bt Arnab Chandra (Ben) 8-11, 11-9, 11-7, 10-12, 12-10, 7-11, 12-10; Abhimanyu Mitra (IAID) bt Vidit Desai (Guj) 8-11, 11-6, 6-11, 4-11, 12-10, 11-3, 13-11; Sudhanshu Grover (Del) bt Shubham Ambre (Mah) 8-11, 9-11, 11-8, 11-7, 11-5, 11-5; Kiranjoy Pushilal (RSPB) bt Sarthak Gandhi (Har) 8-11, 11-8, 10-12, 15-13, 6-11, 11-6, 11-3; Raj Mondal (RBI) bt Utkarsh Gupta (CRSB) 11-6, 11-13, 11-3, 8-11, 9-11, 11-6, 11-7.   Women (first round): Shruthi Ramkumar (TTTA) bt Lakshita Narang (Del) 8-11, 11-4, 14-12, 10-12, 12-10, 11-5; Vidya Narasimhan (CRSB) bt Kaushani Nath (RSPB) 7-11, 5-11, 11-9, 5-11, 11-7, 11-4, 11-9; Vedhalakshmi Devi (TNTTA) bt Madhurika Patkar (PSPB) 9-11, 7-11, 11-9, 12-10, 8-11, 11-9, 11-8; Chipia Frenaz (Guj) bt Harshavardhini (RBI) 11-9, 5-11, 4-11, 7-11, 11-6, 11-4, 11-6; Radhapriya Goel (AAI) bt Seraha Jacob (Ker) 11-7, 11-9, 11-8, 11-9, 11-8, 11-0 .   After losing the first two games, Vedalakshmi pulled level and eventually won in seven The 18-year-old Chennai girl says she played her natural game||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vedhalakshmi-surprises-madhurika/article38008692.ece
22 December 2021||Surat,||Sachin, Boopathi hammer HP attack||B. Sachin (178 batting, 353b, 15x4, 2x6) and Boopathi Vaishna Kumar (173 batting, 194b, 23x4, 2x6) put the Himachal Pradesh attack to the sword as Tamil Nadu scored 489 for two in its first innings, chasing 170, at stumps on the second day of the Cooch Behar Trophy (men’s under-19) Elite C fourth round match on Tuesday. Sachin and Boopathi have added 285 for the unbroken third wicket so far. It was Boopathi’s third hundred in the league and Sachin’s second.  The scores: Himachal Pradesh 170 vs Tamil Nadu 489/2 in 126 overs (R. Vimal Khumar 92, B. Sachin 178 batting, A. Badrinath 41, M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar 173 batting) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sachin-boopathi-hammer-hp-attack/article38008791.ece
22 December 2021||Chennai,||It’s Subhankar vs Kiran in men’s final||World No. 57 Subhankar Dey of Bengal, but qualifier here, will clash with Kerala’s Kiran George, the fifth seed, in the men’s final of the BAI Series National ranking badminton tournament here on Wednesday. Chhattisgarh’s Aakarshi Kashyap, the top seed, will meet unseeded Tanya Hemanth of Karnataka in the women’s singles summit clash.  The results (Semifinals):   Men: Kiran George (Ker) bt Mithun Manjunath (Kar) 21-16, 21-15; Subhankar Dey (Ben) bt Satish Kumar (TN) 12-21, 21-10, 21-12.   Women: Aakarshi Kashyap (Cht) bt Kavipriya (Pondy) 20-22, 21-9, 21-7; Tanya Hemanth (Kar) bt Ashmita Chalia (Asm) 21-15, 16-21, 21-17 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-subhankar-vs-kiran-in-mens-final/article38008729.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Can do better, the best is yet to come: Srikanth||“I kept believing in myself even through the tough times. And I can say the best is yet to come. I can do much better,” said shuttler K. Srikanth, who won a historic men’s singles silver medal in the World championship in Spain last Sunday. “I will keep my head down, work even harder and continue to look to winning titles,” Srikanth said in his first media interaction on his arrival back home on Tuesday. “Frankly, I am really happy and feeling great with my performance in the World championship. This I consider is the best phase of my career, better than the dream run I had in 2017 when I had won four Super Series titles (which eventually also saw him to be the World No. 1),” the champion shuttler said. Truly special “After all the disappointments including missing the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, this silver medal is truly special. The best part being I was aggressive right through,” he said. “I can say the injury phase is over but the focus right now will be to continue to keep improving as the year ahead has a packed schedule with the India Open in January, then the All England, the World championship and the Asian Games,” he said. “There is no time even to celebrate this silver,” he said with a smile. “I will speak to Gopi Anna (chief national coach P. Gopi Chand) and work out a schedule accordingly to keep winning major events,” he added. “Not many are aware how difficult it was for me in the last few years, sometimes for reasons beyond my control. Like, when I was feeling better and confident, the pandemic disrupted the tournament schedule worldwide. In fact, seven Olympic qualifying tournaments were cancelled which dented my chances to make it to the Tokyo Games,” he said. Tough semifinal “I don’t think the tough semifinal against Lakshya Sen had a bearing on the final. In big events, these are common. I repeat, it all boils down to how well you play in the one hour on the given day irrespective of all the training preceding the match day,” Srikanth said. Future bets “I expected the kind of game Lakshya played against me. He looked really good, and along with Priyanshu, is among the future bets for Indian men’s badminton,” he said. He looked perplexed when a reporter asked him whether he had any plans to leave Gopi Academy like some big names had left. “Name the players who have done that. Anyhow, I am here (at Gopi Academy) and (will) continue to keep winning more titles,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-do-better-the-best-is-yet-to-come-srikanth/article38008731.ece
22 December 2021||Valencia,||Valencia roars back to beat Levante||Goncalo Guedes and Carlos Soler both scored twice to lead Valencia to a 4-3 comeback victory over La Liga’s bottom club Levante in the Valencian derby. Levante had jumped out to an early 2-0 lead through goals from Jose Campana and Roger in the 21st and 24th minutes to give the team hope of securing its first win of the season before Valencia came roaring back. Guedes cut the deficit in half with a goal in the 44th and Soler pulled Valencia even early in the second half when he converted a penalty five minutes after the restart. Soler’s second in the 72nd completed the fightback and Guedes put the game out of reach with his second in the 85th. Anis Bardhi pulled one back in the first minute of injury time but it was not enough as Levante slumped to its tenth defeat.   The result: Levante 3 (Campana 21, Roger 24, Bardhi 90+1) lost to Valencia 4 (Guedes 44, 85, C. Soler 50-pen, 72) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/valencia-roars-back-to-beat-levante/article38008734.ece
22 December 2021||PUNE,||Shrivalli rallies to beat Rutuja, plays Abduraimova next||National champion Shrivalli Bhamidipaty recovered from being down 6-0, 3-1 to beat Rutuja Bhosale 0-6, 6-4, 6-0 in the first round of the NECC $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana on Tuesday. The 20-year-old, who had to come through the qualifying event, was playing 25-year-old Rutuja for the first time in the professional circuit. A player with an all-round explosive game, Shrivalli had the confidence to arrest the trend against a quality player and turn the tide in her favour. In the second round, Shrivalli will play fifth seed Nigina Abduraimova of Uzbekistan, who dismissed So-Ra Lee of Korea for the loss of four games. Wild card entrant Farhat Aleen Qamar led 6-2, 1-1 against Y. Pranjala when the latter retired with an injury. Farhat Aleen will challenge the third seed Chihiro Muramatsu of Japan in the second round. Another wild card entrant, Vaidehi Chaudhari beat qualifier Weronika Baszak of Poland in straight sets.   The results: First round: Nefisa Berberovic (BIH) bt Naho Sato (Jpn) 6-3, 7-5; Karman Kaur Thandi bt Soha Sadiq 6-1, 6-3; Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) bt Sowjany Bavisetti 4-6, 6-2, 6-3; Akiko Omae (Jpn) bt Arthi Muniyan 6-1, 6-2; Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Nidhi Chilumula 6-0, 6-1; Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) bt Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) 3-6, 6-3, 7-5; Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Weronika Baszak (Pol) 6-2, 6-4; Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Akanksha Nitture 6-7(0), 6-0, 6-1; Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) bt Funa Kozaki (Jpn) 6-1, 6-2; Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) bt Shreya Tatavarthy 6-0, 6-0.   Farhat Aleen Qamar bt Y. Pranjala 6-2, 1-1 (retired); Chihiro Muramatsu (Jpn) bt Hiroko Kuwata (Jpn) 7-5, 6-3; Nigina Abduraimova (Uzb) bt So-Ra Lee (Kor) 6-3, 6-1; Shrivalli Bhamidipaty bt Rutuja Bhosale 0-6, 6-4, 6-0; Misaki Matsuda (Jpn) bt Sathwika Sama 6-1, 6-3; Anna Danilina (Kaz) bt Zeel Desai 7-6(3), 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shrivalli-rallies-to-beat-rutuja-plays-abduraimova-next/article38008745.ece
22 December 2021||KOVILPATTI,||Waribam saves Manipur the blushes||Waribam Nirajkumar Singh struck twice in the final quarter to help Manipur secure a 5-5 draw against Puducherry in a Pool G clash of the 11th Junior National men’s hockey championship at the SDAT astroturf grounds here on Tuesday. Manikkkavasagan had put Puducherry 5-3 ahead with a hat-trick before Waribam got into the act.  The results:   Pool F: Tamil Nadu won 5-0 against Andaman & Nicobar 0 after Andaman forfeited match.   Jammu & Kashmir 3 (Zahid Shabir, Gagandeep Singh, Arun Preet Singh) bt Himachal 1 (Mohit Sharma).   Pool G: Delhi 14 (Nitin 3, Rahul 2, Sahil Kumar 2, Govind Singh Bisht, Ganesh, Nand Kishor, Zainul Samar Manmeet Singh, Rohit, Abhinandan) bt Gujarat 1 (Vikas Yadav).   Manipur 5 (Khangembam Somikant Singh 2, Waribam Nirajkumar Singh 2, Gurumayum Dingku Sharma) drew with Puducherry 5 (T. Manikkavasagan 3, J. Jayaprathap, S. Suriya).   Pool H: Bihar 6 (Rohit Lama 2, Sachin Dungdung, Sanchit Horo, Subal Kerketta, Turtan Minz) bt Assam 1 (Neck Ali) .   Quarterfinal line-up: Chandigarh vs. Punjab; Haryana vs. Tamil Nadu; Uttar Pradesh vs. Delhi; Odisha vs. Bihar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/waribam-saves-manipur-the-blushes/article38008746.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aviators beat Superstars||Sriram Balaji and Siddhant Banthia helped Indian Aviators overcome early hiccups to beat Sapphire Superstars 24-18 in a group-A league match of the Centena Pro Tennis League at the RK Khanna Stadium here on Tuesday. After Balaji and Banthia had won their singles matches and combined to win the doubles as well against Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and Prithvi Sekhar, it was left to the mixed doubles pair of Swarandeep Singh and Diva Bhatia to clinch the contest, with an entertaining 5-1 victory over Aditya Khanna and Riya Sachdeva. In another match in group-A, the country’s No.1 player Ramkumar Ramanathan won his singles and doubles matches, but could not stop Pro Veri Supersmashers from being beaten 28-23 by Sankara thanks to the good work by Shivank Bhatnagar, Niyati Kukreti, Parikshit Somani and Ashish Khanna. In a gripping match in group-B, Bangalore Challengers was tied 25-25 against Stag Babolat Yoddhas. The president of the All India Tennis Association (AITA), Anil Jain inaugurated the league and the Managing Director of ITV network Karthikeya Sharma was the guest of honour.  The results: Indian Aviators bt Sapphire Superstars 24-18 [Ajay Malik lost to Chirag Duhan 2-5; Ajay & Diva Bhatia lost to Chirag & Riya Sachdeva 2-5; Sriram Balaji bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan 5-4 (2); Balaji & Siddhant Banthia bt Jeevan & Prithvi Sekhar 5-2; Banthia bt Prithvi 5-1; Swarandeep Singh & Diva bt Aditya Khanna & Riya 5-1].   Sankara bt Pro Veri Supersmashers 28-23 [Shivank Bhatnagar bt Aditya Nandal 5-4 (6); Shivank & Niyati Kukreti bt Aditya & Mahika Khanna 5-3; Arjun Kadhe lost to Ramkumar Ramanathan 4-5 (2); Arjun & Parikshit Somani lost to Ramkumar & Nitin Kumar Sinha 4-5 (2); Parikshit bt Nitin Sinha 5-3; Ashish Khanna & Niyati bt Mohit Phogat & Mahika 5-3].   Bangalore Challengers tied Stag Babolat Yoddhas 25-25 (Aman Dahiya lost to Nishant Dabas 3-5; Aman & Sai Samhitha los tot Nishant & Vanshika Chaudhary 4-5 (4); Niki Poonacha bt Vijay Sundar Prashant 5-4 (5); Niki & Paras Dahiya lost to Vijay Sundar & Ishaque Eqbal 3-5; Para bt Ishaque 5-4 (5); Dilip Mohanty & Sai bt Nishant Goel & Vanshika Chaudhary 5-2].   Team Radiant bt DMG Crusaders 27-21 (Parv Nage lost to Bushan Haobam 4-5(2); Parv & Prrerna Bhambri bt Bushan & Kashish Bhatia 5-3; Saketh Myneni bt Vishnu Vardhan 5-2; Saketh & Suraj Prabodh bt Vishnu & Karan Singh 5-3; Suraj lost to Karan 3-5; Arjun Uppal & Prerna Bhambri bt Rishi Kapur & Kashish Bhatia 5-3] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aviators-overcome-early-hiccups-to-beat-superstars/article38008748.ece
22 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Felt like I was being thrown under the bus: Ashwin recalls a Shastri remark||India off-spinner R. Ashwin has revealed that he felt like he was being “thrown under the bus” after a remark by former head coach Ravi Shastri left him “crushed” during a torrid phase in his career when he contemplated retirement multiple times. In an interview with ESPNcricinfo , Ashwin was asked how he felt when then coach Shastri anointed Kuldeep Yadav as the No. 1 spinner overseas after he had taken a five-for in the 2019 Sydney Test against Australia. Happy for Kuldeep Ashwin said he was genuinely happy for Kuldeep as he knew how difficult it is to take five wickets as a spinner in Australia but Shastri’s remarks left him “absolutely crushed.” “I hold Ravi bhai in high esteem. We all do. And I understand we all can say things and then retract. In that moment, though, I felt crushed. Absolutely crushed,” Ashwin said. “We all talk about how important it is to enjoy your teammates’ success. And I was happy for Kuldeep. I have not been able to get a five-for but he has a five-for in Australia. I know how big it is. “But if I have to partake in his happiness, and the success of the team, I must feel like I belong there. If I feel like I am being thrown under the bus, how am I supposed to get up and come for a party to enjoy the team’s or teammate’s success?” “I went back to my room and spoke to my wife. My children were also there. So we were able to, you know, shrug it off and I made it to the party because, at the end of the day, we had won a massive series.” The 35-year-old said Shastri's remark was too much particularly as he had taken three wickets in each innings in the win in the series opener despite playing under “excruciating pain.” “The first Test seemed like a distant memory. I had taken three of the first four wickets in the first innings after we were bowled out cheaply, and then when it got really flat in the final innings, I plugged away for 50-plus overs and took three more despite what turned out to be a Grade 3 abdomen tear. “As it is, I was frustrated with my body for letting me down when I was in really good bowling form. The last thing I needed was these comparisons and insinuations. Between that reaction and Sydney, it didn’t feel like I had played any part at all,” Ashwin said.  I hold Ravi bhai in high esteem. We all do. And I understand we all can say things and then retract. In that moment, though, I felt crushed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/felt-like-i-was-being-thrown-under-the-bus-ashwin-recalls-a-shastri-remark/article38008679.ece
22 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Baroda 129 for one||Baroda was 129 for one in the first innings in reply to Puducherry’s 330 on the second day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match here on Tuesday.  The scores: Puducherry 330 in 142.5 overs (K. Sai Hariram 82 n.o., Karan Umatt 3/59, Raj Limbani 3/96) vs Baroda 129/1 in 35 overs (Harsh Desai 52 batting, Priyanshu Moliya 53 batting) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/baroda-129-for-one/article38008848.ece
22 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||HCA signs partnership with CricHQ||The Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) signed a partnership with CricHQ for the digitalisation and scoring of all levels of cricket under its control, president Mohd. Azharuddin said on Tuesday. “The partnership will allow HCA greater access to individual player data, historical data, and help in the identification of young talent based on merit. “CricHq will also work with the HCA to provide live streaming and indexed highlights of matches, bringing the game to a wider audience,” Azhar said. “This will ensure access to rich data which they will be able to match with the video streaming and highlights of games. This will assist coaches, video analysts, and the larger cricket loving community in identifying the right talent. “The partnership leads to a long-term community development around cricket and nurturing young talents around the sport right from grassroots to senior level,” he added. Erin Walshe, Group CEO of cricHQ, said: “Being involved with the HCA is a highlight for cricHQ. We look forward to a long and fruitful relationship with the HCA as we provide them with a world leading platform for the administration, competition management, and live scoring of all the games, thereby leading to digitisation.”  The partnership leads to a long-term community development around cricket — Azhar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-signs-partnership-with-crichq/article38009001.ece
22 December 2021||New Delhi:,||Hat-trick by Deepika||Deepika scored a hat-trick in India Juniors’ 12-0 rout of Mumbai School Sports Association (MSSA) in its final Pool A game in the Khelo India Under-21 Women’s Hockey League here on Tuesday. Deepika finished with 16 goals in the competition to become the top-scorer, while Mumtaz added two in the match to take her tally to 13. In Pool B, Haryana Hockey Academy played out a draw against Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy in its final pool game, but remained on top with 16 points.  The results: Pool A: India Juniors 12 (Deepika 3, Mumtaz Khan 2, Sangita Kumari 2, Rutuja Pisal 2, Annu 2, Baljeet Kaur) bt MSSA 0; KHA, Amritsar 4 (Sukhpreet Kaur 2, Anjali Panwar, Simranjeet Kaur) bt ONTHHPC 1 (Priya Toppo); RKHA 1 (Gurmail Kaur) bt HIM Academy 0.   Pool B: MPHA 1 (Sadhna Sengar) drew with Haryana HA 1 (Jyoti); PSHA 2 (Tannu 2) bt Delhi Hockey 0; SAI A 5 (Sonam 2, Sanjna Horo, Anjana Dungdung, Tanuja Toppo) bt Jai Bharat HA 1 (Bhoomi Tiwari) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hat-trick-by-deepika/article38008884.ece
22 December 2021||London,||Arteta weighs in on his two years in charge||Mikel Arteta has said that the last two years have been an “incredible journey” as he reflected on the second anniversary of appointment as Arsenal manager on 20th December 2019. Since replacing Unai Emery, Arteta has won the FA Cup and picked up a community shield, the traditional curtain-raiser to the English football season, but he has also faced difficult times. New phase “Now it is a new phase where we start to rebuild the team,” he said. “I think now (the feeling) is excitement. Excitement to keep driving this project forward, to keep working with this really young squad, but ready to compete, to get better and take the club back to where it belongs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arteta-weighs-in-on-his-two-years-in-charge/article38009002.ece
22 December 2021||Johannesburg,||Nortje ruled out of Tests||South Africa pacer Anrich Nortje was on Tuesday ruled out of the upcoming three Test series against India due to a “persistent” injury. Cricket South Africa (CSA) did not specify the nature of injury and also did not name a replacement for Nortje who has taken 47 wickets in 12 Tests, including three five-wicket hauls. The first Test is slated to begin in Centurion from December 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nortje-ruled-out-of-tests/article38008683.ece
22 December 2021||London,||David Lloyd to quit commentary||Former England cricketer and coach David ‘Bumble’ Lloyd on Tuesday announced that he will be leaving his role as a commentator with Sky Sports after a stint spanning over two decades, signing off by invoking famous British singer Elton John. The 74-year-old Lloyd has been a prominent voice for Sky Sports’ cricket coverage since joining the team in 1999. In a statement on social media, Lloyd wrote: “After 22 wonderful years with Sky Cricket, I’ve decided the time is now right to pass on the microphone. “It has been a great pleasure to work alongside Ian Bishop, Ravi Shastri, Shane Warne, Shaun Pollock, and Ian Smith amongst many others,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/david-lloyd-to-quit-commentary/article38008685.ece
22 December 2021||PUNE,||Punjab shoots out UP, wins title||Punjab defeated Uttar Pradesh 2-1 in the shootout, after the teams failed to break the deadlock in regulation time, to clinch the 11th Hockey India senior men National championship title here on Tuesday. Punjab goalkeeper Kamalbir Singh emerged the hero of the match, making as many as four saves in the shootout to help his team triumph. Speaking about his side’s victory, Punjab coach Balwinder Singh said, “As many as 10 players were playing the Nationals for the first time, so this win shows how talented this group is. Our boys showed great character today.” In the playoff for the third-fourth spots, Karnataka beat Maharashtra 5-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punjab-shoots-out-up-wins-title/article38008700.ece
22 December 2021||Vasco,||Kerala Blasters brimming with confidence||Former champion Chennaiyin FC will aim to carry on the winning run when it takes on Kerala Blasters FC in the Indian Super League match at the Tilak Maidan Stadium here on Wednesday. Chennaiyin bounced back with a 2-1 victory in its last match which also helped them get back into the top four in the standings with 11 points. Blasters, on the other hand, with two wins, a loss and three draws, will be keen to build on a superb win over Mumbai City FC in the previous match and increase its points tally from the current nine. Blasters will be brimming with confidence after hammering the defending champion MCFC and coach Ivan Vukomanovic will be hoping that the team continues in the same vein. Chennaiyin FC’s head coach Bozidar Bandovic is aware of the challenges the Blasters pose, but is confident of his unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-looks-to-keep-momentum-going/article38008785.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Braveman, Babisha rewrite records||Braveman Heart of Madras Christian College and T. Babisha (MOP Vaishnav) created new meet records in men’s javelin and women’s triple jump at the A.L. Mudaliar athletics meet here on Tuesday.  The results (winners only):   Men: 5000m: M. Sathish Kumar (Loy) 15:10.76s; Pole vault: A. Gnanadone (Loy) 4.40; Hammer throw: S. Dinesh (MCC) 48.25; 400mH: S. Manikandan (Loy) 54.28; 800m: B. Gauray Yadav (MCC) 1:54.51; Triple jump: J. Jeswin Andrin (MCC) 15.16; Javelin: S. Braveman Heart (MCC) 72.36 (NMR).   Women: 5000m: M. R. Mithra (Ethiraj) 19:59.94s; 400mH: T. Jayalakshmi (Stella Maris) 1:06.20; Hammer throw: M. Medha (Loy) 37.49; High jump: R. Rajeswari (SDNB Vaishnav) 1.59m; 800m: R. Punitha (MOP Vaishnav) 2:22.17; Pole vault: M. Uvadharrshni (MOP Vaishnav) 3.40m (EMR); Triple jump: T. Babisha (MOP Vaishnav) 13.10 (NMR) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/braveman-babisha-rewrite-records/article38008787.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Narrow win for Kickstart||Kickstart FC edged out Kodagu FC 2-1 in the BDFA Super Division football league here on Tuesday.  The results: Bangalore Eagles FC 2 (Appu 40, Cletus Dominic 73) bt Bangalore Dream United FC 0; Kickstart FC 2 (Sudheer Kotikele 5, Kiran Das 43) bt Kodagu FC 1 (Rangaswamy 59); Students Union FC 0 drew with FC Deccan 0.     Sai Satya (23 points) powered Devanga Union past Kanaka BC 66-47 in the State Association Cup men’s basketball tournament here on Tuesday.  The results: Men: Brothers BC 77 (Aftab 21, Tanveer 18) bt YFBC 59 (Yeshwant 14); BCYA 75 (Manas 17, Om 16) bt YCSC 58 (Hitesh 27); Viveks SC 82 (Joshua 20, Gautham 20) bt Nationals SC 53 (Pawan 15, Rohan 12); Aryans SC 71 (Viji 17, Shakthi 11) bt Pattabhiram Nagar SC 50 (Abhay 27, Abhishek 11); IBBC 62 (Yeshwant 19, Suresh 17) bt Hoysala BC 43 (Balu 13); Devanga Union 66 (Sai Satya 23, Pradyumna 14) bt Kanaka BC 47 (Tilak 14).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narrow-win-for-kickstart/article38008735.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy for Naval Tata HA||Naval Tata Hockey Academy, Jamshedpur, struck two goals in the last 10 minutes to register a comfortable 3-0 win against Municipal High School, Panposh, in Pool B1 of the quarterfinal league at the 38th Nehru sub-junior boys hockey tournament.  The results: NTHA, Jamshedpur 3 (Ankush, L. Samson Singh, Jolen Topno) bt MHS, Panposh 0; Govt. Model HSS, Chandigarh, 1 (Gurpreet Singh) drew with Ritu Rani HA, Patiala, 1 (Rohit Singh) .    Shafiq Khan top-scored with an unbeaten 54-ball 83 and Sachin Rana made 68 not out as Air India beat MTNL by nine wickets in the All India Public Sector cricket tournament.  The scores: MTNL 154/5 in 20 overs (Anshul Kapoor 65) lost to Air India 158/1 in 17.5 overs (Shafiq Khan 83 n.o., Sachin Rana 68 n.o.).   ONGC 185/5 in 15 overs (Mayank Tehlan 58, Radhey Shyam Gupta 48, Gurmit Singh 2/33) bt CIL 135/6 in 15 overs (Parkash 40, Feroz Gyas 3/27).    Aryan Sharma scored 112 as West Delhi Academy beat DC Raghav Academy by 63 runs in the 1st Bat & Ball tournament.  The scores: WDA 216 in 39 overs (Aryan Sharma 112, Atharv Adhikari 3/26, Shaurya Chahar 3/39) bt DCRA 153 in 37 overs (Karan 32, Bharat Maan 3/25) .    Suraj Rawat and Bhavishya Parashar snapped up four wickets each as Tomar Club beat Tituiksha Academy by four wickets in the 1st Children Cup Under-14 tournament.  The scores: Titiksha Academy 127 in 33 overs (Suraj Rawat 4/19, Bhavishya Parashar 4/25) lost to Tomar Club 128/6 in 39 overs (Kirit Kaushik 3/13) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-for-naval-tata-ha/article38008888.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Athletics: AL Mudaliar meet, Nehru Stadium, 7 a.m.  Badminton: BAI Series National-ranking tournament, finals (9 a.m. onwards), Fireball BA, Mogappair East.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article38008788.ece
22 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,||Mumbai sitting pretty||Mumbai was sitting pretty thanks to a fine spell by Prince Badiani (six for 87) which saw the team restrict Karnataka, resuming at 295 for six, to 325 on the second day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) four-day cricket championship Elite Group E match at the Dr. P.V.G. Raju ACA Sports Complex here on Tuesday. In reply, Mumbai was 170 for two at close with Musheer Khan looking good for a century (94 batting, 209b, 14x4, 1x6).  The scores:   Karnataka 325 in 98.3 overs (Yadhovardhan Parantap 52, Rajvir Wadhwa 50, Prince Badiani 6/87) vs Mumbai 170/2 in 79 overs (Musheer Khan 94 batting, Ved Prakash Jaiswal 37 batting).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-sitting-pretty/article38008732.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Levels of happiness||The Taittiriya Upanishad states that Brahman is the source of all the distinctions in creation and is the essence of bliss and that Brahma Jnana leads to bliss also known as Moksha ananda. In a discourse, Velukkudi Sri Krishnan drew attention to the various levels of happiness that human beings are able to experience in this world and how one can strive to reach Moksha ananda which is the highest level of bliss. Moksha suka is infinite and unalloyed with sorrow. Though it is held that the happiness in swarga extends for a longer period than worldly happiness, which is short-lived, both types are finite in nature. At times, we are able to get glimpses of the taste of blissful happiness even in the course of our mundane lives, which is happiness at the most simple level. For instance, aesthetic experience gives joy or suka, as when one sees the beauty in the world around; or listens to melodious music, or inhales the fragrance of flowers or even when relishing good food, etc. This happiness or suka is derived through the senses, the eye, ear, nose, tongue and touch. But there is also another source of joy felt in one’s mind which is a step higher as when, for instance, one is able to experience, the poetic vision or literary excellences of great works of art. The joy arising in the mind attains a still higher level when it is manifest as contentment. For instance, if one is moved by compassion towards a hungry person and spontaneously offers the food he has, he is likely to experience a joy that is qualitatively superior to what he might have derived by merely appeasing his own hunger. Even if the sarira is not satisfied, the mind is happy and content. Tyaga, vairagya, atma jnana and Paramatma jnana are all means to attain higher levels of happiness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/levels-of-happiness/article38008518.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 07:19 IST,||Sudoku — December 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-22-2021/article38009273.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Mountbatten Mani, Hemamalini Kalyana Mandapam||Legendary cook and caterer, Mountbatten Mani, a trendsetter in the sabha canteen scene, turned 90 last month. His son K Srinivasan who runs the Mountbatten Mani Catering Services, catered at Sri Parthasarathy Swamy Sabha, popular for its elaborate sit down lunches, for a decade. Then, last year the pandemic halted most of the city’s Margazhi traditions, including their canteen. Srinivasan has decided to try a new format this year by organising a Margazhi Food Festival at the Hemamalini Kalyana Mandapam. “We are running the canteen as a separate entity at the wedding hall this year,” he says, adding “This probably is the first time that a canteen is functioning without any concert or under the aegis of any sabha.” His team specialises in traditional vegetarian meals, as well as snacks and tiffin. “I try to bring into the menu, what we normally may not find in the restaurant. For example, paal kozhukattai , vella paniyaram and badam halwa, which is my father’s secret recipe,” says Srinivasan. “The kalyana virundhu we serve has no onion, no garlic (Rs. 525 per person) and we generally avoid root vegetables during the weekends,” he says, adding that “Most of us did not get to attend many weddings during the pandemic, so it is a chance to celebrate familiar flavours. Also, these Margazhi canteens break the monotony of life.”  @Hemamalini Kalyana Mandapam, Lloyds Road, Royapettah. The canteen will run from December 22 till January 4, from noon to 10pm. Breakfast will be served only during weekends. Call 9840024400. Food delivery via Dunzo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mountbatten-mani-hemamalini-kalyana-mandapam/article38009169.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A stage in the wilderness||A decorative flagstone screams how the Pallikaranai Marsh has suffered unintended weight loss, shrinking to 700-plus hectares from a massive 6,000 hectares. The stone stands by the side of a tiled walkway laid for the benefit of homo sapiens, at the newly-opened 2.5-hectare Pallikaranai Eco Park. One hopes the sombre fact chiselled in stone is also etched in the stewards’ minds. A surfeit of design features attract selfie-loving homo sapiens and even serious birders, and therefore, obviously, the rest of the eco-park should be left undisturbed and unaltered for all other species. There is a chilling touch of irony to this situation: making room in the house for the house owner. There is a word of reassurance from the stewards of the place. Priyadarshini Venkataraman, District Forest Officer (DFO), Chennai Division, states there would not be any additions by way of design and enhancement that would eat into the space where Nature has to have a free run. From 6,000 to 700 is a steep drop, and from there every inch counts and none can be frittered away even while executing well-meaning exercises. The design is heavily concentrated right behind the pleasingly lengthy frontage. Along a slip-resistant tiled pathway run parallel patches of native trees and manicured decorative plants, each category bunged into a space that is all theirs. This spaced pairing succeeds in bringing contrast to the picture. The stand of trees suggests a triumph of the indigenous over the exotic. Culling out a few names from the roll of honour: peepal ( Ficus religious ); bulletwood ( Mimusops elegy ); Manila tamarind ( Pithecellobium dulce ); jamun ( Syzygium cumin ); portia ( Thespesia populnea ); and neem ( Azadirachta indica ). One can visualise the tiled pathway turning into a comfortable cloister when the trees reach longingly for the skies. After every minute of greenery, stones and artworks pop into sight, and in the manner of oracles, hold forth on wetland ecosystems, biodiversity and allied green topics, all of which making references to the marsh and its occupants. Though the aforementioned space would be an automatic crowd puller for walkers and picnic-seekers, it is hardly the focal point of the exercise. Walk of life The central part of the eco-park runs perpendicular to the tiled walkway, and is delightfully untouched by masonry, which is marginal to the point of seeming non-existent. On this section, a landscaped area is flanked on both sides by a walkway that displays earth with stubbles of grass. Like the tiled pathway, these earthen walkways sport benches. However, if the eco-park is put to its much-intended use, visitors would be standing up to their full height, training binoculars on birds found in the distance. The DFO - Chennai Division discloses that binoculars can be taken from the office at the eco-park. On the day of this writer’s visit, migratory birds had stood visitors up, as they have so far in most other bird habitats in and around Chennai that traditionally host them during winter. A series of inclement weather systems during November have set their check-in timelines by weeks. The regular batches of migratory birds — particularly waders and dabbling ducks — must be parked in others parts. Waders and dabbling ducks are finicky about dipping their feet in waters with levels too high for their comfort. The migrants will eventually traipse into the front rows. Sooner they do that, the better. The Forest Department has a role for them in an exercise. Priyadarshini’s division has proposed a soundless celebration — Pallikaranai Marghazhi Thiruvizha. The migrants would be guests of honour — one hopes the visiting birds read this announcement and take centre stage in time for the fest to be a squawking success. The birds better do this for the public, as the latter have access to the eco-park without any damage to their wallet through this month. From the next, there are charges for entry, and that includes cameras. There would be monthly and daily passes, notes the DFO. Quite a performance Flocks of black-winged stilts on one side, and cormorants on the other, made the most of the empty stage, filling it with their quiet performance. The cormorants were occupying perches jutting out of an expansive basin of water shoved into a quadrangle of a walkway. One section of this irregular quadrangle brings eye-catching gradient to the scene. On a raised bed, the central pathway dips into something of a swale. This low-lying side of the quadrangle is studded with granites and tramping down this section is particularly delightsome. The swale rises and gives way to another walkway that nestles next to the compound wall of the eco-park’s neighbour — the middle-aged National Institute of Wind Energy. The walkway on this side is essentially a granite-punched hardscape flanked by a stand of native trees on both sides. It seems to have been left deliberately gap-toothed, with mud patching up the spaces between granite. Recent rains had washed away the mud, which was being replaced by workers that day.  The park is open from 6 am to 6 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-stage-in-the-wilderness/article38009086.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Turn a page, hear a note||An impromptu holiday in Kolkata led Sunil Menon to a stunning shot for his annual Sahodaran calendar. Sitting in a puja pandal, he knew this was the setting he wanted to shoot in. “Luckily, Kolkata-based designers Dev and Nil’s staff and personal trainer were perfect as models,” says Sunil. The 13th edition of the Sahodaran (an organisation for the rights of sexual minorities) calendar has been shot in Kolkata, Puducherry, Tiruchirapalli and Chennai. Titled Euphony, the theme this year is musical instruments, an idea suggested by Sunil’s makeup artist Varun Kulangara. A search for unusual instruments led him to Shivakumar of Kosai Nagaran, an organisation that documents and popularises traditional collectors. “He has travelled to Kolkata, Puducherry, Kanchipuram, and Chennai and bought unique instruments. I sourced a few from him,” says Sunil. The calendar features 13 images and 13 muscled male models posing with instruments such as araivatta kombu tharai (a crescent-shaped brass instrument usually played at temple processions in Tamil Nadu), kombu thaarai ( a brass instrument in the shape of a cow’s horn), naagafani ( a serpentine shaped horn played at folk festivals in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttarakhand) and the thutheri (a predecessor of the trumpet). “The thutheri dates back to the 7th Century and was part of performances by poet and saint Thirugnana Sambandar in Tamil Nadu.” He adds, “We then had to find backdrops that suit the instruments. Among the team’s finds are an ancient Anjaneya temple in Kanchipuram and the Kalari Gram in Auroville.”  The calendar is priced at Rs. 1,500.   Call 9444966000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/turn-a-page-hear-a-note/article38009087.ece
22 December 2021||December 22 2021 00:00 IST,||An eye on the local||One of Netflix’s new releases that’s getting a lot of attention is Malayalam superhero flick Minnal Murali , which drops on December 24. In an interesting move, Priyanka Chopra Jonas, chairperson of the Jio MAMI Mumbai Film Festival, introduced the film through a virtual interaction hosted by the streaming platform with lead actor Tovino Thomas and director Basil Joseph. ‘Something for everyone’ with a focus on ‘strong storytelling’ sums up Netflix India’s current content strategy. “Our approach has been to diversify and have many shades reflected on the canvas. It is a painting that will evolve over time depending on how our audience responds to the choices we’ve made,” Tanya Bami, Series Head Netflix India said recently during the trailer launch of their next India Original, Aranyak . The streaming platform is betting big on its India Originals that span genres and then some. “ Aranyak is a thriller. We have Finding Anamika [ starring Madhuri Dixit], a drama and a hybrid-like Yeh Kaali Kaali Ankhein , a romance thriller. We have a very strong comedic slate with Decoupled with R Madhavan and Surveen Chawla, and the Kapil Sharma special,” she adds. Netflix India is also looking to make deeper inroads into the country by offering more local content, especially in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam. “This year we’ve had many exciting titles like Navarasa and Paava Kadhaigal , [now] we have Minnal Murali . We are cognisant that the way forward is to get into regional languages.”  Read the full interview on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/an-eye-on-the-local/article38009088.ece
