23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Heated winter session concludes a day early||The winter session of Parliament ended on Wednesday the same way it started on November 29 — on an acrimonious note. Both Houses were adjourned sine die a day ahead of schedule. The session began with the suspension of 12 Opposition members in the Rajya Sabha and concluded with the passage of the controversial Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, which seeks to link the electoral rolls with the Aadhaar database, despite strident protests by the Opposition. Both Houses also witnessed protests by the Opposition members, demanding the resignation of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni for the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, which the government chose to ignore. Giving an account of the session at a press conference, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that the productivity of the Lok Sabha was around 82% and that of the Rajya Sabha around 48%. 11 Bills passed During the session, 13 Bills (12 in the Lok Sabha and one in the Rajya Sabha) were introduced, while 11 Bills were passed by both Houses of Parliament. “It is unfortunate that despite our efforts, and [despite] reaching out to the Opposition, they created a ruckus in the House. It seems that the Congress and other Opposition parties are unable to digest the mandate of 2019 given by the people,” Mr. Joshi said. He said that the government had referred six Bills to parliamentary committees for closer scrutiny, including the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill that seeks to override personal laws of different religions to increase the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years. The Opposition countered the Minister’s claim, calling the suspension of the 12 members as “undemocratic and unconstitutional”. The Congress alleged that the suspension was effected on day one of the winter session to “create” a majority for the government and ensure passage of Bills. Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien too said that the exercise was aimed at “manufacturing a majority”. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, addressing a press conference, said that while the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) had 118 members, the Opposition had 120 MPs. “You didn’t have the numbers and your Bills would have failed if our 120 members had unitedly fought against these Bills,” Mr. Kharge said. Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh said that although the LoP had told the Leader of the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, that he would express regret collectively on behalf of all the suspended members, Mr. Goyal had insisted on individual apologies from each member. “The government has started a new practice of suspending members for events that took place in the previous session,” Mr. Ramesh alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heated-winter-session-concludes-a-day-early/article38016709.ece
23 December 2021||MANGALURU,||All India Inter-University Athletics Meet in Moodbidri from Jan. 4||The 81st All India Inter-University Athletics Championship that is expected to witness participation by over 2,000 athletes from across the country will be held from January 4 to January 7 in Moodbidri near here. Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Thakur will inaugurate the championship on January 4 at the Swaraj Maidan in the town, said Mangalore University Registrar C.K. Kishore Kumar. Speaking to reporters in Moodbidri, Mr. Kumar said that the championship is being jointly organised by the Association of Indian Universities (AIU), Mangalore University, and Alva’s Education Foundation (AEF), Moodbidri. The Registrar said that the championship will witness participation by over 400 universities with more than 2,000 athletes and 1,000 sports officers. Sports Minister in the State Cabinet Narayana Gowda, Dakshina Kannada MP and BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar, Moodbidri MLA K. Umanath Kotian, the former Minister Abhayachandra Jain, Joint Secretary of Association of Indian Universities Baljit Singh Sekhon, Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya and others will attend the inaugural session. In all, there will be 23 events. Online registration has already been made available for the participants. The four-day event will see participation by national and international-level sportspersons. Modern photo-finish technology has been arranged at the venue. Free food, accommodation and transport facilities for athletes and officials are available. The winners of the meet will be selected for the Khelo India and International University Athletics events, said Mr. Kumar. Meanwhile, over a hundred teams depicting the art and culture of India will participate in the procession that will starts from the Hanuman temple in the town. Alva’s Education Foundation chairman M. Mohan Alva said that the foundation is organising the event for the fifth time. It will sponsor the entire cash prize for winners in the meet, he said. While the champions of the meet will get Rs. 50,000 cash prize, Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 20,000 will be presented to the first and second runners-up of the meet, respectively. Those creating new records will get Rs. 25,000 in cash, while the first three winners in each event will get Rs. 25,000, Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 10,000 in cash, respectively, Dr. Alva said. University Physical Education Director Gerald Santosh D’Souza was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-india-inter-university-athletics-meet-in-moodbidri-from-jan-4/article38017334.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Elephant deaths: High Court seeks report from railway officials||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the railway officials to file a detailed report by January 7 listing out the steps they propose to take to prevent elephant deaths in the light of the Comptroller and Auditor General’s latest report that railway deaths constitute the second largest reason for unnatural death of elephants. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and N. Sathish Kumar asked railway counsel P.T. Ramkumar to also ensure that the officials file their detailed reply to a memo submitted by amicus curiae M. Santhanaraman listing out several suggestions to prevent deaths of elephants on being hit by trains while crossing railway tracks. In his memo, the amicus stated that a committee constituted by the ‘Project Elephant’ division of the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) too had come up with an elaborate report in September this year suggesting various measures to reduce elephant mortality on railway tracks in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. He pointed out that the CAG report as well as the MoEF report insist upon clearing of vegetation on either side of railway tracks, for a distance of 10 to 15 metres, to improve visibility for the loco pilots as well as the elephants. The clearing of vegetation would be a recurring process and therefore it must be carried out periodically without fail. Secondly, ramps could be laid at feasible locations to aid easy passage of elephants. The loco pilots should also be instructed to follow strictly the speed restrictions at strategic and vulnerable locations of elephant crossing. Signage boards should also be installed at strategic locations to warn the loco pilots. Deployment of elephant trackers and providing them the facilities to communicate with the station master to warn about elephant movement near railway tracks and provision of solar lighting at identified elephant passages to improve visibility were the other suggestions found in the reports, the amicus told the court. He pointed out that it was essential to keep the railway tracks free from food waste that could attract elephants and the railway staff, especially those in the pantry, must be sensitised. The passengers too must be asked to desist from throwing food waste on the tracks by pasting posters inside the trains and making oral announcements. The MoEF report had highlighted that most of the elephant deaths due to rail accidents occur during monsoon and winter season. Therefore, the forest departments and the railway officials in both Tamil Nadu and Kerala should step up their vigil during these months by employing adequate number of guards to keep a watch on elephant movement, he said. Mr. Santhanaraman also told the court about the necessity to conduct regular sensitisation programmes for loco pilots and the railway staff and the need to create working committees between the forest and railway officials to coordinate their activities. In addition, possibility of installing infra red cameras that pick up heat signals could also be explored, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elephant-deaths-hc-seeks-report-from-railway-officials/article38017050.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||I-T Dept. searches premises of Chinese mobile firms||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday carried out searches in different parts of the country against several entities linked to the manufacturing of Chinese mobile phones on suspicion of tax evasion. An official said the searches on some of the premises began on Tuesday. During the operation carried out at more than a dozen places, including in Delhi, Greater Noida, Kolkata, Mumbai and Bengaluru, certain locations related to companies such as Oppo and Xiaomi were covered. In a statement issued on its behalf on Wednesday, Oppo said: “As an invested partner in India, we highly respect and abide by the law of the land. We will continue to fully cooperate with authorities concerned as per procedure.” A Xiaomi spokesperson said: “As a responsible company, we give paramount importance to ensuring that we are compliant with all Indian laws. As an invested partner in India, we are fully cooperating with authorities to ensure they have all the required information.” Last month, the Income Tax Department had searched 20 locations in Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Gandhidham, Gujarat, linked to some companies and their associate concerns. Those companies, engaged in the business of chemicals, ball bearings, machinery parts and injection-moulding machinery, were controlled by a China-based entity. The agency alleged that the companies evaded tax through manipulation of books of accounts. They transferred Rs. 20 crore to China via a network of shell entities over the past two years, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-t-dept-searches-mobile-firms/article38016707.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,||‘COVID deaths under-counted in Chennai’||A study analysing the registered COVID-19 deaths in Chennai district found a high degree of excess deaths. A figure of nearly 5.18 excess deaths for every 1,000 people has been reported in the study published in Lancet Infectious Diseases . It found that during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in Chennai, there was a rise in the percentage of pandemic-associated deaths, with an increase in the measure of socio-economic community disadvantage. The study was conducted by researchers from the University of California, Berkeley; the University of Chicago, Illinois; the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore; the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy (CDDEP), New Delhi; and the Government of Tamil Nadu, Chennai. The study found that between March 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021, the total number of deaths registered in Chennai exceeded the expected number by about 25,990. In total, 87,870 deaths were registered in areas of the Chennai district. This amounted to nearly 5.18 excess deaths for every 1,000 people. Comparison It can be compared with the figures on excess all-cause mortality from studies conducted nationally, within major cities, across the U.S., and in European countries — as of June 30, 2021 these settings recorded 1-2 excess deaths per 1,000 individuals. Comparing the reported COVID-19 deaths with the above figures, the paper estimates that there was under-counting by approximately a factor of at least of 2.15 (2.08 - 2.21) during the first wave, 4.38 (4.34 - 4.43) during the second wave and 3.18 (3.14 - 3.23) overall. “The extent of under-reporting may be higher in places where there are challenges in access to testing, which is important for attributing a death to COVID-19,” says Ramanan Laxminarayan of the CDDEP, one of the authors of the paper and who designed the study. When asked about the lower number of excess deaths during the first wave when compared to the second wave, Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Chandra Mohan, one of the authors of the paper, said that during the first wave only 2% - 6% of patients required oxygen supply but during the second wave, with a different variant of the virus being in circulation, there was higher incidence of severe disease. Nearly 25% patients this time required oxygen and hospitalisation. “Everyone was overwhelmed. The poor were more vulnerable because of the speed and severity of the Delta variant,” he said. Further, during the second wave, neighbourhoods with lower socio-economic status (in accordance with the classification in the 2011 census) showed an increase in the pandemic-associated mortality in proportion to the increase in each measure of community disadvantage, showing from 0.7% to 2.8% increase in pandemic-associated mortality per 1 standard deviation increase in each measure of community disadvantage. The researchers used 13 socio-economic indicators such as household crowding, lacking on-site latrines and lacking bank accounts, among others. As Dr. Laxminarayan explains, “Contrary to what we may have believed, the lockdown in the early stages did protect socio-economically disadvantaged communities both because of lower transmission and possibly because they were protected from other causes of death, including traffic accidents and injuries.” He says that during the second wave, lack of access to healthcare facilities may have been a contributing factor to higher mortality in these communities.  The extent of under-reporting may be higher in places where there are challenges in access to testing which is important for attributing a death to COVID-19 Ramanan Laxminarayanone of the authors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-deaths-under-counted-in-chennai/article38017043.ece
23 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Contractors stage protest seeking govt. help in ending corruption||Hundreds of civil contractors took out a protest march in Dharwad on Wednesday seeking intervention of the State Government to curb corruption pervading across various government departments. The protest march was taken out under the aegis of the Karnataka State Contractors Association from Kalabhavan in Dharwad to the Deputy Commissioner’s office. The protesting contractors said that corruption has been growing in various departments and the previous government had failed to curb the menace. And, now, it has further increased forcing the contractors to take to the streets to protest against the growing menace and expose the real face of various government officials, who, they said, have been harassing them for long. The protestors said that as commission being sought by officials has seen a steep hike, the quality of the works being carried out is getting deteriorated. The contractors said that corruption is at its peak in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development, Water Resources, Minor Irrigation and the Public Works departments. They said that a contractor bagging a tender is forced to pay commission of up to 40% for getting bills cleared. From the day tenders are floated, corruption begins and the contractors are forced to pay at every level till their bills are cleared, they said. They said that the Karnataka State Contractors Association in its executive body meeting resolved to stage protests in every district to highlight the menace and to seek the government’s intervention in checking corruption and safeguarding the interests of the contractors. A massive rally will be organised in Bengaluru at a later date, they said. During the protest that began from Kalabhavan, the contractors marched silently to the Deputy Commissioner’s office wearing black badges. The protest was led by State assocation president D. Kempanna and other office-bearers M.S. Sankagoudashani, V. Krishna Reddy, K.S. Shanthe Gowda and G.M. Ravindra. The assocation has decided to hold a mega protest in Bengaluru in the month of January in which around one lakh contractors are expected to participate. They have said that if the government failed to intervene, then they would approach the President, the Prime Minister and national BJP leaders.  ‘Commission being sought by officials has seen a steep hike and the quality of the works being carried out is getting deteriorated’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/contractors-stage-protest-seeking-govt-help-in-ending-corruption/article38017168.ece
23 December 2021||MANGALURU,||ZP CEO unhappy as banks fail to reach minimum lending targets||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara on Wednesday regretted that banks in the district did not reach lending targets in some of the priority sectors and directed officials to conduct field visits in rural areas to create awareness among people about the available facilities. Chairing the quarterly meeting of the district consultation committee and the district-level review committee meeting here, Mr. Kumara pointed out that banks had registered just 35.27%, 35.4% and 22.34% achievements in agriculture, education and housing loan sectors, respectively. They can register overall growth only if banks pay adequate attention to priority sector lending, he cautioned. Banks that did not meet even the minimum requirement should send their officials to rural areas for creating awareness, he said. Meanwhile, he said that people might distance themselves from banks if the latter did not provide adequate information about social security schemes of the government to eligible persons. While the RBI too has directed complete coverage of social security schemes, banks should focus on providing these schemes to backward classes, marginal income people and the most backward people. Mr. Kumara took serious exception to some banks demanding surety for MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) Loan Schemes that provides loans up to Rs. 2 crore. Many complaints have been received, he said and directed banks not to seek surety for such loans. He also asked banks to hasten loan disbursal to women from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and backward classes for self-employment and bring it under the Standup India scheme. Lead Bank Manager Praveen said that banks in the district have registered 9.32% year-on-year growth in the second quarter of this fiscal by doing Rs. 88,100.12 crore business. Banks have total deposits of Rs. 54,600.93 crore as on September 30 with a year-on-year growth of 7.07%, while advances saw 13.18% year-on-year growth with Rs. 33,499.1 crore advanced during the period. He said that banks had advanced Rs. 11,352.75 crore loans during the half year achieving 58.72% of Rs. 19,335 crore target for the fiscal. Priority sector lending was at 42.55% with banks lending Rs. 5,332.96 crore loan against the annual target of Rs. 12,534.74 crore. RBI Regional Office Assistant General Manager T.R. Acharya, NABARD District Development Officer Sangeetha Kartha and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/zp-ceo-unhappy-as-banks-fail-to-reach-minimum-lending-targets/article38017337.ece
23 December 2021||Kollam,||Hallelujah! Church, temple share X’mas joy||Carrying Christmas lanterns and filling the air with merry strains of music, a carol party is perhaps least expected at the entrance to a temple. But the deity at Thrikkannamangal Sri Krishnaswami temple here is no stranger to carollers as they visit him every year, belting out upbeat hymns to spread the cheer. As part of a long-standing local tradition, the carol service from St. George Orthodox Syrian Church makes a stopover in front of the temple tower, where everyone joins the Christmas revelries. While the temple committee welcomes the carol service with nilavilakku (traditional lamps), nirapara (heaped paddy) and firecrackers, the parish priest offers a prayer of blessing. Standing next to an array of lamps, the carol party sings about the birth of Jesus Christ and it blends with the temple bells. Special bond “During the past two years, we couldn’t conduct the carol service due to the pandemic-related restrictions. The carol party from the church visits only this temple and every year we wish them a merry Christmas and happy New Year on the occasion,” says Father Spencer Koshy, parish priest, who leads the service. According to the residents, the temple and the church share a special bond as they were built around the same period. Holy month “It’s a holy month for both the communities as Christmas coincides with the mandala season and the main festival of the temple and church also fall on the same month. Every year the temple committee receives a muthukuda (ornate umbrella) when the festival begins and it’s a unique tradition of the place,” says Saji Cheroor, a resident. When the rasa (procession) from the church passes through, the temple committee accords a reception at the junction. The church reciprocates when the ceremonial procession from the temple during the annual festival reaches the nearby road. “For as far back as I can remember, the carol party has been stopping by the temple. They usually inform us when they start and then the temple committee makes all arrangements to welcome the party. “The committee members will be present on the occasion and it’s a custom that manifests our communal harmony,” says the temple committee president K.K. Jayamohan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hallelujah-church-and-temple-share-yuletide-spirit/article38016933.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Coal supplies to T.N. power plants up 50% this year||Coal India Limited (CIL) has supplied 15.08 million tonnes of coal till November this year to the power plants in Tamil Nadu, up 50% from 10.09 million tonnes in the same period last year. Union Minister of Coal Pralhad Joshi gave this information in a written reply to a question raised by DMK member N.R. Elango in the Rajya Sabha. To maximise supplies to the power plants of Tangedco, a State power utility, CIL had shifted the linkage quantity of 1.825 million tonnes to its subsidiary, Mahanadi Coalfields Limited in Odisha, from Eastern Coalfields Limited, West Bengal. This would help Tangedco get more coal from a nearby location. Tangedco’s plants have a total capacity of 4,320 MW and require 28.16 million tonnes of coal a year. At a recent meeting with Union Minister for Power and Renewable Energy R.K. Singh, Tamil Nadu Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji pointed out that against a quantum of 23.763 million tonnes a year, the realisation was only 17.11 million tonnes. He wanted the entire quantum allocated and the number of rakes increased. According to data from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), as on December 21, Tangdeco’s plants had a coal stock for more than eight days. The situation has eased after shortage prevailed across the country in October and November. Under the CEA’s norms, the stock is at a critical level if it is sufficient for less than 7 days and at the supercritical level if it will last less than 4 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coal-supplies-to-tamil-nadu-power-plants-up-50-this-year/article38017044.ece
23 December 2021||YADGIR,||Beda Jangama members protest against MLA||Hundreds of activists of the District Beda Jangama Kshemabhivruddhi Sangha staged a protest in Yadgir on Wednesday against Member of Legislative Assembly P. Rajiv for his opposition to providing Scheduled Castes caste certificate to them. Convener of Akhila Karnataka Beda Jangama Mahasabha M.P. Sujatha Mathad, who led the protest, said that Mr. Rajiv has given wrong information to the House and opposed giving Scheduled Castes caste certificates to Beda Jangamas who are maintaining cordial relationship with other sects in society while demanding their rights accorded in the Constitution. “The MLA’s opposition to this is against the concept envisaged in the Constitution,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/beda-jangama-members-protest-against-mla/article38017166.ece
23 December 2021||Belagavi,||Students gherao CM in Hire Bagewadi||The students of Rani Channamma University gheraoed Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai when he arrived to lay the foundation stone for the university’s new building in Hire Bagewadi village near Belagavi on Wednesday. The students blocked his car and shouted slogans against the government for failing to keep its promise even after one year, to give laptops to students. ‘To learn better’ They said that the government is yet to provide them with laptops, despite announcing the scheme a year ago. They needed the gadgets to learn better and complete their projects and assignments, they added. Other demands Their other demands included full resumption of scholarships for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes and minority students, proper hostel facilities, filling vacant posts of teachers and other staff. They said that the government is yet to provide them with laptops, despite announcing the scheme a year ago. They needed the gadgets to learn better and complete their projects and assignments, they added. Their other demands included full resumption of scholarships for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes and minority students, proper hostel facilities, filling vacant posts of teachers and other staff.  The students said that the government is yet to provide them with laptops, despite announcing the scheme a year ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-gherao-cm-in-hire-bagewadi/article38017164.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUPATI,||Tirupati reports its first Omicron case||Tirupati registered its first official Omicron case when a 39-year-old foreign traveller from Kenya reached the city on December 10. Upon reaching Chennai airport, the visitor travelled to Tirupati via road, where she underwent RT-PCR test, which showed her positive on December 12. The sample was sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, for genome sequencing, which confirmed her as Omicron positive on December 22. Six of her family members were made to undergo test immediately, who, however, tested negative. The passenger, who is now in institutional quarantine under the close observation of the health department, is said to be healthy. This is the second Omicron case identified in the State so far out of the 45 foreign travellers and nine contacts found COVID-19 positive. The Health Department had advised the public not to give credence to wild rumours about the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tirupati-reports-its-first-omicron-case/article38016711.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Xmas is here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/xmas-is-here/article38017332.ece
23 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Notice issued to ICICI Bank||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara on Wednesday directed issue of notice to ICICI Bank for what he said the consistent failure of its representatives to attend the quarterly review meeting of banks. Chairing the meeting here, Mr. Kumara said that if the bank does not mend its way, he will direct government departments to close their accounts maintained with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/notice-issued-to-icici-bank/article38017335.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Call for bandh on Dec. 31||Autorickshaws and cabs are likely to remain off the roads and schools closed on December 31 in Karnataka, the day on which a State-wide bandh has been called by Kannada organisations. But hotels and the film industry will take a decision on it in a few days. They have called for the bandh demanding a ban on the MES. They have been making this demand following incidents of burning of Kannada flag in Kolhapur and defacement of the statue of Sangolli Rayanna at Belagavi, allegedly by MES activists. Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj claimed that hundreds of associations have expressed their support for the bandh. He||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-for-bandh-on-dec-31/article38017338.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India gives 1 mn doses to Myanmar||India on Wednesday gave one million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Myanmar as the country grapples with a breakdown in law and order following the military takeover in February. The doses were handed over by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla who is on a visit to the country, the first by any Indian high official since the coup. “Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla handed over 1 million doses of ‘Made in India’ vaccines to the representatives of the Myanmar Red Cross Society to support the people of Myanmar, including those along the India-Myanmar border, in their fight against COVID-19,” announced the Indian Embassy in Myanmar. Vaccine Maitri initiative Myanmar was part of the first few countries alongside Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal that received Covishield vaccine of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in January as part of the Vaccine Maitri initiative. However, the military junta ousted the elected government led by Aung San Suu Kyi on February 2. The COVID-19 related preparations coincided with the political protests when doctors in leading hospitals joined the movement against the military takeover. Myanmar’s efforts to deal with COVID-19 was further set back when the military rulers charged 19 doctors with organising protests in April. The pandemic has claimed more than 19,000 lives in Myanmar and the healthcare sector is in a serious crisis because of the crackdown on protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-gives-1-mn-doses-to-myanmar/article38016959.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||UNSC adopts resolution to ease Afghan assistance||The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on Wednesday unanimously passed a resolution permitting a carve-out in sanctions against the Taliban to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. The resolution, put forward by the U.S., passed after the Security Council members, including veto-wielding China and Russia, had objections to a draft version that was circulated earlier this week. “This carve-out covers urgently needed humanitarian assistance and other activities that support basic human needs in Afghanistan, such as those that primarily benefit poor or at-risk populations or otherwise relieve human suffering, including activities related to shelter and settlement assistance, food security, education, livelihoods support, energy, water, sanitation, health, including COVID-related assistance, nutrition, and hygiene, among others,” said senior adviser at the U.S.’s U.N mission, Jeffrey DeLaurentis, in his ‘explanation of vote’ statement. The resolution (2615) mandates a review of the carve-out every six months. Additionally, it “strongly encourages” providers of assistance to try and ensure that benefits do not accrue to entities designated on the 1988 Sanctions List. It also requests that an Emergency Relief Coordinator brief the UNSC every six months on the delivery of assistance and any obstacles to implementation. It also “calls on all parties” to respect human rights and observe international humanitarian law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unsc-adopts-resolution-to-ease-aid-to-afghanistan/article38016710.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India gives 1 mn doses to Myanmar||India on Wednesday gave one million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Myanmar. The doses were handed over by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla who is on a visit to the country, the first by any Indian high official after the February coup. “Mr. Shringla handed over 1 million doses of vaccines to the representatives of the Myanmar Red Cross Society,” announced the Indian Embassy in Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-gives-1-mn-doses-to-myanmar/article38016705.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,||AstraZeneca working on Omicron jab||The University of Oxford and pharmaceutical major AstraZeneca Plc have begun work to produce an Omicron-targeted version of their coronavirus vaccine, the Financial Times reported on Tuesday. A research group leader at Oxford, Sandy Douglas, told the paper that preliminary steps in producing the updated vaccine have been taken in case it is needed, together with their partners AstraZeneca.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/astrazeneca-working-on-omicron-jab/article38016706.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,||456 accident victims treated||In the past four days, 456 persons involved in road accidents were treated free by the State. Of the beneficiaries, 84 were at private hospitals and 372 at government hospitals. The State spent Rs. 40.93 lakh for the treatment, of which Rs. 31.67 lakh was claimed by government hospitals and Rs. 9.26 lakh by private hospitals, the Health Department said. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had launched Innuyir Kaapoom-Nammai Kaakkum 48 , under which accident victims would be treated for free for the first 48 hours. Pudukottai Government Hospital admitted 26 persons, the highest number of accident victims so far. In Tiruvannamalai and Virudhunagar, 21 persons each were treated. Krishnagiri (18), Salem (13), and Tiruvarur and Thoothukudi (17 each) constituted the most number of accident victims treated by healthcare facilities in these districts. Dindigul, Perambalur and Nagapattinam treated two persons each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/456-accident-victims-treated/article38017045.ece
23 December 2021||Mumbai,||Shakti Bill seeks death sentence for rape||The Maharashtra government’s Shakti Criminal Laws (Maharashtra Amendment) Bill, 2020, has recommended capital punishment in rape cases, time limit of 30 days to complete the probe since the day of registration of the complaint and has put onus on social media platforms to share data for police probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shakti-bill-seeks-death-sentence-for-rape/article38017091.ece
23 December 2021||Patna,||Bihar CM embarks on social reform campaign||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday embarked upon his Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan (social reform campaign) from Motihari in East Champaran district to raise awareness about social ills such as child marriage and the dowry system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-cm-embarks-on-social-reform-campaign/article38017092.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rohini court shoot-out: police file chargesheet||The Delhi Police Crime Branch has filed an over 100-page chargesheet in connection with the murder of gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi on the Rohini court complex. It has named seven persons as accused, including the two dead assailants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rohini-court-shoot-out-police-file-chargesheet/article38017094.ece
23 December 2021||MANGALURU,||DKMUL launches Wheat Laddu, priced at Rs. 80||Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd. (DKMUL) released a new product, Wheat Laddu, in the market during its annual general body meeting here on Wednesday. The laddu is available in 250 gram packet, priced at Rs. 80.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dkmul-launches-wheat-laddu-priced-at-rs-80/article38017330.ece
23 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Special drive to remove waste from highways||The City Corporation has begun a special drive to pick up waste from the highways in its jurisdiction. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar told The Hindu here that the drive has been taken up on a pilot basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-drive-to-remove-waste-from-highways/article38017340.ece
23 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Six public universities to be upgraded||“The State Government will upgrade six public universities into universities of eminence,” Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said in Belagavi on Wednesday. “They will be given modern facilities, hi-tech laboratories, well-stacked libraries and qualified teachers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-public-universities-to-be-upgraded/article38017170.ece
23 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Lookout notice for Akali Dal leader Majithia||The Union Home Ministry has issued a lookout circular for former Punjab Minister and senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia who was booked under the anti-drug trafficking NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act by the State police. The lookout circular was issued on the request of the Punjab police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lookout-notice-for-akali-dal-leader-majithia/article38017293.ece
23 December 2021||Kolkata,||Bangladesh national killed in BSF firing||A Bangladeshi national was killed on the International Border in Malda district of West Bengal when BSF personnel opened fire to thwart smuggling. A statement by the BSF said a jawan posted at an outpost in the Nawada area was attacked by a group of smugglers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bangladesh-national-killed-in-bsf-firing/article38017294.ece
23 December 2021||Patna,||Bihar CM embarks on social reform campaign||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday embarked upon his Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan (social reform campaign) from Motihari in East Champaran district to raise awareness about social ills such as child marriage and the dowry system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-cm-embarks-on-social-reform-campaign/article38017295.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||House performed much below its potential, says Venkaiah||As Parliament adjourned sine die on Wednesday, the presiding officers of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha expressed concern over the continuous disruption. “I urge you all to collectively reflect and introspect if this session would have been different and better. I don’t want to speak elaborately on the course of this session as it would lead me to take a very critical view,” said Vice-President and Chairman of the Rajya Sabha M. Venkaiah Naidu in his valedictory remarks in the House at the end of the session. Rajya Sabha utilised only 47.9% of its allotted time during the 18 sittings. Out of the total scheduled sitting time of 95 hours six minutes, the Rajya Sabha transacted only 45 hours of business. Mr. Naidu stressed that the House performed “much below its potential” in this session, a situation that owed much to the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members at the beginning of the session for its entirety that pretty much drew the battle lines in Parliament deeper than before. In the Lok Sabha, where the productivity was much higher, the report of the Special Investigative Team of the Uttar Pradesh police on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident became a sticking point as Opposition members, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, demanded the sacking of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni. The SIT report said that the incident which left eight people dead — four farmers, a journalist and three BJP workers — was a criminal conspiracy implicating Mr. Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra. Speaker Om Birla said “agreements and disagreements on issues may be reflected in debates and not through disruption” and that the smooth conduct of the House was the responsibility of all stakeholders and must run with the collective will and consensus of all. The Lok Sabha saw 83 hours and 20 minutes of business being conducted with 18 hours and 48 minutes of disruption. The Bills passed during the session included the Agricultural Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 which saw the government take back the three contentious farm laws, the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Delhi Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-performed-much-below-its-potential-says-venkaiah/article38016632.ece
23 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Recruitment exam scams rock Gujarat||The Gujarat government recently scrapped the written test for recruitment of head clerks following a question paper leak a day before the exam on December 12. A total of 88,000 aspirants took the exam for selection to the posts of 186 head clerks for the State administration. The police have so far arrested 14 persons, including alleged mastermind Jayesh Patel, in the case that has triggered a major controversy. Minister of State for Home Harsh Sanghavi said the paper leak case would be tried in a fast-track court to “set an example”. However, the latest paper leak and malpractices in the government recruitment process are not isolated incidents in the State. In fact, since 2014, the recruitment exams for various categories have been cancelled as many as nine times following paper leaks or allegations of malpractices. Earlier, the recruitment exams were cancelled for selection to the posts of chief officer of municipality, teachers in government schools, clerks for district panchayats and nurses. ‘Entire process rigged’ “Every year, in any recruitment for the State administration, question papers are leaked ahead of the exam. The entire process to recruit the government staff is rigged,” said Gujarat Congress spokesman Manish Doshi. “In Gujarat, people linked to the RSS and BJP are appointed heads of various recruitment agencies. They are also involved in the rigging. All recruitment agencies are epicentres of corruption in the State,” Mr. Doshi alleged. Citing an example, Mr. Doshi said former Ahmedabad Mayor Asit Vora was the chairman of the Gujarat Subordinate Services Selection Board (GSSSB), which conducted the exam for head clerks in which the paper was leaked. “There is rampant corruption and rigging in the recruitment process in Gujarat and therefore the State saw violent agitations by Patidars and counter-agitation by the OBCs. Both agitations were led by youth searching for jobs,” a retired bureaucrat told The Hindu . In another development, Mr. Asit Vora, after meeting the Chief Minister, said that he would not quit his post. He insisted that the process would be made fool-proof during the re-test in March next year. In the latest case, the police investigation so far revealed that Jayesh Patel and other accused had allegedly managed to acquire the question paper from the manager of a printing press where the paper was to be printed. They allegedly sold it to over 15 candidates and helped them in solving the paper at various locations a day before the exam. On the examination day, the accused arranged transportation to drop the candidates at their examination centres. Notably, the issue of paper leak surfaced a day after the exam was conducted when the Gujarat Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) unit’s youth wing leader Yuvrajsinh Jadeja alleged that the question paper was leaked prior to the exam. As proof, he had shared a photograph of a notebook page having handwritten answers of some of the questions asked in the exam. Congress leaders also brought in more evidence about the paper leak, forcing the State authorities to first lodge an FIR and then scrap the exam itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recruitment-exam-scams-rock-gujarat/article38016660.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Changes to marriage age will contradict other laws’||The amendments proposed to the anti-child marriage law defines a child as someone under the age of 21 and contradicts laws where the legal age of competence is recognised as 18. This, experts say, may criminalise young people. The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to raise the age of marriage for women to 21, amends the definition of child to mean “a male or female who has not completed twenty-one years of age”. It overrides personal laws of Hindus, Christians, Muslims and Parsis, as well as the Special Marriage Act, 1954. The Lok Sabha has referred this Bill to a Standing Committee after MPs demanded a deeper scrutiny and wider consultations. Senior advocate Indira Jaising tweeted: “How patronising and patriarchal to call someone over the age of 18 a ‘child’, ready and fit to vote but not to marry, is this constitutional morality.” Voting age The 61st Constitution Amendment Act of 1988 defines the voting age for elections to Parliament and the Legislative Assemblies as 18. The Majority Act, 1875 defines the age of majority as “the age of eighteen years and not before”, and as 21 years if a guardian is appointed. Under the Indian Contract Act, 1872 a person should have attained the age of majority in order to be able to enter into a contract. The law to punish sexual crimes against children, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 too recognises a child as someone under the age of 18 years and thereby implies that the age of consent for sex is also 18 years. The law that deals with juvenile offenders (or children in conflict with law) and children who need care and protection, that is, the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015 does the same. Under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education, 2009, that guarantees access to education, a child is someone between the ages of six and 14 years. Whereas under the anti-child labour law or the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986, which prohibits the engagement of children in all occupations and bans adolescents in hazardous occupations, a child is “a person who has not completed his fourteenth year of age” and an adolescent means “a person who has completed his fourteenth year of age but has not completed his eighteenth year”. “At one level, we say that the age to enter into contracts and to vote is 18 years. We are recognising that a person has the mental capacity to make decisions that will affect her life commercially or as a citizen, but at the same time when it comes to her personal life, she doesn’t have the right to make decisions. The proposed law makes an artificial distinction. By making marriages under 21 years invalid, we are criminalising those who marry under this age and depriving them of protections under law,” says Divya Balagopal, senior advocate, Mundkur Law Partners. Tweaking the definition of a child by amending the age criteria should be done only when it enables, and not when it deprives someone of their rights, warn experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amendments-to-marriage-age-contradict-other-laws/article38016630.ece
23 December 2021||Pune,||Modi has changed work culture: Nadda||Hitting out at previous Congress-led governments, Bharatiya Janata Party national president J.P. Nadda on Wednesday said that prior to the advent of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India’s political culture was one of hollow speeches, shallow promises and emotive, vote-bank politics without any focus on development. Ahead of the Goa Assembly election, Mr. Nadda released a report card highlighting the achievements during 10 years of the BJP’s rule in the coastal State and flagged off the saffron party’s Sankalp Rath Yatra from the Goan capital Panjim. “There has been a complete change in our work culture owing to Prime Minister Modi’s leadership,” Mr. Nadda said. The BJP president claimed that earlier governments did not do anything for people, and said that before the BJP-led governments under Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Mr. Modi, India was always ranked as one of the most corrupt nations in the world. “But today, when Mr. Modi speaks on international issues, the world listens whether be it at the Glasgow COP26 summit or anywhere else,” Mr. Nadda said, claiming that India’s internal prestige had been restored under the Modi government. Highlighting the work being done by the BJP government in bringing the ambitious Zuari bridge project to completion, and the establishment of seven superspecialty hospitals in Goa, Mr. Nadda said that communication in the State had improved and that people need not go to any metropolitan city for treatment. “The BJP government, first under the late Manohar Parrikar and now under Pramod Sawant, has taken a big leap. We are not stopping but moving forward with people’s suggestions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-has-changed-work-culture-nadda/article38016651.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Akali Dal is getting a huge response... BJP is going to be a non-starter’||As the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) campaigns intensely across Punjab ahead of the Assembly election in early 2022, senior SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal , a former Union Minister, says the phenomenal response to Akali Dal rallies across the State indicates that the party is all set to form the next government in Punjab.  What are the key issues of focus of the SAD in fighting the election? And what is your strategy? For the SAD, the issue has remained the same in every election which is peace and prosperity, communal harmony, development of Punjab and the welfare of every segment. That is what we had delivered in the 10 years of our governance. In the past five years, Punjab has gone down on every parameter — be it education, health, jobs, social welfare sector or overall development. The Akali Dal’s first and foremost focus is to bring development back on track in Punjab. Development work has come to a complete standstill. The Congress has been busy looting the State exchequer. Be it transfers, jobs, sand, liquor, drugs or even children’s scholarship, there is total loot going on in the name of governance in Punjab. To bring Punjab back on track so that the economy stands on its feet, welfare schemes are put in place and the development and the progress start happening — this is what our agenda is. How do you assess the current Congress government’s work in Punjab? Forget about me commenting on that. The fact that the Congress party had to change its own Chief Minister [Amarinder Singh] because of misgovernance and non-delivery of the promised electoral promises goes to show that I don’t need to say anything. The Congress promised to waive the complete debt of all the farmers — including debt from commercial banks, cooperative societies, arhtiyas [commission agents] and other sources but after formation of the government, it backed out of this promise. The Congress promised jobs to every household in the State, unemployment allowance of Rs. 2,500 to the youth, pension amount to be hiked from Rs. 500 to Rs. 2,500 — none of these promises has been fulfilled. They were supposed to give ghar ghar naukri but jobs were provided to family members and relatives of their MPs and MLAs and not the public. In fact, they snatched jobs and left people unemployed by shutting down the Bathinda thermal plant. Between the Congress and the AAP, which is a greater challenge for the Akali Dal in the upcoming election? The Congress is a challenge only for itself. So many factions within the Congress are fighting for space, so they don’t need anybody else to challenge them. As for the AAP, Mr. Arvind Kejriwal is dividing his time in every State of the country, wherever he gets an opportunity, because the people of the AAP in Punjab tell us that whoever gives the highest amount of money is the one who gets ticket.  And people here know that someone who doesn’t know our language, doesn’t know our culture, doesn’t know the names of our districts or our ‘gurus’ or even our rivers, what is he going to do for Punjab? The SAD-BJP alliance in Punjab was seen as a symbol of Sikh-Hindu unity. How do you assess the political situation after the breaking up of the alliance? The Akali Dal is getting a huge response in all constituencies where the BJP used to contest as an alliance partner. Recently, Sukhbir Singh Badal held a rally in Sujanjpur constituency in Pathankot, which has been a BJP stronghold and a Hindu-dominated seat — to our surprise, there was phenomenal response to the Akali Dal rally. The rousing welcome that the Akali Dal is getting in the BJP-dominated constituencies make it evident that the community has understood that the BJP is going to be a non-starter in Punjab. The SAD parted ways with the BJP on farm laws; now that the laws have been repealed, is there any possibility of the two coming together before or after the election? The SAD had stood with the BJP through thick and thin. But the treatment that we got and the repercussions of those laws in the last year and a half — what it has done to the social fabric of Punjab, what it has done economically and financially to Punjab, I think those wounds are going to take a very long time to heal. It all depends on the kinds of efforts that are made by the Central government. Otherwise, as things stand today, it’s out of the question for Akali Dal to go back to a party that talks aboutSabka Saathbut does not even take along its own allies or farmers. What’s your take on the impact of the newly formed Punjab Lok Congress led by Amarinder Singh and its alliance with the BJP in the upcoming poll? I think the undercover agents have been exposed. We all know that in the 2017 Assembly poll, the BJP transferred its votes to Amarinder Singh, and he spoke the Centre’s language. Besides, it was clear with whose blessing Sukhdev Dhindsa and others worked to split the Akali Dal. People have seen four years of his misgovernance.  (For full interview, log on to bit.ly/harsimrat)   Akali Dal’s first and foremost focus is to bring development back on track||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akali-dal-is-getting-a-huge-response-bjp-is-going-to-be-a-non-starter/article38016654.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Party organisation turned its back on me, says Rawat||Congress leader and former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat on Wednesday hinted at trouble within the party, ahead of the 2022 Uttarakhand Assembly election, saying in a series of tweets that the party organisation had turned its back on him. He said the powers that be had let “crocodiles” loose in the sea that he had to navigate, which he termed the “sea of elections” in another tweet. ‘Sanyas’ hint While Mr. Rawat hinted at taking sanyas , a Congress source said the move could be interpreted as a pressure tactic to gain more of a say in ticket selection and name him as the chief ministerial candidate. In one of his tweets, Mr. Rawat asked: “Isn’t it strange that we have to swim in the sea of elections and the organisational structure for cooperation in most places, instead of extending a hand in cooperation, is either turning its back or playing a negative role.” Mr. Rawat said the people he was supposed to follow, in an apparent reference to the Congress leadership, were tying his hands and feet. He said he was in a state of dilemma and hoped the New Year would show him the way, asking for the guidance of god. Mr. Rawat’s tweets came a day after the Congress’s screening committee concluded its five-day visit to Uttarakhand to select candidates for the upcoming polls. News agency ANI quoted an adviser to Mr. Rawat, Surinder Aggarwal, as saying that posters of the former CM were removed from a rally addressed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/party-organisation-turned-its-back-on-me-says-rawat/article38016647.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. questions PM’s silence on Ayodhya||The Congress on Wednesday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence over reports that BJP leaders and government officials are ‘rushing in’ to purchase land in Ayodhya in anticipation of hefty profits after the Supreme Court verdict on November 2019 had cleared the construction of the Ram Mandir. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said profiteering in the name of Ram was “a betrayal of Lord Ram”. “The BJP leaders have not only committed a sin but also invited a curse … Why has the Prime Minister not uttered a word about this open loot? Is this not a betrayal of Lord Ram?” asked Mr. Surjewala at a press conference, referring to an investigation by a prominent national daily that claimed local BJP MLAs, Mayor, member of the State OBC Commission and other senior officials had purchased land near the under-construction Ram Temple after the top court’s Ayodhya verdict. Rahul’s tweet “A Hindu follows the path of truth. And a Hindutvawadi loots in the guise of religion,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted, tagging the news report. The report claimed that even land belonging to the marginalised people, including Dalits, was being purchased by influential people. “I was not allowed to raise the issue of UP BJP Govt looting the land of marginalised communities in the name of Ram Mandir. The Session was adjourned sine die. Is Parliament now only a rubber stamp to bulldoze bills as the BJP deems fit?” tweeted Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. In the Upper House, soon after tabling of listed papers and reports, Mr. Kharge stood up holding a newspaper and started speaking about the issue. Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu told the opposition leader that he had to give a notice first to raise the issue and pointed out that a newspaper report could not be read in the House. Though Mr. Kharge said he was not reading the newspaper, the Chair did not allow. “I am reading from my notes,” Mr. Kharge said, as several party colleagues, including Jairam Ramesh, Ambika Soni and Shaktisinh Gohil, were seen standing in his support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-questions-pms-silence-on-ayodhya/article38016638.ece
23 December 2021||Kolkata,||Bangladesh national killed in BSF firing on Bengal border||A Bangladeshi national was killed on the International Border in Malda district of West Bengal when Border Security Force (BSF) personnel opened fire to thwart smuggling. A statement by the BSF said that a jawan posted at an outpost in the Nawada area was attacked by a group of smugglers. The South Bengal Frontier of the BSF said, “The jawan first tried to stop and drive away the smugglers by lobbing non-lethal stun grenade but it had no effect on the group of smugglers. In the end, for the sake of self-defence and protection of life and property, he was compelled to fire with his personal weapon, due to which a Bangladeshi smuggler got injured near the fence.” The shooting occurred in the early hours of Wednesday and the injured person was taken to the Malda Medical College and Hospital, where he was declared dead. The deceased was identified as Ibrahim (24), a resident of Chapainwabganj under the Shivganj police station. Area searched According to the BSF, a search of the area yielded 197 bottles of Phensedyl, a mobile phone and two iron rods. The BSF also lodged a protest note with the Border Guards Bangladesh, pointing out that the residence of the person who was killed was six km from the International Boundary in Bangladesh but he was found 200 metres inside Indian territory at midnight. The development comes at a time when the Union Home Ministry, through a notification, has extended the territorial jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km. Three persons, including two Bangladeshi nationals, were killed along the border on November 12 in Cooch Behar district of West Bengal, when BSF personnel opened fire to prevent an attempt of cattle smuggling. West Bengal shares a 2,216-km-long border with Bangladesh, which are manned by three frontiers of the BSF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangladesh-national-killed-in-bsf-firing-on-bengal-border/article38016661.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Women commandos to guard houses of Amit Shah, Gandhis||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will deploy women commandos on house protection duty for Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra; Union Home Minister Amit Shah; and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The commandos are also likely to accompany Ms. Vadra and Ms. Gandhi when they travel for election campaigns in Uttar Pradesh, a senior government official said. The CRPF trained 32 women in VIP protection duty and they are likely to be deployed in January 2022. Z-plus cover The CRPF accords Z-plus cover with Advance Security Liasion (ASL), the highest security cover, to only five individuals — the Gandhis, Mr. Shah and Dr. Singh. “As per requirement, the women commandos will be deployed to secure the residences of the five individuals. A few of them will also be deployed in the security detail of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Sonia Gandhi when they travel for election campaigns, where their chance of interacting with public gatherings is more,” the official said. The Gandhi family was accorded Z-plus cover by the CRPF in November 2019 after the Centre removed their Special Protection Group (SPG) security cover. Z-plus cover entails round-the-clock protection by around 35 commandos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-commandos-to-guard-houses-of-amit-shah-gandhis/article38016639.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||No security cover for Rajib Banerjee||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has withdrawn the personal security cover of former Bengal Minister Rajib Banerjee who had recently rejoined the Trinamool Congress after a brief stint with the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP). Mr. Banerjee was accorded Z category security cover by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in West Bengal and Y plus category in rest of India just before the West Bengal Assembly election in April after he had joined the BJP. A senior government official said that Mr. Banerjee had requested to withdraw the security. Former BJP member of Parliament Babul Supriyo who joined the Trinamool this year had also written to the MHA to withdraw his personal security cover provided by CRPF. Based on a threat assessment by the agencies concerned, his security was downgraded to Y category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-security-cover-for-rajib-banerjee/article38016644.ece
23 December 2021||Pune,||Goa polls: EC plans webcasting and data analytics in all booths||Taking stock of poll preparedness ahead of the Goa Assembly election slated for early next year, Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra on Wednesday said all political parties would have to make public on their websites and state in the media the reasons for choosing candidates with criminal antecedents. In a bid to ensure transparency and conduct of free and fair elections, the CEC said webcasting facilities along with data analytics would be introduced in all the 1,700-odd polling stations in Goa. “Voters have the right to be well informed of the credentials of the candidate once nominations are filed. If they have a criminal record, candidates must publish their antecedents at least three times in print or the television media. Additionally, parties will also have to give reasons as to why they are choosing such a candidate and why they could not find a clean candidate in his lieu,” Mr. Chandra said. The Election Commission too, through its special cell, would be monitoring such candidates and whether or not they were informing electors of their criminal past. He said the updated electoral rolls would be out by January 5 and given to all political parties. To ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour in the wake of the looming Omicron variant threat, Mr. Chandra said the maximum voters in a booth had been reduced from 1,500 to 1,000 so that proper physical distancing could be maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goa-polls-ec-plans-webcasting-and-data-analytics-in-all-booths/article38016649.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC asks insurance firm if it has a conscience||The Supreme Court has conveyed its anguish at the legal odyssey of a farmer and his wife, who had to battle a “high and mighty” State-owned insurance company for years together to get Rs. 2.64 lakh compensation for their son, a young labourer killed in a truck accident. “Deeply disturbed” by the trauma the old couple had to undergo, a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud wondered where the insurance company possessed a “social conscience” at all. The court also expressed its distress at a system which left a hapless farmer “to the mercy of the legal procedure”, like a kite in a hurricane. “Should the insurer have dragged the parents to the High Court over the award of Rs. 2.64 lakh for the death of their wage earning son?” Justice Chandrachud wrote in the recent judgment for the Bench. The court said it was a time for a “fundamental rethink”. “Families of the victims of motor accidents cannot realise rights under law so long as litigation continues to be a stratagem and source of harassment and torture,” Justice Chandrachud noted. The young man died in October 2004 when the truck from which he was helping unload goods lost control and pinned him to a tree. He was at the time receiving a monthly salary of Rs. 2,400. The accident compensation was calculated at Rs. 2,64,895. However, the New India Assurance Company Limited moved the Orissa High Court, which concluded that there was “no material to establish the wages paid”. The couple had then appealed to the Supreme Court. “A poor farming family is lost in a long drawn out battle to secure a paltry compensation of Rs. 2,64,895 awarded by the Commissioner of Labour for the death of their son for an accident which took place in 2004,” Justice Chandrachud observed. The court also held that the couple were entitled to Rs. 1 lakh towards their litigation costs and expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-insurance-firm-if-it-has-a-conscience/article38016658.ece
23 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Home Ministry puts out lookout notice for Akali Dal leader Majithia||The Union Home Ministry has issued a lookout circular for former Punjab minister and senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia who was booked under the anti-drug trafficking NDPS Act (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) by the State police. The lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, was issued on the request of the Punjab police. The Bureau of Immigration under the Home Ministry sent the copy of the notice to Punjab’s Additional Director General of Police (Counter Intelligence), Internal Security in Mohali. The State police have been looking for the Shiromani Akali Dal leader to arrest him. On Monday, Majithia, 46, was booked on the basis of a 2018 status report of probe into a drug racket. The report was filed by Special Task Force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu with the Punjab and Haryana High Court that year. Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/home-ministry-puts-out-lookout-notice-for-akali-dal-leader-majithia/article38016656.ece
23 December 2021||Srinagar,||Two killed in twin militant attacks: police||Suspected militants killed a police officer and a civilian in two separate incidents in Kashmir on Wednesday evening. An assistant sub-inspector, Muhammad Ashraf, was killed after militants “indiscriminately opened fire” at him in the Bijbehara area of Anantnag. “Ashraf was shifted to a hospital in Srinagar but succumbed to his injuries,” a police spokesman said. In a separate incident, unknown gunmen fired upon a civilian, Rouf Ahmad, in the Merjanpora area of the Eidgah locality in Srinagar in the evening. Ahmad was a property dealer. “The injured was shifted to the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital where he was declared dead,” the police said. The police have cordoned off both the spots where the attacks took place. Both the attacks took place within 30 minutes. The National Conference has condemned the militant attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-killed-in-twin-militant-attacks-police/article38016635.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||India gives 1 million doses to Myanmar||Myanmar was part of the first few countries alongside Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal that received Covishield vaccine of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in January as part of the Vaccine Maitri initiative. However, the military junta ousted the elected government led by Aung San Suu Kyi on February 2. The COVID-19 related preparations coincided with the political protests when doctors in the leading hospitals joined the spontaneous movement against the military takeover. Myanmar’s efforts to deal with COVID-19 was further set back when the military rulers charged 19 doctors with organising protests in April. The pandemic has claimed more than 19,000 lives in Myanmar and the healthcare sector is in a serious crisis because of the crackdown against protesters which has affected all spheres of life. The Ministry of External Affairs said earlier Mr. Shringla will meet the State Administration Council, political parties and civil society outfits. He is also expected to take up the worsening security and humanitarian situation along the India-Myanmar borders during the exchanges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-gives-1-million-doses-to-myanmar/article38016640.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Heated winter session concludes a day early||The Congress alleged that the suspension was effected on day one of the winter session to “create” a majority for the government and ensure passage of Bills. Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien too said that the exercise was aimed at “manufacturing a majority”. ‘Not enough numbers’ Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, addressing a press conference, said that while the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) had 118 members, the Opposition had 120 MPs. “You didn’t have the numbers and your Bills would have failed if our 120 members had unitedly fought against these Bills,” Mr. Kharge said. He added that the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha did not have much say in the matter of revoking the suspension of Opposition members. Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh said that although the LoP had told the Leader of the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, that he would express regret collectively on behalf of all the suspended members, Mr. Goyal had insisted on individual apologies from each member. “The government has started a new practice of suspending members for events that took place in the previous session,” Mr. Ramesh alleged. In the Lok Sabha, where the confrontation was over the Opposition’s demand to sack Mr. Teni for his alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the Opposition could not be expected to keep quiet when a Union Minister’s son is an accused in a case. Mr. Ramesh said the Congress believed in “constructive criticism” and would have wanted to raise key issues like price rise, unemployment and the border situation. Spelling out a doomsday scenario, Mr. O’ Brien said that he did not expect the forthcoming Budget session to be any different. “This is the tactic of the Modi-Shah duo. They do not want the Parliament to run because the government is accountable to the Parliament, and the Parliament to the people. If the Parliament doesn’t run, then they need not answer to the people,” he said. He further added that neither the Parliamentary Affairs Minister Mr. Joshi nor the leader of house in the Rajya Sabha Mr. Goyal could be held responsible for the fracas. The tone of the session was set on the very first day when the farm law repeal bill was passed without a debate in both Houses of Parliament, roiling the Opposition who wanted to use the opportunity to put the government on the mat for the 750 farmer deaths in the year-long agitation. On the same day, 12 Opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the entire session for their alleged misconduct in the previous session. The suspended MPs, barring Shiv Sena’s Anil Desai who came only for a single day, sat in protest for 22 days at the Gandhi statue in Parliament. The government on Sunday, made a belated attempt to reach out to the Opposition, inviting leaders of five parties to which the suspended MPs belong. But in a coordinated effort, all the five parties — the Congress, the TMC, the Shiv Sena, the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) and the Communist Party of India (CPI) — declined the invitation. The Opposition closed the session by reading out the Preamble of the Indian Constitution at the protest site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heated-winter-session-ends-before-schedule/article38016641.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||UNSC adopts resolution to ease Afghan assistance||The resolution (2615) mandates a review of the carve-out every six months. Additionally, it “strongly encourages” providers of assistance to try and ensure that benefits do not accrue to entities designated on the 1988 Sanctions List. It also requests that an Emergency Relief Coordinator brief the UNSC every six months on the delivery of assistance and any obstacles to implementation. It also “calls on all parties” to respect human rights and observe international humanitarian law. UN agency UNICEF had warned of “alarming disruptions in health and nutrition services” in Afghanistan and “a disastrous food crisis,” drought and the spread of diseases in a report published at the end of November. ‘Dire situation’ Calling the country’s humanitarian situation “dire,” India’s permanent representative to the UN, T.S. Tirumurti, said assistance should be distributed impartially. “Humanitarian assistance should be based on the principles of neutrality, impartiality, and independence and disbursement to the age should be non-discriminatory and accessible to all irrespective of ethnicity, religion, or political belief. In particular, the assistance should reach the most vulnerable first, including women, children and minorities.” He said India was willing to work with other stakeholders to quickly deliver assistance to the Afghan people. Mr. Tirumurti also mentioned Resolution 2593, which, among other things, called on the Taliban to not permit Afghanistan to become a training ground for terrorists. China’s permanent representative to the U.N, Zhang Jun, said he was “pleased” that the final resolution had taken on board China’s views and “clarified some key issues.” He also called for the unfreezing of Afghanistan’s financial assets. “The countries concerned cannot continue to freeze substantial Afghan overseas assets while claiming to promote humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. We once again call for the unfreezing of Afghanistan’s overseas assets as soon as possible,” Mr. Zhang said. The U.S. and other countries had frozen more than $10 billion after the Taliban ousted the Ashraf Ghani government in August. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) had released a report in November saying the country’s banking and financial report are “in disarray.”  (With inputs from Suhasini Haidar in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unsc-adopts-resolution-to-ease-afghanistan-aid/article38016645.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool draws a line at Kishor-led I-PAC||In an apparent distancing between the Trinamool Congress and Prashant Kishor, founder of the political consultancy group I-PAC, senior party leader Derek O’Brien on Wednesday said I-PAC was a political collaborator distinct from the political party. Mr. Kishor has been campaigning for an anti-BJP front not necessarily led by the Congress. Mr. O’Brien said I-PAC had certain “deliverables” and had been given the mandate by the Trinamool Congress to do certain specific things, which they had been doing very well. “We are a political party and they [I-PAC] are our political collaborators,” Mr. O’Brien told reporters in Delhi, drawing a clear distinction between the two. Mr. Kishore founded I-PAC but since the May 2021 victory of the Trinamool in West Bengal, he claims to have resigned from the organisation. Mr. O’Brien said the Trinamool was the only party to have signed a long-term agreement with I-PAC. Ahead of the West Bengal Assembly election, the Trinamool had signed a five-year agreement with I-PAC. The Trinamool is in the process of changing the party constitution to give veto powers to chairperson Mamata Banerjee to overrule any decision taken by the working committee. According to sources, Mr. Kishor’s inputs for the party’s strategy ahead of the Kolkata civic polls were all ignored. His comments against the Congress made the Trinamool uneasy. Mr. O’Brien said the Trinamool’s expansion plans were only for the States where the opposition to the ruling BJP was weak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-draws-a-line-with-kishor-led-i-pac/article38016652.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unable to compete with big firms: distributors||Salesmen and distributors of essential goods and commodities, threatened by big corporations that seek to undercut their business models, are rising in protest. Groups representing the distributors are reaching out to political parties for support, even as big corporations try to capture a market share of the sector worth $110 billion. “These big businesses are not contributing anything new to the market. They are using our network of trusted traders to squeeze us out,” said P.M. Ganeshraam, founder and national president of the Original Federation of All India Distributors Associations (OFAIDA). “We are trying to meet Mr. Goyal [Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal]. We will try to convince him that distributors cannot compete with big corporates,” said Mr. Ganeshraam, who met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and NCP leader Sharad Pawar here on Tuesday. In a statement, the Congress extended support to the commercial distributors and blamed the “anti-competitive behaviour of big businesses and monopolies”. “This is about price manipulation to grab market share by the big players to squeeze out the smaller players and abuse of market power through preferential access to foreign capital for the big businesses,” said Praveen Chakravarty, chairperson, data analytics, of the Congress. “This is a very serious issue which, if not addressed, soon will blow over to disrupt our society,” said Mr. Chakravarty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unable-to-compete-with-big-firms-distributors/article38016930.ece
23 December 2021||Mumbai,||HC bats for vaccination to use public transport||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that allowing unvaccinated people to use public transport is tantamount to inviting explosive transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and its variants. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik was hearing two PIL petitions filed by Firoze Mithiborwala and Yohan Tengra claiming that the State’s circular prohibiting unvaccinated people from taking public transport is against the right to equality. The court said that the State’s decision was reasonable and not discriminatory or in breach of fundamental rights. “Unvaccinated people were prohibited from the use of public transport to ensure they do not mingle with other citizens and spread the virus,” the court noted. The Maharashtra government, in its affidavit, said, “There is a likelihood of a third wave and also the likelihood of the spread of the new variant, Omicron. The government therefore can’t take any risk and would like to err on the safer side on the issue of public health.” Recalling the situation during the second wave, the State said, “It was a devastating time for public health administrators and authorities who had to ensure adequate medical aid, hospital beds and oxygen supply for citizens. It does not want to repeat the dire situation and research proves that those who have taken both the doses of vaccines are less likely to get severe COVID.” The matter will be heard next on January 3, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-bats-for-vaccination-to-use-public-transport/article38016664.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Need to instil sense of duty in youth: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said as India celebrates 75 years of Independence next year, there was a need to inculcate a sense of duty in the youth that will hold positions of leaders in 2047. Mr. Modi was addressing the second meeting of the national committee on Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, the Central government’s year-long celebration of 75 years of Independence. Mr. Modi said India should emerge as a “world leader in the post-COVID New World Order,” according to a Culture Ministry statement. He said by the time India celebrates 100 years of Independence in 2047, the current generation would be at the helm of affairs, so it was important to inculcate a sense of duty in them. He also said there should be no stone unturned “to pay respect to our freedom fighters and unsung heroes”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/need-to-instil-sense-of-duty-in-youth-pm/article38016927.ece
23 December 2021||Srinagar,||Release activist Parvez, say UN rights experts||United Nations (UN) human rights experts on Wednesday sought the release of Kashmir-based rights defender Khurram Parvez, arrested by the National Investigation Agency under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). “We are concerned that even one month after Mr. Parvez’s arrest, he is still deprived of liberty in what appears to be a new incident of retaliation for his legitimate activities as a rights defender and because he has spoken out about violations,” the UN independent experts said in a statement. They said Mr. Parvez had been a victim of a number of incidents of reprisals reportedly for sharing information regarding rights violations with the UN, “as documented in various reports of the Secretary-General and communications from UN special procedures mandate holders”. “In view of this context of previous reprisals, we call on the Indian authorities to immediately release him and ensure his rights to liberty and security,” they added. Mr. Parvez, arrested on November 22, is presently detained at the Rohini Jail Complex. “We regret that the government continues to use the UAPA as a means of coercion to restrict civil society’s, the media’s and human rights defenders’ fundamental freedoms in Jammu and Kashmir as well as in the rest of the country,” the experts said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/release-kashmiri-activist-say-un-rights-experts/article38016634.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches Rs. 40.64 cr. from bogus apps||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 40.64 crore in a case of fraud committed by several dubious merchants by routing the transactions through fraudulent applications using the services of payment solutions providers. The case is based on a First Information Report registered by the Karnataka Police in June this year, alleging that the entities induced the public into making investments through mobile applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-rs-4064-cr-from-bogus-apps/article38016642.ece
23 December 2021||Kolkata,||BJP changes office-bearers in Bengal unit||In response to the dismal performance in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation election (KMC), the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday made some key organisational changes replacing the heads of its youth and women wings. The BJP managed to win only three of the 144 wards of the KMC and registered about 9% vote, which was less than the share of Left parties who got 12% votes. Tanuja Chakraborty will be the new president of the Mahila Morcha of the party and Indranil Khan will be president of the youth wing. BJP MLA Agnimitra Paul has been appointed as the general secretary of the State unit. There were also a few more inclusions in the party’s organisational posts. Among the leaders dropped is former general secretary Sayantan Basu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-changes-office-bearers-in-bengal-unit/article38016648.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Market-linked tariff for PPP port projects||Projects under public-private partnerships (PPP) at major ports will be able to now determine tariffs in accordance with market dynamics, according to new tariff guidelines unveiled by the Union Minister for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday. The move was necessitated after the new Major Port Authority Act, 2021 came into effect from November 3. “Currently, major ports’ PPP concessionaires handle around 50% of the total traffic handled by all the major ports in India. The biggest benefit of transition to market-linked tariff is that a level playing field will be provided to the PPP concessionaires at major ports to compete with private ports,” said a Ministry statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/market-linked-tariff-for-ppp-port-projects/article38016929.ece
23 December 2021||Mumbai,||Court extends stay in case against Alia||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday extended the stay in the criminal defamation suit filed against the producers of the film Gangubai Kathiawadi and actor Alia Bhatt. A Single Bench of Justice S.K. Shinde was hearing a plea filed by director Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Ms. Bhatt, and authors S. Hussain Zaidi and Jane Borges, whose book The Mafia Queens of Mumbai was used for the film. The petitioners challenged the summons issued against by them by a magistrate court after a person named Babuji Shah claimed to be the adopted son of the late Gangubai Kathiawadi, and said the movie and the chapter in the book are defamatory and tarnish the image of his mother. The court extended the stay granted in August, and said the complainant had failed to show proof of being the adopted son. The court also said: “The issue deserves attention since the right to raise grievances against defamation is limited to family members or close relatives, hence it was important for Mr. Shah to prove he was one of them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-extends-stay-in-case-against-alia/article38016663.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Breathing space||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/breathing-space/article38016667.ece
23 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana tightens COVID curbs||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday announced that from January 1, 2022, people who have not received the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine will not be permitted to visit areas such as restaurants, malls, banks and office complexes. Mr. Vij was speaking in response to a calling attention motion moved during the ongoing winter session of the State Assembly. Mr. Vij said that he had sent a message to all the Superintendents of Police and Commissioners of Police of the State on imposing a fine of Rs. 500 on those not wearing masks. He said he also ordered Deputy Commissioners to carry out random checking on social gatherings or events. Camps would be set up to boost vaccination, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-tightens-covid-curbs/article38016665.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Indian Army inducts indigenously built AERVs||The first batch of next-generation Armoured Engineer Reconnaissance Vehicles (AERV), indigenously designed and developed by DRDO, and manufactured by the Pune unit of Bharat Electronics Limited, was formally inducted into the Indian Army by Chief of Army Staff Gen. Manoj Mukund Naravane. Indigenous content AERV is manufactured by BEL at Pune with more than 90% indigenous content. It is a versatile BMP-IIK amphibious Infantry Combat Vehicle (ICV) fitted with instruments for water reconnaissance, land reconnaissance, navigation and data backup. According to BEL, “AERV is capable of measuring soil bearing capacity on riverbanks to determine if they are motorable for military vehicles on Go-No-Go basis (critical parameters for bridge laying), dry and wet gaps in day and night conditions, slopes and height of river banks or canals.” Terrain navigation AERVs can navigate terrain using Military Grid Coordinate System, measure and plot underwater beds and water currents of rivers or canals, store data from various instruments on Control Console for further analysis and decision-making.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-army-inducts-indigenously-built-aervs/article38016672.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu traders want vacant areas to be made parking space||The Federation of All Vegetable Traders’ Associations of KWMC Market has appealed to the Koyambedu Market Management Committee (MMC) to convert vacant spaces on the market premises into parking space and not allow unloading of goods or trade. Noting that although every licensed wholesale shop in the Koyambedu market was allotted parking space for two heavy vehicles, members said it was not adequate. In their representation to the Koyambedu MMC and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, the federation said the authorities concerned must not allow unloading of goods or carry out business on vacant space as it violated market regulation rules. This comes in the backdrop of a Madras High Court directive allowing interim arrangement for Thanthai Periyar Tomato Traders Association to unload tomatoes on one acre space to control soaring prices till Pongal festival. ‘May hit business’ M. Thyagarajan, president, Koyambedu Wholesale Tomato Traders Association, said allowing unloading of goods would hit the business of licensed wholesale merchants, who paid taxes to do business in the market. Moreover, the association had not been able to sell tomato at a competitive price as promised to the court. The members said other merchants might resort to such trade in open spaces. Federation president G.D. Rajasekaran said: “We have made a representation to turn the vacant site into parking spaces or construct more shops. Of the 1,500 licensed vegetable shops in the market, nearly 200 were wholesale shops and the rest belonged to semi-wholesalers.” Drop in prices Meanwhile, the price of tomato has dropped to Rs. 40-Rs. 50 a kg in the wholesale market on Wednesday as the arrivals had increased to 50-60 lorries. Wholesale traders said there might be a dip in the tomato cost by January following fresh harvest. Similarly, the price of some of the other vegetables such as beans and brinjals had dropped to Rs. 40-Rs. 50 kg now. They were sold for nearly Rs. 90-Rs. 100 a kg until recently in the wholesale market. Beans are being procured from other parts such as Ranchi. At present, the market receives 300 truckloads of vegetables daily. When the number of arrivals touches 350 truckloads, the cost of most vegetables may stabilise around Rs. 50 a kg, the traders added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-traders-want-vacant-areas-to-be-made-parking-space/article38017029.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation’s efforts go in vain as posters resurface in several areas||Despite sustained efforts by the Greater Chennai Corporation to remove posters from all public walls, the posters have now started resurfacing in several parts of the city. In July, the Corporation began a campaign to keep the walls free from posters. Until the first week of September, the civic body had removed 1,37,267 posters from 45,900 locations across the city. While a large number of walls still remained clean, posters have reappeared at several places. A visit to some areas in central and southern parts of the city showed that the problem was particularly prevalent in sections of Anna Salai, Royapettah, Vadapalani, Kodambakkam, Taramani, and Velachery. A large number of posters were noticed in many parts of Anna Salai. The compound wall in one of the entrances to the Thousand Lights Metro Rail station was a case in point, where posters were pasted all over. Posters of political parties and films were the most common, followed by condolence posters. Posters of all the political parties, including the ruling party, were seen in many places. A senior official said that were difficulties in implementing the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act. “It is a bit tedious. Most of these posters do not have the right contact of the printers or the one who is putting them up. We need to catch them red-handed to take action. The fines are not that heavy,” the official said. Vishu Mahajan, Deputy Commissioner, Revenue and Finance of the Corporation, said that removal of posters took a backseat during the floods, because of which more posters appeared. “Commissioner has already asked us to begin the activity again. We are doing some as part of the ongoing mass cleaning drive under way at the moment. There will be more focus on clearing the posters over the next couple of weeks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporations-efforts-go-in-vain-as-posters-resurface-in-several-areas/article38017024.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||300 out of 500 election promises implemented, says Stalin||DMK president and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said his government had implemented 300 of the 500 promises made in the party’s election manifesto and that it would implement the remaining in phases. Speaking at a Christmas function organised on the Don Bosco School campus at Perambur here, Mr. Stalin said his government’s good deeds would continue. Recalling his comments that his performance would make those who did not vote for his party regret their act, Mr. Stalin said: “That would happen. The good work would continue. That is my job.” Kolathur, which elected him to the Assembly, had always been special, he said and added: “This is selfishness. I am selfish. I am selfish when this Assembly constituency is concerned.” Be it Pongal celebrations, birth anniversary of DMK leader M. Karunanidhi or any other function, Mr. Stalin said his visit to Kolathur had always been special for him. He also said in three weeks a grand ‘Samathuva pongal’ would be organised in the constituency. Celebrations like these involved people from all religious faiths reflecting equality and brotherhood, Mr. Stalin noted. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, legislators, the Bishop of the CSI Diocese of Madras, Rt. Rev. J. George Stephen, were among the dignitaries who were present on the occasion. Christmas at Raj Bhavan Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi hosted ‘the Advent Christmas get-together' in Raj Bhavan on Wednesday where he addressed the gathering. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ravi said: “The values of Jesus for which he suffered are far more relevant today than ever before. On this occasion, let us live Jesus within all of us, let us carry the message for which He gave his life.” Most Reverend George Anthonysamy, Arch Bishop, Mylapore Diocese and S.Peter Alphonse, Chairman, State Minority Commission, delivered a special address at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-out-of-500-poll-promises-implemented-says-stalin/article38017052.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five persons arrested under POCSO Act in three cases||Five persons were arrested under the POCSO Act in three cases of rape of minor girls in the city recently. Three men were arrested by the personnel of All Women Police Station, Washermenpet, on charge of raping a 17-year-old girl. The police said the victim had been living with her mother. The accused, Durairaj, 50, from Meenambal Nagar, was having an extramarital affair with the victim’s mother. He lured the girl by giving her a cellphone with obscene clips. He then impregnated her. The crime was reported to police recently after the girl was delivered of a premature baby in a hospital. Based on a complaint, Durairaj was arrested under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and remanded in judicial custody. The police arrested two more men based on the victim’s statement. Two arrested A 28-year-old man was arrested by the personnel of the All Women Police Station, Thiruvottiyur, on charges of raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl. The crime came to light when the authorities at the Government Stanley Hospital, where the girl was delivered of a child, reported it to the police. The police said the accused, M. Vijayakumar, 28, from Theradi in Thiruvottiyur, a daily wage labourer, married the girl despite family’s opposition. Meanwhile, the police arrested another 28-year-old man for allegedly raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl. The accused was identified as Ashok Kumar, 28, a resident of Thyagarayapuram. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-persons-arrested-under-pocso-act-in-three-cases/article38017019.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 200 fishermen arrested this year||With the Sri Lankan authorities arresting 68 Tamil Nadu fishermen in the last four days, the highest number of such arrests has taken place this year since 2017. So far this year, 231 fishermen have been arrested. The number stood at 413 in 2017. However, barring the 68 fishermen, those who were arrested in 2021 have been freed. Likewise, all those taken into custody four years ago were set free the same year. Pandemic cut it down The lowest number of arrests was made in 2020, and the trend was attributed by a senior official of the Department of Fisheries to the COVID-19 pandemic. Hoping that the efforts to secure the release of the recently arrested fishermen will succeed, a fisheries expert, however, points to a new trend in Sri Lanka’s approach towards the fishing dispute in the last three years. Since 2018, not all the impounded boats have been released. The expert feels that unless all the boats are given back immediately, they may become unusable, a scenario that should be avoided. The present year is noteworthy for another reason, which is, however, not positive, the expert says. Five fishermen, including four aged 28-32, lost their lives when their boats collided with the vessels of the Sri Lankan forces. The year also witnessed 86 fishermen of Rameswaram, along with 11 motorised boats, getting released on the same day of the arrest, thanks to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-200-fishermen-arrested-this-year/article38017005.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police Department organises job fair for wards of personnel in private sector||The State Police have launched a job mela to enable the wards of police personnel get employment in the private sector. Over 400 companies have been roped in with the support of the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) to select and recruit aspirants from the list of 7,000 candidates enrolled for the fair. DGP C.Sylendra Babu inaugurated the fair at Guru Nanak College in Velachery on Wednesday, in the presence of Chennai City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal and the office bearers of CII and FICCI. The two-day programme will be conducted in Chennai, Vellore, Tiruchi, Madurai and Coimbatore. After inaugurating the job fair, Mr. Sylendra Babu said, “It is being organised on a large scale and in a meaningful way. Tamil Nadu Police has 1,33,000 personnel. Police jobs are strenuous and stressful. Therefore police personnel may not be able to take care of their families like others. However, the children of police personnel excel in academics. In fact, we have a scheme for promoting such talent and giving cash incentives to the toppers in schools. However, there is a lack of guidance in getting jobs. Therefore, we are organising the job fair to support them.” ‘Maximum jobs’ Mr. Jiwal said, “We have brought the best companies from the city and are trying to give maximum jobs to the aspirants matching their talents. After screening the candidates and interviewing them, the offers are being given on the spot. Similar programmes will be conducted in future to provide more opportunities.” “This is an exclusive initiative by the State police department to support the wards of the police personnel and the ministerial staff in getting employment in the private sector. We have shortlisted close to 7,000 candidates — all wards of police personnel. We have collected their biodata and circulated it among the companies. Now, the companies have come forward to interview them” said Shailesh Kumar Yadav, Additional Director General of Police, Welfare.  This is an exclusive initiative by the State police department to support the wards of the police personnel and the ministerial staff in getting employment in the private sector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-dept-organises-job-fair-for-wards-of-personnel/article38017034.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Honour for 22 educational institutions||Twenty-two educational institutions were given News 18 Katral Awards 2021 for their contributions to the education sector. An initiative of News18 Tamil Nadu, this event was organised in Chennai on December 15 to recognise those who excelled in the field of education, according to a press release. During the selection process, a list of nominees was finalised by the News18 editorial board. A jury, comprising a select group of distinguished experts, chose 22 educational institutions, educationists and scholars for the awards on various criteria. Those who attended the event included Governor of Telangana Tamilisai Soundararajan, Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker M. Appavu, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, former director of ISRO Satellite centre Mylswamy Annadurai, former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University D. Viswanathan and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Speaking on the first edition of the Katral Awards 2021, Vivek Narayan, Managing Editor, News18 Network-South said, “If we want our nation to progress, to have a better future, then we must focus on developing the education sector. Katral Awards 2021 is one such initiative that recognises forward-looking contributions in the field of education. And Tamil Nadu being the educational hotspot, we wanted to encourage the growth in every possible way.”  If we want our nation to progress, to have a better future, then we must focus on developing the education sector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honour-for-22-educational-institutions-in-the-state/article38017054.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation clears up garbage dump||The Greater Chennai Corporation has cleared the dump in Mogappair East that had been seeing indiscriminate throwing of garbage and was, consequently, posing a health hazard to the residents. The open space at the intersection of Justice Rathnavel Pandian Road and Oori Road has many houses and small business outlets in the vicinity.  The Hindu had highlighted the issue in a report on Monday. The clean-up work was carried out as part of the mass cleaning drive launched by the civic body, the officials said. R. Meyyappan, a resident, said that the work had been on for the past two days and the place was free of garbage after several months. V. Vishal, who runs a business outlet in the locality, said the place was finally free of stench from the decomposing garbage. He stressed on the need for steps to keep the place free from garbage. “Last night, a few people came to dump garbage. We asked them not to dump there. However, we cannot do that all the time,” he said. He said that the GCC should erect boards on all sides of the ground, warning people that throwing of garbage would attract a fine. Mr. Meyyappan said the GCC should monitor the area at least for a few days and penalise those who dump garbage at the spot. “Only then will people be afraid of throwing garbage here,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-clears-up-garbage-dump/article38017040.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras University to probe scam at study centres||The University of Madras will probe into how persons not registered with the institution for any programme wrote arrears examinations last December. Initial inquiries revealed that 116 persons who had not been registered as students with the Institute of Distance Education had taken the examinations and were about to get the degrees. Madras University Vice-Chancellor said the Syndicate would discuss the issue on Thursday and form an inquiry committee. The University Grants Commission, in 2019, provided an opportunity to all candidates from 1980-81 to complete their course by taking the arrears exams. Based on the number of papers candidates cleared, they would either get degrees, diplomas or declared to have taken a certificate course. The candidates were permitted to take the examinations twice — in December 2019 and then in May 2020. The examinations were delayed because of COVID-19 lockdown and held in December 2020 in online mode and candidates were permitted to take the exams from their home. Anomalies “There were anomalies when we started preparing the degree certificates. It appears to be the fault of some study centres. They enrol students and assign numbers,” said Controller of Examinations K. Pandian. “We have not started probing how this happened. There are various kinds of issues here — candidates’ names may have been entered who may not have registered with the university or paid the fees. Until recently, there was no software to track student registrations. The study centres manually registered candidates. “Now, those who have registered would only be able to pay the exam fees. With the exams being conducted online it became easy for the study centres to include unregistered candidates,” he said. Since the university collected examination fees online, the dubious candidates had paid the exam fees and exam registration numbers were generated for them. Another official said the candidates could have approached the now defunct Institute of Distance Education study centres and generated numbers. No digital record “We do not have digital record for candidates registered before 2018. When we started generating results, we found that they were not even students. These candidates could belong to before 2015. “ Since 2018, only candidates who have paid the first year fee can enter the portal for paying exam fee,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-university-to-probe-scam-at-study-centres/article38017026.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses writ petitions filed by salt manufacturers||Undoubtedly, production of salt is akin to agriculture since it is entirely seasonal and carried out only during summer. Tamil Nadu, being the second largest producer of salt in the country after Gujarat, the salt producers in Thoothukudi, Vedaranyam and a few other places in the State are certainly facing many difficulties. Despite all this, one cannot arrive at a conclusion that salt production is not all a profit making business, the Madras High Court has said. Justice S.M. Subramaniam made the observations while dismissing a huge batch of over 170 writ petitions filed by salt manufacturers, merchants and their associations challenging the Centre’s 2013 decision to revise the land assignment fee and annual ground rent levied on those who had taken government lands on lease. The writ petitions were filed between 2013 and 2021. They were taken up together for final disposal in view of the common issue involved. The judge concurred with Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan that the 20-year lease period of the petitioners before the court had expired in 2018 itself, and therefore, they must vacate the government lands and pave way for fresh lease through public auction. He held that the petitioners could not expect automatic renewal of their lease period by harping upon a recommendation made by Manu Bhai Shah Committee in 1958 to grant lease for 99 years. “Leasing out Central Government lands for 99 years or automatic renewal of the lease would infringe upon the rights of other citizens aspiring to get an opportunity into the field of manufacturing of salt or related trade activities. Deprival of equal opportunity will directly infringe the fundamental right of every citizen,” he said, and ordered that all those lessees whose lease period had expired should vacate the government lands within three months. “No doubt, salt being a commodity of everyday consumption, the Government must control its market price. Equally, the Central and State Governments are bound to ensure that the interest of the public at large is protected by implementing open auction process in order to ensure equal opportunity to the citizens,” he said, and held that the Government had rightly restricted the lease period to 20 years. “Once the Centre leases out its salt land for manufacturing, it becomes a commercial venture. The salt manufacturers, no doubt, are doing business and therefore, periodical enhancement of charges and equal opportunity to all the eligible persons to get lease of such land are Constitutional mandates,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-writ-petitions-filed-by-salt-manufacturers/article38017007.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||104 international travellers tested positive for COVID-19, says Health Minister||In the days after the Union government decided to test all international passengers arriving from high-risk countries, 104 travellers have tested positive for COVID-19, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. A total of 3,000 samples were lifted in the past fortnight, and 82 of them had the S-gene dropout. “Their condition is stable,” he said. The Minister was speaking on the sidelines of the inauguration of a digital display board at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital here. While 13 samples that returned from the Union government’s testing laboratories had shown the S-gene dropout, eight tested positive for the Delta variant. Four samples had been labelled ‘non-sequence’. So far, 22 persons had recovered and returned home, he said. Only one person had so far tested positive for the Omicron variant, and he had come down from Nigeria, a low-risk country. The passenger would undergo another RT-PCR test in a day or two, he said. According to him, 79 patients were under treatment at King Institute of Preventive Medicine & Research, Guindy, and the rest were admitted to private hospitals. Mr. Subramanian said the State was awaiting results from the Union government’s gene-sequencing laboratory in Bengaluru for the samples it had sent. A clearer picture of how many were infected with the Omicron variant would emerge in a day or two. The government was the first to have flagged the need for testing passengers arriving from low-risk countries. It was awaiting a response from the Union Health Ministry. Mr. Subramanian said all medical college hospitals would soon have digital display boards, providing details of the diseases treated and the facilities available. The boards would be commissioned at the 25 medical colleges in the coming week. They would be installed at the 11 new colleges once they were inaugurated. On the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital campus, a six-floor building was coming up to accommodate additional surgical and special wards for treatment of burn injuries at a cost of Rs. 135.5 crore, he said. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation had proposed to buy equipment worth Rs. 184.8 crore. By the end of next year, new facilities worth around Rs. 279.50 crore would be ready for public use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/104-international-travellers-tested-positive-for-covid-19-says-health-minister/article38017009.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||604 test positive for COVID-19 in State||A total of 604 persons tested positive for COVID-19 from 1,01,713 RT-PCR tests on Wednesday, taking the tally in the State to 27,41,617. Five passengers, including one arriving from Andhra Pradesh and two each from the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates, were among the fresh infections identified on Wednesday. 22% cases in Chennai Over 22% of the new cases, amounting to 136, were identified in Chennai. In Coimbatore, 94 tested positive in the last 24 hours. In the six districts — Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai, Perambalur, Ranipet, Tenkasi and Theni — no new cases were reported. In 19 districts, fewer than 10 persons were infected. Erode (47), Tirupur (48), Salem (33) and Namakkal (29) reported the highest number of infections among the western districts. Among the northern districts Chengalpattu (43), Tiruvallur (20) and Kancheepuram (15) had the most number of cases. As many as 695 persons were discharged, bringing up the number of recoveries to 26,97,939. Currently, 6,979 are under treatment. The State also recorded eight deaths, including five in government healthcare facilities and three in private hospitals. So far, 36,699 casualties due to the infection have been reported, according to the daily health bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. All the deaths that were recorded were due to comorbidities in the patients. The oldest person to succumb to the infection was an 82-year-old man from Krishnagiri who had Type-2 diabetes, severe hypertension and coronary artery disease. He was admitted on December 11 in the Krishnagiri Medical College Hospital and tested positive for the infection the next day. He died a few hours after, and the hospital recorded his death as due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Mega vaccination camp Earlier in the day Health minister Ma. Subramanian said the State would conduct a mega vaccination camp on Sunday, and an estimated 92 lakh people were expected to benefit. In the last 24 hours, in 3,412 camps held to administer Covishield and Covaxin, as many as 1,54,626 persons had benefited. The beneficiaries include 26 healthcare workers; 137 frontline workers; 86,767 persons in the 18 to 44 years age group; and 43,148 persons aged 45 to 59 years. As many as 24,548 senior citizens also were vaccinated, bringing up the total number of persons vaccinated till date to 7,82,58,992. A total of 2,599 persons got the shot in private hospitals. Since May 1, private COVID-19 vaccination centres have vaccinated 28,06,162 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/604-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-state-8-deaths-reported/article38017011.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Aggressive and passive steps taken after Galwan clash’||After the 2020 Galwan Valley skirmish, India has put in place aggressive and passive measures that have made such a clash near impossible hereafter, according to Lt. Gen. A. Arun, General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat Area. “Consequent to what happened in the eastern Ladakh, a lot of measures have been put in place. Some of them are aggressive. Some of them are purely defensive. It requires a combination,” he said. Lt. Gen. Arun was delivering the keynote address at a seminar on the 1971 India-Pakistan War, ‘Liberating Bangladesh: India’s Finest Moment’, organised by The Peninsula Foundation and the Department of Defence and Strategic Studies, University of Madras. “Today, we are referring to it [the victory] as India’s finest moment. We can argue that many moments have happened since then, which can also be counted as India’s finest moment. But this remains probably the largest and one of our initial finest moments. It was a trendsetter. It made Indians believe in India and to that extent, it was probably the biggest nation-builder we could have had,” Lt. Gen. Arun said. He said the 1971 war was a “just war” because India did not have any intent to annex any country’s territory, and 93,000 prisoners of war were returned. “We captured 15,100 sq. km. in Bangladesh. We returned it all,” he said. S. Gowri, Vice-Chancellor, University of Madras, delivered the special address. Later, a panel discussion was held on ‘India’s Just War: Looking at Achievements and Lessons’. Lt. Gen. P.R. Shankar, former Director-General of Artillery; Commodore R.S. Vasan, former Regional Commander-Coast Guard Region East; and former Ambassador M. Ganapathy took part. The session was moderated by Air Marshal (retired) M. Matheswaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aggressive-and-passive-steps-taken-after-galwan-clash/article38017060.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition on freedom struggle at Egmore Museum begins||A book handwritten by poet Subramnia Bharathi, a 250-year-old cannon of Tipu Sultan made of gun metal, remains of Emden’s shots, photographs of important personalities from Tamil Nadu who fought the British, stamps and various artefacts are on display at the Egmore Museum for a month from Wednesday to commemorate the 75th year of Independence. The Egmore Museum has curated a special exhibition on “Role of Tamil Nadu in the Indian Freedom Struggle”. Paintings of prominent freedom fighters such Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Subhas Chandra Bose, and Lala Lajpat Rai by artistes Bashyam Arya, K.V. Vaidhyanathan, A. Balakrishnan, S.S. Manian and S.N. Chanka will be on display. A bust-sized sculpture of Mahatma Gandhji by D.P. Roy Chowdhury will also be exhibited. Stamps and coins pertaining to important activists and leaders of freedom struggle will be on display. A variety of arms such as maces, elephant goads, spears, choppers, swords, daggers, battle axes and gauntlets, used by the rulers of various dynasties that existed in Tamil Nadu will be showcased , a release from the Museum said. “The 400-year-old weapons made of steel are heavily and intricately decorated with motives of floral, faunal, geometrical and abstract designs,” the release said. A string musical instrument called as Mayil Yazh carrying the images of freedom fighters, activists and revolutionaries will be on display. A permanent exhibition displaying the prehistoric Adhichanallur antiquities and Keezhadi excavation models has been organised by the Museum that reflect the immense talent and inimitable skill of the prehistoric Tamil people. Models of a few of the remains excavated in Keezhadi, such as brick structures, terracotta ring wells, roofing tiles with double holes are displayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-fair-on-freedom-struggle-begins-at-egmore-museum/article38017038.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro commuters resist mask rule enforcement||From snapping at the staff to refusing to wear masks, some of the Chennai Metro Rail commuters are giving its staff a hard time. A few months ago, the Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) had formed a team to check if the commuters were wearing masks to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Of late, the staff say they are finding it challenging to ask some commuters to wear a mask. “Some of them even abuse us. It is humiliating at times. We politely ask them to pull up their masks in the interest of everyone’s safety on the train. But there are a few who do not care and refuse to wear the mask. They do not realise that this is not the time to lower their guard,” a staff of the CMRL said. The staff stand at the entrance to the concourse area in each station where tickets are issued and only those wearing a mask are permitted inside. But soon after they board the train, some commuters take the mask off, officials said. ‘Staff scared’ “We are constantly playing announcements in trains and stations about the need to follow physical distancing and masking up. The staff are now scared to even tell some passengers fearing they might rudely retort,” another official said. The average daily patronage to the Metro trains touched 1.30 lakh passengers last week and with increasing crowd, officials said, it became even more important to follow physical distancing and mask wearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-commuters-resist-mask-rule-enforcement/article38017036.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Press Council of Tamil Nadu should have statutory support: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday made it clear that it shall suo motu review its earlier direction to the State government to constitute a Press Council of Tamil Nadu if it does not find any statutory provision empowering the government to do so. The court has asked members of the Bar to render their assistance in arriving at a right decision. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu broached the issue when the case, in which another Division Bench of the court had issued the direction, was listed for reporting compliance. The ACJ wondered how such a direction could have been issued by the court without it being backed by a statute. He said the Press Council Act of 1978 provided for constitution of only one body titled Press Council of India (PCI) for the whole country and there were absolutely no other provisions in the enactment empowering the State governments to constitute individual commissions of similar nature in every State. Wondering why did not the State government register its protest when the other Division Bench passed such an order in August this year, the ACJ expressed surprise over the government not having even filed a review petition or gone on appeal to the Supreme Court. “You are not required to follow the order blindly,” he told State Government Pleader P. Muthukumar. Bar help sought When the ACJ asked if any of the Bar members could throw some light on the issue and wanted to know if they were aware of any other legislation which provided for State-level press councils, journalist-turned-lawyer Sanjay Pinto told the court that the PCI was intended only at improving standards of newspapers and news agencies. Television channels had their own self-regulatory body called Broadcasting Contents Complaints Council (BCCC) to inquire into complaints received from viewers. ‘Research needed’ Stating that he was not aware of any law that provided for constituting a State-level press council, he assured to get back to the court after some research. Later, the judges adjourned the case till January 25 and asked the counsel for the PCI too to assist the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-suo-motu-review-order-to-constitute-press-council/article38017048.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK govt. not mobilising revenue: Panneerselvam||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, on Wednesday, criticised the DMK regime for not mobilsing additional revenue of the State Government or implementing economic reforms and adhering to austerity. Though the impact of COVID-19 pandemic had lessened now with the reopening of schools and the date fixed for the presentation of the second Governor’s address, there had been no information from the government with regard to the launch of economic reforms. Also, nothing was known about the recommendations made by the State Planning Commission and the Economic Advisory Council. Under such circumstances, no one would accept the government “putting the blame unnecessarily” on the previous AIADMK regime for the State’s financial condition, Mr. Panneerselvam said, referring to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s remarks at an event organised by an association of government employees.  There has been no information from the government with regard to the launch of economic reforms O. Panneerselvam AIADMK coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-govt-not-mobilising-revenue-panneerselvam/article38017003.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Foxconn stir: kitchen sealed||The Food Safety Department on Wednesday sealed the kitchen of a private contractor following an outbreak of acute diarrhoeal disease among the Foxconn employees staying at the International Maritime Academy hostel at Pudhuchathiram in Tiruvallur district, after they had hostel food on December 15. A team was formed to inspect the dormitories provided by the management in Kancheepuram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foxconn-stir-kitchen-sealed/article38017020.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VAT portal to be shut today||The online payment for VAT (Value Added Tax) through Commercial Taxes Department’s web portal - https://ctd.tn.gov.in will be down from 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. on December 23 because of integration of Commercial Taxes Department and Treasury Department’s Portal. VAT should be remitted before 6 p.m. tomorrow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vat-portal-to-be-shut-today/article38017021.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industrial Safety official holds meet||The Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health, Guindy, on Wednesday organised a conference for representatives of factory managements that employ more number of women workers. According to a press release, K. Jagathesan, Director of Industrial Safety and Health, elaborated on the important steps to be followed in the factories and hostels where women workers stayed and the statutory provisions to be followed by the factory managements. Basic amenities such as drinking water and toilet facility and quality food should be ensured in the hostels and the workers must be allowed to stay in hostels. An internal complaints panel must be constituted and the functioning of such committee must be monitored to address grievances of women workers pertaining to sexual harassment at workplace and hostels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-safety-official-holds-meet/article38017030.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IOC outlet opened at Aavin complex||Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin on Wednesday inaugurated a retail fuel outlet of the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOC) on Aavin premises in Ambattur. Built at a cost of Rs. 2.15 crore by IOC, the outlet will be run by Aavin staff. The public sector oil marketing company had taken the land on lease from the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, which owns the Aavin brand of dairy products, and will pay them an annual rent. The fuel outlet, which has come up about 400 metres from Aavin’s main gate inside the Ambattur Industrial Estate, will cater to milk lorries. Pact with Prisons Dept. Aavin runs a similar outlet on its land in Salem. The IOC has tied up with the Prisons Department to run retail outlets manned by prisoners, which were doing well, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ioc-outlet-opened-at-aavin-complex/article38017032.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film producer under I-T scanner||Tax officials knocked on the offices and properties of S. Xavier Britto, producer of the Vijay-starrer Master , suspecting tax evasion and in connection with the raids against Chinese mobile phone companies Oppo and Xiaomi. Sources said the raids were conducted at Adyar and Mylapore. Oppo’s office in Chennai came under the scanner, too. One of Mr. Britto’s companies handles the logistics for the phone makers. His other firms Indev Shipping Services Private Limited, where he is a director; Infinity Esthell Restaurants LLP, in which he is a partner; Kerry Indev Logistics Private Limited; and Ennore Cargo Container Terminal Private Limited are all under the scanner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-producer-under-i-t-scanner/article38017015.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man dies while spraying pesticides||A 43-year-old employee of a private contractor at Chennai Port allegedly died of suffocation while he was spraying pesticides on storerooms on board a commercial ship bound for Vietnam. Two engaged in work  The name of the victim was given as Ramasamy, a native of Virudhunagar district. He and Jagadeesan were employed by a private contractor to spray pesticides in commercial carriers transporting food items. The police said on Tuesday, the duo were spraying inside the rooms stored with corn which was bound for Vietnam. As the duo did not come out for long, the crew found them unconscious. Rushed to hospital They were rushed to the private hospital where Ramasamy was declared brought dead. Jegadeesan gained consciousness after undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Teynampet. The Port police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-while-spraying-pesticides/article38017031.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Clubs, societies under lens||The Inspector-General of Registration (IGR) has directed all district registrars to inspect societies, including recreation clubs registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975, to check for illegal or unlawful activities. In case, any illegal or unlawful activities were found to be taking place, an inquiry would be conducted by the Registrar after issuing a show-cause notice to the society. The reply would have to be considered and orders issued cancelling the society’s registration. As for recreation clubs, inspection could be taken up once in three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clubs-societies-under-lens/article38017022.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women’s age of marriage: VCK for withdrawal of Bill||Viduthalai Chiruthaikal Katchi (VCK) leader Thol. Thirumavalavan on Wednesday urged the Centre to withdraw the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to raise the legal age for marriage of women from 18 to 21, alleging that it was the first step towards enacting a common civil code in the country. In a statement, he said every religion in the country had its personal law and various religious groups were guided by their personal laws. Muslim Personal Law “As per the Muslim Personal Law, the age of puberty is the age of marriage. Even though the existing law has fixed 18 years as the marriageable age for woman, it will not affect the Muslim Personal Law. The government has introduced a Bill only to target Muslims,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan said the RSS, BJP and the Sangh Parivar were driven by the goal to enact a common civil code and had already achieved their goals of constructing Ram temple and cancellation of special status to Kashmir. “The present Bill seeking to increase the marriageable age for women is a step towards enacting a common civil code,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-marriage-bill-says-vck/article38017058.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pilot project for slope stabilisation launched on Ooty-Kotagiri road||The State Highways Department on Wednesday launched a pilot project to take up eco-friendly and cost-effective steps for slope stabilisation in hilly areas. Minister for Public Works, Highways and Minor Ports E.V. Velu inaugurated the pilot project at Kodappamund on Ooty-Kotagiri road (SH 15) in the Nilgiris district. An official of the Department said as many as 284 places in the Nilgiris district were prone to landslips. In the conventional method, concrete and slabs were used to prevent soil erosion. However, in the method taken up as a study, the site was first prepared for the stabilisation work. Based on soil testing at the identified location, soil nailing was completed and a mix of natural mulch and seed were plastered as two layers in the area. This was then covered with a geo grid. As a pilot project, which was the first of its kind in the State, the Department would spend about Rs. 15 lakh and complete the work on 175 sq.mt in 20 days. The patch would be maintained for three months. If this method proved effective, the project could be taken up in all the hilly areas in the State. It was implemented widely in the Himalayan region, the official said. The official pointed out that cost saving in this method was 50 % compared to conventional work and this was eco-friendly too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pilot-project-for-slope-stabilisation-launched-on-ooty-kotagiri-road/article38017073.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Servo Mechanics Cup cricket tournament on Jan. 8 and 9||The fourth edition of the Servo Mechanics Cup Cricket Tournament, sponsored by Indian Oil Corporation Limited and SERVO and powered by The Hindu will be held here next month. The selection trials for this will be held on December 26. The tournament, played with tennis ball, is organised for two-wheeler, four-wheeler, and the heavy-duty vehicles mechanics. The selection trial at Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science, near Nava India Bus Stop, Coimbatore - 641 006 will start at 8 am. Mechanics who qualify from the trials are eligible to play the Servo Mechanics Cup tournament that will be held here on January 8 and 9, 2022. Teams The selected participants will be divided into 12 teams of 13 players each, a release said. The preliminary rounds of the tournament with eight overs a side and on a round-robin format will be followed by the semi-finals with additional two overs. The grand finale will be 12 overs a side. The prizes are sponsored by Indian Oil Corporation Limited, including mementoes to participants at the selection trials. Prizes The top three teams of the tournament will be awarded trophies and cash prizes worth more than a lakh. For details, contact: 98840-22168.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/servo-mechanics-cup-cricket-tournament-on-jan-8-9/article38017086.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Madras High Court seeks report on Velliangiri temple||The Madras High Court has sought a report on the possibility of the appointment of staff by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department to supervise the hundial collection at the Velliangiri Andavar temple in Coimbatore district instead of leasing it out to private players. Justice R. Suresh Kumar, who passed the order on a writ petition filed by one D. Senthilkumar on December 9, observed that the HR&CE Department had given the leasehold right for a third party for placing the hundial in the temple and collect the money from it. Noting that “at least some thousands of devotees” visited the temple between March and May every year as the route to the hill temple would be closed by the Forest Department in the remaining months, he directed the respondents to file a status report on the “possibility of taking over the hundial collection management by the HR&CE Department / Executive Officer of the temple concerned by appointing separate staff.” The next hearing in the case will be held on January 5, 2022. Loss of revenue Mr. Senthilkumar claimed on Wednesday that 15 lakh devotees visited the Velliangiri Andavar temple between March and May every year and alleged that leasing out the hundial maintenance and collection to a third party every year caused loss of revenue to the State government. Sources in the HR&CE Department said the hundial collection was being leased as per a State government order issued in 1996 to increase revenue for the State government. The appointment of additional staff was not feasible owing to the difficult terrain and weather conditions at the hill temple, the sources claimed. The tender for the hundial supervision was being issued between December and January every year and no irregularities had come to the attention of the HR&CE Department so far, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-high-court-seeks-report-on-velliangiri-temple/article38017074.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing on delimitation of wards for three districts held||The petitions regarding delimitation of wards in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Salem districts will be considered and the delimitation exercise will be carried out as per law, said Chairman of Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission V. Palanikumar here on Wednesday. He chaired the public hearing at the District Collectorate in Coimbatore on the delimitation of wards in municipalities that were upgraded recently in the three districts. District Collectors G.S. Sameeran (Coimbatore), S. Vineeth (Tiruppur) and S. Karmegam (Salem) along with Member-Secretary of Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission A. Sundaravalli and Director of Municipal Administration P. Ponnaiah participated in the meeting. According to a press release, Mr. Palanikumar said that the town panchayats of Karumathampatti, Karamadai, Gudalur and Madukkarai in Coimbatore district, Thirumuruganpoondi in Tiruppur district and Tharamangalam in Salem district had been upgraded as municipalities. The District Collectors had the authority to accept or reject the demands of the public regarding the delimitation of wards in the local bodies, he noted. Over 50 persons, including representatives of political parties and the general public, participated in the public hearing and submitted their petitions to the authorities on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-hearing-on-delimitation-of-wards-for-three-districts-held/article38017076.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. uses bio-repellent to keep elephants away||The Forest Department has started spraying a bio-repellent to keep houses safe from wild elephants that make damages while searching for easy food like rice. Manambolly forest range officer A. Manikandan said the Department had been using a bio-repellent namely ‘Bio Don’ for the past one month. “We are seeing good results as elephants hesitate to approach places where the repellent has been sprayed. As it is a bio-repellent, there is no damage to elephants,” he said. Mr. Manikandan said use of the bio-repellent had showed considerable results in Karnataka. It was being used in the Valparai plateau on a trial basis, he said. According to the Forest Department, elephants damaged the houses of Senthilkumar, Selvi, Sekar and Rajendran near the Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation’s (Tantea) estate at Cinchona within the limits of Manambolly forest range around 2 a.m. on Wednesday. Staff from the Department visited the houses and sprayed the bio-repellent. They also made arrangements to provide compensation to the residents for the damages. A team has been tasked to conduct night patrols in the area to drive out elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-uses-bio-repellent-to-keep-elephants-away/article38017083.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s policies affect agri, industrial sectors: Mutharasan||The future of agriculture and industrial sectors in the country are under threat because of the policies of the Union government, R. Mutharasan, State Secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI), said here on Wednesday. Mr. Mutharasan told presspersons that the three farm laws were passed in Parliament without discussions. The government had to withdraw these laws because of continuous protests by the farmers. But, Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not resign. Anti-labour laws were passed in Parliament without discussions. The National Textile Corporation mills were likely to be closed affecting several workers. The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) were facing several challenges. The Finance organisations, Reserve Bank of India and Election Commission should function as independent bodies. However, these were now under the control of the Prime Minister and were used to implement the policies of the RSS, he alleged. The BJP government at the Centre was functioning as a fascist government, Mr. Mutharasan alleged. He said the national conference of the CPI would be held in Vijayawada between October 20 and 22 next year. The national council of the party would meet in Coimbatore from January 26 to 28, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-policies-affect-agri-industrial-sectors/article38017071.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two women held for theft in Annur||The Annur police arrested two women on charges of stealing a bag containing Rs. 30,000 from an Erode native on Tuesday. The arrested have been identified as S. Bhuvaneshwari (25) and R. Muthumari (21), both residents of Kullakkapalayam near Pollachi. The police said the women stole the bag of S. Thangamani (45) of Nambiyur in Erode when she was waiting at Annur bus stand. Ms. Thangamani raised an alarm and the public managed to catch the women. They were handed over to the Annur police.Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-held-for-theft-in-annur/article38017069.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Raja detained for staging protest||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police detained and removed BJP leader H. Raja and over 400 workers of the BJP and Hindu Munnani for staging a protest outside the Bharathiar University, seeking action against Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj on Wednesday. The protestors condemned the participation of Suba. Veerapandian, who heads the recently formed Social Justice committee, in a conference on women's right held at the university on December 17. Mr. Raja alleged that Mr. Kaliraj spoke at the conference that he would have taken part in the event wearing a black shirt. A petition would be submitted to the Governor against the Vice-Chancellor, he said. Minor tension prevailed at the main gate of the university||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raja-detained-for-staging-protest/article38017070.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tusker found dead near Karamadai||An adult male elephant was found dead within the limits of Karamadai forest range of Coimbatore forest division on Wednesday. The Forest Department said the carcass was found in a place coming under Manar Pirivu beat of Karamadai forest range. Frontline staff of the Department found the carcass in a decomposing state during a patrol around 5 p.m. on Wednesday. According to District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar, both tusks of the elephant were intact. The carcass would be autopsied on Thursday morning, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tusker-found-dead-near-karamadai/article38017068.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Improve amenities at Anamalai Road railway station’||Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan urged Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw to improve basic amenities at the Anamalai Road railway station in Coimbatore district and provide stoppages for trains at the station. In her letter to the Union Minister, she noted that the Anamalai Road railway station was an important station, which would serve both the devotees who visited the Masaniamman Temple in Anamalai as well as tourists who visited Valparai and Top Slip near Pollachi. The railway station would also be useful for students, traders and the general public of Anamalai and Valparai taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improve-amenities-at-anamalai-road-railway-station/article38017077.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New Vice-Chancellor of Avinashilingam varsity takes charge||V. Bharathi Harishankar, former Professor of English and founding Head of the Department of Women’s Studies at University of Madras, took charge as the new Vice-Chancellor of Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women (Deemed University) here on Wednesday. A release said she was appointed for a period of five years till December 21, 2026 by a three-member search committee headed by Chancellor S.P. Thyagarajan. A Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, London, Prof. Bharathi Harishankar has 118 publications including books, edited volumes, textbooks, articles and translations in national and international journals, according to a statement. Prior to this appointment, she has held several administrative positions at the University of Madras such as Dean of Student Affairs, Director of Internal Quality Assurance Cell and Member of the Syndicate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-vice-chancellor-of-avinashilingam-varsity-takes-charge/article38017079.ece
23 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 94 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported 94 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said 102 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,084 active cases on Wednesday. Two more persons from the district died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 2,501. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1 % on Tuesday, when it reported 95 cases. Tiruppur district reported 48 fresh COVID-19 cases. The toll increased to 1,019 as two new deaths were reported. The district had 506 active cases and 53 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-94-new-covid-19-cases/article38017081.ece
23 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||3,000 kg of ration rice seized||The Civil Supplies-Criminal Investigation Department sleuths seized 3,000 kg of ration rice, meant for supply under the public distribution system and arrested one person in connection with the incident on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, a team raided a godown near Thittakudi and found the ration rice. They arrested P. Prashanth and handed over the rice to the Civil Supplies Corporation. The accused had purchased the rice from family cardholders and hoarded it for smuggling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3000-kg-of-hoarded-ration-rice-seized-from-godown/article38017417.ece
23 December 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Hogenakkal to become plastic-free zone soon||The district administration has planned to develop Hogenakkal here into a plastic-free zone and advised businesses to adhere to the ban against single-use plastics. In a release, Collector S. Divyadarshini said the State government had banned the use of single-use plastics such as plastic bags, disposable plates, cups with plastic coating and plastic straws among others. From January 2022, Hogenekkal would be developed into a plastic-free destination and businesses and tourists visiting the location should not use and discard banned plastic items. Businesses were advised to use eco-friendly products.  Fine to be imposed Fine would be imposed if businesses were found using them, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hogenakkal-to-be-plastic-free-zone-from-jan/article38017156.ece
23 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||100% first dose of COVID-19 vaccination achieved||Dindigul Corporation has achieved 100% first dose COVID vaccination by administering injection to all the 1,69,325 persons eligible for the vaccine. “We are the first Corporation in the State to get this distinction,” said Corporation Commissioner, S. Sivasubramanian. In fact, the city has vaccinated more persons (100.01%) than the eligible population above 18 years of age. “This is because we have not spared even those people who frequently visit the city for their work, market or for other needs and vaccinated them also,” said the Commissioner. The city has also administered second dose of vaccine to 77.3% of the population or 1,30,888 persons till date. The Commissioner said that the urban local body targeted religious gatherings and sought advocacy for vaccination from their own leaders. “We have addressed people at temples, mosques and churches whenever there were religious gatherings. BEsides, asking their religious heads to speak to the followers about the importance of vaccination, we also stressed the need for two doses of vaccines,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. The officials would make the audience to take a pledge that they would come forward to take the vaccine and the people followed their words with deeds, the Commissioner said. Besides, the appointing nodal officer for each of the 48 wards to monitor the vaccination camps, the Corporation took additional interest in involving the staff deployed for the 15 mega vaccination camps. “We gave them funds to take care of their daily needs in advance and also provided an autorickshaw for their easy movement and to carry the vaccine boxes,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. During every mega camp, the mobilisers will use the autorickshaw to ferry the people to the vaccination camp site and back. This also helped a lot. Door-to-door survey of the unvaccinated was conducted and people were encouraged to take the jabs . In some areas, the workers were provided with good halls with toilet facilities, so that they never had any grudge and gave their full involvment in the vaccination exercise. Volunteers from trade and industry, clubs, consumer associations also came forward to help in creating awareness on the importance of vaccination, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccination-achieved/article38017146.ece
23 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two direct paddy procurement centres opened in Erode dist.||To procure paddy from the farmers in Kalingarayan ayacut areas, Direct Procurement Centres (DPC) were inaugurated at Vairapalayam and B.P. Agraharam on Wednesday. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy and Collector H. Krishnanunni inaugurated the centres that would be run by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. Officials said that Grade ‘A’ variety paddy will be procured for a minimum support price of Rs. 2,060 a quintal, including an incentive of Rs. 100, while the common variety will be purchased for Rs. 2,015 a quintal with an incentive of Rs. 75. After the procurement, funds would be transferred to the farmer’s bank account through Electronic Clearing Services (ECS) within three days, they added. Also, under the Sustainable Green Cover in Farm Lands Scheme, 3,11,800 saplings worth Rs. 46.77 lakh are to be distributed to farmers in the district. The Minister distributed saplings to farmers and inaugurated the scheme. Officials of the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department said that saplings were obtained from the Forest Department at Rs. 15 each and would be distributed to farmers at free of cost. They said that each farmer would be given a subsidy of Rs. 7 a saplings from the second year to fourth year for growing the tree. Addressing the media, Mr. Muthusamy said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would soon be visiting Erode to inaugurate completed works and also lay foundation for new projects. Also, he would distribute welfare assistance to the people, he added. The Minister said that farmers should register in the portal before bringing their produce to the DPCs so that they need not wait at the centres. He said that steps were taken to demolish depilated buildings in schools and new buildings would be constructed. Erode Revenue Divisional Officer Premalatha, Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar, Joint Director of Agriculture Chinnasamy, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation Manager Murugesan and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-direct-paddy-procurement-centres-opened-in-erode-dist/article38017163.ece
23 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the office of the Assistant Executive Engineer, Town Panchayat, Erode Zone, at Erode Collectorate and seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 51.32 lakh on Wednesday. Based on an information, a team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajesh and Inspector Rekha, found the cash stacked in the office. Sources said that tender has been floated for road works in various town panchayats in the district and contractors had allegedly paid money to the officials on Tuesday and Wednesday. Hence, based on tipoff, the raid was conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-cash-seized/article38017161.ece
23 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent pollution of water bodies in Perundurai’||Members of the Perundurai SIPCOT Affected People Welfare Association have claimed that contaminated seepage water from industries located on Sipcot premises are polluting water bodies in the area and urge the district administration to take necessary action to prevent environmental degradation. In an email sent to the Collector, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and Perundurai Tahsildar, association coordinator S. Chinnasamy said that dyeing, bleaching, tannery and other industries continue to discharge sewage in and around the premises leading to contamination of the water. Seepage from the stagnated water enters the Odaikattur lake that is spread over 13 acre. The issue was taken up with officials concerned and various steps were taken that led to arrest of the seepage. But, due to recent rain, seepage continues to flow in large quantities affecting the lake. The email said that due to seepage and inflow of rain water, Odaikattur lake in Varapalayam panchayat is overflowing and the water has started reaching the Punjai Palatholuvu lake that is spread across 400 acre. “Water samples were lifted that show Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) at 5000. TDS in other water bodies shows over 4,000 TDS '', the email said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-pollution-of-water-bodies-in-perundurai/article38017154.ece
23 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure seating facilities for workers’||The Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) has asked all shops and establishments in the district to ensure seating facilities to all its employees, failing which the department warned of action against the establishments. A release from the department said that the State government had ordered the establishments to provide seating arrangements for all its workers during working hours as the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments (Amendment) Act, 2021 mandates it. The release said that officials from the department will inspect the shops and establishments whether the norms are followed and warned that action will be taken if the facility is not provided to its workers. Hence, the release requested the shop owners to adhere to the norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-seating-facilities-for-workers/article38017152.ece
23 December 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Senior Congress leader P.T. Thomas passes away||Senior Congress leader P.T. Thomas, MLA, passed away around 10.30 a.m. at a private hospital in Vellore on Wednesday. Mr. Thomas, 71, was undergoing treatment for cancer at the hospital. He was serving his second consecutive term as the legislator from the Thrikkakara constituency in Ernakulam district at the time of his death. Mr. Thomas, one of the popular leaders of the party in the State with a mass base, was recently elected as the working president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC)at the recent organisational rejig. Chandy confidant He was earlier considered as a confidant of Congress leader Oommen Chandy. and a front line warrior of the faction led by him in the State unit of the party. During his early days in politics, Mr. Thomas had served as the State president of the KSU, and the national executive member of the NSUI. He was also elected as the State general secretary of the Indian Youth Congress, the executive member of the KPCC and the district president of the Idukki District Congress Committee (DCC Before being elected to Parliament from Idukki in 2009, Mr. Thomas had served as the member of the Idukki district council also. He was also elected twice to the Assembly from the Thodupuzha constituency. He is survived by his wife Uma, and two children, Vishnu and Vivek.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-congress-leader-pt-thomas-passes-away/article38016678.ece
23 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Construction frenzy as West Madurai joins development bandwagon||Madurai is going through a period of massive upheaval ever since various works around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple and Periyar bus stand renovation started a few months ago under Smart Cities Mission. Simultaneously, work on the eight-km elevated corridor work on New Natham Road and broad roads on both banks of the Vaigai also started two years ago. Work on the projects are going on day and night, especially after relaxation of lockdown norms. Cranes, earthmovers and migrant workers wearing hard-shell helmets have become an everyday sight that it is impossible to travel from one part of the city to another without coming up against either a traffic diversion or a bad strecth of road due to some project or the other. Even as talk on the final design of the ‘mother of all projects' and much-needed flyover with many arms at Goripalayam is doing the rounds, work is going on at a fever-pitch to construct a grade separator at Theni Road intersection in the western part of the city. Work on laying giant pillars, which started near Fenner a few months ag0, has almost reached the other end near the main gate of TVS. The two-lane grade separator winds above Theni highway and ends after HMS Colony junction. It will run for nearly 1,000 metres, according to an engineer of National Highways, which is executing the work. After the grade separator work started, city and mofussil buses and trucks coming towards the city have been diverted before Achampathu at KK highway intersection to take the Melakkal Road through Thuvariman and Kochadai to join the old highway near Mudakkusalai. While it is welcome news, the main grouse of commuters is that there is avoidable confusion at Mudakkusalai. The protruding water valve chamber opposite TMB ATM kiosk has not been set right as in PP Chavadi and disrupts traffic flow, said a resident of Nataraj Nagar. Moreover, it is a bumpy ride all along Doak Nagar Road through which light vehicles have been diverted due to protruding manholes or haphazardly filled potholes and numerous speed-breakers. The practice of conducting a meeting to elicit suggestions from experts and public stopped long back, the result of which can be seen as the shames of Madurai, the unused Palangantham RoB, abrupt ending of Vaigai South Bank Road near Puttuthoppu. And above all, the ‘majestically’ planned Periyar bus stand becoming miniscule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-frenzy-as-west-madurai-joins-development-bandwagon/article38017326.ece
23 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Head Constable killed in wall collapse in Madurai||Head Constable C. Saravanan, 44, was killed and another head constable, K. Kannan, 48, suffered fractures when a portion of a wall collapsed and fell on them at Nelpettai here at midnight Tuesday. The policemen, attached to the Vilakkuthoon station, were on night duty. They had gone to East Veli Street and asked a small gathering having tea to disperse. As they stood in front of a pesticide shop, a huge portion of the wall of the balcony on the first floor of a dilapidated building crashed. While Saravanan fell down and debris crushed him, Kannan, who was standing nearby, escaped with injuries. Both were rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital, where Saravanan was declared brought dead. After first aid, Kannan, who had suffered fractures in the hand and the leg, was admitted to a private hospital. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha and other senior officials rushed to the spot. Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan inspected the site on Wednesday morning. Dr. Karthikeyan said the Corporation had directed the owner, Naina Mohammed, in November 2020 to safely demolish the dilapidated building which was posing a threat to public safety. “The owner was supposed to have demolished it after getting permission from the Corporation within 21 days. However, he failed.” Minister for Commercial Taxes P. Moorthi, DGP C. Sylendra Babu and senior officials paid homage to Saravanan at the police quarters. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced Rs. 25 lakh in solatium to the family of the deceased head constable and promised his wife a job. The injured head constable would be given Rs. 5 lakh in compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-madurai/article38017014.ece
23 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Handloom exhibition showcases textile crafts from 15 States||Eye-catching handloom products are on display at the ‘Cottonfab-2021’ exhibition and sale. Over 100 artisans across 15 States have come together for the exhibition, which is being held on Gandhi Museum premises. The exhibition will be held till January 10, 2022. The expo is open from 10.30 a.m. to 9 p.m. Traditional Aari and needlework crochet on cotton and georgette fabrics from Lucknow, Kota-Doria dress materials from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh’s Chanderi and Maheshwari saris, block print kurtis from Gujarat and Rajasthan, Kalamkari vegetable-dyed sarees, Gadwal, Pochampally and zari border saris from the neighbouring States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka are on display. Apart from these products, Afghani and Patiala salwar, kurtis in tussar, crepe and chiffon, Rajasthani stole, Bagh print from Madhya Pradesh, embroidered stoles from Kashmir, Odisha’s Sambalpuri Ikat and Khandua silk saris and Bengal’s Dhakai Jamdani were also on display at the exhibition. The exhibition aims to provide direct access to handloom weavers to market their products. The price of saris ranges from Rs. 300 to Rs. 3,000 and the price of dress materials ranges from Rs. 400 to Rs. 4,000. Apart from dress materials, a wide range of mats, rugs, quilts and exotic jewellery are also on sale at the exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handloom-exhibition-showcases-textile-crafts-from-15-states/article38017318.ece
23 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special Bench sought to hear cases of sitting, ex-MLAs, MPs||The Bar Associations of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court have written to the Acting Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, Munishwar Nath Bhandari, seeking constitution of a Special Bench for cases related to sitting and former MLAs and MPs at the Madurai Bench. Following a Supreme Court direction, a Special Bench was constituted to hear criminal cases relating to legislators at the Madras High Court. At present, Justice M. Nirmal Kumar has been assigned the portfolio to hear the cases. Justice Nirmal Kumar is presently sitting at the Principal seat. Both for the Principal seat in Chennai and the Bench in Madurai, only one judge has been allotted the portfolio. No judge has been allotted for Madurai Bench. This would cause difficulties to advocates and litigants who have to file cases relating to MLAs and MPs that arise within the jurisdiction of the Madurai Bench, the advocates said. Allotting the cases relating to sitting and former MLAs and MPs that arise within the jurisdiction of the Madurai Bench to any judge sitting at the Madurai Bench would save judicial time, they said and requested the Acting Chief Justice to constitute a Special Bench at the Madurai Bench. This would help the advocates and litigants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocates-plea-to-madras-high-court/article38017316.ece
23 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC disposes of plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday disposed of a petition that sought direction to authorities to regulate issuance of tokens and participation of bulls at jallikattu events to be held during Pongal in January next year. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan took note of the fact that the High Court had already issued elaborate guidelines in this regard and the State had issued standard operating procedure. The petitioner, S. Mahendran of Madurai, said the regulation was required in order to avoid mismanagement which could lead to bulls not being able participate in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jallikattu-plea-disposed-of/article38017321.ece
23 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns of stringent action against share autorickshaws for violation of Motor Vehicles Act||Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar on Wednesday warned share autorichshaws operating in the district of seizure of their vehicles if they altered the seating arrangement to carry more than the permitted number of passengers. Speaking at the quarterly meeting with voluntary consumer organisations here, Dr. Aneesh Sekhar said autorickshaws with permit to operate as share-auto would also face cancellation of permits by the Regional Transport Officers for violations of the Motor Vehicles Act. Transport and police officials had been asked to identify school and college students travelling foot-board and the violation should be taken up with the heads of their educational institutions as a deterrent measure. The Collector promised to take action on complaints lodged by consumer organisations on defective services offered of Madurai Corporation, Tangedco, TNSTC and the Departments of Food Protection and Health. District Revenue Officer G. Senthilkumari and District Supply Officer K. Murugesan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-of-stringent-action-against-share-autorickshaws-for-violation-of-motor-vehicles-act/article38017327.ece
23 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea seeking toilets at temple dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed a petition that sought direction to the Madurai district administration to provide toilet and other facilities for devotees visiting Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan directed the petitioner, M. Solaikannan of Madurai, to approach the authorities concerned with the request or take permission from the authorities to construct and provide the basic facilities to the public. The petitioner had complained that the mobile toilets on East Chithirai Street and South Chithirai Street were locked for the past few months. They were not being maintained properly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-dismissed/article38017322.ece
23 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cane farmers stage protest||Around 100 members of the Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers Association continued their ‘waiting’ protest, pressing for immediate start of cane crushing, on the National Cooperative Sugar Mills premises at Alanganallur on Wednesday. “After two years of lockdown of the mill owing to meagre coverage of sugarcane cultivation due to lack of adequate water for irrigation, this year over 60,000 tonnes of cane have already been registered with the mill,” said association State president N. Palanisami. Another 15,000 tonnes of unregistered cane were also available in the cane-growing areas of the sugarmill in Alanganallur, Sholvandan, Vadipatti, Melur, Chekkanoorani, Nilakottai and Aruppukottai. Mr. Palanisami said in the last two years, the cane grown here were diverted to sugar mills in Peramabalur, Thanjavur and Udumalaipet. Stating that Dharani Sugar mill in Tenkasi district had shut down its operation, Mr. Palanisami said another 1.5 lakh tonne of sugarcane from those two districts were available for diversion to Alanganallur. Stating that the association had already taken up the issue with Minister for Commercial Taxes P. Moorthi and State government officials, Mr. Palanisami said the government should announce commencement of crushing immediately. Crushing was usually started in December end or January, he said. Mr. Palanisami also recalled that the DMK had promised to run the factory during its election campaign. The factory now required around Rs. 10 crore in advance to start the crushing operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cane-farmers-stage-protest/article38017143.ece
23 December 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Special camps at Kolli Hills to distribute assistance||The Namakkal district administration would be organising special camps in Kolli Hills to distribute welfare assistance to the tribals. District Collector Shreya P.Singh said in a release that the first camp would be held at Valvil Ori Hall at Semmedu on December 28 and the second camp at Othakadai in Perungarai Naadu. According to a release, the camps would be held to issue community certificates, applications for electronic ration cards, addition of names in family cards and other corrections, delivery of various equipment for differently-abled persons and conduct of various tests for differently-abled persons and health camps through hospitals under Chief Minister’s health insurance scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-at-kolli-hills-to-distribute-assistance/article38017160.ece
23 December 2021||PALAKKAD,TAMIL NADU||Legendary kannimara teak to get good care||Efforts are on to conserve the legendary Kannimara Teak of Parambikulam Tiger Reserve for the generations to come. The Parambikulam Tiger Conservation Foundation, which manages the tiger reserve, has planned a collaborative move with the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) in its conservation. Kannimara Teak, one of the largest and oldest living teak trees in the world that withstood many a nature’s fury, will be subjected to a thorough examination in a non-destructive way. KFRI senior silviculturist P. Sujanapal will examine the five-century-old tree, which is worshipped by the tribespeople of Parambikulam. With a height of 39.98 m and a girth of 7.15 m, the Kannimara Teak remains a flagship of Parambikulam Tiger Reserve offering a spectacular view to visitors. “We are not going to do any core sampling by drilling the tree as it is a monument. But we will examine it thoroughly, including its morphological area. It is an amazingly living monument representing a bygone era,” said Dr. Sujanapal. Signs of weakening Although the Kannimara Teak looks mighty and fabulous, some of its branches have begun to show signs of weakening. Some branches have begun to dry. “It doesn’t look fully healthy. That is why we are going for an examination,” said Vysak Sasikumar, deputy director of Parambikulam Tiger Reserve. For the tribespeople of Parambikulam, it is still a ‘virgin tree’. That was why they named it Kannimara (meaning virgin tree). The tribal legend has it that the tree had bled when people tried to cut it. So they protected the tree and started worshipping it by offering annual puja to it. Award winner The Kannimara Tree had won the Union government’s Mahavriksha Puraskar in its first year of introduction in 1994. The award brought more attention to the tree, and its glory spread further with people from different parts of the globe taking a pilgrimage to pay their homage to it. “The tribespeople’s worship of the tree is more symbolic in nature. Actually what the trees, plants and animals need is a respectful attitude. That way we have something to learn from the tribespeople,” said Mr. Sasikumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legendary-kannimara-teak-to-get-good-care/article38016682.ece
23 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Strict COVID-19 protocol enforced ahead of Christmas, New Year season||Puducherry police have begun a strict enforcement of existing COVID-19 protocol ahead of the influx of tourists for the Christmas-New Year season and amid the lurking threat of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. A press note issued by R. Lokeshwaran, SSP (L&O), said that the police department was levying a fine of Rs. 100 on every offence under ‘The Puducherry Municipalities (Prevention of Infection and Control of Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) Rules, 2020'. The police officials appealed to members of the public to strictly adhere to appropriate behaviours like wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing and hand sanitation to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant. They are also requested to vaccinate themselves in all the Primary or Community Health Centres, Government Hospitals and at the door-step campaigns, organised by the Health Department. Giving notice that henceforth, the police department would strictly enforce the laws and rules against violators, Mr. Lokeshwaran urged people to extend their co-operation, especially in view of the forthcoming festive season and New Year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strict-covid-protocol-enforced-ahead-of-christmas-new-year/article38017149.ece
23 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MP seeks Centre’s help to acquire land in Tamil Nadu for airport expansion||BJP MP S. Selvaganabathy on Wednesday sought in the Rajya Sabha the Centre’s assistance to help acquire land in the neighbouring State of Tamil Nadu for the long-pending and much-required, expansion of the Puducherry airport. Raising the demand for the airport expansion that would facilitate the operations of wide-bodied aircraft, on the concluding day of Parliament’s winter session, Mr. Selvaganabathy said, “About 368 acres of land needs to be acquired from Government of Tamil Nadu and 57.5 acres from Government of Puducherry. The Government of India is requested to help financially to meet the land acquisition cost as the Government of Puducherry is reeling under severe financial crisis to meet the expenditure.” Calling for measures to resume air connectivity, the MP said Puducherry was one of the spiritual and heritage tourist hubs in South India. Many foreign tourists throng this city to admire the French culture that blends in with the Indian culture. Puducherry was also one of the educational hubs in South India where large number of students are passing out every year. Affecting investment Moreover, in order to create job facilities in Puducherry, entrepreneurs from various places wanted to start industrial and service enterprises. However, they were held back from investing in Puducherry due to the non-availability of proper flight operations and other infrastructure, he said. Mr. Selvaganabathy said the flight operations were suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic and are yet to resume. In this scenario, the Ministry of Civil Aviation should explore the possibility of commencing flights under the Regional Connectivity Scheme with Viability Gap Funding provision for the airlines. He suggested that the Ministry consider introducing flights in the Hyderabad – Puducherry –Hyderabad, Bangalore – Puducherry – Bangalore, Tirupathi – Puducherry – Tirupathi, Calicut – Puducherry – Calicut, Coimbatore – Puducherry – Coimbatore and Rajahmundry – Puducherry – Rajahmundry circuits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-seeks-centres-help-to-acquire-land-for-airport/article38017117.ece
23 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 21 fresh COVID-19 cases||No death due to COVID-19 was reported in the Union Territory even as 21 fresh cases were detected from 2,617 tests on Wednesday. Puducherry recorded 18 of the fresh cases, followed by three in Mahe. Karaikal and Yanam did not report any new case in the last 24 hours. Five recoveries With five patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 146. Of these, 31 were in hospital and 115 in home isolation.The test positivity rate was 0.80%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.43%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,880, with Puducherry logging 1,468, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,29,366 cases and 1,27,340 recoveries to date. Of an estimated 20.30 lakh tests performed, over 17.19 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,632 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered a cumulative total of 13,57,638 vaccine doses. Other districts Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Wednesday. Four persons tested positive, which took the tally of active cases to 64,525. The district saw 63,589 recoveries. The active case count stood at 62. Villupuram reported three cases, which took the total number of cases in the district to to 46,089. Kallakurichi district recorded three cases, taking the overall tally to 31,600.  The cumulative toll remained at 1,880, with Puducherry logging 1,468, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-21-fresh-covid-19-cases-no-death/article38017413.ece
23 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Chief Minister has failed to get additional funds for U.T.’||Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam on Wednesday said Chief Minister N. Rangasamy has failed to obtain additional funds from the Centre despite being in an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party. Addressing a press conference here, the senior Congress leader said the Assembly election campaign by the NDA in the Union Territory was centred on the idea that people of the Union Territory would benefit if same political formation ruled the Centre and Puducherry. But nothing substantial had happened to prove that, he charged. Mr. Vaithilingam said that to a question on rain assistance that he raised in the Parliament, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai had responded that the rain in November led to two deaths, loss of 72 livestock, damage to 346 houses, huts and crops in 4,040 hectares in the Union Territory. Mr. Rai added that based on the Inter-Ministerial Central Team’s report, additional financial assistance would be considered as per established procedure. “During the current financial year, an amount of Rs. 5 crore has been released to Puducherry under the Union Territory Disaster Response Fund,” Mr Vaithilingam said quoting the Union Minister. The amount released was a pittance considering the damage, he said adding the Chief Minister should explain how much relief assistance had been sought from Centre. “The amount released will not do any help considering the damage. Given our financial situation, the Chief Minister should explain how the government plans to provide assistance to people. “The Chief Minister should fight for the rights of the Union Territory. He should have bargained for additional funds for giving the seat to BJP,” Mr Vaithilingam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-has-failed-to-get-additional-funds-for-ut/article38017410.ece
23 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||ST certificates distributed to Irula people in U.T.||The government has started the distribution of Scheduled Tribes certificate to members of Irula community in the Union Territory. Speaker R. Selvam inaugurated a camp at T. N. Palayam in Manaveli constituency to distribute the certificates to the Irula community members settled there. Revenue Department said around 40 Irula families reside in Manaveli alone. On Wednesday, the North subdivision distributed the certificates to 65 people belonging to the community.  The North subdivision has also started the distribution of legal heir certificates to deserving people. A camp was held at Mudaliarpet to issue these legal heir certificates. Legislator Sampath inaugurated the camp. Puducherry Collector Purva Garg and Deputy Collector (North) M. Kandasamy were also present at both the functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/st-certificates-distributed-to-irula-members/article38017411.ece
23 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK calls for cancelling New Year programmes||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) has demanded the cancellation of all programmes planned as part of New Year celebrations on Beach Road. Party secretary, East, A. Anbalagan said it was not proper on the part of the government to allow New Year celebrations on Beach Road during the COVID-19 pandemic. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are not allowing mass gatherings on New Year’s day due to the Omicron variant. Tourists from these States are likely to throng the Union Territory for celebrations, he said. Only 48% in the Union Territory have taken both doses of the vaccine. In such a scenario, where experts have warned about Omicron, the government should rethink its decision of allowing celebrations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-calls-for-cancelling-new-year-programmes/article38017412.ece
23 December 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen in Rameswaram warn of rail roko from Jan. 1||Fishermen have given an ultimatum for the State and the Centre to take efforts to release all the 68 fishermen, along with the 10 boats, by December 31, failing which they have threatened to stage a rail roko on January 1 at Thangachimadam in Rameswaram. They also threatened to lay siege to the Sri Lankan embassy in Chennai by mobilising fishermen from the coastal districts. Hundreds of fishermen began a hunger strike at Thangachimadam on Wednesday morning, pressing for the release of fishermen from Rameswaram, Mandapam and Jagathapattinam, who were arrested on December 18, 19 and 20 along with their 10 boats while they were fishing in high seas. “We know that the fishermen would come out of the jail in Sri Lanka within two months. But we are more worried about retrieving all the 10 mechanised boats that are the basis for our livelihood,” said P. Sesuraja, president of the All Mechanised Boat Fishermen Association. He said the fishermen from Tamil Nadu had incurred huge monetary losses after several of their boats were seized by the Sri Lankan Navy. The boats, each costing around Rs. 30 lakh, were nationalised and not returned. Fishermen were dependent on their boats for their livelihood, and the Sri Lankan Navy was snatching their livelihood by seizing them, he said. He said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and the Members of Parliament from Tamil Nadu had drawn the attention of the Centre for immediate release of the fishermen. The fishermen passed a resolution seeking to convene a meeting with their counterparts from Sri Lanka to find amicable solution to their problems and wanted retrieval of Katchatheevu to help fishermen from venturing into the sea without any fear. Centre should retrieve the 50 mechanised boats seized by Sri Lanka, and Rs. 50 lakh as compensation for damaged boats. Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat and Superintendent of Police E. Karthik met the fishermen and explained the steps being taken to bring back the arrested fishermen along with their boats. Along with the fishermen, family members of the arrested fishermen also took part in the protest. One of the women agitators, A. Esther Rani, said the Sri Lankan government should release the fishermen at once. “I plead with all the governments to release them immediately,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-in-rameswaram-warn-of-rail-roko-from-jan-1/article38017017.ece
23 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Smart road works nearing completion in Salem||The smart road works on Sathram market road here are nearing completion. Salem Corporation under the Smart Cities Mission is laying smart roads on Sathram market road, Sitharam road and Thamannan road and the tar roads are being replaced with concrete ones. The stretches connect important markets in the area including Leigh Bazaar and Pal Market. The roads also connect the Salem market station and heavy vehicles frequently use these stretches. According to officials, under the Smart Cities Mission, about one kilometre of the stretch is being developed at Rs. 14.20 crore with street lights, separate ducts for power and internet cables, footpaths and storm water drains. Tar roads are being replaced with concrete ones to prevent water logging and damage of roads due to frequent use of heavy vehicles. Majority of works on the stretch had been completed, the officials said and added that underground drainage and pipeline works for 24X7 drinking water supply scheme were being carried out on the stretch. The works were expected to be completed in 10 days, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-road-works-nearing-completion-in-salem/article38017159.ece
23 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school asked to remove caste column from attendance register||An image of an attendance register with a column to mention the caste of students, reportedly in a Government School near Attur, has gone viral on social media. The School Education department has initiated corrective measures. The image of the Class IX attendance register at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School showed the caste mentioned in blue and red ink against the names of students. Parents demanded action against the school authorities. The teachers, however, said this was done to provide various welfare schemes of the governments to students. Chief Education Officer R. Murugan said the caste column in the register was a mistake on the part of teachers and they had been instructed to remove it immediately. Advice to other schools Other schools across the district had been asked to desist from such a practice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-caste-column-from-attendance-register/article38017150.ece
23 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Training for farmers||A group 40 farmers underwent training in agro forestry here recently under a programme organised by the Agricultural Technology Management Agency. It was held at Forest College and Research Institute in Mettupalayam recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-farmers/article38017155.ece
23 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||New office- bearers for Young Indians Salem chapter||The new office-bearers of CII-Young Indians Salem chapter assumed charge here recently. According to a release, S.S.Senthil Rajan has been appointed as the Chair of Yi - Salem Chapter for the year 2022. In 2021, he served the chapter as Co-Chair. Mr. Rajan is the Director of Mercury's Scientific Chemicals Industries. Nagalakshmi.V has been appointed as the Co-Chair of the chapter. Ms. Nagalakshmi is the founder of Thyai Foundation and a life skills expert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-office-bearers-for-young-indians-salem-chapter/article38017157.ece
23 December 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Tenkasi farmers trained in cultivating high-yielding tubers||Farmers cultivating tuber crops in the district were trained by a team of scientists from Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI), Thiruvananthapuram, in augmenting their income by cultivating high-yielding varieties and value-addition of tuber crops. The CTCRI, in association with the Department of Horticulture, organised the training programme for farmers on ‘Improved production technologies and value addition in tuber crops’ at Mekkarai near Shenkottai on Tuesday. Experts from the CTCRI trained 120 farmers of the district in augmenting their income by cultivating high-yielding varieties of tubers such as cassava, elephant foot yam, taro and Chinese potato and adopting new technologies. R. Muthuraj, Principal Scientist, CTCRI, D. Jaganathan, T. Krishnakumar and P. Prakash, Senior Scientists, handled the sessions. Dr. Muthuraj trained the farmers in cultivating improved varieties and adopting newer technologies and distributed ‘tapioca special’, a micronutrient formulation, for managing micronutrient deficiencies in tapioca. Value-added products such as snack, pasta, noodles etc., all prepared from cassava-based composite flour - were also explained to the farmers during the training session of Dr. Krishnakumar. He emphasised the valorization of cassava by value addition through small scale entrepreneurship development. Research – Extension - Farmers (REF) interface was coordinated by Dr. Jaganathan and Dr. Prakash for formulating strategies for strengthening tuber crops development in Tenkasi district. Training materials covering publications, technical leaflets and critical inputs were also distributed to all the participants of the training programme. Jeyabharathi Malathi, Deputy Director of Horticulture, Tenkasi, who inaugurated the training programme, distributed ‘Sree Reksha’, a high-yielding cassava mosaic disease-resistant variety. Since farmers cultivating this variety with the high starch content of 28% and higher shelf life have harvested up to 45 tonnes per hectare, the variety has become the most-sought after variety. Ms. Malathi urged the farmers to adopt improved technologies and go in for value addition which were important key factors for enhancing farm income per unit area. Subsequently, the ICAR - CTCRI has established frontline demonstration-cum- seed villages on cassava and Chinese potato at various locations, including Mekkarai, Kanakapillaivalasai, Kuthapanjan and Rajangapuram of Tenkasi district. The demand for planting materials of these crops is met by established seed villages in these locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-in-cultivation-of-high-yielding-tubers/article38017138.ece
23 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Online registration portal to measure paddy at DPCs opened||Registration of names of farmers for measuring ‘samba’ paddy at the direct purchase centres, to avoid inordinate delays, commenced in Thanjavur district on Wednesday. Registration for this purpose began in Tiruvarur district on December 16. According to press release, a total of 32,740 farmers in Thanjavur district have availed the online registration facility to sell their paddy during the ‘kuruvai’ season and had paddy measured on the date and time indicated in the SMS received from the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, which is acting as the procurement agency under the decentralised procurement of paddy. In order to avail this facility during the 2021-22 ‘samba’ season, farmers have to register their names to get a time slot allotted to them at the nearest DPC on a particular day by uploading their name and other details on the following websites:www.tncsc.tn.gov.inorwww.tncsc-edpc.in Both the portals were opened for registration in Thanjavur district on Wednesday. Further information, can be had from the offices of the Senior Regional Manager, TNCSC of the respective districts. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur Collector P.Gayathri Krishnan called upon those involved in the processing of cereals (black and green grams) to avail the 33 % subsidy extended under the AatmaNirbar Bharat Abhiyan programme for the purchase of equipment for processing cereals. Under the programme, the processing units operated by individuals or farmer producer companies or self-help groups are eligible to avail the subsidy of 33 % of the total project cost or up to Rs. 10 lakhs, along with a bank loan. Further information can be had from the office of the Deputy Director (Agriculture Marketing), Tiruvarur, located at the Regulated Market complex, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-registration-portal-to-measure-paddy-at-dpcs-opened/article38017127.ece
23 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Overseas traveller tested positive for COVID-19, isolated||A youth from Kumbakonam, who had visited his hometown from Sharjah, tested positive for COVID-19 and his samples have been sent for genome sequencing to identify the variant of the virus. The 27-year-old man from Thirumangalam near Kumbakonam landed at Chennai airport to visit his hometown on December 19. He was sent home to self-monitor. However, on Tuesday, the patient was rushed to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after he fell ill with fever symptoms. It was later identified that he tested positive for COVID-19. Since he had travelled from overseas, samples from the patient have been lifted and sent for genome sequencing for detecting the variant of the viral infection, sources said. The variant can be identified in labs attached to the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG). The nearest one is in Bengaluru. Results awaited “Only after the results arrive from the laboratory will we be able to rule out infection due to Omicron variant of COVID virus. The patient will continue to undergo treatment,” a senior health official said. The Thanjavur Medical College Hospital has set up a separate ward for international travellers to be isolated and undergo treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overseas-traveller-isolated/article38017132.ece
23 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Release unpaid wages’||The Ex-servicemen Temple Security Personnel Welfare Association has demanded immediate release of wages pending from September. In a memorandums submitted to the district administration and the police on Wednesday, its vice-president R.Balu and others lamented that wages for September, October and November for the ex-servicemen deployed for temple security services in Thanjavur district had not been released. A total of 64 ex-servicemen were engaged for night duty at the temples managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-unpaid-wages/article38017129.ece
23 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Move to safeguard properties||In order to eliminate scope for illegal occupation of properties belonging to mosques/darghas in Tamil Nadu by individuals/entities, the Tamil Nadu Wakf Board had suggested that the properties are valued as ‘0’ (zero) in the land/property records with the Revenue Department. Disclosing this to the media here on December 22, the board chairperson Abdul Rahman said that the responsibility of maintaining the properties belonging to the mosques/darghas rests with the trustees of the respective institutions. As a supervising entity, the board could assist the initiatives of the trustees in reclaiming the encroached properties, if any, and as a long-lasting measure, the board suggested that the properties belonging to the mosques/darghas be valued as ‘0’ (zero) in revenue records. “This will ensure prevention of sale or registering the properties in the names of individuals/entities using fake documents, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-safeguard-properties/article38017131.ece
23 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Timings reduced for Thyagaraja Aaradhana||Timings for the forthcoming annual “Thyagaraja Aaradhanai” at Thiruvaiyaru during January 2022 have been reduced to six hours in view of the COVID-19. Trustees of Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha said that the music programmes by vocalists and instrumentalists will take place from 4 p.m. to 10 every day from January 18 to 22. ‘Pancharatna kritis’ The main event of recitation of ‘Pancharatna kritis’ will be performed as usual on the ‘Aradhana’ day, said Suresh Moopanar, trustee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thyagaraja-aaradhana/article38017128.ece
23 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Police confiscate 21 kg of heroin||A police special team has seized 21 kg of heroin, worth about Rs. 21 crore in the international market, and arrested six persons in Thoothukudi on Tuesday. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, the team, which was monitoring the Tooveypuram area following information about drug smuggling, picked-up M. Ansar Ali, 26, of Anna Nagar, in Thoothukudi, while he was moving around suspiciously near Tooveypuram Park. When the police frisked him, they found packets of white powder, suspected to be heroin. Based on his information, the team also nabbed his associates M. Marimuthu, 26, and S. Imran Khan, 27, from whom more packets of the powder were seized. The packets weighed about 162 g in total. “When we grilled the trio, it led to the arrest of three more persons, all fishermen, who had kept 21 kg of heroin in a hideout in Tharuvaikulam, near Thoothukudi, early on Wednesday,” Mr. Jayakumar said. They were identified as S. Antony Muthu, 42, and R. Prem Singh, 38; and S. Kasali, 27. The 21 kg of heroin was seized from Antony Muthu’s house. During investigation, the police found that the arrested fishermen, including Antony Muthu, who is the owner of the mechanised boat, found a parcel floating in the sea when they were fishing near Minicoy Islands about 10 months back. They retrieved the parcel and found white powder packed in 30 packets. “Since Indian Coast Guard and the Indian Navy vessels check fishing boats for drugs and other banned articles, the smugglers might have dropped the parcel in the sea,” Mr. Jayakumar said. After confirming that the powder was heroin, Antony Muthu began selling the packets without knowing their actual value. “The fishermen arrested now don’t have any history of drug trafficking. Hence, we are investigating to confirm Antony Muthu’s statement,” Mr. Jayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-confiscate-21-kg-of-heroin/article38017012.ece
23 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Anti-plastics campaign van flagged off||Collector K. Senthil Raj flagged off an anti-plastics awareness vehicle here on Wednesday. Dr. Senthil Raj said production, stocking, sale and use of one-time use-and-throw plastic products such as carry bags, plastic coated plates, plastic tumblers, plastic packaging materials, plastic water packets, plastic straw, plastic banners, plastic flags etc. had been banned across the State. Since the High Court and the National Green Tribunal were against the use of these products causing serious pollution to the environment, the ban was being strictly enforced across the State. To encourage the public to use eco-friendly products and boycott the one-time use-and-throw plastic products, the awareness programmes were being organised, Dr. Senthil Raj said. The vehicle will visit all villages across the district to create anti-plastic awareness among the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-plastics-campaign-van-flagged-off/article38017320.ece
23 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Two held with sea cucumbers||Forest personnel have arrested a person for having poached sea cucumber and another person who was about to buy the marine animal from the former. When a patrol team, led by Forest Ranger Raghuvaran of Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve Trust, was patrolling along the Mullukambi Beach near Terespuram on Tuesday evening, they picked up a person carrying sea cucumbers. During an inquiry, the forest personnel found that Raja Umaiyanan, 38, of Terespuram, was taking the sea cucumbers to sell it to Ramamurthy, 35, of the same area. Besides seizing 51 sea cucumbers from Raja Umaiyanan, Mr. Raghuvaran arrested him and Ramamurthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sea-cucumbers-seized-from-two-persons/article38017144.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Need for elevated corridor along Puthur-Somarasampettai stretch||As the residents of various colonies on Vayalur Road continue to face nightmarish experience while driving vehicles due to frequent traffic snarls, the demand for building an elevated corridor between Puthur and Somarasampettai in the city has gained momentum. Deteriorating condition of the five-km road connecting Vayalur with Puthur has caused annoyance to motorists and residents of various colonies along both sides. It was only a village road until late eighties, utilised mainly to transport agricultural produce and fertilizers by bullock carts.. Hundreds of acres of land situated on both sides of the roads were once paddy fields with well-connected system irrigation. Only a few buses bound for Thogamalai, Vayalur and Somarasampettai were operated on the route. As the stretch began to feel the impact of urbanisation, the road was strengthened with tar-topping. It was widened subsequently to accommodate the growing population and vehicles. Now, sides of the road have several prominent residential colonies. Almost all agricultural fields from Puthur to Allithurai have been made as residential colonies. Moreover, a number of commercial complexes, hotels, grocery stores, hospitals, medical shops, tea and snack stalls, hardware showrooms, educational institutions and stationary shops have sprung up along the five km stretch. Hundreds of vehicles including buses, trucks, lorries, cards and two-wheelers ply on it. It becomes busy between 8 a.m. and 11 p.m. with thousands of commuters using the roads. It is a daily ordeal for residents to reach the main road from lanes. With traffic snarls becoming order of the day, quarrels among motorists vying for road space are a daily occurrence. Motorists complain they spend as much as 45 minutes to reach Somarasampettai from Puthur, which otherwise is just a five to 10-minute drive. There is no scope for widening the road further. Building an elevated corridor or a lengthy flyover is the only alternative to solve the traffic crisis. Though the people are suffering for more than 10 to 15 years, a cross section of residents say successive governments did nothing to solve the issue. They say that the Highways Department, which plans to build at least three elevated corridors in the city, has ignored the stretch. “If Tiruchi requires any road to be made as elevated corridor it undoubtedly should be Puthur-Somarasampettai stretch. It is unfortunate that the successive governments, elected representatives and officials concerned fail to take a note of it,” says J. Rabinder, a retired Chief Engineer of Public Works Department and a resident on Vayalur road. He said that Bharathidasan Road from MGR roundabout to Head Post Office was relatively free of traffic chaos. The road was broad. However, the Highways had proposed to build an elevated corridor. It should have included Vayalur Road too in the list of elevated corridors. “We cannot describe the sufferings that we undergo on day to day basis to drive vehicles on Vayalur Road. The officials concerned should take note of the sufferings of the people for at least two hours so as to understand the gravity of the situation. It is high time to form an elevated corridor,” says S. Boopathi, a retired Assistant Commissioner of Customs, a long-time resident of Seenivasa Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-for-elevated-corridor-along-puthur-somarasampettai-stretch/article38017449.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two idols retrieved||The Idol Wing CID police on Wednesday retrieved two ‘panchaloha’ idols of Thalaraneswarar Temple of Sanniyasi Panangudi in Nagapattinam district. An Adipoora Amman idol and a Vinayaga idol of the temple had gone missing about 29 years ago, and a case was registered at Thittacherry Police Station. The case registered in 1992 was closed the next year as there was no information about the idols. The Idol Wing CID re-opened the case after registering a fresh First Information Report on November 11. As the police could not get any clue, they checked checklist of various temples of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE). They inquired many people. A team visited Thirumurugal Rathinagiriswarar temple and found the Adipoora Amman idol and the Vinayaga idol. Briefing reporters on the recovery of the idols, C. Sylendra Babu, Director General of Police, said that the idols were not listed in the document of the Rathinagiriswarar Temple. They were kept without any documentary evidence. Enquiry was still on why the idols were kept in the Rathinagiriswarar Temple and who were involved in the case. Later, he presented cash prize to a team led by R. Rajaram, Additional Superintendent of Police, Idol Wing, R. Indira, Inspector, S. Tamil Selvan and Balachandran, Sub-Inspectors for cracking the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-idols-retrieved/article38017057.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Building commissioned||A renovated building that was strengthened by Aatral Foundation, a not-for-profit working towards improving infrastructure, was commissioned at the Government High School, Thuvakudi. Its project manager M. Prabhakar said they were informed of the poor condition of a few buildings on the school campus. They found the building safe for use but required maintenance. A team undertook work to fix benches, tables and repaint classrooms. ‘We were informed by school authorities that they needed more classrooms for their students and some needed repair. Both classrooms are fully functional,’ he said. Headmistress R. Nirmala said that since the classes are being undertaken on a rotation basis, keeping in mind COVID-19 norms, the classrooms were used by students from all classes. A report has been submitted to the district authorities on repair that needs to be done in some classrooms. ‘There are some leaky roofs and other repair work. A detailed report has been submitted and work will be undertaken to repair it soon,’ she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renovated-building-commissioned/article38017125.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Welfare aid distributed to physically challenged||Speaker M. Appavu distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 41.77 lakh to 101 physically challenged beneficiaries in the presence of Collector V. Vishnu here on Wednesday. Mr. Appavu recalled a mega camp organised by him in his constituency of Radhapuram in 2007 for giving identity cards to the physically challenged persons on the same day by roping in doctors from various fields. “In this mega camp, which was organised with the objective of screening the disabled and giving identity cards to them on the same day, 1,453 identity cards were given. It was replicated in all the Assembly segments. It was even conducted across India thanks to the initiative of then Union Minister Napoleon.” Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab and others participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-aid-distributed-to-physically-challenged/article38017140.ece
23 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 139.90 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 571.76 cusecs and 1,104.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 117.50 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 120 cusecs and 235 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38017452.ece
23 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder in Dharapuram||The Dharapuram police on Tuesday arrested an elderly man on charges of murdering a woman, whose body was found on a plot in Dharapuram here on December 19. A statement from the Tiruppur District Police said the accused, Velusamy (65), allegedly confessed to have strangled Sujatha (46) to death using a nylon rope at his residence.  Clothes burnt After the murder, the accused allegedly burnt her clothes, stole her jewellery and stuffed her body in a gunny bag. He threw the body on the plot in Balasubramaniam Nagar, where it was discovered by the police on December 19, the statement read. Extramarital affair The deceased was allegedly in an extramarital affair with the accused for two years and had demanded money from him that led to the murder, the police claimed in the statement. Having previously registered a case of suspicious death, the Dharapuram police altered the case and booked the accused for murder. The accused was remanded in judicial custody and the stolen jewellery were retrieved from him, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder-in-dharapuram/article38017067.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme on handloom mark schemes||In order to create awareness of the Handloom Mark scheme among the handloom industry stakeholders as well as to explain the use of web application and mobile app, the textiles committee of the Union Ministry organised a programme in Arani near Tiruvannamalai. Inaugurating the programme, B. Elangovan, Assistant Director, Department of Handlooms and Textiles of the State government, said the handloom industry in the country was part of a rich cultural heritage. After agriculture, handloom provides livelihood for 35.2 lakh people through 28.2 lakh handloom units in the country. “In order to safeguard the interests of the handloom weavers, the Handloom Mark scheme was launched in 2006 by the Centre to create market opportunities for them,” he said. In line with the digitalisation of Centrally-sponsored schemes, the textiles committee has launched a web application and a mobile app. Explaining its features, V. Ponnusamy, quality assurance officer, Textiles Committee (Chennai), said online submission of applications to join the scheme can be done using the new app. Consumers can also verify the genuineness of the products and handloom mark labels through the ‘Customer App’. K. Poornima, assistant director, Textiles Committee (Chennai), K. Raghu, scientist, Central Silk Board (Kancheepuram), V. Patturajan, assistant director, textiles committee (Chennai) took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-on-handloom-mark-schemes/article38017457.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||CCTV camera donated||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation has sponsored the installation of a surveillance camera system worth Rs. 3.50 lakh at Ammaiyappan panchayat. It sponsored construction of a vehicle shed at a cost of Rs. 4.5 lakhs in the Koradacheri Police Station premises and a high-mast lamp facility at Peruntharakudi village panchayat, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cctv-camera-donated/article38017130.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||University signs MoU||The Central University of Tamil Nadu signed a memorandum of understanding with the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International School of Textiles and Management, Coimbatore, on December 21 to introduce textile industry-oriented programmes. The MoU will enable the formulation of industry-oriented programmes in textile business analytics and textile management to cater to the needs of textile industry for skill development and employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-signs-mou/article38017123.ece
23 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||NIV accreditation soon for T.N.’s testing facility for Omicron||The Pune-based National Institute for Virology (NIV) will give its accreditation to the testing facility for Omicron variant in Tamil Nadu soon, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said here on Wednesday. Addressing mediapersons after flagging off a COVID-19 awareness rally at the Old Bus Terminus, he said the accreditation process for the existing testing facility for Omicron variant at the DMS (Directorate of Medical Services) complex in Chennai, was in the final stages of approval by the NIV. “Currently, the samples of Omicron variants that are tested at the DMS facility are sent to NIV for re-testing. Accreditation helps to acknowledge results of tested samples at the DMS facility by NIV. The facility will be a branch of NIV for testing samples for the Omicron variant,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. “There is no need to panic about Omicron. However, complete vaccination is the need of the hour,” he said. Christmas and New Year celebrations were allowed based on the guidelines issued by the Union government. However, COVID-19 safety norms would be followed strictly, he added. He was accompanied by P. Kumaraval Pandian, Vellore Collector, T. Manivannan, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Vellore City Corporation, and P.G. Banumathi, Deputy Director for Health Services (Vellore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/niv-accreditation-soon-for-tns-testing-facility-for-omicron/article38017056.ece
23 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Sniffer dog helps police crack jewellery heist case in Vellore||Head constable M. Gerard Wilson calmly calls his 8-year-old black labrador Simba at the police detective dog squad on the Old Bangalore Road in Vellore. The dog walks out of his small kennel towards his handlers without jumping or barking and curiously smells the black polished boots of Mr. Wilson, one of his handlers. Constable M. Sasikumar is the second handler who is close to Simba. They spend most of their time with him taking care of his daily needs including bathing, feeding, routine classes like detection by smell and physical training. Simba returns his gratitude by sniffing the objects or the specified area where he is left free to do his job and provides valuable clues to his handlers. “Simba never barks when he finds explosives during search operations. Instead, he quietly sees his handlers while giving a hint. That comes through training,” said Rajesh Kannan, Vellore SP. Simba’s sniffing skills were on full display a week ago on December 15 when he was taken to the Jos Alukkas, a gold retail chain showroom at Katpadi Road in Vellore, where 16 kg of gold and diamond jewellery were stolen the previous night. Once he landed at the spot, Simba pulled Mr. Sasikumar to the rear side of the showroom where a hole was drilled by the suspect over a week. Simba did not stop there. He took the police team to the staircase where the footmarks of the suspect were identified. He took the team to Katpadi Road junction, around 500 m from the showroom, where he smelled the suspect’s scent. Vital clues Initial clues provided by Simba were vital in getting an idea of the suspect and his motives, the police said. Subsequently, eight special teams worked on CCTV camera footage around the showroom tracking the suspect in Odugathur village near Anaicut along Jawadhu Hills in Vellore on Monday. At the kennel built in 1986, Simba retires with his peers once his mission gets completed. Other sniffers are Lucy (9 years), Agni (4 years) and newly joined Sara (3 months old) who are taken care of by constables J. Elagovan, C. Dhanasekaran and S. Gunraj. They are fed with rice, beef, boiled egg, milk and vegetables every day. On an average, the three sniffers helped solve 80 cases each year. These sniffers are classified for four trade works such as explosives, crime, narcotics and earthquakes. At Vellore, the dog squad is mainly used for explosives and crime works after a year-long training given in Chennai. Each dog is taken care of by two handlers. The Madras City Police Dog Squad was started under Sub-Inspector of Police Kanniah Naidu in 1952. It was set up in the CB-CID buildings on Mount Road and was shifted to Egmore in 1956. It was the oldest dog squad in the country. The Madras police was the first to use sniffer dogs for detection and tracking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sniffer-dog-helps-police-crack-jewellery-heist-case-in-vellore/article38017454.ece
23 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 9 fresh infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,406 with 9 new cases reported on Wednesday. While 49,154 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 111. The district's death toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, no cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,660. In Tirupattur district, 2 cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,451. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at 4, taking the overall tally to 55,325. Out of these, 54,586 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-9-fresh-infections/article38017455.ece
23 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Cane crushing activities launched in Villupuram||Collector D. Mohan launched cane crushing activities at Chengalrayan Co-operative sugar mill at Periyasevalai near here on Wednesday. According to officials, four lakh tonnes of sugar cane, cultivated on about 12,000 acres, was aimed to be crushed at the co-operative mill during the crushing period next year. Farmers would be paid Rs. 2,900 per tonne of cane. The government will soon transfer a special incentive of Rs. 192.50 per tonne to 5,000 farmers, who had supplied cane to the mill during the period 2020-21. The incentive will be paid over and above the fair and remunerative price of Rs. 2,705.5 per tonne. . MLAs A.G. Manikannan, N. Pugazhenthi and managing director of the mill K. Saraswathy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cane-crushing-activities-launched-in-villupuram/article38017416.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report less COVID-19 cases||The central region reported 44 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. No death was reported. All nine districts in the central region reported less than 15 COVID-19 cases. A total of 12 patients reported positive for the viral infection in Karur, while both Thanjavur and Tiruchi reported 11 cases each. Six patients reported COVID-19 positive in Tiruvarur while three were reported in Pudukottai. Two patients contracted the infection in Nagapattinam. Meanwhile, three districts in the region - Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai district and Perambalur registered zero fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-less-covid-19-cases/article38017133.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala’s nephew quizzed||The police are trying to piece together how he had shared the information with her. He was also questioned about the suicide of a computer operator at the estate. A senior police officer said the questioning started around 2.30 p.m. and went on till 5 p.m. on the PRS campus in Coimbatore. A police source said Mr. Jayaraman was summoned based on the details provided by the others who had been interrogated. The police on November 25 questioned S. Natarajan, manager of the bungalow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikalas-nephew-quizzed/article38017018.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mast‘ers’ atop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masters-atop/article38016688.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society: Thiruppavai prayers, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m.       Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: Painting exhibition, Kasthuri Sreenivasan Art Gallery, 10 a.m.    Lions Clubs International: Inauguration of Library, Office of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Abdul Raheem Road, 5 p.m.  SITARC and QCFI: MSME Empowerment Programme, COINDIA Auditorium, Avarampalayam, 5.30 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology: Seminar on ‘Innovations and Recent Challenges in Industrial Internet of Things’, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article38017080.ece
23 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Six public universities to be upgraded as institutions of eminence in State||“The State Government will upgrade six public universities into universities of eminence,” Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said in Belagavi on Wednesday. “They will be given modern facilities, hi-tech laboratories, well-stacked libraries and qualified teachers. Apart from producing good students and encouraging innovation, these universities of eminence will provide leadership to the State in science, humanities, economy and other fields,” the Minister said. He was speaking at a ceremony to lay the foundation stone for Rani Channamma University’s new campus in Hire Bagewadi village. Similarly, the government wants to upgrade the seven new engineering colleges on the lines of IITs, he said. All these institutions will get functional autonomy, he said. The State Government is taking steps to revolutionalise higher education. “We have converted 2,500 classrooms into digital classrooms. The remaining 6,500 will be converted soon,” he said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai laid the foundation stone for the campus and hoped that these will become centres of all-round knowledge and lead to a fundamental change in the field of education. Technology is changing everyday. Universities will have to keep pace with such changes. They should not only adapt those changes but also give leadership in effecting changes by innovation, research and development, he said. He also urged the professors to instil the spirit of inquiry among students, so that they develop critical thinking and emerge into public intellectuals. The Chief Minister promised to provide the necessary funds to complete the building complex on the 126-acre campus. Hopefully, it will be completed in a year, he said. Member of Legislative Assembly Lakshmi Hebbalkar urged the government to implement a project to provide water supply to the university and the adjoining village and set up a solid waste management system there.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai hopes that these will become centres of all-round knowledge and lead to a fundamental change in the field of education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-public-universities-to-be-upgraded-as-institutions-of-eminence-in-state/article38017171.ece
23 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Krishna tribunal award will be out soon, says Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that Karnataka was expecting an order from the Supreme Court shortly that could pave the way for notification of the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-2 award. “Telangana has withdrawn its petition. Due to our efforts, the court has taken up early hearing. We are expecting an order shortly,” he told the Legislative Assembly during the debate on North Karnataka development. “We are arriving at a final stage. The Centre is expected to state its stand during the next hearing on January 10. I am speaking to the lawyers for every hearing,” he added. The Chief Minister’s response came after the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy raised the issue of delay in implementing the Upper Krishna project phase-3. Mr. Kumaraswamy, in a veiled attack on the Congress, said that between 2013 and 2018 just about Rs. 8,076 crore had been spent on UKP-3, and money had been spent on main canals. “Water has not reached the fields since distribution canals have not been done. Should we give programmes only to satisfy contractors or give water to farmers?” Accusing the Centre of showing stepmotherly attitude, he said that Karnataka had not received funds from the Centre for irrigation projects. Earlier, the former Water Resources Minister M.B. Patil initiated the discussion on North Karnataka. Cong. under attack The House was witness to the Janata Dal (Secular) and the BJP reminding the Congress of its failed promise on the Krishna. It all started when Mr. Kumaraswamy referred to the seven-day ‘Congress Nedige Krishna Kadege’ from Hosapete to Kudalasangama in January 2013 in which the party made an announcement to keep aside Rs. 10,000 annually for the Krishna basin projects. Soon, Mr. Patil and the former Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwara refuted the statement by saying that the promise in Kudalasangama was to keep aside Rs. 10,000 crore for irrigation projects and not Krishna projects alone. “We allocated Rs. 58,000 crore in five years and spent Rs. 48,000 crore,” Mr. Patil defended. However, Minister for Major and Minor Irrigation Govind Karjol and BJP legislator Basannagouda Patil Yatnal disputed the claim. Mr. Karjol readout the Congress manifesto. In response, Mr. Patil said, “It was a typo and we had clarified it.” Later, taking a dig at the proposed padayatra of the Congress from Mekedatu to Bengaluru in January, Mr. Kumaraswamy said it was being planned in the light of elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishna-tribunal-award-will-be-out-soon-says-bommai/article38016988.ece
23 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cong. holds conference of minority leaders||The Congress held a conference of minority leaders in Belagavi on Wednesday. Most leaders spoke against the anti-conversion Bill. D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president, said the State Government was trying to target minorities and charge them in false cases. He said centuries of rule by the British and Muslim dynasties before that had not changed the social composition of the country. “Even today, minorities put together form not more than 20%,” he said. He said the Bill was unnecessary and was to divert the attention of the common man from real issues. “The BJP Government has failed on all counts. But it wants to keep winning elections by dividing society on caste and communal lines,” Mr. Shivakumar said. Religious leaders like Bishop Derek Fernandes, head of Belagavi diocese, Omkar Singh Bhatia, Sikh leader, and party leaders like Veerkumar Patil, Salim Ahmed, Lakshmi Hebbalkar, Rizwan Arshed, Anjali Nimbalkar, Kaneeja Fatima, Nazeer Ahmed, Channaraj Hattiholi, Tanveer Seth, Abdul Jabbar, and others were present. JD(S) leader Riyaz Ahmed Patel and some of his supporters joined the Congress at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-holds-conference-of-minority-leaders/article38017174.ece
23 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Delay in land grant triggers arguments||The delay in granting land for applicants in Udupi district triggered a heated debate in the Legislative Council on Wednesday. Answering a question raised by Congress member K. Pratapchandra Shetty, Revenue Minister R. Ashok gave details of applications seeking grant of land pending in Udupi district. Among the applications submitted under Form 50, as many as 80 were pending. Similarly, 7,754 applications submitted under Form 53 and 7,299 applications files under the Section 53C of the Land Reforms Act were pending. Govt. criticised The grant of land had been delayed as the land sought had been either deemed forest or partially deemed forest. Congress members Pratapchandra Shetty, B.K. Hariprasad criticised the State Government for the delay in granting the land to the applicants. Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar and others in the treasury benches commented that the delay in grant of land because of the previous government’s stand on the deemed forest status. Mr. Ashok said the issue of deemed forest was in the Supreme Court and the pending applications would be cleared once the matter was resolved in the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-land-grant-triggers-arguments/article38017349.ece
23 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Speaker urged to enforce discipline||Leaders in the Assembly cutting across political affiliations on Wednesday urged Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to take tough steps to ensure that members adhere to norms related to discipline as well as rules while participating in debates in the House. The leaders expressed concern that the House had not taken up any constructive and quality debate on major issues for a long time because of failure by members to adhere to norms related to rules of procedure. The issue came up for discussion in the House when members indulged in a lengthy debate during the zero hour much against the rules of procedure. Raising the issue, the former Speaker K.R. Ramesh Kumar observed that members were not adhering to norms related to debate under various clauses in the House. They were even reluctant to attend any workshop or orientation sessions, he said. Endorsing his views, the Speaker warned the members that the next generation would not pardon them if they continued to behave in anarchic manner in the House. Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy too wondered whether it would be possible for the House to take up serious debates if its members did not follow disciplinary norms. But taking serious exception to the Speaker and the Law Minister expressing their helplessness, the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa maintained that their failure to act sternly against members who violate disciplinary norms was to be blamed for anarchy in the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speaker-urged-to-enforce-discipline/article38016987.ece
23 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. to consider financial help for ‘Kashi yatra’||Minister for Muzrai Shashikala Jolle has said that the Government would consider offering financial assistance to devotees visiting Kashi (Varanasi). At present, financial assistance of Rs. 30,000 is given to devotees visiting Kailash Mansarovar. The Minister said her department would launch a campaign to improve C-grade temples with meagre annual income. The department would seek devotees’ help in this regard. She was responding to a question byBJP member Tejaswini Gowda in the Council on Wednesday. Among the temples in Karnataka, 34,219 are in the C category. There is no shortage of funds for development of temples in A and B grades, given their income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-consider-financial-help-for-kashi-yatra/article38016981.ece
23 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘UVCE will be developed on the lines of IIT’||Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan has said the State Government will develop the University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE) on the lines of Indian Institute of Technology(IIT). He spoke while piloting the Bill to upgrade the college into a university in the Legislative Council on Wednesday. The Minister said there was a need for upgrading the college considering the advances in the field of engineering. The Government would develop sevenmore engineering colleges, including one in Belagavi, on the lines of IIT in the State. Similarly, 30 engineering colleges, one in each district, would also be upgraded, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uvce-will-be-developed-on-the-lines-of-iit/article38016977.ece
23 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||KRV members vandalise buses||Some members of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike vandalised Maharashtra State Road Transport buses in Ghataprabha on Wednesday. They stopped the buses and wrote Kannada slogans on the windows. Two days ago, Marathi group members had vandalised KSRTC buses in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krv-members-vandalise-buses/article38017175.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1st year MBBS students told to pay fee for the next year||Many private medical colleges in Karnataka are asking their first year MBBS students to pay their second year fees immediately. Students have also being warned that they won’t be able to write the examination if they fail to pay the fees. Medical colleges are stepping up pressure on students as there has been a significant delay in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) counselling and admissions for the 2021-22 academic year have not yet started. Many medical college managements say, due to the delay, they have not had any source of income and are finding it difficult to pay the salaries of their staff. One student studying in a reputed private medical college in the city said that the examinations were scheduled in mid-January. “Even before we appear for the first year examination, they are asking us to pay the second year fees in advance. Many of us cannot make immediate arrangements for it, but colleges are telling us that they will not issue the admission tickets and we will not be able to appear for the year-end examination,” the student said. Another student of a medical college in the city said that following the directions of the colleges, many students had already paid the fees. “The college has signed an undertaking that if we do not pass the first year, the fee will be returned,” she said. When contacted, Jayakara S.M., Vice Chancellor of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, said that the private college managements can collect second year fees only after the first year examination is conducted and the students get their results. “Only after students clear the examination, colleges will know which students have been promoted and can move to the next year,” he said. He said that students can approach the university if colleges deny them admission tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1st-year-mbbs-students-told-to-pay-fee-for-the-next-year/article38016969.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Proposed anti-conversion law criminalises faith: protesters||A day after the State Government tabled the anti-conversion Bill (Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021) in the Legislative Assembly, a coalition of over 40 organisations of minorities, youths, Dalits, women, and human rights organisations held a protest in Bengaluru, demanding its immediate withdrawal. Peter Machado, Archbishop, Archdiocese of Bangalore, said the community was sad that the Government did not heed to their appeals and went ahead with the Bill. “We request you not to humiliate the community with this Bill, which potentially criminalises the practice of faith. We are happy that other sections of society have also come out against it,” he said. “The anti-conversion Bill, ironically named ‘Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill’ is presently seen as an issue solely posing threat to the fundamental rights of Christian community. But the Bill undermines the agency of an individual to make intimate choices of who their partners can be and what religion they must practice,” said a joint statement by the coalition of organisations. Yusuf Kanni, vice-president of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Karnataka, said the Bill betrays the ideals of 12th century philosopher Basaveshwara. “If the Government persists with the Bill, it will spark off a CAA-like Statewide protest,” he said. Advocate and activist Clifton D’ Rozario said the law should be seen as part of a larger pattern. “Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai recently made the infamous “action-reaction” statement when asked about moral policing by Hindutva groups. The exact same justification heard in Gujarat in 2002. The Bill effectively legitimises vigilantism and in turn penalises victims,” he said.  ‘It is anti-women’ Several women activists termed the Bill “anti-women” as it robs them of their agency. Gowramma, president of the Janawadi Mahila Sanghatane, said the law would be used to harass all those who go for inter-faith marriages and rob the women of their freedom to choose partners. “Why should the Government choose what we should eat, wear, and whom we marry?” she asked. Transgender activist Akkai Padmashali said the Bill rejects a plural idea of India. “The Government seems to have not learnt its lessons from the people’s victory in protests against NRC-CAA and farm laws. The anti-conversion Bill is just another distraction from the real issues facing the country,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposed-anti-conversion-law-criminalises-faith-protesters/article38016985.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dedicated personnel to monitor quarantine activities across State||Districts and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will post dedicated, full-time personnel for quarantine activities, as Karnataka has stepped up surveillance amidst Omicron scare. In a discussion with the nodal officers of the State COVID-19 war room and surveillance unit, wherein enhancing surveillance and designating contact-tracers and quarantine-watchers for detection of Omicron cases was the focus, it was decided that the Contact Tracing application and Quarantine Watch application will be activated “with necessary re-orientation” to all staff from BBMP and district health authorities. A circular said currently, about 300 COVID 19 cases are being reported daily in Karnataka and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) has been around 0.25% to 0.30% for some time. The Variant of Concern - Omicron - is spreading rapidly across the globe and so far, 19 Omicron cases have been detected in Karnataka, it said. On Wednesday, Karnataka reported 321 new cases and four deaths. As many as 211 were from Bengaluru Urban. To sustain gains achieved so far in surveillance, containment efforts and to make best efforts to prevent occurrence of the third wave of COVID-19 infections in the State, it is necessary to trace, track, and quarantine the primary and secondary contacts of positive persons more effectively, the circular said. “The primary and secondary contacts are to be identified within 24 hours of reporting of COVID-19 positive cases. The primary contacts should be tested on the first day and again on the eighth day and home quarantined for seven days from the date of positive reporting,” it said. Similarly, international travellers from high risk countries need to be quarantined for seven days from the date of their arrival, until the follow up and repeat RT-PCR test on the eighth day, and home quarantined for seven days from reporting, it added. Healthcare personnel, i.e., Public Health Inspecting Officers, Community Health Officers, and ASHAs who are doing activities of contact tracing, quarantine watch, and home isolation watch, will continue to do them. Further, all COVID-19 positive persons need to be triaged by the medical officer – PHC and team on ground as per prevailing instructions (physical triaging). Tele-triaging (over phone) shall be re-initiated at the State-level and triaging information would be recorded in Index application (BBMP) and State Line List (rest of the districts), the circular said. “Wherever necessary and to match the demand on ground, further additional teams to carry out the above mentioned activities have to be deployed by BBMP/district administration in consultation with the State nodal officers. Central War Room, BBMP, along with zonal and assembly constituency-level war rooms and all District War Rooms need to be re-activated,” it added. The Integrated Testing App will also be rolled out on pilot basis in BBMP area and if found feasible, would be considered for a larger roll out, the circular added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dedicated-personnel-to-monitor-quarantine-activities-across-state/article38016972.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Garment sector lobbies hard to reverse 12% uniform GST decision||The garment sector has been lobbying hard to reverse the recent notification by the Union Government for a uniform 12% Goods and Services Tax (GST) for the sector. Karnataka Hosiery and Garments Association (KHAGA) has now written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a reduction in the tax slab to a uniform 5%.The association pointed out that the 12% slab will not only be a burden to lower income groups but also adversely impact an industry already reeling under unprecedented losses. Prior to the notification, there were two tax slabs — 5% GST for garments below Rs. 1,000 and 12% GST for those above. Despite lobbying from the sector to impose a uniform 5% tax, the GST Rate Rationalisation Committee led by Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai imposed a uniform 12% slab across the sector. “It is the poor who buy garments below Rs. 1,000, and more than 80% of the garment industry is in this price range. Thus, the increase in tax affects the poor adversely. Moreover, with another proposal to merge the 12% and 18% GST slabs to either 15% or 16%, the effective tax hike will be nearly 300%. This comes at a time when the prices of raw materials like yarn, packing material and freight charges have shot up which is likely to lead to a price rise in the range of 15-20% before tax. This will be unfair on the weaker sections of the society,” KHAGA said in a letter to the Prime Minister. Sajjan Raj Mehta, chairman of the Taxation Committee of KHAGA, said the garment sector was very price sensitive and the industry has yet to pick up after the national lockdown due to the pandemic last year. “Several garment factories have shut down causing job losses. At this juncture, a tax hike will essentially scuttle the industry and may even cause more job losses,” he said. He pointed out that though large parts of the garment industry still operates in the informal sector, it was slowly changing and becoming more formalised post GST due to reasonable tax slabs. “All the good work over the last few years will be reversed and more businesses will slip back into the informal sector to avoid high taxes. This will only defeat the objectives of the government,” Mr. Mehta feared.  It is the poor who buy garments below Rs. 1,000, and more than 80% of the garment industry is in this price range. Thus, the increase in tax affects the poor adversely. Karnataka Hosiery and Garments Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garment-sector-lobbies-hard-to-reverse-12-uniform-gst-decision/article38016980.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro stn near Peenya terminal likely||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) is studying the feasibility of building a metro station close to Basaveshwara bus terminal of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) in Peenya. The terminal, for which the corporation had spent Rs. 40 crore, started functioning more than seven years ago and remained underutilised due to poor footfall. It is located 800 metres away from the Tumakuru Road and lack of connectivity is a major hurdle for not getting enough footfall. Realising that the terminal is turning into a dead investment, the KSRTC had asked the BMRCL to give a metro stoppage by building a metro station close to the terminal hoping that this would help in increasing the footfall. Shivyogi C. Kalasad, MD, KSRTC said, “We had multiple rounds of meetings with the BMRCL officials on providing a metro link to the terminal. Providing a metro stoppage would help people to reach the terminal. We are taking all measures to increase the footfalls and efforts are being made to use the commercial spaces.” The MD also claimed that the BMRCL has in principle approved a proposal to construct the station. In the past, the KSRTC made multiple attempts to start bus services from the terminal to various points and inter-State services, but failed to attract passengers. On KSRTC’s suggestion to build a metro station near the terminal, MD of the BMRCL Anjum Parwez said , “The feasibility of the proposal is being studied. There are many issues we need to look into; building a station requires an investment of Rs. 230 crore. Giving a metro stoppage would result in more travel time for people who travel towards Nagasandra. “We have a Peenya metro depot near the terminal which has been operational for years. Presence of sharp curves is another challenge to connect the terminal area. Our team is studying the issue, we will take further action based on the findings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-stn-near-peenya-terminal-likely/article38016967.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC imposes Rs. 50,000 cost on man who sought custody of child from his first wife||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed a cost Rs. 50,000 on a man, who is working in a foreign multi-national company, while rejecting his plea for custody of his minor son from his first wife even though he has already married another woman and has a child from her when his plea for dissolution of first marriage is still pending before the family court. The court has requested all the courts, dealing with six civil and criminal cases lodged by the couple against each other, to dispose of these cases in nine months. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order while dismissing the petition filed by the husband questioning the family court’s order of rejecting his plea child’s custody. The petitioner’s plea for divorce from first wife is pending in family court since 2016. The petitioner wanted to bring up the child in his exclusive custody while claiming that he is “in a better position to take care of child from a financial perspective and provide him the best upbringing education and a complete family environment.” He had alleged that first wife had “neglected her duties towards child and the petitioner.” Claiming that he is happily living with his second wife, the petitioner has said that “the second spouse has given an affidavit that the child from the first marriage should come and stay with this family.” However, the court observed that, “ ... it has been well settled that the act of a Muslim in espousing a second wife during the subsistence of first marriage per se amounts to cruelty and that not only the first wife can stay away from the matrimonial home but seek divorce too on that ground.” After having multiple in-camera interactions with the couple and the child, the court said that “it gets an impression that the minor child is being well groomed by the mother and child too wished to continue in her custody.” The court also said that the child would be in better comfort with biological mother. “If the wife can stay away from the matrimonial home on the ground of second marriage, it goes without saying that she can normally retain the exclusive custody of her minor child. An argument to the contrary would permit an unscrupulous husband who contracts another marriage, to pressurise his first wife to continue in the matrimonial home, eventually retaining the child in his exclusive custody,” the court said. “... even visitation rights of such father will diminish to a great extent subject to all just exceptions,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-imposes-rs-50000-cost-on-man-who-sought-custody-of-child-from-his-first-wife/article38016978.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 of family found dead, 11-year-old girl rescued||A family of four, including an 11-year-old, jumped into a lake in an attempt to end their lives in Magadi taluk on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday. While three of them drowned, the 11-year-old girl was rescued and hospitalised by the villagers who were alerted by the younger daughter. According to police, the incident occurred in Dammanakatte village in Magadi taluk of Ramanagaram district. The deceased have been identified as Siddamma, 55, her daughter Sumithra, 33, and son-in-law Hanumantha Raju, 35. A family dispute is said to be the reason for the incident. The police said initially, five of the family had decided to commit suicide by jumping into the lake on Wednesday morning. However, Sumithra’s other daughter, who is 10 years old, refused to jump and managed to escape. She informed the villagers about the incident. The villagers then rushed to the spot and rescued the other girl, Keerthana, while she was drowning. However, the three adults had drowned by the time the villagers reached there. Their bodies were later recovered. Hanumantha Raju worked as an agricultural labourer and was an alcoholic and stayed at his in-law’s place. He would come home drunk and fight with family over trivial issues. Unable to bear harassment, the family decided to end their lives, the police said. The police are now waiting to record the statement of Keerthana for further investigation.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-of-family-found-dead-11-year-old-girl-rescued/article38016975.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Clarification on use of loudspeakers sought||The Chairman of the Karnataka State board of AUQAF has written to DCP south, Harish Pandey, seeking clarification on the use of loud speakers in religious places. This follows a drive by the police on Tuesday to remove loud speakers that are violating Supreme Court guidelines during the early hours of prayers. Tension prevailed for some time when a few members of a mosque in Siddapura objected to the police action stating that they had not been given any prior notice. The board chairman N.K. Mohammed Shafi Saadi urged the police to not carry out the drive in haste and conduct an awareness programme on using high decibel sounds on loud speakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clarification-on-use-of-loudspeakers-sought/article38016964.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC reserves verdict on petitions against ban on online gaming||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday reserved its verdict on a batch of petitions questioning the legality of several provisions of the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act, 2021, which prohibits and criminalises the activities of offering and playing games of skill, including online games, by risking money or otherwise. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Krishna S. Dixit reserved the judgment after conclusion of oral arguments on behalf of the petitioners and the State Government. The petitioners include associations of gaming operators like Online Gaming Federation, Federation of Indian Fantasy Sports, gaming operators like Galactus Funware Technology Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, Play Games 24X7 Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, Head Digital Works Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad, Gameskraft Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, and Junglee Games India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, Pacific Gaming Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, Pool N Club, and a few individuals who are online gaming enthusiasts. The main contention of the petitioners was that the new law ‘unlawfully’ prohibits the ‘lawful and legitimate’ business of online games of skill. The petitioners contended that games of skill (involving risking of money or otherwise) do not amount to wagering or betting as interpreted by the apex court. However, the Government defended the new law citing that it is a legislation in the larger public interest and ensure public order while contending that there is vast difference in games of skill when they are played in physical mode and online mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-reserves-verdict-on-petitions-against-ban-on-online-gaming/article38016974.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power bill dues of village panchayats add up to Rs. 4,229 cr.||Concerned over village panchayats running up power bills amounting to a total of Rs. 4,229 crore, the Karnataka Government is considering the option of automating the operation of street lights and drinking water supply systems. Replying to Janata Dal (Secular) member Shivalinge Gowda during the zero hour in the Assembly, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said dues had accumulated since 2015. The RDPR Department is also considering installing solar lights in village panchayat buildings. Mr. Gowda had expressed concern that power authorities were set to disconnect supply to village panchayats that had not cleared their dues. But the panchayats were helpless as whatever money was being given by the Government to them was not enough to pay. The Minister stressed the need for taking precautions to conserve energy, and informed that responsibility had been fixed on various officers to prevent misuse or wastage of power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-bill-dues-of-village-panchayats-add-up-to-rs-4229-cr/article38016983.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug racket unearthed in city||The Mico layout police on Wednesday unearthed an inter-State drug racket and arrested two persons for allegedly peddling hashish oil in the city. The police recovered 5 kg of hashish oil and a few grams of marijuana worth Rs. 5 crore from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-racket-unearthed-in-city/article38016963.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Race event at Nandi Hills draws flak||A car and bike race event titled “Race to the Clouds” scheduled at Nandi Hills has drawn flak from environmentalists as the region witnessed landslides in August due to heavy rain. The organisers have scheduled bike and car race at the popular tourist destination on December 24 and 25 and brochures indicate that departments such as Tourism and Youth Empowerment and Sports are part of the event. Environment activists have accused the departments of allowing the event by ignoring caution given by geologists after the landslides. Former member of the Wildlife Board Joseph Hoover said, “We are not against racing, but Nandi Hills is not the place for such events. Let them organise the event at other places. Authorities showed insensitivity to the concerns raised by geologists after landslide. Such events had been cancelled in the past when the authorities were briefed about eco-sensitive area regulations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/race-event-at-nandi-hills-draws-flak/article38016965.ece
23 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM promises to increase session duration||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday assured the Legislative Assembly of increasing the number of days of legislature session in the coming days. Responding positively to the demand for increasing the duration of the session, the Chief Minister said he would take steps to increase the number of days of sitting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-promises-to-increase-session-duration/article38016986.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Earthquakes recorded in Chickballapur||Two earthquakes of magnitude 2.9 and 3.0 were recorded in Chickballapur by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre on December 22. The centre’s analysis showed that an earthquake of 2.9 magnitude was recorded at Mandikal gram panchayat followed by an earthquake of 3.0 magnitude at Bhogaparthi village in Addagallu gram panchayat. “As per the seismic intensity map of the earthquakes from the epicentre, the intensities observed are low and the tremors might be felt up to a maximum radial distance of 15 km. These type of earthquakes do not create any harm to the local community, although there may be slight shaking observed locally,” said KSNDMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/earthquakes-recorded-in-chickballapur/article38016970.ece
23 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||IIT Dharwad signs MoU with JCB India||In an initiative aimed at facilitating research collaboration in Artificial Intelligence, Clean Energy, and others, the Indian Institute of Technology, Dharwad, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with JCB India. According to a release, the MOU was signed recently in the presence of chairman of Board of Governors of IIT Dharwad Vinayak Chaterjee, director P. Seshu, and CEO and MD of JCB India Deepak Shetty. The MoU would create opportunities of collaboration between JCB India and IIT Dharwad in areas like Electric Drive Systems, Sensors and Characterisation and clean energy. Mr. Seshu said the faculty of IIT Dharwad were excited to take the collaboration forward. Mr. Chatterjee said there was scope for setting up a skill centre in Dharwad. Mentioning that coming together of industry and academia was necessary to build a country, Mr. Shetty said focus should be on finding practical solutions to real life challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iit-dharwad-signs-mou-with-jcb-india/article38017176.ece
23 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Shankar Foundation awards for Sudarshan, Choontharu||Medical practitioner and chairman of the State Government’s Technical Advisory Committee on COVID-19 M.K. Sudarshan and dentist Muralimohan Choontharu have been selected for the prestigious Dr. P.S. Shankar National Vaidyashri Award and Dr. P.S. Shankar Shreshta Vaidya Sahitya Award, respectively. A note released by P.S. Shankar Foundation secretary Narendra Badasheshi said that the awards will be presented to the doctors who have made significant contributions to the field of medical science and medical literature at a programme to be organised at Visveswaraya Bhavan in Kalaburagi on January 1, 2022, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of renowned doctor and medical teacher Nadoja Dr. P.S. Shankar. Dr. Sudarshan, who is serving as the Director of Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences in Bengaluru, was a former member of the World Health Organisation (WHO). His work in the field of rabies control is recognised worldwide. Mangaluru-based Dr. Choontharu is known for his writings on various topics in the field of medical science. He has published over 20 books in Kannada that deal with different aspects of preventive care. “P.S. Shankar Foundation has been offering financial assistance to medical students from poor and rural backgrounds in the form of scholarships. Due to COVID-19 and the resultant delays in the finalisation of admissions to medical colleges, we are unable to find meritorious students from the weaker sections of society at present. We will, however, continue the offerings this year also. We will either transfer the funds directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries or hand over cheques to them in person,” Mr. Badasheshi told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shankar-foundation-awards-for-sudarshan-choontharu/article38017172.ece
23 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. takes up special drive to remove waste from highways||Mangaluru City Corporation has begun a special drive to pick up waste from the highways in its jurisdiction. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar told The Hindu here on Wednesday that the drive has been taken up on a pilot basis starting from the Surathkal-Mukka stretch on the National Highway 66 now. The drive was acutally launched on Monday. “The waste will be picked up twice a week on Mondays and Tuesdays,” he said and added that the drive is to ensure that the highways are kept clean. Responding to a tweet by the corporation on the drive, some citizens asked the civic body to impose fine on those who throw waste on the highways and roads, while others wanted it to create civic sense. Preetham Sai P.V. wrote: “Unless you fine people who throw garbage on the road, this menace cannot be stopped.” Damodara Bhat replied: “Imposing fine, is fine. But creating civic sense is the best. Goa is a model city. Removing trash means bringing positivity while driving. Flowering plants or trees should enhance the beauty of roads.” Suresha Shenoy wrote: “Slow and steady, right direction as well. Penalise those who litter.” Mr. Sai further wrote: “Creating civic sense is the best. But do you think enough awareness has not been created? Yet people continue to throw garbage wherever they like. You should travel on Vamanjoor dumping yard road. There is crap everywhere despite the garbage truck coming everyday.” The corporation Commissioner said that the civic body has installed CCTV cameras in some places after identifying the black spots in the city. Garbage throwing has come down in such places. “As far as highways are concerned, some tourists also dump garbage,” he said. Meanwhile, throwing garbage on the roadside continues to be a menace on the outskirts of the city in the jurisdiction of gram panchayats and other urban local bodies. For example, on the Thokkottu-Konaje Road, garbage is regularly being dumped between Deralakatte and Natekal. Earlier, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat through the gram panchayats did trace such vehicles dumping waste on the roadside and imposed fine. But the menace has not come under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corpn-takes-up-special-drive-to-remove-waste-from-highways/article38017344.ece
23 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Raise in housing grant for SCs, STs to be sought||Mangaluru City Corporation will write to the government urging it to increase grant given for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes community for constructing houses, from Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 7 lakh under 24.10 % scheme, according to corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar. The government will also be requested to get Cabinet approval for the proposal. As prices of raw material required for building houses have shot up, the community people are facing difficulty in building houses. The matter was discussed at a meeting Deputy Mayor Sumangala Rao and the corporation Commissioner had with the leaders of the community in the corporation here on Tuesday, Mr. Sridhar said in a release. He said that as per a Government Order, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes have been given reservation to procure tenders for projects under Rs. 50 lakh. However, some Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes contractors have been getting work done through contractors of other parties, which is taking away the opportunity of bidding for potential Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes contractors. A complaint was heard, based on which an investigation committee under Deputy Commissioner (Administration) was formed to check projects taken up in the past two years under the reservation scheme and completed by other parties or those with false certificates. Necessary action will be taken against such members. It was suggested that all sanitation workers involved in cleaning and sanitation works be provided with quality equipment and protective gears. A request to place water purifiers in all ward offices for the use of sanitation workers was put forward, along with gradual development of basic infrastructure. The meeting was told that no committee has been created yet to look after maintenance and development of B.R. Ambedkar Bhavan near Urwa Stores. In addition, no permission has been granted to organise programmes at the venue. Responding to it, the Public Welfare Department said that the committee is being formed, after which suitable pricing will be fixed for the use of the hall by the community. The leaders said that members of other communities have encroached upon the DC Manna land near Urwa Stores and Sunkadakatte that come under the corporation limits. Several complaints have been filed on the subject and the areas have not been cleared. Responding to it, the corporation said that the Assistant Commissioner, Mangaluru Sub-Division, has been requested to take action and a reminder will be sent now. The Executive Engineer was directed to address issues related to drinking water supply and sewers in areas where members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes reside, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raise-in-housing-grant-for-scs-sts-to-be-sought/article38017341.ece
23 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||DKMUL launches Wheat Laddu, priced at Rs. 80||Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd. (DKMUL) released a new product, Wheat Laddu, in the market during its annual general body meeting here on Wednesday. The laddu is available in 250 gram packet, priced at Rs. 80. It has been made using wheat powder, ghee, sugar, cardmom, cashewnut and cream milk powder. Speaking after launching the product, president of the union Raviraj Hegde said that the laddu packet can also be used for gifting. He said that the union recorded 0.73% progress during 2020-21 and the net profit stood at Rs. 6.25 crore. The total business was put at Rs. 856.50 crore. Mr. Hegde said that the union collected an average 4.67 lakh kg of milk daily during the period. Milk collection was up by 6.8%. It paid an average Rs. 31.49 per litre for milk procured from milk cooperative societies. Of the milk procured, 84% was sold in liquid format. There was some reduction in the sale of milk products due to the COVID-19 impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dkmul-launches-wheat-laddu-priced-at-rs-80/article38017346.ece
23 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for abetting coursemate’s suicide||The Ullal Police on Monday arrested Sujith, 24, a medical intern at Kanachur Institute of Medical Sciences, Deralakatte, on the charge of abetting the suicide of his coursemate Vaishali Gaikwad, 25. Ms. Gaikwad, a native of Bidar, was found dead in her apartment at Kuthar on Sunday. Sujith, a native of Palakkad, too was a resident of the same apartment. The two were reportedly in an affair for about three years. Complaint lodged On reaching Mangaluru, Ms. Gaikwad’s parents lodged a complaint with the Ullal police that Sujith wanted to break the relationship and did not want to marry her. This led her to end the life. The Ullal police registered a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) against Sujith based on parents’ complaint.  Those in distress may call Arogya Sahayavani 104 or mental helpline 080-46110007 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-abetting-coursemates-suicide/article38017347.ece
23 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Anti-conversion Bill a ploy to divert attention: Cong.||The Congress has dubbed the anti-conversion Bill tabled in the Assembly as a ploy to divert public attention from the government’s ‘failure’ and create unrest in society. KPCC spokesperson M.Lakshman lashed out at the BJP Government for introducing the bill and said it will not stand the scrutiny of the existing law and the Constitution. The Constitution provides for freedom to follow one’s religion and hence the bill was not necessary and the Congress was opposed to it, he added. The BJP was targeting minorities and hence the bill has been introduced but it is also a ploy to divert public attention from genuine issues plaguing the society including the failure of the State Government which, he alleged, was steeped in corruption. Mr. Lakshman said a similar bill was introduced in Gujarat but the High Court of the State has issued a stay and vowed that the Congress would repeal the bill if re-elected. The Congress spokesperson also launched a broadside against BJP national general secretary C.T.Ravi and questioned his contribution either to his constituency or the State. Mr.Lakshman sought a list of his contributions and alleged that he was behaving as a spokesperson of Tamil Nadu on the Mekedatu project issue. “The BJP is bartering away the Mekedatu project for political gains in Tamil Nadu’’, alleged Mr. Lakshman. He accused the Centre of meting out ‘’step-motherly treatment’’ to Karnataka and said the Congress was pressing for the project not for any political gains or with any ulterior motive but because it will benefit the people of the State. The Congress will launch a padayatra from Mysuru to Mekedatu on January 9 to press for an early implementation of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-conversion-bill-a-ploy-to-divert-attention-cong/article38017361.ece
23 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||A pointless exercise, says Bishop of Mysuru||The Bishop of Mysore K.A.William said here on Wednesday that the anti-conversion Bill tabled in the Assembly by the State Government was needless and was liable to be misused by vested interest groups to frame the innocent. Speaking to media persons ahead of Christmas celebrations, the Bishop said that lakhs of students of all communities are studying in thousands of educational institutions run by the Christian community and there was no conversion. Hence the bill is pointless and nor were the community leaders unduly worried about it. However, in the present circumstances this could be misused and affect the innocent and that is the cause of greater worry, said the Bishop. Essence Bishop William said social service and reaching out to the community and society was the essence of Christianity and it was doing so through education and social service and was not indulging in conversion. In specific cases of forcible conversion the State could invoke the existing laws and take action but the anti-conversion bill was not necessary, he added. The Bill also does not pertain exclusively to Christianity and includes all religions and the future course of action will be decided by the Bishops’ council, said Dr.William. Christmas message Bishop William said Christmas will be celebrated as per tradition and it was a low-key affair in 2020 and the festival was being held in the shadow of Omicron variant this year. “Christmas is once again at our doors and this year the feast comes as a welcome breeze after a silent storm. People are going through anxiety, stress and discomfort of the pandemic wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Normal relationships are also affected and the gathering in the churches and places of worship are discouraged’’, said Bishop William. In his message the Bishop said Christmas is the celebration of the transcendental God becoming human, to liberate the suffering and forsaken humanity, and prayed for an early end to the pandemic so that life returns to normalcy at the earliest. Curbs welcomed He also welcomed the fresh curbs imposed by the government on New Year celebrations in the wake of the proliferation of the Omicron varient but said there was no such restrictions on Christmas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-pointless-exercise-says-bishop-of-mysuru/article38017360.ece
23 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Omicron scare hits tourist footfall in Mysuru||Footfall at Mysuru’s major tourist sites has dropped further amidst the threat of Omicron and the restrictions imposed on containing the spread of the new variant. Until the outbreak of Omicron, the number of visitors to the zoo and other major places of tourist importance had picked up and the stakeholders were ecstatic over the recovery after the tourism business took a severe beating from the second wave. Crucial factor After the government imposed tighter curbs on the entry of visitors from States such as Kerala, with strict surveillance on the borders, the arrivals have now dropped substantially, thereby affecting tourist revenue. Both the palace and the zoo are run on the revenue generated from their gate collections. Mysuru comparatively attracts more tourists from Kerala and Tamil Nadu than other States.  Mysuru Palace Board Deputy Director T.S. Subramanya said “We haven’t reached half of the pre-COVID-19 number of visitors with the pandemic continuing to cause disturbance. Whatever numbers we had gained post-pandemic are also seeing a drop over the fresh fears. The revenue which the Board used to earn from the gate collections has reduced by half.” Before the pandemic, the palace used to attract 10,000 to 12,000 visitors during weekends and 6,000 to 7,000 tourists during the weekdays. Its annual revenue was around Rs. 16 crore. When COVID struck, the footfall fell like never before and the board had a challenging time since it had to look after the maintenance of the iconic structure and pay staff salaries from the revenue earned from the gate collections. SKAL International Mysuru chapter president B.S. Prashanth said the fear of Omicron has forced many tourists to cancel their travel plans. It will take some time for the situation to become normal. The footfall from Kerala is almost nil. With curbs ahead of the New Year, people are opting for secluded locations such as Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru for spending the year-end with their families. There have been more enquiries and bookings for homestays in Kodagu and resorts in Goa, he said. “Like last year, this year too our hopes have been dashed. Usually, the bookings used to pick up from December 15 onwards but the new variant has triggered cancellation of bookings with tourists putting off their visits during the Christmas holidays,” he said. The stakeholders had claimed that the revival, when compared to the first wave, had appeared quicker and one of the key reasons attributed to this was vaccination. But with the vaccinated getting infected from the new variant, travelers have become wary. Mysuru zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni said the Omicron threat and the restrictions imposed on the entry of inter-state travellers, particularly Kerala, has hit the numbers. The footfall had actually increased but dropped in the recent days following fears of the new variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-scare-hits-tourist-footfall-in-mysuru/article38017364.ece
23 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Two school buses gutted||Two school buses that were parked on the premises of a private school at Bettadapura in Periyapatna taluk were destroyed after they caught fire on Wednesday afternoon. The incident took place around 1.30 p.m. after the buses, that ferried children to the school, were parked at a vacant plot. Reports reaching here said one bus was in flames and the inferno spread to another bus parked next to it before the personnel from the Fire department rushed to the spot and doused the blaze. The drivers shifted other buses to a safer place to prevent their damage. One bus was gutted fully and the other one was partially destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-school-buses-gutted/article38017362.ece
23 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Flower show at the palace from Dec. 25||The management of Mysuru Palace Board is holding the annual flower show on the palace premises as a year-end attraction for visitors. After a gap of a year, the event is being organised. However, only vaccinated persons will be allowed entry. It will be held from December 25 to January 2. The event last year was cancelled in view of the pandemic. In the wake of the Omicron threat, the board has taken steps to ensure all precautions are followed at the venue. Every visitor has to show proof of his or her vaccination status for gaining entry. Visitors can enter the show either from the Balarama gate or the Varaha gate of the palace. The organisers are planning to restrict the entry to 500 people, and the police deployed at the entry gates will ensure that the rule was complied with, in view of the government guidelines over the threat of a third wave. Illumination Also, the palace will be illuminated daily from December 25 to January 2 from 7 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. Entry to the flower show will be from 10 a.m to 8.30 p.m. The show has many attractions this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flower-show-at-the-palace-from-dec-25/article38017363.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Students gherao CM||They said that the government is yet to provide them with laptops, despite announcing the scheme a year ago. They needed the gadgets to learn better and complete their projects and assignments, they added. Their other demands included full resumption of scholarships for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes and minority students, proper hostel facilities, filling vacant posts of teachers and other staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-gherao-cm/article38017173.ece
23 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Ranjith murder: five SDPI activists arrested||The police team probing the murder of BJP OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas has arrested five Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists. The arrested have been identified as Ali Ahamed, 18, Asif Sudheer, 19, Nishad, 36, Arshad Navaz, 22 and Sudheer, 34, all from Mannancherry. The police said the arrested were not directly involved in the murder of Sreenivas. They were booked for destroying evidence and taking part in the conspiracy. Ranjith was hacked to death in his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha Municipality, on Sunday morning allegedly in retaliation for the murder of Social Democratic Party of India State Secretary K.S. Shan in Mannancherry on Saturday night. 350 locations searched The police conducted searches at more than 350 locations in the district in the last two days to nab those involved in the murders. Assailants involved in the twin murders remain at large. Earlier, the police arrested two Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh activists in connection with the slaying of Shan. The duo had participated in the conspiracy and planning to kill the SDPI leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ranjith-murder-five-sdpi-activists-arrested/article38017276.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||14 new Omicron cases in Telangana||Telangana has recorded 14 more cases of Omicron on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases of the coronavirus variant in the State went up to 38. The 14 new cases include two persons who landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Shamshabad, from at-risk countries, and 12 from other than at-risk countries. Genome sequencing results of four more samples are awaited. Tirupati’s first case Tirupati registered its first official Omicron case when a 39-year-old foreign traveller from Kenya reached the city on December 10. Upon reaching Chennai airport, the visitor travelled to Tirupati via road, where she was made to undergo RT-PCR test, which showed that she tested positive on December 12. The sample was sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, for genome sequencing, which confirmed her as Omicron positive on December 22. Six of her family members were made to undergo the test immediately, who however, tested negative. The passenger, who is now in institutional quarantine under the close observation of the health department, is said to be healthy. This is the second Omicron case identified in the State so far, out of the 45 foreign travellers and nine contacts found COVID-19 positive. The Health Department had advised the public not to give credence to wild rumours about the virus, but continue to take precautions, wear a mask, wash hands regularly and follow social distancing. On Wednesday, 182 new COVID-19 infections were detected taking the total to 6,80,074. While 37,353 samples were examined for coronavirus, results of 3,831 were awaited. One more COVID-19 patient has died. 182 infections The new 182 infections include 91 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 18 from Hanumakonda. From March 2, 2020 to December 22 of this year, a total of 2.93 crore samples were put through coronavirus testing and 6,80,074 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 3,610 were active cases, 6,72,447 have recovered, and 4,017 people have died.     (With inputs from Tirupati)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14-new-omicron-cases-in-telangana/article38017315.ece
23 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Simplifying learning, the natural way||Wearing a parrot mask, Dakshina K. Manu of Class I says “I am a parrot. I can sing and imitate humans.” Dheeraj Radhakrishnan turns himself into a lion saying “I am the king of the forest.” The audience consists of pre-primary school children at the Government Model Pre-primary School at Third Camp at Udumbanchola in Idukki. The school is set in a unique ambience with a fenced park on the banks of the Kallar. It has models of elephant, tortoise, frog and other animals, a fish tank, a miniature wind power plant, playing equipment, a garden, a butterfly park and so on. This is part of the school curriculum here. The classrooms are set in a way with a focus on thematic representation of local art forms and surroundings. This is the only school in the district with the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), Kerala, introducing such a new concept at the pre-primary level. Amal Roy, programme officer, SSA, said the curriculum is conceptualised in terms of specific classrooms and setting an environment for the mental and physical growth of the children. He said conventional methods of education starts with learning the alphabet and numbers. But informal training is imparted even earlie to equip kids with the ability to absorb concepts easily when the formal education begins. Importance is given to recreating the local ambience. The natural school surroundings make up a key element rather than formal classrooms, he said, adding that from the next academic year onwards, two schools in every district in the State will be brought under the new model. Art’s sake Every classroom has a painting corner with brushes and paints, canvas and other models. A puppet corner with puppets and masks of animals and birds and a music corner with models of music instruments, including the locally available ones, are also made available. Outside the classrooms, the children can make models on sand or enjoy watching the river flow or the scenic surroundings.  As many as 93 students in the age group of three to five years study in the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/simplifying-learning-via-nature/article38017308.ece
23 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Kattappana declared malaria-free||The Kattappana municipality was declared a malaria-free municipality in the State on Tuesday. At a council meeting, municipal chairperson Beena Jobi read out the message declaring Kattappana as a malaria-free municipality. The announcement was part of the Aardram Mission aimed at complete eradication of malaria in the State. In 2015, a survey was held to locate malaria-affected people, following which the eradication of mosquitoes spreading the disease was started.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kattappana-declared-malaria-free/article38017309.ece
23 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Ex-gratia||As many as 369 applications were received for ex-gratia assistance announced for the next kin of those who died of COVID-19 in the district. “As many as 682 deaths have been confirmed as COVID deaths,” District Collector A. Geetha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-gratia/article38017236.ece
23 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man kills wife, attempts to end life||A man murdered his wife by slashing her throat and attempted to end his life at Peringathur in Kannur on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Rathi, 57, of Padikuloth, Peringathur. Her husband, Mohanan, 61, was taken into police custody. He was running a tea shop in Coimbatore and had returned to the village four years ago. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts: State helpline 104, Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal - 0495-2760000 and DISHA – 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-kills-wife-attempts-to-end-life/article38017235.ece
23 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Arrested for assualting elderly woman||The police have arrested the first accused in the incident where an elderly woman was allegedly beaten up by four of her children at Mathamangalam in Kannur, on Wednesday. The first accused, Raveendran, was arrested on the charge of attempt to murder and assault on his 80-year-old mother, Meenakshiamma, on December 14. Three other children of the victim, Saudamini, Ammini, and Padmini, who were also accused in the case, are in hiding, the police said. Social Justice Minister R. Bindu had sought a report on the incident. The Minister directed the Social Justice Department to take immediate action. Meenakshiamma was allegedly assaulted by her children demanding a share of property. An injured Meenakshiamma was admitted to a hospital in Payyannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested-for-assualting-elderly-woman/article38017238.ece
23 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man injured in wild pig attack dies||A 60-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment after being severely injured in a wild pig attack, died of his injuries on Wednesday. K.U. John, 60, a resident of Vellarikkundu in Kasaragod district, died while undergoing treatment at Mangaluru. The incident took place on November 1 when he was called to Balal village to shoot down a pig, which was not leaving a house compound. John, who had a licensed gun to shoot wild pigs, arrived at 5.30 a.m., and fired at the pig. But the aggressive animal attacked the victim before a second shot was fired. John was critically injured and had been undergoing treatment in Mangaluru for over a month. The incident took place at a time when the State government has approached the Centre to temporarily allow the hunting of wild pigs following increasing threat to life and destruction of crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-injured-in-wild-pig-attack-dies/article38017242.ece
23 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||K-Rail will spell doom for State: Bhushan||Prashant Bhushan, senior lawyer and public activist, said here on Wednesday that the K-Rail SilverLine project would create major environmental problems in Kerala. Climate change was found to be the cause of recurring floods in Kerala. A huge sum of Rs. 1 lakh crore was being spent on a single high-speed line and the State would have to pay the interest alone to the tune of Rs. 5,000 crore every year. While pointing out that it was important to understand that the potential for corruption lay behind this plan, he suggested that the existing railway line should be expanded. Inaugurating the protest against the project organised by K-Rail SilverLine Protest Committee in Payyanur, Mr. Bhushan said the standard gauge semi-high speed rail project to be implemented by the K-Rail Corporation without conducting any significant studies was a catastrophic project, inviting debt and natural disasters for Kerala. K-Rail project was similar to the catastrophic construction in Uttarakhand where efforts were made to construct wide roads under the name of Chardham Highway by demolishing parts of the Himalayan region. He observed that Kerala could not afford a project costing Rs. 1 lakh crore. Due to inflation, 6% interest would have to be paid and this would put Kerala into a debt trap, he said. According to railway expert Alok Verma, Rs. 10,000 crore is enough to improve the existing broad gauge rail system in Kerala and increase the speed. Therefore, there should be a popular movement against the K-Rail project. Payyannur, the historical land of popular struggles, could write a new history of struggle against the K-Rail project, he said. At the convention held at Gandhi Park, K-Rail SilverLine Protest Committee chairman T.P. Padmanabhan presided. It was decided that letters would be sent to all 140 members of the Assembly as part of the protest programme. A march will be taken out to the Payyanur taluk office. A 50-member protest committee was formed to give shape to the future programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-rail-will-spell-doom-for-kerala-bhushan/article38017239.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Indian Navy enthrals President Kovind with mesmerising demo||A boat was ‘hijacked’ on the Kochi backwaters on Wednesday morning, leaving it to the Indian Navy’s elite marine commandos to do the rescue act. Only that it was part of an operations demo conducted at the Southern Naval Command in honour of the President and the Supreme Commander of Defence Forces, Ram Nath Kovind, who watched the show along with his wife, Savita Kovind. The simulation of the Visit, Board, Search and Seize operation saw the armed marine commandos chasing down the ‘hijacked’ vessel in two Gemini boats with the aerial support of a Chetak helicopter. Earlier, the demonstration got off to a high-octane start with five Gemini boats carrying machine gun-wielding marine commandos steaming across the backwaters in an arrow head formation firing saffron flares in honour of the President. This was followed by a fly-past demo, initially by three Chetak helicopters and followed by two Advance Light Helicopters (ALH), Dhruv, manufactured by HAL and described as the backbone of the Make in India initiative of the Indian aviation industry. Three Seaking advanced anti-submarine warfare helicopters then flew past, followed by three Dornier medium range maritime surveillance aircraft, which are hailed as the workhorses of the Indian Navy. Shore bombardment Shortly thereafter, INS Sunayna , a Naval Offshore Patrol Vessel (NOPV), demonstrated shore bombardment whereby naval artillery provide fire support for troops operating within their range. Excitement hit another notch as a helicopter approached a moving INS Sharada , another offshore patrol vessel, for the demonstration of landing on the narrow deck of a moving vessel. The helicopter hovered close to the deck before breaking off without actually landing. A bomb detection technician in his suit, along with a highly trained dog, then simulated the tension-filled exercise of detecting a ‘bomb’, which was then shifted to a specialised explosive containment vehicle with the help of another remotely operated device. Jaw-dropping moves An ALH then staged jaw-dropping manoeuvres, including a few sharp turns, sudden stops and sharp drops, before tipping a salute in the direction of the President and flying past. A Seaking helicopter, also known as flying frigate, then hovered really low and dunked a sonar beneath the water surface, demonstrating its capability to detect submerged submarines. Young cadets and Naval officers of INS Tarangini , a sail training ship, then performed ‘manning the mast’ in honour of the President. INS Tir , the first cadet training ship of the Indian Navy, INS Nireekshak , the Indian Navy’s only submarine rescue, salvage, and diving support vessel, and INS Kalpeni , a fast attack craft, followed suit. Four Fast Interceptor Crafts then sped across each other firing flares in honour of the President. The nearly 40-minute enthralling demo came to a close with a fly-past manoeuvre by the entire fleet of eight helicopters. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, were among those who attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/indian-navy-enthrals-president/article38017241.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||P.T. remembered as a great human being with leadership qualities||Friends and associates of P.T. Thomas, MLA, who passed away on Wednesday, recalled him as a great human being, warm-hearted, sincere, and full of leadership qualities. He was a great friend who was honest and involved himself in the affairs of the people without fear or favour, said actor Salim Kumar, recalling his long association with Mr. Thomas. He was straightforward and honest in his dealings, Mr. Salim Kumar added. M.P. Sukumaran Nair, president of Thrikkakara Municipal Cooperative Hospital and former chairman of the Public Sector Restructuring and Internal Audit Board, said Mr. Thomas was dedicated to his task as a public worker. He was approachable and took immense interest in the smooth functioning of the hospital, which has turned into an affordable facility. “He was fearless and approached all issues with a practical mind. His untimely demise is a great loss to the people of Thrikkakara,” Mr. Nair said. Salim Kunnumpuram of Thrikkakara Residents’ Association said Mr. Thomas always took active and personal interest in people’s welfare. “He responded positively to a proposal to raise a memorial for the late poet Chemmanam Chacko at Kakkanad. His passing is a great loss to the cultural life of Thrikkakara just as his absence on the political scene would be felt by his party members,” he said. A companion of Mr. Thomas, who was his junior at Maharaja’s College, recalled his sincerity in dealing with friends. “He was always at the forefront when it came to resolving a problem. He spoke his mind without fear and was committed to his words. He was always willing to help anyone in need and would not hesitate to intervene in situations where his presence was needed,” he added. A.C.K. Nair, president of Thrikkakara Samskarika Kendram, said the late MLA was keen to turn Thrikkakara into a model for the rest of Kerala. He was sincere, helpful and concerned about people’s welfare. Thrikkakara Municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan said Mr. Thomas’ demise was an unbearable loss. “His sincerity and courage in the face of difficulties were admirable. He was a great leader who stood by his principles,” she recalled. Cardinal George Alencherry, president of the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council and head of the Syro-Malabar Church, condoled the legislator’s death. In a message, he said his work for the public would remain forever in people’s mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pt-remembered-as-a-great-human-being-with-leadership-qualities/article38017273.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||President visits IAC Vikrant||President Ram Nath Kovind, who is also the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, visited the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC), Vikrant , which is under construction at the Cochin Shipyard, on Wednesday. This was Mr. Kovind’s first visit to IAC. He was briefed on the progress of trials ahead of the commissioning of the vessel. The President had a brief walk around the mighty carrier and expressed satisfaction at the progress being made. He appreciated the efforts of the Indian Navy and the Cochin Shipyard for the development of indigenous capabilities in ship building. It is a shining example of Atma Nirbhar Bharat, Mr. Kovind was quoted as saying in a release issued here. Indigenous components account for about 76% of the total project cost of Rs. 19,341 crore, the release said. It comprises indigenous materials like steel and other equipment manufactured by Indian industrial houses and around 100 micro, small and medium enterprises. It has generated employment opportunities and bolstered the domestic economy. Nearly 2,000 shipyard and 13,000 non-yard personnel are engaged in the construction of IAC, the release added. Mr. Kovind was accompanied by wife Savita Kovind and daughter Swati. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, and Madhu Nair, chairman and managing director of Cochin Shipyard, were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/president-visits-iac-vikrant/article38017268.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||RSS worker’s murder: HC seeks probe status report||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to file a report on the status of the investigation being conducted into the killing of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker A. Sanjith in Palakkad. The court issued the order when a petition filed by the slain RSS worker’s wife, Arishika, seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the murder case came up for hearing. ‘No headway in probe’ The 27-year-old RSS worker was murdered on November 15 when he was taking his wife to her workplace. According to the petitioner, he was murdered allegedly by Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) workers. In her petition filed in the High court, she said that the culprits behind the gruesome murder of her husband were still at large. No headway The State police could not make any headway in their investigation despite the revelation about the involvement of SDPI and Popular Front of India activists in the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rss-workers-murder-hc-seeks-probe-status-report/article38017277.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lynchpin of fake note racket held||Seventeen months after a fake note printing racket was busted in a joint operation by the police and Anti Terrorist Squad at Ilanji in Koothattukulam, the Crime Branch (CB) probing the case arrested the alleged lynchpin. The arrested man was identified as Saneer of Kalpetta. He was picked up from Puthur in Kollam. He was shifting hideouts within and outside the State for the past five months. A tip-off received by CB Superintendent M.P. Mohanachandran led to the arrest. The racket was found printing fake Rs. 500 notes at a rented house and fake notes of the face value of Rs. 7.57 lakh were also seized. The CB had arrested nine persons in the case. A team led by CB DySP N.C. Rajmohan and comprising Inspector R. Jose, Sub Inspectors Binulal P.L. and K.S. Rajeev, Assistant Sub Inspector Abdul Jaleel, civil police officers Benoy and Praveena made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lynchpin-of-fake-note-racket-held/article38017264.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Thomas belonged to a rare breed of politicians: Jairam Ramesh||Rich tributes were paid to P.T. Thomas, MLA, who passed away on Wednesday. Former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh remembered Mr. Thomas as a person who belonged to a rare and vanishing breed of politicians. “He was very courageous in the stance he took on the protection of Western Ghats. He paid a price for it but never wavered. I salute his boldness and commitment,” Mr. Ramesh noted. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan remembered Mr. Thomas as a leader of the masses who always upheld his political positions. Mr. Thomas stood his ground on sensitive issues like women’s safety and ecology. He had vehemently argued for the implementation of the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel report ignoring stiff opposition from various quarters, he said. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve condoled the demise of the legislator who represented the Thrikkakara constituency in the Assembly. He also lauded the role played by Mr. Thomas in bringing up various issues of public interest on the floor of the House. Mayor M. Anilkumar, T.J. Vinod, MLA, and Hibi Eden, MP, also condoled the demise of Mr. Thomas. The birth centenary celebrations of T.K.C. Vaduthala, which were to be held at the Ernakulam Town Hall on Thursday has been postponed. Body to be brought today The body will be brought to Mr. Thomas’ house on Vayalassery Road, Palarivattom, by 6.30 a.m. on Thursday. Later, the body will be taken to the DCC office at 7.30 a.m. The mortal remains will be kept at the Town Hall from 8.30 a.m to 1.30 p.m. for the public to pay homage. Thereafter, the body will be taken to the Thrikkakara Community Hall in Thrikkakara, the constituency represented by Mr. Thomas in the Assembly. The district administration has declared a half-day holiday in Thrikkakara constituency as a mark of respect for Mr. Thomas, said a release from the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thomas-belonged-to-a-rare-breed-of-politicians-jairam-ramesh/article38017269.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||16 pilgrims injured as mini-bus rams lorry||Sixteen Sabarimala pilgrims were injured after the mini-bus they were travelling in rammed a lorry near Chakkaraparambu along the Edappally-Vyttila stretch of the Ernakulam bypass during the early hours of Wednesday. The injured included two children, aged 11 and 13. Two persons, including the mini-bus driver, belong to Telangana, while the rest hail from Kallakurichi district in Tamil Nadu. Four persons were admitted to a private hospital here with multiple injuries. The condition of the persons admitted to the Ernakulam Medical Centre near the accident site is reportedly not serious though they suffered fractures and multiple injuries, according to the hospital authorities. The police said the accident occurred when the lorry driver was taking a reverse when the mini-bus rammed it. Venkitesan, a passenger who was seated in the last row of the mini-bus, said most of the passengers were asleep when the accident happened. The injured belonging to Kallakurichi will be shifted to a hospital in Salem on their request. The authorities at the private hospital said an investigation was on to ascertain whether the injured required any procedures as they had suffered multiple injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16-pilgrims-injured-as-mini-bus-rams-lorry/article38017282.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Musical homage to Thomas||The mortal remains of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee working president P.T. Thomas, MLA, who passed away at Vellore on Wednesday, will be brought to Kochi on Thursday. A musical homage will be offered to Mr. Thomas at all the venues where his body will be kept for the public to pay homage. Popular song Chandra Kalabham Charthi Urangum Theeram, penned by Vayalar Rama Varma, will be played at the venues as desired by Mr. Thomas. The late legislator had expressed his desire for the song to be played during his final journey, to one of his close friends. Musicians will pay homage to the departed leader through live performances at the venues, said Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. Mr. Thomas wanted his body to be cremated at the public crematorium at Ravipuram here. He also wanted his ashes to be deposited in the tomb of his mother. He was against placing wreaths on his body and wanted to donate his eyes. The party has taken steps to fulfill his wishes, Mr. Satheesan said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will pay homage to Mr. Thomas at the Ernakulam Town Hall on Thursday. The funeral will be held at the Ravipuram crematorium at 5.30 p.m., according to a communication issued by DCC president Muhammad Shiyas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/musical-homage-to-thomas/article38017279.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Award for ex-Mayor||Former Mayor Soumini Jain and writer Sippi Pallippuram were presented the annual awards instituted by the Cochin Sahithya Academy. While Ms. Jain was presented the award for the best woman social worker, Mr. Pallippuram was presented the golden pen award. K.J. Maxy, MLA, presented the awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-ex-mayor/article38017262.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Traffic curbs on Goshree bridge||Traffic restrictions will be in place for three days owing to the maintenance work along the first Goshree bridge and the approach road. The work is being done in the night aimed at completing the maintenance before Christmas. But traffic restrictions will have to be in place partially during the daytime too, according to an official release. The filling of potholes is on as it had got delayed due to rains. Tarring and tiling work have started. Goshree Island Development Authority has urged the public to co-operate with the road maintenance work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-curbs-on-goshree-bridge/article38017263.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree elections from January 7||Elections to neighbourhood groups, area development societies, and community development societies (CDS) under the State Kudumbashree Mission will begin on January 7, to bring a fresh set of hands to the helm of affairs from January 26, 2022. The District Collector will be the chief returning officer. Deputy Collector, Elections, will supervise the process. Elections to neighbourhood groups will begin on January 7, and those to CDSs will be held on January 25, said sources in the mission. 102 returning officers A total of 102 returning officers and an equal number of assistant returning officers have been designated for the smooth conduct of elections. There are 102 CDSs in Ernakulam district. There are 3.5 lakh members under the mission in Ernakulam, and they are under 27,000 neighbourhood groups and 102 CDSs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-elections-from-january-7/article38017271.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pay Rs. 1.5 lakh to minor girl, HC tells govt.||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to pay a compensation of Rs. 1,50,000 to an eight-year-old girl who had been humiliated and insulted by a Pink police officer at Attingal in Thiruvananthapuram in full public view. The court directed the State government to pay her a litigation cost of Rs. 25,000. Justice Devan Ramachandran observed that the petitioner was entitled to compensation for violating her fundamental right to live under the Constitution. “We cannot let our daughters grow up in anger and immediate remedial steps should be taken. No one can dispute that her fundamental right under Article 21 had been violated.” Allowing a writ petition filed by the girl seeking compensation, the court directed that the disciplinary action be taken against Rajitha, the Pink police officer, who had allegedly humiliated and insulted her by accusing her and her father of theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pay-rs-15-lakh-to-minor-girl-hc-tells-govt/article38017278.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Health dept. to organise digital poster competition||The Health department will organise a digital poster competition to create awareness of mosquito-borne diseases. The works can be mailed to competitionsdmohekm@gmail.com. The entries should be done before December 29, according to an official release. A participant can submit up to three designs. All entries have to be in Malayalam, and they should be original works. Cash awards will be given to the best three entries. The names of the winners will be shared on the official Facebook page of the District Medical Office (Health) and social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poster-competition/article38017266.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||575 COVID cases in district||A total of 575 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. The test positivity rate stood at 7.29%. The source of infection in five cases has not been ascertained. The number of active cases in the district is 4,636.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/575-covid-cases-in-district/article38017265.ece
23 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cases against 8 for spreading hatred||The Ernakulam Rural police have registered eight cases for inciting communal hatred over social media. While three cases have been registered at Ernakulam rural cyber station, one each has been registered at North Paravur, Chottanikkara, Edathala, Angamaly and Aluva police stations respectively. Job fraud The Nedumbassery police on Wednesday arrested a man on the charge of cheating by promising jobs. Jyothish, 35, of Thiruvananthapuram is accused of cheating an aspirant from Alappuzha and his friend by offering them jobs as ground handling staff at the Cochin International Airport. The victim petitioned the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik, as the appointment letter never emerged long after paying up. The police suspect the accused of having cheated several persons across the State by issuing newspaper advertisements about job offers. A team comprising Inspector P.M. Baiju, Sub Inspector Aneesh K. Das, Assistant Sub Inspector Abhilash, and civil police officers Rony, Augustine, Joseph, and Jismon made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-against-8-for-spreading-hatred/article38017270.ece
23 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Thalachira bund project to create 20,537 working days||The construction of Thalachira bund in Kollam district will create 20,537 working days, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme director B. Abdul Nasar said here on Wednesday. He was visiting Cherikonam, the sixth ward of Thrikkovilvattam grama panchayat in Mukhathala block, in order to assess the progress of work. Coir geotextile “The construction of the Rs. 76,19,343 project will be carried out using more than a hundred workers at a time. An amount of Rs. 8,14,080 will be paid as wages for unskilled workers. The estimate includes coir geotextile worth Rs. 6,22,440,” he said. Earlier, an earthen dam was used to irrigate the Perunkulam polder, one of the largest paddy fields in the district. The accumulation of soil in its reservoir over the years had reduced the storage capacity and the Minor Irrigation department has been removing the soil. Currently, the bund is being constructed around the reservoir using the same soil under the MGNREGA scheme. After the construction, the bund will be reinforced with coir geotextile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thalachira-bund-project-to-create-20537-working-days/article38017310.ece
23 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||CM urged not to commute sentence||Jomon Puthenpurackal, convener of Abhaya Case Action Council has approached the Chief Minister with a request not to commute the sentence of Fr. Thomas Kottur, who was sentenced to double life term in connection with nun’s murder. According to Mr.Puthenpurackal, the convict has not even completed one year in jail after being awarded the sentence and hence the Government should desist from considering the ‘plea for release of the accused.’ “Earlier, the government had granted Fr. Kottur a parole for 139 days and the convict, in effect, has not been in prison even for five months. Now, he has come up with a demand for commutation of the sentence citing that he is 70 years old, ” he said, in a petition to the Chief Minister Fr.Kottoor along with Sr. Stephy was convicted on December 23 last year, 28 years after the crime that took place in March 1992.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-urged-not-to-commute-sentence/article38017305.ece
23 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Campaign to make Kottayam digital district||The Kottayam District Administration, in association with the Reserve Bank of India and the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC), has launched a campaign to make Kottayam a total digital district. A preliminary discussion in this regard was held between Additional District Magistrate Jinu Punnoose, RBI Deputy General Manager Azeem Muhammed, SLBC convener Premkumar and Lead district manager Vinod Kumar here on Wednesday. The programme aims at organising awareness sessions to enable each individual and enterprise in the district to use digital platform for banking services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-to-make-kottayam-digital-district/article38017304.ece
23 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Devaswom staff denied wages for eight months||The COVID-19 pandemic is still having a catastrophic effect on thousands of employees attached to temples of Malabar Devaswom Board who have been deprived of their salary for the past eight months. About 7,000 employees are attached to 1,339 temples and 800-odd minor temples in the five divisions of Kasaragod, Thalassery, Kozhikode, Malappuram, and Palakkad. However, nearly 4,000 employees at temples with annual income of less than Rs. 20 lakh and categorised in the B,C,D grades continue to face a hapless situation. Normally, 50% of the salary for the staff of these temples is paid from the earnings of the temples while the remaining amount is through the management fund of the Malabar Devaswom Board. Pay revision Though the government has revised the pay scale, the benefits have not reached the employees of the Malabar Devaswom Board. Employees receive only one-third of the basic pay secured by government employees and staff of other devaswom boards. Besides, the employees have not received any relief despite the fact the State Government had sanctioned grant-in-aid non salary funds to help the distressed staff. By January “The government has sanctioned an amount of Rs. 6.32 crore. The process of distributing the amount has already begun and the amount will be credited to the accounts of the employees in the first week of January,” A.N. Neelakandan, Commissioner and Secretary, Malabar Devaswom Board, said. He said that the government had implemented a pay revision for the employees. The arrears for six years amounting to over Rs. 50 crore had been disbursed to the employees in the past one year. Some arrears were pending, Mr. Neelakandan said. On the other hand, employees said that the pay revision had not been implemented in toto. Revised DA “The government had stalled the revised dearness allowances (DA) and later agreed to a proposal to increase the basic pay. But so far, nothing positive has happened. The employees have been demanding implementation of the the pre-revised scale,” Kerala State Temple Employees Coordination Committee convener V.V. Sreenivas said. He said that three cases were also pending in the Kerala High Court on various issues, including the implementation of the Malabar Devaswom Comprehensive Amendment Bill.  The government has sanctioned an amount of Rs. 6.32 crore. The amount will be credited to the accounts of employees in the first week of January A.N. Neelakandan Commissioner and Secretary Malabar Devaswom Board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devaswom-board-staff-not-paid-salaries-for-past-eight-months/article38017248.ece
23 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||20% rebate at micro, small scale expo||The micro and small scale enterprises and handloom expo that began on the premises of the EMS corporation stadium in Kozhikode on Monday is a coming together of the various kinds of small businesses in the district under one roof. The event, organised by the District Industries Centre, in association with NABARD and Kerala Kaithari, has a lot more to offer than the usual handloom fairs that were held during festive occasions in the city. Among the 75-odd stalls, more than half are occupied by the various weavers’ cooperative societies in the district, showcasing a wide variety of products including, sarees, dhoties, shirt pieces, bedsheets, bags, carpets, door mats, bath towels, and home furnishing, all in pure handloom cotton. The consumers can avail of 20% government rebate for handloom products at this fair. Besides handloom, there are a variety of home made food products, small scale innovations such as the interlock bricks and water purifiers, gardening equipment, paper and cloth bags, terracotta wares, village farm products and agro medicines. A variety of handicraft products are also on display at the fair, which is open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. till December 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20-rebate-at-micro-small-scale-expo/article38017246.ece
23 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A play where audience turn performers||Just 15 viewers in the audience. The venue will be Zamorin’s Guruvayurappan School at Thali, Kozhikode; every room of it, including the toilets. At the end of it, the lines between performers and audience become non-existent. “An imitation of Death” , a unique play that redefines the definition of performance, will be staged at the Zamorin’s School on December 30 and 31, 2021 and January 1, 2022 amidst the smallest possible audience a play could have. Emil Madhavi, the director, feels that it will be a success theatrically and financially with the quite different way it has been designed and planned. Mr. Madhavi had staged “An imitation of death” in Hyderabad, Telangana, in 2017 for the first time. At the time, it was a multilingual one, with actors from Sri Lanka and USA being part of it. It was later staged in Delhi and then at Government Higher Secondary School, Kokkallur, Kozhikode. “The text is not important here. It is our experiences and memories that come into play here,” Mr. Madhavi said. “An imitation of Death” will be an intimate theatre experience in which the audience will be forced to play a part. It will have to follow the performers as they move from one place to another inside the school and at one point will be part of the performance themselves,” he said. The play is being staged under the banner of Mavericks Creative Collective, Kokkallur. The shows have been timed at 6.30 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. Contact 9746050032 or 9061517000 to book seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-play-where-audience-turn-performers/article38017237.ece
23 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||BTech, BArch classes to begin online at NIT-C||Regular classes for the first year B.Tech and B.Arch courses of the National Institute of Technology Calicut (NIT-C) commenced through online mode on Wednesday. In his address, Chairperson of Board of Governors Gajjala Yoganand highlighted the achievements of the institute. NIT-C Director Prof. Prasad Krishna stressed the importance of having self-confidence, holistic wellness and creativity for achieving greater heights. Deputy Director Prof. P.S. Sathidevi, Dean (Academic) Prof. Saly George; Registrar in-charge Prof. Jeevamma Jacob; Chairperson UG admissions Prof. Lity Alen Varghese; and Dean (Academic)-designate Prof. S M. Sameer addressed students. Info brochure The information brochure for the first-year undergraduate students named ‘Swagath’ was released. During the induction programme, Deputy Director, Deans and Professors-in charge and heads of different sections briefed the students about the facilities, activities, rules and regulations at the NIT-C. State Chief Secretary of V.P. Joy spoke on the topic ‘Science and literature’. Several alumni of the NIT-C motivated the first-year students by talking to them on a variety of topics. Addresses by alumni of NIT-C pursuing careers in diverse areas such as academia, industry, and civil services gave different perspectives to the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/classes-for-btech-barch-begin-online-at-nit-c/article38017247.ece
23 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Yusuff Ali to open chamber office||Chamber Bhavan, the new office complex of the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry, will be opened on December 24 by industrialist M.A. Yusuff Ali at 4 p.m. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Chamber president Zubair Kolakkadan said, “The chamber plans to develop Kozhikode as a hub of entrepreneurship.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yusuff-ali-to-open-chamber-office/article38017249.ece
23 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Forest route to open for Makaravilakku season||Ending a long wait, the traditional trekking path to Sabarimala that originate from Erumeli is slated to be thrown open to devotees during the upcoming Makaravilakku season. As part of opening the route, a team led by Arjun Pandian, Additional District Magistrate of Sabarimala, on Wednesday inspected the path and reviewed the preparatory works, which are slated to be complete by December 30. The Forest department has already begun clearing the route, while steps are also in place to establish hospital units at Mukkuzhi and Karimala. As many as four Emergency Medical Care Centers will be opened, besides eight stopovers to be run by the Eco Development Committees under the Forest department. Regulations will be in place for travel during night hours, while the Akhila Bharata Ayyappa Seva Sangham will be tasked with the distribution of food. Surveillance system To ward off any untoward incidents, including wildlife attacks, surveillance system will be set up at two-kilometre intervals along the route. The 35-km-long forest path that begins from Erumeli, which takes the Karimala-Valiyanavatom- Cheriyanavattom-Pampa- Marakkootom route, used to receive a good number of pilgrims every year till the authorities closed it in 2020 in view of the pandemic situation. Of this, the opening portion of the route, from Koyikkakavu temple to Kalaketty falls with the Kottayam Forest division, while the remaining 18-km-long portion is part of the Periyar Tiger Reserve (West). Though the route used to become active only during the Makaravilakku season, they later began turning active right from the beginning of the annual pilgrim season till its closure last year. Besides the route that originates from Erumeli, pilgrims also take another one that starts from Vandipperiyar Sathram and passes through Pulmedu and Paandithavalom to reach Sabarimala. The route, which still remains off-limits to the public, was mostly preferred by inter-State pilgrims who reached Kumily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-route-to-open-for-pilgrims/article38017303.ece
23 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. staff, pensioners to get medical cover||The Cabinet has approved a comprehensive medical insurance scheme for State government employees, pensioners, family pensioners and their dependents for a nominal monthly premium of Rs. 500. Many empanelled government and private sector hospitals would provide cashless treatment to the beneficiaries of the scheme (Medisep). The Medisep scheme would not apply to outpatient treatment. The government would compensate OP charges as per the provisions of the Kerala Government Servant Medical Attendant rules. The compensation would apply to those frequenting OP clinics at the RCC, Malabar Cancer Centre, Kochi Cancer Centre and super specialty hospitals in the private sector. Medisep provided an annual insurance coverage of up to Rs. 3 lakh. If not used, Medisep would transfer Rs. 1.5 lakh of the policy coverage to the following year. The government has tasked Oriental Insurance, a public sector company, to implement the scheme. The Cabinet formed a nodal cell under the Finance Department to implement the project. It would create a three-tier system at the district and State level to settle insurance-claim related disputes. The project also entails cash-free treatment for existing and chronic conditions and complete coverage for developing health exigencies. Mandatory The Cabinet has made it mandatory for serving employees and pensioners to subscribe to the scheme, Medisep. The Cabinet also mandated that part-time contingent workers, aided school teachers, non-teaching staff and recipients of family pension should compulsorily join Medisep. Civil servants and their families have the option of joining the insurance scheme. Serving and retired employees of public-funded universities, family pensioners in universities, employees, pensioners and family pensioners of local self governments, serving and retired personal staff of Chief Minister, Ministers and Leader of the Opposition, and chairpersons of finance committees are also among beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-staff-pensioners-to-get-medical-cover/article38017283.ece
23 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traffic curbs in city for 2 days||Traffic restrictions will be enforced in various parts of the State capital on account of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit on Thursday and Friday. The regulations will be in effect from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. on December 23 and from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. the next day. The President is scheduled to participate in a programme at the Poojappura Maidan and visit the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple. Parking Parking will be prohibited at places including Airport, Chakka, Pettah, Pattoor, General Hospital, Asan Square, Bakery, Vazhuthacaud, DPI junction, Jagathy, Edappazhinji-Kochar road-Sasthamangalam, Kowdiar, Kuravankonam, Pattom, Poojappura, Poojappura–Kunjalumoodu road, Poojappura–Thirumala road, Chakka, Enchakkal route, West Fort, SP Fort, Padmavilasom, North Nada, Power House road, Choorakkatupalayam, Thycaud, Mettukkada, Vazhuthacaud, Althara, Vellayambalam, and Raj Bhavan. From 8 a.m. to 1 p.m Vehicles headed towards Vazhuthacaud and Bakery junction from Thirumala via Poojappura must proceed through Pallimukku, Pangode, Edappazhinji, Sasthamangalam, Pippinmoodu, Golf Links, and Kowdiar. Those headed towards Poojappura and Thirumala from Vazhuthacaud must proceed through Palayam, PMG, Pattom, Kuravankonam, Kowdiar, Golf Links, Pippinmoodu, Sasthamangalam, Edappazhinji, Pangode, and Pallimukku. Motorists headed for Karamana from Vazhuthacaud via Poojappura and towards Poojappura, Bakery junction and Vazhuthacaud from Karamana must proceed through Palayam, Overbridge, Thampanoor, and Killipalam. Those intending to participate in the function must park their vehicles on the LBS Institute of Technology for Women ground in Poojappura before 9 a.m. From 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. Vehicles headed for Thampanoor from the Killipalam side must proceed along Attakulangara, East Fort, and Overbridge. Those travelling towards Vazhuthacaud, Thycaud and Killipalam from places including Vellayambalam, Sasthamangalam, Edappazhinji and Jagathy must take the Kochar road–Valiyasala–Killipalam route. Those travelling along the Enchakkal–East Fort route must proceed along the Attakulangara – Kothalam road. From 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. Motorists travelling towards Vellayambalam, Vazhuthacaud, Government College for Women, and Bakery Junction must proceed through Kowdiar, Kuravankonam, PMG, and Palayam. Likewise, vehicles that are headed for Asan Square, General Hospital, Pettah, and Chakka must proceed through Palayam, PMG, Pattom, Kumarapuram, and Venpalavattom. Vehicles headed for and coming from Chakka, All Saints junction, and Shangumughom will have to go through Vettucaud, Kochuveli, and Venpalavattom during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-curbs-in-city-for-2-days/article38017434.ece
23 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A politician with independent mind||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president P.T. Thomas, who died aged 71, rarely retracted his studied position on public issues. He often seemed to choose the more challenging course in political life than one seemingly less difficult and personally advantageous. Catholic Church Illustratively in 2014, Mr. Thomas backed the implementation of the contentious Madhav Gadgil report on Western Ghats preservation, much to the chagrin of the influential Catholic Church in Idukki. Mr. Thomas, the Idukki MP then, lost his seat in the next Lok Sabha elections. Unruffled, Mr. Thomas, later, said he would speak the truth even if alone. Born to a farming family in Idukki, Mr. Thomas has written that he trekked 12 km to school and back. He was attracted to the Congress politics at an early age. Mr. Thomas led the Kerala Students Union in Maharajas and Law College Ernakulam. He married outside the Catholic fold. He, later, wrote that he did not insist that his sons be baptised at birth and left the choice to them as adults. In the Assembly, Mr. Thomas was widely perceived as a conscientious objector to the policies of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. He often used the Assembly rule book to put the treasury benches on the back foot. His acerbic one-liners frequently targetted the Chief Minister and roiled the ruling front. People who did not share Mr. Thomas’ political beliefs admired him for his empathy and independent mind. A KPCC office-bearer said Mr. Thomas was the typical grassroots-level politician. He was always accessible and knew most of the Congress workers in Idukki and Ernakulam by their first name. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan remembered Mr. Thomas as a gifted orator and brilliant parliamentarian. In a condolence message, Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Thomas's uncompromising fidelity to his convictions set him apart from many in public life. Condoles Leader of the Opposition V.D.Satheesan said he had lost his ‘elder brother.’ Mr. Thomas was fiercely passionate about the environment and gender equality. He campaigned hard on both issues throughout his career. The departed leader had set a template for those in public life to follow. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan and people from various walks of life remembered Mr. Thomas in glowing terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-politician-with-independent-mind/article38017281.ece
23 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,205 new cases of COVID-19||As many as 3,205 cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kerala on Wednesday when 56,388 samples were tested. Thiruvananthapuram district had the highest number of cases (645), followed by Ernakulam (575) and Kozhikode (313). While 10 cases were confirmed in persons who had arrived from outside the State, 3,036 contracted the infection through contact and the source of infection was yet to be ascertained in 141 cases. Of the 3,205 new cases, 243 had received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 1,664 were fully vaccinated while 860 had not been vaccinated. Strict regulations were imposed in six wards where the weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) was more than 10. Meanwhile, a total of 2,60,28,362 persons representing 97.4% of the eligible population in the State received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine as on Wednesday while 75.6% (2,01,89,808 persons) was fully vaccinated. According to the Health department, the number of fresh COVID cases reported from December 15 to 21 showed a dip of 44,11 compared to the previous week’s tally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3205-new-cases-of-covid-19/article38017286.ece
23 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Eleven accused in Pothencode murder in police custody||The Pothencode police on Wednesday obtained custody of all 11 accused in the murder case of 32-year-old Sudheesh. For collection of further evidence, all the accused were taken to the spot of the crime at Pananvila in Kalloor near Pothencode where they allegedly murdered Sudheesh and chopped off his leg on December 11. The accused were brought to the place amid high security. Crowd  A large crowd had thronged the area as the police took them to the house where the murder had taken place. The key conspirator, Rajesh, alias ‘Ottakam’ Rajesh, the second accused in the case, was caught two days ago. Weapons recovered The investigation team had also recovered weapons allegedly used by the accused for the attack. Efforts were under way to identify others who were part of the conspiracy, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eleven-accused-in-pothencode-murder-in-police-custody/article38017435.ece
23 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Execute free power scheme for the bedridden, KSEB told||Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty has directed the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) to effectively implement free electricity scheme for bedridden patients who are dependent on life-saving equipment. The Minister was addressing a meeting of engineers attached to the distribution sector of the KSEB. He asked the KSEB to clear the doubts among field officers about the scheme. The present LDF government has implemented projects worth Rs. 429 crore in the power distribution sector. Work on crafting the framework for the Centrally funded Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) was in the final stages, he said. Efforts lauded He lauded the efforts taken by the KSEB staff for speedy restoration of power supply in flood-affected regions during the rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/execute-free-power-scheme-for-the-bedridden-kseb-told/article38017442.ece
23 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More jobs in renewable energy sector||The State’s thrust on renewable energy is expected to create more job opportunities, according to Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty. The Minister was speaking after inaugurating the distribution of grant to Urjamithra Centres, the service providers established under the Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology (ANERT) for carrying out maintenance on renewable energy products. If the State was to achieve the solar power power target of 3,000 MW, at least 10-lakh rooftop solar plants would have to be established, the Minister said. This would require 40-lakh mandays and 5,000 people with the requisite technical expertise. Training ANERT would launch a training programme for technicians, the Minister said. The agency would also organise an employers’ meet to find placement for the trained personnel, he added.  Rs. 1.28-crore aid A total of Rs. 1.28 crore was distributed as assistance to 109 Urjamithra Centres. The Power Department is implementing multiple schemes for tapping the State’s solar energy potential. Urjamithra Centres can generate awareness of renewable energy sources and can assist the people in selecting suitable solar photovoltaic equipment, the Minister said. ANERT chief executive officer Narendra Nath Veluri, Chief Electrical Inspector V.C. Anil Kumar, Energy Management Centre director R. Harikumar, Centre for Management Development director G. Suresh, ANERT chief technical manager Aneesh S. Prasad, and additional chief technical manager P. Jayachandran Nair, were present at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renewable-energy-jobs-to-be-created/article38017436.ece
23 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,460 shortlisted for jobs at fair||As many as 2,460 job aspirants have been shortlisted by companies at the end of the first phase of job fairs organised by the Kerala Knowledge Economy Mission and K-DISC (Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council) in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Pathanamthitta districts. The shortlistees will soon be given offer letters directly by the companies. As many as 3,876 aspirants participated. Of the 960 candidates who took part in interviews in Thiruvananthapuram district, 668 are on the shortlist. In Kollam, 794 of the 1,423 candidates, and in Pathanamthitta 379 of 680 were shortlisted. In Thiruvananthapuram, 101 companies, in Kollam 74, and in Pathanamthitta 43 companies, took part in the job fairs. Job fairs in the other districts will be completed in January. An online fair will also be held at the end of January. The target is to provide employment to 10,000 people by the end of January and 20 lakh people in the next five years. Those who have registered for the job fairs will be provided a three-hour training in interview skills. Register on knowledgemission.kerala.gov.in. For details, call 0471 2737881.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2460-shortlisted-for-jobs-at-fair/article38017429.ece
23 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Provide alternative if teacher is suspended’||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that if any disciplinary action is taken against teachers or they are suspended as part of departmental-level proceedings, it should not affect students’ opportunities for education. In the event a teacher is not able to come to class owing to disciplinary action or some other reason, an alternative mechanism should be arranged. A division bench of the commission comprising members Fr. Philip Parakatt and K. Nazeer directed the General Education Secretary and the Director of General Education to direct assistant education officers to ensure that the commission’s directions were followed in every school. It was acting on a petition against a teacher of SN Lower Primary School, Vettikattiri, Cheruthuruthy. As per the petition, the teacher got a Class 2 student to use his notebook as a hand-fan for one-and-a-half-hours. From the child, it was found that the teacher got other children to do the same. He also got them to wash his lunchbox and bring him hot water. The school Headmistress said that back in 2016-17, a parent had complained to the then headmaster against the teacher. A case related to the disciplinary action taken against the teacher then was pending in the High Court. While the family of the child said they had heard from their other child about the incident, the Cheruthuruthy station house officer told the commission that during investigation, the parents of the children mentioned in the complaint denied that the allegations were true. The police were also not able to locate the complainant and found the address fake. The teacher too denied the allegations and pointed out that the complaint was fake. Pending in court Since no evidence to prove the allegations against the teacher were found, and a case was pending in court, the commission did not pass specific orders. However, as the Wadakkanchery Assistant Education Officer had pointed out that disciplinary action such as suspension against teachers was leading to waste of time available for studies, the commission observed that schools should make alternative arrangements to prevent students’ education from getting affected in case of suspension of teachers or any other disciplinary measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/provide-alternative-if-teacher-is-suspended/article38017445.ece
23 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ULCCS to build seawall at erosion-hit Chellanam||The Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society (ULCCS) will be awarded the contract for constructing a seawall at coastal erosion-hit Chellanam in Ernakulam district. The Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday gave its approval for the contract worth Rs. 256 crore, Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine said. In the first phase, tetrapods - the four-‘limbed’ concrete structures used for coastal protection - will be laid along a distance of 7.3 km. In August this year, the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had cleared a Rs. 344.2 crore funding proposal for the renovation of damaged sea wall and construction of a groyne field at Chellanam. Thickly-populated Chellanam has a coastline spanning 21 kms. The region has a population of 13,000, with more than 1,000 houses hugging the coast, Mr. Augustine said. The construction of groynes along Bazar and Kannamali stretches in this region will be taken up as a separate work, worth approximately Rs. 90 crore, the Minister’s office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ulccs-to-build-seawall-at-erosion-hit-chellanam/article38017284.ece
23 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Inspection bungalows may be opened to public’||The State is considering opening the Forest Department’s accommodation facilities, including inspection bungalows, to the public, Minister for Forest A.K. Saseendran has said. He was speaking online at the inauguration of a strong room at the Forest Department headquarters here and setting up of point of sales (PoS) machines at ecotourism centres in the State, on Wednesday. The Minister said the functioning of ecotourism centres would be extended to facilitate visitors to the forests. Ecotourism that helped conserve nature was the government’s intent, he added. Minister for Transport Antony Raju who inaugurated the strong room and implementation of PoS machines in ecotourism centres called for more encouragement to nature-friendly ecotourism. Steps to meet the challenges of climate change should be taken. Activities that did not destabilise nature should be planned, he said. The PoS machines were being set up in 35 ecotourism centres with the support of South Indian Bank. At present, 73 PoS machines are functional in ecotourism centres and eco shops. With the installation of the machines, payments can be made digitally through debit and credit cards and UPI (Unified Payments Interface) at ticket counters and sales outlets. The strong room set up as per RBI guidelines would be used to store elephant tusks, sandalwood, sandalwood oil, and other objects of the Forest Department. A fire alarm system, CCTV cameras, and a control room to monitor them, were also arranged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inspection-bungalows-may-be-opened-to-public-minister/article38017432.ece
23 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||e-office system launched||Offices under the Agriculture Department should focus on providing services to farmers with efficiency, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. Mr. Prasad was speaking after launching the e-office system at the Principal Agriculture Office, Thiruvananthapuram. Work was in progress to transform all offices under the department into ‘paperless’ offices, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-office-system-launched/article38017285.ece
23 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Second edition of CMEDP launched||The Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) aims to double its loan portfolio to Rs. 10,000 crore over a five-year period, Finance Minister K. N. Balagopal has said. He was formally launching the second phase of the Chief Minister’s Entrepreneurship Development Programme (CMEDP 2.0) implemented by KFC. At present, KFC’s loan portfolio stood at around Rs. 4.500 crore, Mr. Balagopal said on Wednesday. Announced by the State government on November 5, CMEDP 2.0 had already attracted a large number of applications and more than 130 had been sanctioned. Over 1,700 loans were sanctioned in the first phase of the CMEDP scheme, which was rolled out in July 2020. In the second phase, the loan limit had been enhanced to Rs. 1 crore from Rs. 50 lakh while the interest rate had been slashed from 7% to 5%. The scheme financed up to 90% of the project cost. Mr. Balagopal said the government expected KFC to emerge as a ‘financial supermarket’ that supported entrepreneurs with low-interest loans and helpful terms. Underscoring the growing need for small machinery in the agriculture and construction sectors in the State, the Finance Minister said the government would support startups in this area. He also underlined the need to create jobs and promote the industry for the State’s progress. Mr. Balagopal handed over loan sanction letters to entrepreneurs under the KFC’s CMEDP and Startup Kerala schemes on the occasion. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, presided. KFC chairman and managing director Sanjay Kaul and Industries director S. Harikishore spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-edition-of-cmedp-launched/article38017430.ece
23 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KVASU course in animal welfare||The Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) has launched the first-ever online postgraduate diploma course in the country in applied animal welfare, ethics and law. The programme is designed to address the demand for contextual understanding of application of animal welfare and ethical principles and Indian animal protection laws by working veterinary and medical professionals, biomedical researchers and others, according to a KVASU press release. This online professional development course is endorsed by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). The course helps in advancing professional knowledge and skills. “By applying the principles of animal welfare science in animal husbandry and veterinary practice, we will not only be able to improve the conditions in which animals live, but also the quality of products of animal origin,” said M.R. Saseendranath, Vice Chancellor, KVASU. Message “Law alone cannot prevent cruel practices. The message of animal welfare should reach people by the efforts of competent professionals,” he added. “This unique postgraduate course will help working professionals develop knowledge and skills to keep the welfare of animals in the centre of their decision-making,” says A. Prasad, assistant professor and course coordinator. “This course will critically reflect upon contemporary uses of animals and provides academic skills and expertise needed for protecting animals and ensuring their well being.” Edinburgh University, UK; Digital University Kerala and leading animal welfare NGOs are associating with the course. Applied aspects The course will scrutinise many forms of animal use in different settings such as homes, farming, transportation and slaughter, laboratories, zoos and various entertainment locales and will cover applied aspects of animal welfare and how animal rights and ethics reflect in laws and public policies. The course is open to graduates with a special elective stream for veterinary graduates. As the student progress through the programme, he or she will master knowledge and skills involved in assessing and ensuring the welfare of animals using a range of data and sound scientific processes. MOODLE platform Being offered in online mode in the MOODLE platform, selected candidates of this course will be able to learn and write examinations from anywhere. Interested graduates have to register on the website application.kvasu.ac.in before December 25, 2021. Further details like course and fee structure are available in the prospectus under the head “technology enabled distance learning courses,” according to the KVASU press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kvasu-course-in-animal-welfare/article38017439.ece
23 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Death of newborn: mother, two youths arrested||The police on Wednesday arrested three persons, including the mother, in connection with murder of a newborn baby. The body of the newborn was found in a bag in a water canal near Punkunnam on Tuesday. On the basis of CCTV footage, the police took the mother and two youths into custody. According to the police, Megha Mambatt, 22, and Manuel Chittattukara, from Varadiyam, who are neighbours, were in love and Megha became pregnant. Her parents did not know about the pregnancy. She gave birth last Saturday. She killed the baby by putting it in a bucket of water soon after the delivery. She packed the body in a bag and gave it to Manuel. Manuel along with his friend Amal Kundukulam of Varadiyam dumped the bag in the water canal on MLA Road, Punkunnam. From the CCTV footage, the police found two youths dumping a bag in the canal and arrested them. A post-mortem examination and DNA test of the baby will be done to confirm the baby’s identity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-newborn-mother-two-youths-arrested/article38017406.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Full steam ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/full-steam-ahead/article38017244.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Death trap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-trap/article38017261.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making merry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-merry/article38017313.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Salute to the Commander-in-chief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/salute-to-the-commander-in-chief/article38017289.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Good tidings they bring||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-tidings-they-bring/article38017441.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safe territory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-territory/article38017444.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Correction||Correction The headline of the item on the election of Usha Mohandas as chairperson carried on page 4 on Wednesday erroneously mentions the party as KC(M). It should be KC(B). The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/correction/article38017287.ece
23 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mathematics Day celebrated at SKU||Noted mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan’s birth anniversary, declared National Mathematics Day, was celebrated at Sri Krishnadevaraya University(SKU) with Vice-Chancellor M. Ramakrishna Reddy highlighting the importance of the mathematical solutions provided by Ramanujan which facilitated further research into various fields of science. On a sidenote, the 20th convocation of SKU is scheduled to be held by February-end, said Registrar A. Krishna Kumari. The Registrar has appealed to all undergraduate, postgraduate, M.Phil, and Ph.D students, who have completed their courses in 2020 and 2021, to apply online for the original certificate before January 22, 2022. Meanwhile, the Vadanya Janaa Society, which conducted a talent test for school students, gave away the prizes to winners. A release from the society said K. Jahnavi from Kothacheruvu girls high school and B. Manasa from Bukkapatnam won the first prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mathematics-day-celebrated-at-sku/article38017379.ece
23 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Response to OTS scheme sluggish in Anantapur||The One-Time Settlement(OTS) scheme ‘Jagananna Sampurna Gruha Hakku’ has attracted 10% of the eligible persons in Anantapur district, as only 50,546 of the 5,08,282 eligible beneficiaries have paid money under the scheme. The amount received from the 10% beneficiaries was Rs. 25.93 crore while the total amount, if all of them made use of the scheme, would be Rs. 204.80 crore in the district. ‘Confusion prevails’ The scheme, launched at Bukkarayasamudram in the district by Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana on Tuesday, is making slow progress as confusion seemed to prevail among the beneficiaries regarding the payment and usefulness of the scheme. In view of this, the panchayat secretaries, village revenue officers and volunteers have been asked to raise awareness among the beneficiaries in each village on the scheme so that they can make use of it before March 2022 and settle all dues and get documents by paying a nominal amount. The registration document distribution process began at 2,017 village and ward secretariats in the district on Tuesday. As of Monday, 2,41,435 persons have been found eligible for the scheme, and out of these, 50,546 persons had paid the money, said Ms. Selvarajan. In the rural areas, the maximum amount one needs to pay is Rs. 10,000 while it is Rs. 20,000 in municipal areas and Rs. 20,000 in corporation areas. “If the beneficiary has cleared the loans provided by the Housing Department or has less than minimum payable amount (Rs. 2,500 for example), s/he needs to pay only Rs. 2,500, and no money is collected for the registration,” Housing Project Director Kesava Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/response-to-ots-scheme-sluggish-in-anantapur/article38017375.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Debate on anti-conversion Bill today||The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom to Religion Bill, 2021 will be taken up for discussion on Thursday. While the Bill was to have been taken up for discussion on Wednesday, this was postponed by a day. “We will start the debate soon after the House commences and push the Question Hour to the evening,” Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri told the Karnataka Legislative Assembly. Earlier, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the Bill could be taken up for discussion on Wednesday and passed on Thursday. “At any cost, we want the Bill to be cleared on Thursday since it has to be placed in the Legislative Council on Friday to secure approval,” he said. Former Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa suggested that the Bill could be taken up on Wednesday and discussion time extended till night. However, another former Chief Minister, Siddaramaiah, said that since the session was happening in Belagavi after three years, priority should given to the discussion on north Karnataka. “If there is paucity of time, extend the session by a couple of days,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. Eventually, the Speaker announced that the Bill would be taken up for discussion on Thursday. ‘Criminalises faith’ A day after the State government tabled the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 in the Legislative Assembly, a coalition of over 40 organisations of minorities, youth, Dalits, women, and human rights organisations, held a protest in Bengaluru, demanding its immediate withdrawal. Peter Machado, Archbishop, Archdiocese of Bangalore, said the community was sad that the government had not heeded their appeals and had gone ahead with the Bill. “We request you not to humiliate the community with this Bill, which potentially criminalises the practice of faith,” he said. “The anti-conversion Bill, ironically named ‘Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill’ is presently seen as an issue solely posing threat to the fundamental rights of the Christian community. But the Bill undermines the agency of an individual to make intimate choices of who their partners can be and what religion they must practice,” said a joint statement by the coalition of organisations. Yusuf Kanni, vice-president of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Karnataka, said the Bill betrays the ideals of 12th century philosopher Basaveshwara. “If the government persists with the Bill, it will spark off a CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act)-like Statewide protest,” he said. Several women activists termed the Bill “anti-women” as it robs them of their agency. Transgender activist Akkai Padmashali said the Bill rejects a plural idea of India. “ The anti-conversion Bill is just another distraction from the real issues facing the country,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/debate-on-anti-conversion-bill-today/article38016674.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka bandh on Dec. 31; autos may not ply||Autorickshaws and cabs are likely to remain off the roads and schools closed on December 31 in Karnataka, the day on which a State-wide bandh has been called by Kannada organisations. But hotels and the film industry will decide on it in a few days. They have called for the bandh demanding a ban on the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES). They have been making this demand following incidents of burning of Kannada flag in Kolhapur and defacement of the statue of Sangolli Rayanna at Belagavi, allegedly by MES activists. Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj claimed that hundreds of associations have expressed their support for the bandh and lakhs of people will march from Town Hall to Freedom Park on December 31. He added that services such as hospitals, pharmacies and milk supply will not be affected. Tanveer Pasha, President, Ola and Uber Drivers Association, said that they would extend their support to the bandh and cabs will be off the roads from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. M. Manjunath, President, Adarsha Auto and Taxi Drivers Union said auto drivers had also decided to support the bandh. Ramesh Holla of Bruhat Bengaluru Taxi Drivers Union, which has many airport cabs under their banner, said that they would stop cabs and all airport transfers during the bandh period. Hotels undecided However, B. Chandrashekar Hebbar, president, Karnataka State Hotel Association, said many hotels had already made reservations for December 31 as it was New Year’s Eve. “We will take a decision on supporting the bandh after hearing from our members in different districts,” he said. D.R. Jairaj, President of Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce said that three Kannada films are slated to release on December 31 as it is a Friday. “We will take a final decision after we have a meeting,” he said. While many central board schools have Christmas vacations, several State board schools have decided to conduct online classes. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said private school managements affiliated to their union had decided to support the bandh and will suspend offline classes on that day to support the bandh and hold only online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/calls-for-karnataka-bandh-on-december-31/article38016675.ece
23 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer killed in jumbo attack near Chittoor||A farmer was killed when a wild elephant charged at him at Penugolakala village of Peddapanjani mandal, 50 km from here, on Wednesday, while he along with other farmers and forest personnel was trying to drive away a herd of jumbos from the fields. A herd of 14 elephants found its way into the fields on the outskirts of the village in the early hours. Close to noon, a member of the herd had given birth to a calf. Amidst huge trumpeting and commotion in the fields, the herd surrounded the newborn and stood guard at the spot. Some farmers passed on information to the forest officials about the development. A batch of forest watchers rushed to the spot. While the forest staff were driving the elephtants from ther fields, a tusker suddenly turned around and charged at a farmer, identified as Bangarappa (55). The jumbo lifted Bangarappa with its trunk and pounded him to the ground. Following tumult from the crowd, the herd slowly moved into thickets nearby. Rescued with multiple fractures and a head injury Bangarappa was declared brought dead at the Government Hospital at Punganur. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said that a team of elephant trackers and forest watchers was despatched to the troubled zone to take stock of the frenzied situation near the village and prevent the movement of the herd towards human habitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-killed-in-jumbo-attack/article38017203.ece
23 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM’s three-day visit to Kadapa begins today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will set out to Kadapa district on a three-day visit from Thursday. During his tour, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be taking part in various development projects at Gopavaram, Proddatur, Kopparthi, Idupulapaya and Pulivendula. He will be addressing public meetings at Proddatur and Pulivendula. Badvel revenue division On December 23, the Chief Minister will reach Proddatur and address a public meeting after participating in a few inaugurations. Later, he will lay a foundation stone for Century Ply industry at Gopavaram and also lay for a new revenue division office at Badvel. He will also inaugurate the arch of YSRC Kopparthi Mega Industrial Hub at Kopparthi Industrial Area. Patta distribution On December 24, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will visit the YSR Ghat and offer prayers. Later, he will lay stone for Aditya Birla unit at the Pulivendula Industrial Development Park, distribute house site pattas to beneficiaries in YSR Jagananna Housing Colony at Pulivendula. He will address a public meeting at Pulivendula and inaugurate a couple of projects such as model police station and aqua hub. Christmas fete On December 25, he will attend Christmas prayers at CSI Church at Pulivendula and inaugurate a shopping complex in the town, and return to his residence at Tadepalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cms-three-day-visit-to-kadapa-begins-today/article38017389.ece
23 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan lauds ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ initiative||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsv” provided an occasion to rejoice the nation’s glorious past, its cultural, social, economic and scientific achievements made during the admirable journey of 75 years and also to reaffirm our commitment to the nation’s progress. Participating in a virrtual conference of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the second National Committee Meeting held by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Jagan said Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav was one of the laudable initiatives under the visionary leadership of the Prime Minister to celebrate and commemorate the completion of 75 years of Independence. “We look at the selfless spirit of the freedom fighters with humility and pride. On this occasion when we honour and salute them, I had the privilege of felicitating the freedom fighters from Andhra Pradesh. At the commencement of ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’, while commemorating the freedom fighters, I was immensely pleased to visit and pay my respects to Sita Mahalakshmi, daughter of Pingali Venkayya Garu, at her native place in Guntur district. Pingali Venkayya was also the designer of the National Tricolour. The place where Pingali Venkaiah Garu presented the Tricolour flag to Mahatma Gandhi in 1921, is in Vijayawada and it now houses an archaeological museum named Bapu Museum. Our government has recently renovated and rededicated this Museum to the public,’’ said Mr. Jagan. Further, in the memory of great freedom fighters of Andhra Pradesh such as Alluri Sitarama Raju, Uyyalawada Narasimha Reddy, Andhra Kesari Tanguturi Prakasam Panthulu, Potti Sriramulu, Duggirala Gopala Krishnaiah, Ayyadevara Kaleswara Rao, Vavilala Gopala Krishnaiah and other renowned personalities, the government had been conducting Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations every week through virtual and direct events (908 programmes). The Chief Minister said that real GDP increased from Rs. 2.94 lakh crore in 1950-51 to Rs. 145.69 lakh crore in 2019-20. India was now the sixth largest economy in the world. He said the country’s installed power generation capacity had increased from 1.27 lakh MW to 3.84 lakh MW, the thermal power generation capacity had increased from 83,982 MW to 2.34 lakh MW during the last 15 years, resulting in increased emissions of green-house gases. “The economic growth has not sufficiently trickled down to the poor. The recently published ‘World Inequality Report 2022’ estimates that the top 10% and top 1% of the country’s population hold 57% and 22% of the total national income respectively.,’’ Mr. Jagan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-lauds-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-initiative/article38017391.ece
23 December 2021||hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana student ends life||A 17-year-old Intermediate girl student from Adilabad who consumed poison after she failed in the first-year exams, died while undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital here on Wednesday. This is the fourth case of Inter students resorting to the extreme step after announcement of results a few days ago. The girl, B Nandini, daughter of B. Gajanand is from Rickshaw Colony Adilabad town. “Five days ago she consumed some poison and was shifted from RIMS, Adilabad to Gandhi Hospital for better treatment,” Adilabad DSP Srinivasa Rao said.    Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-student-ends-life/article38016676.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 new Omicron cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 14 more cases of Omicron on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases of the coronavirus variant in the State went up to 38. The 14 new cases include two persons who landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Shamshabad, from at-risk countries, and 12 from other than at-risk countries. Genome sequencing results of four more samples are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-new-omicron-cases-in-telangana/article38017388.ece
23 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,048 knives to be used in cockfights seized||East Godavari police on Wednesday seized 1,048 knives which were reportedly meant to be used in cockfights during the Sankranti festival across the district. East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Raveendranath Babu has said that the rowdy-sheet charge would be opened against those who participate in or encourage the holding of cockfights in the district. “We have seized 1,048 knives meant for cockfights in raids conducted across the district. Revenue authorities’ support would be required to prevent the cockfights during the Sankranti festival,” Mr. Raveendranath Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1048-knives-to-be-used-in-cockfights-seized/article38017418.ece
23 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mayor requests Jagan to sanction water project for Kurnool||Kurnool Mayor B.Y. Ramaiah on Wednesday requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was here to attend a wedding, to sanction a permanent drinking water project for the city to which the CM reacted positively and asked District Collector P. Koteswara Rao to get a project report prepared as early as possible and send it to him. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had come to the district to attend the wedding of Panyam MLA Katasani Ram Bhupal Reddy’s son Siva Narasimha Reddy. The Chief Minister arrived in a special helicopter from Orvakal Airport to Montessori High School at Panchalingala and proceeded to the marriage venue. While leaving for Gannavaram, the Mayor made the request to the Chief Minister. The Mayor said if the project was implemented it would permanently solve the drinking water needs of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mayor-requests-jagan-to-sanction-water-project-for-kurnool/article38017377.ece
23 December 2021||MULUGU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-Sarpanch killed by Maoists||A 28-year-old former Sarpanch, identified as Korasa Ramesh of the remote K Kondapuram village in Mulugu district, was allegedly killed by Maoists in the Kottapalli forest area in neighbouring Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Tuesday night by branding him a ‘police informer’. Ramesh and another tribal youth from Tippapuram of Venkatapuram mandal were allegedly detained by the ultras while they were heading to Bheemaram forest area in Chhattisgarh on a motorcycle on Monday. They were allegedly summoned by a Chhattisgarh-based Divisional Committee Member of the outfit to the forest area. Police said the ultras tied their eyes with clothes and forced them to walk along the forest terrain for about six to seven hours deep into the woods and kept them in captivity for the entire night. On Tuesday morning, the rebels let off another youth but shifted Ramesh to a separate hideout in the jungle where they allegedly killed him after interrogation. His body was found in the Kottapalli forest area early on Wednesday morning, sources said. The deceased is survived by his wife Rajani and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-sarpanch-killed-by-maoists/article38016686.ece
23 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Act sternly to bring down crime rate: SP||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg on Wednesday exhorted the subordinate officers to act sternly to prevent incidents of crime in the district. Taking stock of the crime situation with personnel from Ongole, Chirala and Kandukur sub-divisions at the District Police Office here, she expressed concern over incidents of crime, murder cases, rape cases, POCSO-cum-rape cases, grave and non-grave property cases. Women should be encouraged to download Disha app on their mobile phones it would go a long way to curb gender crime. She examined the files related to the progress of the investigation in various cases and gave inputs for speedy completion of probe. The SP directed the police personnel to reduce the pendency of under-investigation cases and enter their progress in the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network Systems (CCTNS) from time to time. The SP told them to set up round-the-clock patrol using highway mobiles to control crime on the expressways, implement effective road safety measures to prevent road accidents in coordination with other related departments, and identify black spots, set up danger boards on both sides of those areas and encourage the public to affix radium stickers to tractors and other vehicles to prevent accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/act-sternly-to-bring-down-crime-rate-sp/article38017380.ece
23 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive spirit livens up churches in Prakasam||With Christmas round the corner and the active COVID-19 cases also coming down, a festive spirit prevailed in Ongole as churches in Prakasam district, including the over a century-old Jewett Memorial Baptist Church, are being spruced up. After celebrating the festival virtually last year, devotees this time thronged the JMB Church, considered the most-famous of all Baptist churches in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. They also visited other churches, 140 in total, under the Ongole Denomination of Churches, which were tastefully decorated. Members of the Cloughpet Christian Youth Association (CCYA) decorated the statue of the American missionary, Clough, who took up evangelization activities in these parts. The month-long semi-Christmas celebrations peaked this week, with the devotees singing carols in churches. Voluntary organisations here celebrated semi-Christmas with under-privileged children. A ‘love feast’ was organised by the Ongole Town Development committee led by its president Marella Subba Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-spirit-livens-up-churches-in-prakasam/article38017381.ece
23 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thanka Anki Procession sets off||The procession carrying Thanka Anki (golden attire) for the Mandalapuja at Sabarimala set off from the Sree Parthasarathy Temple at Aranmula in Pathanamthitta, Kerala on Wednesday. Having been kept for darshan at the temple for about two hours from 5 a.m., the sacred attire was taken out on a motorised chariot. Escorted by a 60-member team of the Armed Police and officials from the TDB, it will reach Pampa on December 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thanka-anki-procession-sets-off/article38016680.ece
23 December 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roads to be laid in Rajamahendravaram||East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran on Wednesday said that new roads would be laid across Rajamahendravaram city with a Rs. 82 crore grant of the 14th Finance Commission and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation. Mr. Hari Kiran, Rajamahendravaram Municipal Commissioner M. Abhishikth Kishore inspected the roads proposed to be repaired and places where new roads have been proposed. “The new roads would connect to the National Highway and help in diverting traffic within the city,” Mr. Hari Kiran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roads-to-be-laid-in-rajamahendravaram/article38017419.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||700 players to take part in national Kabaddi tourney||As many as 700 players are expected to participate in the ‘All India Kabaddi Tournament for Men and Women’ scheduled to be held from January 5 to 9 in Tirupati. Jointly organised by the Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) and Tirupati Smart City Corporation Limited (TSCCL), it is touted to be the first-ever event of this scale to be conducted by a civic body. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu formally launched the event logo along with MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, in the presence of city Mayor R. Sireesha and MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha. Renowned badminton player Pullela Gopichand and weightlifter Karanam Malleswari are among the dignitaries participating in the event that is being conducted with an estimated outlay of Rs. 1 crore. The corporation has formed twelve committees with corporators and physical trainers of various universities to oversee the arrangements. Expressing concern over the dwindling patronage to rural games in general, Mr. Karunakar Reddy appreciated the corporation for coming forward to shoulder the task. Making a city smart involves making the denizens smart, recognise their roots and be responsible towards their culture, he said. Extrapolating Kabaddi to real life situations, Mr. Naidu said the game required physical aggression, concentration, synchronised activity and a strong defence mechanism, which in fact are the traits needed for success in life, irrespective of one’s profession. Mr. Gireesha said arrangements had been made for 1,000 participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/700-players-to-attend-national-kabaddi-tourney-in-tirupati/article38016685.ece
23 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to bring out disaster management manual||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has announced to bring out a disaster management manual soon, in view of the recent natural calamities and the havoc wrought on the properties and infrastructure belonging to it. Joint Executive Officer (Health and Education) Sada Bhargavi, at a review meeting at SVETA building on Wednesday, said the draft manual would be helpful for quick response during landslips, floods, etc., as witnessed recently, and minimise the damage to lives and properties. The manual would help provide the correct information to devotees during exigencies and boost their confidence levels in crucial hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-bring-out-disaster-management-manual/article38017382.ece
23 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM/COIMBATORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kodanad: Sasikala’s nephew quizzed||The Nilgiris district police questioned Vivek Jayaraman, nephew of V.K. Sasikala, in the Kodanad dacoity-cum-murder case on Wednesday. Sources in the Nilgiris district police said Mr. Jayaraman was questioned in relation to the April 2017 break-in at the Kodanad estate. A security guard was killed and the intruders are said to have escaped with valuables from the bungalow. Ms. Sasikala was then serving a prison term, along with two others, in the disproportionate assets case. Sources said Mr. Jayaraman was among the first in Ms. Sasikala’s close circle to have been notified by the estate management of the break-in. It is believed that he had shared with Ms. Sasikala the information pertaining to the break-in as well as the stolen valuables. The police are trying to piece together how he had shared the information with her. He is also believed to have been questioned about the suicide of a computer operator at the estate. A senior police officer said the questioning started around 2.30 p.m. and went on till 5 p.m. on the PRS campus in Coimbatore. No replies Mr. Jayaraman did not respond to questions from journalists while leaving the place in a car. A police source said Mr. Jayaraman was summoned based on the details provided by the others who had already been interrogated. The police on November 25 questioned S. Natarajan, manager of the estate bungalow.  He was among the first in Sasikala’s close circle to have been notified by the estate management of the break-in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kodanad-case-sasikalas-nephew-quizzed/article38016979.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Churches decked up to ring in Christmas||The cathedrals and churches belonging to various Christian congregations have been decked up to celebrate Christmas on the weekend. Most of the churches have already been illuminated setting off a festive atmosphere. A variety of Christmas trees and cribs depicting the place of birth of Jesus Christ, a cattle shed, were set up on the premises of the churches as part of the Christmas tradition. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the threat of the third wave due to the Omicron variant of the virus, several churches have decided to host Christmas mass a few hours earlier than usual. Every year the Christmas “midnight mass” is conducted during the intervening night of December 24 and December 25. This year churches announced that prayers will begin starting at 9 p.m. or earlier and before midnight. Similar timings were followed last year due to COVID. Thousands of families across the city are expected to take part in the Christmas mass and the city’s oldest and major churches like St.Peter's Co-Cathedral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/churches-decked-up-to-ring-in-christmas/article38016937.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. trying to revive tourism sector, says APTDC Chairman||Post COVID-19, the government has initiated measures to revive the tourism sector, Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) A. Varaprasad Reddy has said. Addressing a workshop , Mr. Reddy said introduction of ‘Restart’ package for the hospitality sector, approval of bank loans for renovation of Harita hotels run by the Tourism Department and inviting investors showing them the several attractive incentives offered in the new tourism policy were aimed at resurgence of the sector. He said the government had sanctioned development of five and seven-star hotels at prominent tourist locations in the State, and pointed out that the Andhra Pradesh chapter of the Indian Tour Operators’ Association had received a national-level award in the ‘Best State Tourism Policy’ category. He said the officials should work collectively to provide boost to the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-trying-to-revive-tourism-sector-says-aptdc-chairman/article38016715.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported two more deaths due to COVID-19 and 103 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The number of active cases came down to 1,358 with 175 recoveries in the past day. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,483 and 20,76,077 respectively. The number of recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,60,236 and 99.2%. The daily test positivity rate of the 28,670 samples tested in the past day was 0.35% and that of the total 3.106 crore samples tested so far was 6.68%. Krishna and Guntur districts reported one death each in the past day. Chittoor reported 26 infections in the past day. It was followed by Guntur (16), Visakhapatnam (12), East Godavari (10), Nellore (8), Krishna (8), West Godavari (8), Anantapur (7), Srikakulam (5), Kadapa (2) and Kurnool (1) while Vizianagaram and Prakasam reported no infection. Meanwhile, there were only three active cases of COVID-19 in Kurnool district. It is also the only district with less than 10 active cases, while Chittoor has 266 active cases, the highest among the districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article38017463.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to promote entrepreneurial mindset among students||The government has launched a programme to instill an ‘entrepreneurial mindset’ in Class IX students of over 300 schools across the State. Titled ‘Enterprise Mindset Curriculum (EMC), the programme is expected to benefit 40,000 students by infusing them with 21st century skills which are required for them to thrive as entrepreneurs, Principal Secretary of the Department of School Education, B. Rajasekhar, informed. The programme, designed by an alliance of non-profit organisations like Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME), Udhyam Learning Foundation, Aflatoun International, Reap Benefit and MakerGhat, will be implemented in the State by GAME, in collaboration with the Samagra Shiksha and the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT). “The first phase of the programme (Online Entrepreneurship Programme) was launched by Education Minister A. Suresh in 30 schools covering 1,000 students on July 20 this year. Encouraged by its outcome, the government launched the second phase with a target to reach out to 40,000 students of Class IX in over 300 schools,” Mr. Rajasekhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-promote-entrepreneurial-mindset-among-students/article38017387.ece
23 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC raps govt. for not uploading GOs||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has pulled up the State government for not uploading its orders on https://goir.ap.gov.in. Reprimanding the government, the court maintained that it was not correct on the part of the government to keep the GOs, which were related to people’s rights, a secret. Further, the court said the government should not force it to issue orders to upload the GOs. The government was also reminded that the Telangana High Court had issued orders to the government to upload the GOs. The Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice Satyanarayana Murti, was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) and three batch cases on Wednesday. The Bench directed the government to file a report as to how many GOs were issued and how many of them were uploaded so far on the website. The Bench also directed the government to state the specific reasons for not uploading since closure of the website. The Bench asked the government to cite reasons why it chose to stop the website when the system was functioning smoothly since 2008. “Cite the reasons behind categorisation of the GOs,” the Bench directed. Special Government Pleader Suman said that except for a change in the website, the State government was uploading all the GOs except secret, top secret and confidential orders. The government was following the A.P. Secretariat Manual and Government Business Rules. The decision not to upload confidential GOs was taken in 2009. Except for GOs relating to small expenditures such as telephone, petrol allowances and blacklisted contractors, all other GOs were being uploaded, he said. The Bench that took a serious view of it, asked how could the government classify the blacklisted contractors as confidential information. There were instances of irregularities in payment of TA and DA amounts. The employees were suspended in such instances, the Bench reminded.  The Court adjourned the matter to Tuesday for further arguments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-raps-govt-for-not-uploading-gos/article38017397.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expose failures of Centre and State, Chandy tells party leaders||All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and in-charge for party affairs in Andhra Pradesh Oommen Chandy on Wednesday urged the party leaders to go to the people across the State and expose the failures of the State and the Central governments. Mr. Chandy, who arrived in Vijayawada on Tuesday on a two-day visit, addressed a meeting of the party’s executive committee. He said protests should be organised against the “anti-people policies” of the YSRCP government in the State and Narendra Modi government at the Centre. After discussing with the leaders the recent State-wide protest ‘Jana Jagran Abhiyan’, party membership enrolment drive, and a State-wide padayatra with the slogan of ‘Save Andhra Pradesh’, he gave directions to the party leaders on the future course of action. Earlier, the party leaders mourned the death of senior Congress leader K. Rosaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expose-failures-of-centre-and-state-chandy-tells-party-leaders/article38017400.ece
23 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP sees attempt to sideline Ashok||The TDP lashed out at the government and the YSRCP leaders for “insulting” former Union Minister and Ramateertham temple trustee P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Wednesday. The TDP objected to the “government’s deliberate attempt” to sideline the trustee during the stone-laying ceremony at the temple. In a statement, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu accused the Ministers of attacking the senior leader like “street rowdies.” Stating that the royal ‘Gajapathi family’ that had donated thousands of acres of lands to temples and educational institutions deserved respect, Mr. Naidu said “the present rulers have not followed protocol.” TDP State president K. Atchannaidu alleged the government bore a grudge against Mr. Ashok. “That is why the issue of laying the stone for reconstructing the temple has not been discussed with the Board of Trustees. The name of Mr. Ashok is missing on the foundation stone. It is nothing but disrespecting the culture and traditions,” Mr. Atchannaidu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-sees-attempt-to-sideline-ashok/article38017395.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ‘attacks’ on Dalits, TDP urges NHRC||TDP leader Nakka Ananda Babu has urged the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to institute inquiries into the “continuing attacks” against Dalits in Andhra Pradesh. In separate letters to the NHRC and NCSC chairpersons on Wednesday, he stressed the need for an following the attack on a Dalit youth in Guntur district. “The weaker sections have been under constant threat in the past two-and-a-half years. P. Venkatanarayana, a resident of Kopparru village in Pedakurapadu, was set afire by miscreants after he asked them not to make derogatory comments against TDP leaders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-attacks-on-dalits-tdp-urges-nhrc/article38017386.ece
23 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Lifetime Achievement Award to Justice N.V. Ramana||Rotary Club of Vijayawada (Rotary International District 3020) will present the Lifetime Achievement Award to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana at the Siddhartha College Auditorium here on Saturday. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, award committee convener K. Pattabhi Ramaiah said Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court Prashant Kumar Mishra and Rotary International District 3020 governor M. Rama Rao would participate in the function as guests of honour. The Rotary Club of Vijayawada had presented the awards to eminent people like S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna, C. Raghavachari (journalist), V. Koteswaramma (educationist) and Karnati Lakshmi Narsaiah, Justice Jasti Chalameswar (Supreme Court judge), and K. Viswanath (filmmaker) in the past. Former district governor of Rotary Club M.C. Das said that the Rotary Club of Vijayawada usually presents a cash award of Rs. 25,000 to the recipient of the Lifetime Achievement Award. As the CJI was not supposed to accept cash awards, the money would be used to provide meals to children at Navajeevan Balabhavan and SKCV. Due to COVID, the awards could not be presented during the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-lifetime-achievement-award-to-justice-nv-ramana/article38016714.ece
23 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct Joint Staff Council meetings: CS||Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma has asked the officials to convene department-wise Joint Staff Council (JSC) meetings. Mr. Sharma held a meeting with Principal Secretaries at the Secretariat on Wednesday and reviewed the ATR presented by the officials. Pending court cases, finance and non-finance matters, and steps need to be taken department wise were discussed at the meeting. Mr. Sharma said employees’ issues should be sorted out soon. The JSCs should be convened in the districts by the Collectors concerned. Any issue that could be resolved at the district level had to be sorted immediately, he said. The Chief Secretary wanted the officials to prepare a Departmental Promotion Committee calendar for taking necessary steps for effecting promotions of employees working in various departments. On AP Online Legal Cases Management System, he said the Secretaries were expected to file counter affidavits in the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-joint-staff-council-meetings-cs/article38017396.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another milestone for Bhogapuram airport project||Special Chief Secretary, Industries, Infrastructure and Investment Development, Karikal Valaven, Managing Director of the Andhra Pradesh Airport Development Corporation Limited Bharath Reddy and the Chief Executive Officer of GMR Visakhapatnam International Airport Limited Manomay Rai on Wednesday executed the State Government Support Agreement for the Greenfield airport project at Bhogapuram near Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-milestone-for-bhogapuram-airport-project/article38017398.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 cinemas ordered to be seized||The Krishna district administration has ordered the seizure of 11 cinema halls in the rural areas of the district and imposed a fine of Rs. 20,000 on a cinema hall in the city. Following Collector J. Nivas's surprise inspection of a cinema hall in the city late on Tuesday, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha and Revenue Divisional Officers across the district inspected various cinema halls in the district on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-cinemas-ordered-to-be-seized/article38016938.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Bank of India’s MSME branch inaugurated||Union Bank of India has inaugurated the “Union MSME First” branch, a new branch focussed on Micro Small and Medium Enterprises in the city on Wednesday. Union Bank of India Executive Director Nitesh Ranjan inaugurated the branch virtually in the presence of Vijayawada zone chief genera manager V. Brahmananda Reddy, Vijayawada regional head Vege Ramesh, Machilipatnam regional head N. Srinivasa Rao and others. The branch is located in Autonagar. Mr. Brahmananda Reddy said the branch would cater to the needs of MSMEs with dedicated relationship managers for end to end service. Interest on MSME loans by the bank starts at 6.80%, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-bank-of-indias-msme-branch-inaugurated/article38017464.ece
23 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada ENT Association governing body elected||The new governing body of the Vijayawada ENT Association was elected in the city on Wednesday. According to a release, in the elections conducted for the governing body, R. Vidyasagar was elected as president of the association, while P. Swetha was elected as secretary. G. Sameera was elected as treasurer and D. Pradeep was elected as joint secretary. Jai Krishna, Anusha, Satyanarayana and Bhargav were elected as executive members of the body. Dr. Vidyasagar said that the association aimed at conducting continuous medical education programmes and sharing knowledge among ENT specialists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijayawada-ent-association-governing-body-elected/article38017465.ece
23 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No time to lose in tackling Omicron, warn experts||Though the number of people who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier and have now contracted its new variant Omicron is around 213, health experts sound a warning and say that it is time to rethink the strategy and once again impose certain restrictions before the cases reach the threshold level. “The World Health Organisation (WHO) has already said that Omicron is spreading faster than the Delta variant. That is why we need to be more careful, particularly when it is said that the months of January and February are key to India when cases may shoot up within a short span of time,” the experts warn. As per the latest estimates in the U.S., Omicron accounts for 73% of the infections, New York alone accounting for 92% of the cases. “Predictions are that we may see a terrible January and February,” said District COVID-19 special officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. “Most importantly, from what we have seen so far, the new variant is not any more milder than the Delta variant,” Dr. Sudhakar said. Centre’s advisory The Union Government, in an advisory, has already asked the State governments to activate its critical facilities and strategy boardrooms, and has listed a number prevention and containment measures. The Centre has asked the State government to scale up its testing and vaccination drives, and has advised it to resume certain curbs, which include night curfew and ceiling on gatherings at public places. “It is time for the State government to take steps in that direction,” said a senior doctor in the King George Hospital (KGH). “If one is vaccinated with both the jabs and has also taken the booster dose, he or she may escape with a mild infection. There is no study conclusively proving that those who are vaccinated cannot be reinfected,” Dr. Sudhakar said. Key defence “Those who have not been vaccinated are at greater risk as the new variant is as dangerous as Delta, especially if they have risk factors, underlying diseases, or have immunosuppressed condition,” Dr. Sudhakar warned. “The key defence is vaccination, and it is even better if a booster dose is taken,” said Dr. Sudhakar. Going by the present scenario, the booster dose should be treated as the third jab, and the fourth one should be called the booster dose, he added. “Many medical conditions and medications compromise the ability of the vaccine to mount an adequate immune response. That is why a proper planning on vaccination with the treating physician is important,” he added. “We have a formidable foe, a tired workforce in the health sector, and the public who are unwilling to get vaccinated and follow the COVID-19 protocols. These work in favour of Omicron. So, it is time for us to go back to vigorous vaccination, enforcement of restrictions, and strict adherence of the protocols, including wearing of KN95 masks,” Dr. Sudhakar said. No gatherings on New Year eve? It is learnt that the district administration and the city police are contemplating closing the Beach Road and other public places on December 31, and also ban gatherings at public places, including hotels. But sources say that the restrictions are still in the planning stage as directions from the government are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-time-to-lose-in-tackling-omicron-warn-experts/article38017402.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. should revoke OTS scheme, says Velagapudi||The State government should immediately revoke the OTS (one time settlement) scheme, as it is not only a ploy to harass the poor, but also to earn some money to fund its welfare schemes by training the guns on the poor, said Visakhapatnam (East) MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu from the Telugu Desam Party(TDP). Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, he said that during the TDP rule about 80,000 pattas were given to the poor and the locking period of two years has been completed by 2018. But despite that the government is not registering the pattas and now it has floated the OTS scheme to make some money, he said. During TDP rule, the then Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had announced the pattas measuring up to 100 sq yds free of cost to the poor. From 100 to 500 sq yds a nominal registration value on the base price was fixed varying from 7.5% to a maximum of 30%, he said. “But the YSRCP government has announced free only up to 75 sq yds and is levying 75% on land measuring from 75 to 150 sq yds and 100% on lands measuring from 150 to 300 and above sq yds,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Babu. He also criticised the State government for superimposing the photo of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the bond stamp papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-should-revoke-ots-scheme-says-velagapudi/article38017474.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extend benefits to safai karamcharis, officials told||National Commission for Safai Karamcharis Member P.P. Vava has directed the district officials to implement schemes for the welfare of safai karamcharis at the State-level on the lines of that being done for them by the Union Government. He held a meeting with the District Collector, GVMC Commissioner, Police, Panchayat Raj and Education officials on Wednesday. He said that the Supreme Court had issued special orders in 2014 for the welfare of safai karamcharis. Manual scavenging has been banned and the practice of untouchability and other social evils against them were also banned. The Union Government has set up the National Safai Karamchari Finance Development Corporation and was extending loans on subsidy to the beneficiaries, he said. Scholarships and reservations were being extended for their children. They were being provided free treatment for various illnesses under the Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Yojana. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that schemes were being implemented in the district for the welfare of safai karamcharis. Free medical treatment was being extended to them under the YSR Arogyasree programme of the State government. Manual scavenging has been done away with and santitation was being conducted with special mechanised drainage cleaning machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extend-benefits-to-safai-karamcharis-officials-told/article38017469.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mid-day meal workers stage protest for salaries||The members of the A.P. Mid-day Meal Scheme Workers Union staged a protest alleging harassment by the YSR Congress Party workers, delay in clearance of their bills since many months and a few other issues here on Wednesday. They alleged that the State government has even failed to provide them salaries on time. Later addressing a press conference at Gandhi Statue near GVMC building, State president of the union G. Varalakshmi said that around 200workers were sacked due to various reasons in Rolugunta, Madugula, Anakapalle, Yelamanchali and a few other areas in Visakhapatnam district, while many women have resigned from the jobs unable to bear the pressure and harassment from the YSRCP workers. Despite not allotting any special funds, not clearing bills on time and not addressing basic issues, around 6,000 mid-day meal workers have been working in the schools and providing food to the children, she said. She said that no additional incentives were provided by the government even though the prices of vegetables and kitchen essentials, have increased. The State government had promised to pay a salary of Rs. 3,000 per month. The last full salary was paid in January. Then the salary was cut due to COVID-19, school closure and other reasons. Since August, no salary was credited, she added. The members also said that the State government needs to clear pending bills to the tune of Rs. 1 crore to all the mid-day meal workers in the district. Though they have taken up the issues with the District Educational Officer (DEO) and a few other officers, no action has been taken so far, they said. Akshaya Patra The union members also alleged that Corporator of Ward 6, M. Priyanka, was mulling to remove the mid-day meal workers at ZP High School, Chandrampalem, and appoint 'Akshaya Patra' to provide food to the students. Condemning the alleged proposal, they said that about 10 women from “Ambica DWACRA Group” who have been working in the school for the last 13 years, would lose their jobs, if this decision was implemented. Though the Government neglected in clearing bills on many occasions, the women workers adjusted to the situation and prepared food for the children. In this school itself, the Government has to clear bills around Rs. 13 lakh, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mid-day-meal-workers-stage-protest-for-salaries/article38017470.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest Department officials and fishermen rescue beached whale shark||Officials from the Forest Department and local fishermen rescued a whale shark that got beached at Tantadi beach in Visakhapatnam on December 18. Issuing a press release here on Wednesday, DFO Ananth Shankar said that it took almost two hours to rescue the whale shark and guide it to the deep waters. On December 18, the local fishermen found the shark beached on the shores and entangled in fishing nets. The locals along with wildlife photographer Srikanth Mannepuri informed the matter to the Forest Department. Without losing any time the department despatched a team and rescued the stranded shark. This slow-moving and filter-feeding carpet shark is the largest known extant fish species and the largest living nonmammalian vertebrate. It is categorised under endangered species by IUCN, said Mr. Ananth Shankar.The shark that got beached was around 15-metre long and weighed around two tonnes. “This particular species has covered with distinct dots and the pictures have been sent to various conservation and protection groups working in the Indian Ocean Region, to identify its original location, so that we can have an understanding how it could have strayed so far,” said the DFO. Compensation “We have also told the fishermen to approach us at the earliest in such incidents as time is the factor for rescue and safe release,” he said. “The fishermen will also get compensated in case of any damages to their fishing nets during release of whale sharks in case they get entangled in their fishing nets,” said the DFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/whale-shark-rescued/article38017424.ece
23 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NSTL hands over key stealth system to Navy||The Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL) handed over the 3MW Diesel Engine Infrared Suppression Signature System (IRSS) to the Indian Navy here on Wednesday. The system was designed and developed for the indigenously-built aircraft carrier project INS Vikrant. As part of the programme, a prototype was handed over by Dr. Samir V Kamat, Director General (Naval Systems & Materials), to Vice Admiral Sandeep Naithani, Chief of Material, Integrated Naval Headquarters, New Delhi. Speaking on the occasion, Vice Admiral Sandeep said that stealth technology was a key factor for survivability of ships at sea. Dr. Kamat said handing over the IRSS systems to the Indian Navy signified a major milestone in achieving ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in the design and development of naval stealth systems. NSTL Director Y. Sreenivas Rao said that the NSTL designed and developed systems had been integrated onboard INS Vikrant, which was under construction at Cochin Shipyard Limited, Kochi, and had completed all performance trials successfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nstl-hands-over-key-stealth-system-to-navy/article38017404.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smart city corporation chairman refutes harassment charges||Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Chairman G. Venkateswara Rao, popularly known as GV, has refuted the allegations made against him by Hayagriva Infratech Private Limited proprietor Jagadeeswarudu that he (GV) was harassing him. Mr. Jagadeeswaradu had released a video, a few days ago, alleging that GV and some other YSR Congress Party leaders had obtained his signatures on blank papers and threatening to grab the lands in his possession. Addressing a media conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Venkateswara Rao said that there was no truth in the allegations made by Mr. Jagadeeswarudu. “As an auditor of the company (Hayagriva Infratech), I had worked for its development. He was my friend for 20 years and I had even arranged loans for him, when he said that he was in financial difficulties. He had also borrowed from different sources and is trying to cheat them on the plea that he had turned bankrupt,” Mr. Venkateswara Rao explained. “On coming to know that he was indulging in financial irregularities, I resigned as auditor of the company during the financial year 2017-18. He had committed financial fraud during 2018-19. There are 50 cheque bounce cases, some bank fraud cases and a Central Vigilance Commission case against Mr. Jagadeeswarudu”. Referring to the claims made by Mr. Jagadeeswarudu that he had sold part of the land, which was in the possession of the company, at Yendada, to clear the loans, Mr. Venkateswara Rao said if that was true, he should show the proof to whom the payments were made. Mr. Venkateswara Rao allged that he has information that BJP leader ‘Sujana’ Choudhary was backing Mr. Jagadeeswarudu. He, however, said that he was yet to verify the facts. He said, “If Jagadeeswarudu’s allegations against me are true, he could have complained to the Police Commissioner. If, he can prove the charges, he made against me, I am ready for any punishment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smart-city-corporation-chairman-refutes-harassment-charges/article38017467.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shelter homes for tribal pregnant women soon: ITDA Project Officer||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna said that the Health Department should provide better services and ensure the Agency do not report any maternal deaths. He conducted a review meet with the staff from 11 mandals of the Agency here at Paderu on Wednesday. Mr. Gopala Krishna said that the medical officials must see that deliveries of pregnant women take place only in hospitals and not in houses. The staff should shift pregnant woman to the nearest hospitals at least one week before the estimated date of delivery. He also asked the officials to check whether all the hospitals have stock of medicines and there is no shortage. He said that shelter homes from tribal pregnant women are being started in the Agency. The first shelter home will be inaugurated at Munchingputtu on December 29. In January, second shelter home will be started at Dumbriguda, he said. The ITDA Project Officer said that compared to the previous years, seasonal diseases have decreased. He also instructed the officials to conduct health check-ups to all students in the Ashrama schools. He directed officials to speed up vaccination procedure in the Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shelter-homes-for-tribal-pregnant-women-soon-itda-project-officer/article38017471.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jansadharan special trains to be operated to Vijayawada for the convenience of Bhavani devotees||Jansadharan special trains will be operated between Vijayawada-Palasa-Vijayawada for the convenience of Bhavani devotees going to Vijayawada. Train no. 07199 Vijayawada-Palasa Jansadharan special will leave Vijayawada from December 24 to 30 at 9.20 p.m. and arrive in Visakhapatnam at 7.30 a.m. and depart at 8 a,m. and will reach Palasa at 1 p.m. on the next day. Stoppages In the return direction, 07200 Palasa- Vijayawada Jansadharan special, will leave Palasa from December 25 to 31 at 1.30 p.m. and arrive in Visakhapatnam at 5.50 p.m. and depart at 6.20 p.m. to reach Vijayawada at 3 a.m. on the next day, according to A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R). 11 second class coaches These Jansadharan special trains will have stoppages at Eluru, Tadepalligudem, Nidadavolu, Rajahmundry, Dwarapudi, Anaparti, Samalkot, Pitapuram, Annavaram, Tuni, Narsipatnam Road, Elamanchili, Anakapalli, Duvvada, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam Road. COVID protocols These pair of trains will have 11 General Second Class and two Second class- cum-luggage coaches in their composition. Passengers are requested to make use of these special train services. They should adhere to the COVID-19 health protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jansadharan-special-trains-to-vijayawada/article38017423.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Security of offshore assets reviewed||The security of the Offshore Development Area (ODA) in Krishna Godavari Basin on the East Coast was reviewed during exercise ‘Prasthan’ conducted from December 21 to 22. The biannual exercise was coordinated and controlled by NOIC (APD) from Joint Operations Centre (JOC) Vizag, under the aegis of Indian Navy to assess overall security architecture to provide support during an emergency situation at ODA and for the oil operators to validate their Standard Operating Procedures laid out for various contingencies related to ODA. Indian Naval Ships Kamorta, Tarmugli along with ISVs, T 36, T 38, T 39 and ICG ship Kanaklata Barua participated in the exercise along with MARCOS from INS Karna and naval helicopters from INS Dega. Oil operators such as ONGC, Reliance and Vedanta, Coastal Police, Department of Port and Department of Fisheries also participated. The exercise was conducted for a duration of 24 hours to cater to multiple contingencies that can be expected in all scenarios including simulating an evacuation by helicopter after dark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/security-of-offshore-assets-reviewed/article38017421.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||512 babies delivered in ambulances in district, says EMS CEO||As many as 512 babies were delivered in ambulances, operated by the Aurobindo EMS (Emergency Medical Services), between July 2020 and November 2021, in Visakhapatnam district. The women had developed labour pains and delivered, while being shifted to hospitals, with the help of trained Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs). Aurobindo EMS CEO Papi Reddy held a review meeting with the EMTs and ambulance staff from the district, at the Youth Hostel building on Beach Road here on Wednesday. Interacting with the media on the occasion, the CEO said that 51 EMS 108 ambulances and 42 EMS 104 Mobile Medical Clinics (MMCs) were rendering services in the district. The 51 EMS 108 ambulances had transported 92,587 persons, needing emergency medical attention, to hospitals during the last 17 months in the district, he said. They include 10,462 persons, affected by COVID-19 during the first and second waves, 22,378 pregnant women, 9,843 accident cases and 49,904 other cases. The EMS 104 MMC attended to 6,09,222 patients in the rural areas. A total of 2,37,083 men, 3,72,139 women and 17,942 pregnant women availed of services of the MMCs. The MMCs also conducted 2,84,816 investigations and 33,545 hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccinations. Underlining the importance of ‘pre-hospital care’ being rendered by the EMS 108 staff, while shifting patients to hospitals, he said that ‘patient stabilisation’ during the ‘golden time’ was of utmost importance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/512-babies-delivered-in-ambulances-in-district-says-ems-ceo/article38017468.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag zoo nominated as member in WAZA||Curator of Indira Gandhi Zoological park (IGZP), Nandani Salaria, announced that the zoo has been nominated as an institutional member in the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA). WAZA is the global alliance of regional associations, national federations, zoos and aquariums, dedicated to the care and conservation of animals and their habitats around the world. In a release, Ms. Salaria said that being a part of this association will be fruitful for the IGZP in many ways. IGZP will now have links to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and others, the Curator added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-zoo-nominated-as-member-in-waza/article38017420.ece
23 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Allow zonal offices to receive plaints on property tax’||Members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents Welfare Association (VARWA) have requested Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha to decentralise the authority to receive complaints regarding property tax notices to zonal offices and Sachivalayams. The VARWA members wrote a letter to the Commissioner on Wednesday, saying that the corporation is sending demand notices to the citizens, who own houses in the city, converting their tax from annual rental value system to the capital value system. The citizens were also given an opportunity to submit a complaint in case of disagreement within a period of 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice. “We were asked to submit the complaints only to the Commissioner or any officer authorised by the Commissioner. Many people are dissatisfied with the tax revision and expressing their intent to submit a complaint. But submitting complaints to the Commissioner is not possible for every one. So, the GVMC may decentralise the authority to receive complaints,” said VARWA General Secretary B.B. Ganesh in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-zonal-offices-to-receive-plaints-on-property-tax/article38017472.ece
23 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension atop Ramateertham hill||Former Union Minister and TDP Polit Bureau member Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Wednesday slammed the State government for putting a plaque for the reconstruction of Kodandarama temple on the hill of Ramateertham temple, 11 km from here. When the Ministers and officials were about to lay foundation stone for the reconstruction of the temple, Mr. Ashok expressed his displeasure over ignoring protocol, tradition and culture. Removing the plaque Mr. Ashok and TDP leaders reportedly tried to remove the plaque in which the names of Ministers were written. Only at the bottom, trustee Mr. Ashok’s name was written. Several TDP leaders, including Boddula Narasinga Rao, P. Rajesh and others, objected the violation of protocol and new tradition of putting plaques on the temple premises. Tension prevailed when Mr. Ashok and other TDP leaders tried to remove the plaque. The officials who gathered there tried to pacify the situation. Deputy Chief Minister P. Pushpa Srivani and Minister for Endowments V. Srinivas, who arrived after the incident, broke coconuts and laid foundation stone. Puja performed Mr. Ashok who was invited to break a coconut refused to do so saying that only the trustee was supposed to perform puja at the temple and lay the stone. Mr. Ashok objected YSRCP leaders’ presence wearing shoes and chappals. The Pusapati family had been functioning as trustee of the temple for the last 400 years. Donation The government had refused to accept Mr. Ashok’s donation of Rs. 1 lakh for the reconstruction of the temple in which the idol of Lord Rama was vandalised one year ago. The incident had caused uproar in the State and made the government to reconstruct the temple. However, the process also caused uproar with the tussle between the YSRCP and TDP leaders.  The idol of Lord Rama in the Kodandarama temple was vandalised one year ago and the incident had caused uproar in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-atop-ramateertham-hill/article38017393.ece
23 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No violation of protocol, say Ministers||Minister for Endowments V. Srinivas and Minister for Municipal Administration B. Satyanarayana on Wednesday alleged that former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju was indulging in mud-slinging as he was unable to digest the government’s initiative to reconstruct the Sri Kodandarama Swamy temple on the hill of Ramateertham at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. Addressing the media here, the Ministers alleged that Mr. Ashok went to the temple one hour in advance to defame the government that had respected him by putting his name on the plaque. “As a trust board chairman, Mr. Ashok has never taken any initiative for the development of Ramateertham. Now he is trying to disrupt the construction activity. Though there is no violation of protocol, he is making false allegations against us,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. “The temple is not his personal property. If so, he could have allocated funds from MANSAS Trust. Instead of utilising the funds for the development, Mr. Ashok allowed sale of its properties during TDP regime,” he alleged. Mr. Srinivas said the reconstruction work would be completed by Sri Rama Navami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-violation-of-protocol-say-ministers/article38017394.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gearing up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gearing-up/article38016940.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stunning collection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stunning-collection/article38017385.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keen contest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keen-contest/article38017477.ece
23 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Don’t transfer cryptocurrency to private wallets, says Shikha Goel||The desire to get rich overnight in the new fad of cryptocurrency investment has been fraught with landmines. People’s craze to invest in the virtual money backfired with Hyderabad police registering as many as 16 cases in the recent past. Police said lack of knowledge on the part of investors, greed, and infallible behaviour in pursuit of the lure of the lucre is easily leading them to the crypto cheaters’ net. Speaking to The Hindu , Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) Shikha Goel said that of the 16 cryptocurrency fraud cases, 14 were related to investment and trading. “People have been cheated of Rs. 3.45 crore in their greed for higher returns against investment in cryptocurrency,” she said. Explaining the modus operandi of the ‘untraceable’ fraudsters, Ms. Goel said that people get a WhatsApp call or message from the fraudsters who will advise them to invest in cryptocurrency and get huge returns. “They will send a link to a website or app to the victims and explain them how to purchase cryptocurrency. After a successful purchase, the fraudsters ask them to transfer it to their private wallet for much higher returns,” she said. As soon as the cryptocurrency is transferred to their wallets, the tricksters encash it by other exchanges and sell them for their personal gain. With a majority of the websites or mobile applications operating from either China or Nigeria, the police are facing difficulties in nabbing them. On many occasions, they were not even able to get the IP logs of the fraudsters, as the trading is done through the victims’ logs. Ms. Goel cautioned the crypto purchasers not to transfer their virtual currency to any other private wallets, as it could lead to huge losses. “Once you get cheated, it is a dead end. Virtual money can never be traced back and returned to the original owner,” another officer said. Earlier in the day, Ms. Goel said that they are seeing the emergence of loan app frauds after a brief lull again, as financier are offering loans through apps and harassing the defaulters. Five new cases were registered in recent times and there are over 46 such mobile applications, she said. A large number of senior citizens were duped by cyber fraudsters and app-based investment frauds, which offer huge returns and cheat people, was the new trend in the world of cyber crimes, the officer said. Actor harassed Meanwhile, three youngsters were booked by the Jubilee Hills police on Wednesday for allegedly stalking and harassing a 20-year-old actor from Manikonda. Police said that around 12 a.m. when the actor was waiting outside Club Rouge for her car, parked by a valet, three persons came in a car and passed comments on her. Later, when they followed her to some distance, she stopped and got down from the vehicle and confronted them, an officer said. “When she started questioning them, people gathered and caught one Mobin from Musheerabad, while two others escaped,” he said. Based on a complaint lodged by the actor, a case under Sections 354 (D) and 509 of the Indian Penal Code were registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-transfer-cryptocurrency-to-private-wallets-says-shikha-goel/article38017209.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Intermediate results dilemma continues, KCR sympathetic||Even as the demand for passing all the students of Intermediate first year gains momentum with suicides and protests on the rise, the government is in a dilemma on how to go ahead given the academic and administrative predicament. Such is the poor performance of students, sources of the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) said, that about one lakh students out of the 2.35 lakh who failed could not cross double digits even if marks of all their subjects are combined. Thousands of students could not even answer more than two sentences for each question while a few thousands did not cross the first page of the answer sheet. “How can such students be passed,” an official asked admitting that the government was in a dilemma. But with just 13 days of classroom instruction in the entire year what can they expect from students who were new to technology or did not even have access to it. Nearly 80% of students from both private and the government sector fall into this category. Only those in top schools or with strong parental educational background did well in the exams. “Moreover, these students were writing a public examination for the first time in their lives and one should understand their mental frame,” says NSUI State president Venkat Balmoor, protesting against the results. Government’s dilemma also reflects in strict instructions coming to the BIE officials and even the Education Ministry has been asked not to reveal any info or even their opinions till Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao takes a decision. The BIE has sent a report to the Chief Minister on the pros and cons of giving minimum pass marks to all the students now. However, officers involved in the process seem to be divided thus delaying some decision. Given the likely political fallout, those close to the Chief Minister want a favourable decision for students while some feel passing all the students will be an administrative blunder. “If we pass these students now it is as good as clearing them for the second year as well,” an official said. A senior politician close to the Chief Minister said KCR was considering the issue sympathetically and was likely to favour awarding minimum pass marks to all. The AP government did the same when it promoted all the first year students. At the same time, it conducted betterment exams for those who wanted to improve their marks.   If we pass these students now it is as good as clearing them for the second year as well. An official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/intermediate-results-dilemma-continues-kcr-sympathetic/article38017225.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||14 more Omicron cases in State||Telangana recorded 14 more cases of Omicron on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases of the coronavirus variant in the State has gone up to 38. The 14 new cases include two persons who landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Shamshabad, from at-risk countries, and 12 from countries not listed as ‘at risk’ yet. Genome sequencing results of four more samples were awaited. 182 new cases On Wednesday, 182 new COVID-19 infections were detected in the State, taking the total to 6,80,074. While 37,353 samples were examined for coronavirus, results of 3,831 were awaited. One more COVID-19 patient died. The new 182 infections included 91 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region and 18 from Hanamkonda. So far, a total of 2.93 crore samples have been put through coronavirus testing. Of the total cases, 3,610 were active, 6,72,447 have recovered, and 4,017 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/14-more-omicron-cases-in-state/article38017187.ece
23 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Overall crime dips in city, but spike in rape cases||The Hyderabad Police Commissionerate has seen a spike in rape cases the present year when compared to the lockdown-hit 2020 and the previous year. “As many as 328 rape cases have been reported during the period at review, out of which 95% of the rapes are cases among known people out of love, promise to marry and not marrying, and only in three cases the accused were ‘strangers’ to the victims,” said Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar on Wednesday. Addressing his fourth annual crime round-up on the Gibraltar rock in Hussainsagar lake, where the world’s tallest monolith of Gautama Buddha is erected, Mr Kumar claimed that Hyderabad is the safest city and number of crimes when compared to other major cities like Bengaluru, Chennai, Kochi, have been consistently subdued over a period of time. Further comparing the overall crime rate with 2019, as 2020 was mostly under COVID-19 lockdown, the officer said that the city has seen a dip in the overall crime rate — 25,187 cases registered in 2019 to 20,012 cases in 2021. He said that there is a significant decrease in bodily and property offences like dacoity, culpable homicide, robbery, chain snatching, house breaks, pseudo police and thefts, and the decline can be attributed to effective policing. At present, altogether there are 4.40 lakh CCTV cameras in the city, including 4.24 lakh installed under the Nenu Saitham project and 5,520 cameras under Safe City Project. There has been an increase in crime against women. In 2019 the number of cases was 2,354 when compared to 2,393 cases in 2021. Similarly, crime against children (POCSO) has seen a slight increase, as 339 cases were registered in 2019 and in 2021 the number was 357 cases. Declaring their road map for the coming year, the city police chief said they would build a stronger relationship with the community, and detailed analysis at the police station level would be taken up to address their needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/overall-crime-dips-in-city-but-spike-in-rape-cases/article38017206.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State continues to shiver||Hyderabad and the rest of Telangana shivered as the cold wave continued with the lowest of 4.6 degree C (minimum temperature) being recorded at Ginnedari in Kumram Bheem district, 6.8 degree C in Adilabad and 8.4 degrees at Agriculture University in Rajendranagar on Wednesday. Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) in its bulletin informed that weather will be mainly dry and night temperatures are likely to remain in the range of 12 to 15 degrees while maximum temperatures will be between 27-30 degree C. Moinabad in Rangareddy recorded 6.6 degree C, Sangareddy 9.2 degree C, Marredpally 9.4 degree C, Serilingampally 10.5 degree C, Golconda 11.7 degree C, Saroornagar 11.7 degree C, Asifnagar 12.2 degree C, Qutbullapur 12.4 degree C and Jubilee Hills 12.4 degree C. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its bulletin stated that the twin cities will have haze throughout the day for the next couple of days with the minimum temperature recorded being 11.2 degree C, which is four degrees below normal while the maximum temperature was 30.2 degree C, which is one degree below normal. The forecast for Thursday says there won’t be much change in the weather with day temperatures likely to be around 30 degree C and night temperature at about 14 degree C. Cold weather across the State has been recorded at Medak 8.3 degree C, Ramagundam 10.4 degree C, Dundigal 12.1 degree C, Khammam 12.5 degree C, Nalgonda, 13.4 degree C and Bhadrachalam 13.5 degree C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-continues-to-shiver/article38017219.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS, BJP scripted blame game over paddy on pollster’s advice: Cong.||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP Revanth Reddy has alleged that the TRS government in Telangana and the BJP government at the Centre have jointly scripted the blame game over paddy procurement on the advice of a pollster close to both the governments. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi on Wednesday along with Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yashki Goud, he said that this drama was being enacted on the advice of a political strategist called Sunil, who is closely associated with both Union Home Minister Amit Shah and TS Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “I will expose the nexus between TRS and BJP soon to explain how Telangana farmers are falling prey to the monstrous plans of BJP-TRS governments for the last two months,” he said. He claimed that the meeting of TRS MPs with Union Agriculture Minister Piyush Goyal and the meeting of Telangana BJP leaders with Amit Shah on the same day in New Delhi were pre-decided and the outcomes were made public in a manner that they left farmers in a state of confusion. Mr. Reddy also said that it was ridiculous for Mr. Shah to suggest his partymen a campaign in Telangana on the plank of corruption of KCR when he had all the evidence and power to order an investigation by the ED and the CBI. “Union Minister Kishan Reddy and State BJP president Bandi Sanjay only make allegations and do nothing. Which invisible power is stopping the BJP government from taking action against KCR?”, he asked. “TRS MPs’ meeting with Mr. Goyal was just an eyewash as the Minister already made a statement on the floor of Parliament that the Centre will purchase 60 lakh MTs of paddy from Telangana. Their protest in Parliament was aimed at shielding the Modi government from the wrath of the entire Opposition,” he claimed. Mr. Uttam Reddy said that the KCR government did not even make adequate arrangements for gunny bags, transportation or IKP centres leading to damage of paddy produce due to unseasonal rains. He said it was ridiculous on the part of the TRS government to ask farmers to completely drop paddy cultivation in the next season. The entire rice produced in Telangana could be exported if the State government gives an incentive of Rs. 3,000 crore. Mr. Venkat Reddy reminded that it was Congress that started IKP centres to procure farmers’ produce and the previous Congress-led UPA government enhanced MSP for paddy from Rs. 400 to Rs. 1,000 in a single shot. It also waived off crop loans of nearly Rs. 60,000 crore in a single take to relieve farmers from their debts. Mr. Goud alleged a scam of Rs. 18,000 crore in paddy procurement. He said that rice millers purchased paddy from farmers by paying just Rs. 1,300 to Rs. 1,400 while the KCR government procured 53 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from rice millers by paying MSP of Rs. 1,940. If the BJP was sincere, it should order a probe into paddy procurement, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-bjp-scripted-blame-game-over-paddy-on-pollsters-advice-cong/article38017224.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Harish hails TSMIDC for role in managing pandemic||Health Minister T. Harish Rao highlighted the role of Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC) in arranging crucial medical resources services as Errolla Srinivas took charge as its chairman on Wednesday. The Minister said that the crucial responsibility of providing diagnostic tests and medicines is on Mr Srinivas even as he sought to explain how the corporation’s officials and staff are involved in tasks such as constructing hospital buildings, providing furniture, medicines, surgical equipment, maintaining sanitation and security at the healthcare facilities, and other responsibilities. “TSMIDC arranges everything from a needle to CT Scan,” Mr Harish Rao put it succintly. All sections of Health department played a crucial part during the two waves of COVID-19 pandemic which has ravaged many lives, he said. Government hospitals were the centre of focus as lakhs of people relied on them for treatment. There was severe shortage of some medicines such as Remdesivir and those used in the treatment of Mucormycosis, oxygen supply for people being treated at home, and other resources. The Health Minister said the TSMIDC swung into action to arrange the life-saving medical resources. Not just that, TSMIDC officials and staff had a crucial role in managing and bringing down the effect of the pandemic by making arrangements for masks, testing kits, Personal Protective Equipment etc. Managing director of the corporation Chandrasekhar Reddy said when the second wave was subsiding, they started making preparations for a possible third wave. “We have arranged paediatric wards and ICUs, which have neonatal ventilators and paediatric ventilators, in 48 health facilities across the State. Around 26,000 beds in government hospitals are supplied with oxygen. ICU beds have been increased. Measures are taken to ensure the peak demand of 540 metric tons of oxygen per day is met by generating oxygen here,” said Dr Chandrasekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-hails-tsmidc-for-role-in-managing-pandemic/article38017185.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor flags decline in teaching standards||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan expressed concerns over the declining standards of teaching and called for improvement in quality. Appealing to the State governments for collaborative work with the Centre, she said effective implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 was the way forward. Ms. Soundararajan was speaking at ‘Synergising Higher Education in the context of NEP-2020: Strategies for implementation’, a two-day conference being held at the Osmania University. She said the policy promotes critical thinking and all-round innovation, and will help the country emerge as a knowledge-based economy, while creating an equal, equitable, accessible and inclusive education system. “Indian students are superior in their grasping power and we are respected all over the world for our skills and talent. However, we need to think seriously about why we are failing to attract foreign students to our educational institutions, while around 10 lakh Indian students are studying abroad,” she added. NEP-2020 must be implemented in letter and spirit to reclaim India’s “Vishwa Guru position”, she added. Ms. Soundararajan, briefly but comprehensively, also flagged hindrances to improving quality of teaching and standards. “Teaching vacancies need to be filled on priority basis in the universities,” she said. All India Council for Technical Education chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe also outlined the core principles of NEP-2020 and expressed confidence that the policy would pave way for inclusive, equitable, accountable and accessible learning. Telangana State Council of Higher Education Chairman R. Limbadri, Central University of Karnataka vice-chancellor Bhattu Satyanarayana, Osmania University vice-chancellor D. Ravinder, and ABRSM national president J.P. Singhal were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-flags-decline-in-teaching-standards/article38017191.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A chance encounter with a rare turtle species||On a routine birding trip to Sirnapalli forest in Telangana’s Nizamabad, Manoj Kumar Vittapu, and Shravan Kumar Poshetty, a mountaineer and an international forest forensic investigator, had a chance encounter with the rarely found species of Albino Indian Flapshell turtle a couple of months ago. And, to his delight, Mr. Vittapu got confirmation from the scientific authorities and also details about the spices and habitat. “Yes, it was a thrilling experience for the simple reason that there were only two instances earlier of having ‘recorded’ the presence across India. And, finding them in our own Telangana is something we are really proud of,” says Mr. Vittapu, who is also engaged by the Forest Department often to indulge in census activities. “We first spotted this Albino Indian Flapshell turtle in August this year at Sirnapalli after our routine trip for birding failed to generate the desired interest for want of activity,” he said. “After shooting a few shots of woodpecker and babblers, we chanced upon this gentle beauty. As the sun was setting on the horizon, we were on our way back home. Then, suddenly we did notice some activity in the pond. Then, Shravan and myself turned our attention to a white bug slipping into the pond swiftly. The mystery was slowly unfolding with the eyes staring out of the water and admitted our presence. “In a blink, I could identify it as a baby turtle but was not sure of it for quite some time,” he said. “After a 45-minute wait, to our delight we could finally identify the species as Albino Indian Flapshell turtle. Remarkably, there were two, not one and our joy knew no bounds,” he said. “We took the pictures and videos. And, our research later suggested they were traced only twice before in 2020 — once in Odisha and then in West Bengal,” Mr. Manoj said.  Remarkably, there were two, not one and our joy knew no bounds. Manoj Kumar Vittapu, A mountaineer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-chance-encounter-with-a-rare-turtle-species/article38017195.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC targets 3,457 properties for road widening works||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is proposing another round of a massive road widening and junction improvement works in the twin cities targetting acquiring of as many as 3,457 properties, with the Standing Committee under the chairmanship of Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi clearing 40 listed works on Friday. She informed the committee that Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao had sought six or seven junctions to be redeveloped in each zone and filling vacancies in the sanitation wing.  The works have been put up for approval from the Government though it was not made clear about the funding for such a mammoth exercise. From Teegalakunta crossroads to Tadbund labour adda via Irfan Hotel with 228 properties to be acquired; 236 properties to be taken over for road project from Metro Bakery to Abida Hotel; from Maskan hotel to Kismatpur via Golden Heights with 82 properties to be taken over. Khajaguda main road to Urdu University via Oakridge School with 7 properties to be acquired; Botanical Garden to Kothaguda main road via Safarinagar with 54 properties to be taken over; Hanuman temple to Aparna Park via Gangaram lake with 54 properties to be acquired. Kismatpur to Rajendranagar with 108 properties to be taken over; Indian School of Business to Gopanpally, University of Hyderabad south gate through High Court colony and Gowlidoddi slip road where 12 properties are required; Pillar number 123 to Attapur village where 238 properties are needed. Pet Basheerabad to Ambedkarnagar main road where 62 properties are proposed to be taken over; Girkapallu junction at Moghulkhana to Puranapool where 573 properties are to be taken over; National Highway 44 K.S. Diwan to Narsapur crossroads to Subashnagar with 220 properties are needed. Habsiguda to Nagole inner ring road via Uppal junction where 112 properties are to be acquired; Lucky star hotel to Hafizbabanagar via Phoolbagh with 138 properties to be taken over; Mallapur junction road overbridge construction needing 36 properties to be taken over; Nanakramguda rotary junction improvement to connect it to Outer Ring Road where five properties are to be acquired. Shantinagar to Mettuguda road overbridge widening requiring 162 properties; 56 properties to be taken over for Yapral junction improvement; Malkajgiri’s Anandbagh junction improvement required 42 properties; Uppal junction to Amberpet via Ramanthapur where 246 properties are to be acquired. Dabeerpura Gate to Tribunal Court and from there to the main road with 52 properties to be taken over; Banjara Darawaz to Nayakhila for which 168 properties are required; Sainikpuri junction improvement requires 36 properties; Shenoy Nursing Home junction improvement needs 71 properties; Silicon junction improvement needs 32 properties. 14 properties Old Hayathnagar junction needs 14 properties, Chakripuram junction needs 3 properties; Yousufguda basti-Krishnakanth Park needs 48 properties; ZTC junction needs 13 properties; Banjara Darwaza to Fateh Darwaza widening requires 273 properties; Kacheguda junction needs 34 properties; Jama Masjid-Laad Bazar junction needs 21 properties. YMCA junction needs 26 properties; Ali Cafe junction needs 44 properties; Shivam junction needs 8 properties; Barkatpura junction needs 22 properties; Manikeswarnagar to Indiranagar through road under-bridge needs 24 properties. A multi-purpose indoor sports complex to be built at a cost of Rs. 5.90 crore at NBT nagar was cleared so also a modern crematorium at a cost of Rs. 2.20 crore at Khairatabad zone. GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar and senior officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-targets-3457-properties-for-road-widening-works/article38017205.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bandi Sanjay to go on fast over ‘unemployment’ in State||Telangana BJP has demanded the government to immediately issue job notifications and fill up the existing vacancies in different departments. Party president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar will go on a dawn-to-dusk hunger strike on December 27 near Indira Park here to highlight this issue, said general secretary D. Pradeep Kumar, and vice president G. Manohar Reddy on Wednesday. National general secretary Tarun Chugh will also be present. BJP has appealed to all parties and organisations fighting for the unemployed youth to unite and ‘force’ the TRS government to adhere to the promises made during elections, they said at a press meet along with secretaries S. Prakash Reddy and K. Madhavi. The party maintained that the TS Public Service Commission has filled up just 36,000 posts in the last six years, and the government claim of filling up 1.36 lakh vacancies was a blatant lie. “The Chief Minister had announced a mega job mela in December last for filling up 50,000 vacancies but not a single notification was issued in the last one year,” said Mr. Reddy. The BJP leaders pointed out that the Pay Revision Commission headed by S.R. Biswal had itself stated that there were 1.91 lakh vacancies in 31 departments or about 31% gap and since it has been almost a year since the report was tabled, this number could have easily risen with retirements. “There are at least 4.5 lakh educated unemployed youth in Telangana eagerly looking for government notifications since provision of public sector jobs was among the main issues behind the agitation for a separate State of Telangana but the TRS government did not fulfil the demands and is unmoved by youngsters resorting to extreme acts in frustration,” he said. The party also said that not a single teacher was recruited and there were 16,000 posts lying vacant and 4,000 schools closed in the name of ‘rationalisation’. “The government has not given a single stipend to the unemployed as assured in the party manifesto before elections,” it charged. “The CM should realise that the administration is suffering due to lack of adequate personnel in departments and work is piling up with the existing staff unable to cope with the extra burden,” they added. A poster of the upcoming protest was also released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-sanjay-to-go-on-fast-over-unemployment-in-state/article38017218.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UP model may be implemented to streamline State discoms||The Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission is considering implementation of the Uttar Pradesh model of streamlining the functioning of power distribution companies (discoms) and other power establishments here in the wake of irregularities in submission of annual revenue requirements (ARRs). The two discoms of the State had recently submitted the ARRs for three years (2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22) in one go without tariff proposals. So, the ERC had returned the proposals to the discoms. In fact, the ARRs were supposed to be submitted by November 30 for the coming years because the ERCs were given 120 days by the Electricity Act to invite public opinion on tariff proposals, hold public hearing and finally issue tariff orders. However, the discoms of the State had not only failed to file ARRs for three years but found wanting in implementation of ERC orders. In this background, the Telangana ERC studied how such erring discoms were dealt in other States and found the Uttar Pradesh model fit for implementation. The model was also referred by the Central government to all State governments after elaborate discussions at the Forum for Regulator meetings in Lucknow recently. Among others, the UPERC had made amendments to its regulations imposing a fine of Rs. 10,000 a day for late submission of petitions and Rs. 1 lakh a month for similar delays in filing of ARRs, multi-year tariff proposals and true-up petitions. The ERC was also said to be exploring options available for failure of discoms to present tariff proposals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/up-model-may-be-implemented-to-streamline-state-discoms/article38017221.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Regency freshers get a warm welcome||Regency College of Culinary Arts and Hotel Management welcomed juniors with a freshers’ party hosted by the senior students to bring them into not just the academic mould but also open gates of friendship and mentorship. ‘REGEMATES 2021’ held at a star hotel in the city also saw top people in the hospitality industry joining the celebrations and also gauging the potential of future employees. The seniors were dressed formally, and juniors chose a mix of formal and traditional attire. The seniors performed dances on popular Bollywood songs. A modelling contest and ramp walk were the biggest attraction for the audience in which 160 students vied for the top awards. Arman, Jayaditya, Abhishek, Hemanth won Mr. Fresher 2021 award; Yamini, Alekhya, Ashalata and Sherlin were chosen Ms. Fresher 2021. Altamash and Veneela won the Mr and Ms Attire titles, respectively. Cluster general manager of Radisson Blu, Sandeep Joshi was the chief guest. Principal P. Ramesh Kumar Reddy advised the youngsters to make full use of the at the institute, including smart classrooms, advanced kitchen labs and library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/regency-freshers-get-a-warm-welcome/article38017192.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Face challenges and create value, budding managers told||Money will follow if you are skilled, be prepared to switch industries as they evolve, turn to entrepreneurship, and to taste success in all these, be ready to cope with unfairness and connect with people — these were the mantras shared with the budding managers of the Vignana Jyothi Institute of Management (VJIM). Addressing the graduates at the 27th convocation, managing director and CEO of Seed Works International Venkatram Vasantavada said that Telangana was a fertile place for entrepreneurs and they should take advantage of it. He pointed out that youngsters need to be prepared to seize the opportunities and one of the most effective ways of preparing for such challenges is by looking at what others had done when their leadership was on the line. With disruptive changes to continue, he said to adapt to changes, one would require leadership qualities tinged with optimism and value creation. “Get inspired by the great companies and their journey,” he told the students. President of Vignana Jyothi Society, Daggubati Suresh Babu and VJIM director Ch.S. Durga Rao also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/face-challenges-and-create-value-budding-managers-told/article38017193.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP acting against ryots’ interests: Harish Rao||Finance and Health Minister Harish Rao said that the BJP at the Centre had been acting against the interests of farmers and there was no need of such a government at the Centre. “Since 1969 the Centre has been buying paddy and now it says procurement was not possible. They need farmers’ votes but not the paddy they cultivate. We do not need the BJP which would not buy paddy,” said Mr. Harish Rao while addressing a huge gathering at Jogulamba-Gadwal on Wednesday after inaugurating KCR Annadatala Atmiya Sabha Pranganam. Earlier in the day, the Minister laid foundation stone for construction of a 300-bed hospital, nursing college and a health sub-centre at Maldakal. The Minister wondered why the BJP leaders were silent when Union Minister Piyush Goyal had been humiliating Ministers from Telangana. He warned that farmers would teach a lesson to the BJP in future. Later, he inaugurated a bullock competition held on the occasion of Swayam Bhulakshmi Venkateswara Swamy Brahmotsavams. He said the comments made by Mr. Goyal against a delegation of Ministers from Telangana were highly objectionable and they must be withdrawn immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-acting-against-ryots/article38017215.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Still waiting for assurance on paddy procurement’||A delegation of Ministers led by Niranjan Reddy, which left for New Delhi on Saturday to meet Union Ministers and, if possible, Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a written assurance from the Centre that it would purchase the entire paddy cultivated in Telangana in the recent kharif, stayed put in the capital even after Food Minister Piyush Goyal expressed displeasure at the visiting team. Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy said that they decided to stay back because the Centre promised to address the issue in two days. They are ready to return to the State if the Centre gives written assurance, he said. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi on Wednesday, the Minister said though the Centre has assured to procure more than 40 lakh tonnes of rice, FCI officials have been telling that they have not received any orders in this regard. “The Centre is asking why only Telangana has problem in paddy procurement. Paddy production in the State is like never before and that is why we are asking for additional procurement. Agreement was signed for 40 lakh metric tonnes. Though the target was completed, excess produce is lying in market yards. Crop is yet to be harvested too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/still-waiting-for-assurance/article38017216.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FTCCI awards for best HR practices presented||Human Resource Achievers Award 2021 instituted by the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) to recognise and honour organisations with best HR practices was presented here on Wednesday. Special Chief Secretary to Telangana Energy Department Sunil Sharma, who gave away the awards at a function, said human resources play a key role in success of an organisation and an employee can perform to potential under a positive atmosphere. A HR Best Practices Report with data points on people practices was released on the occasion. FTCCI said it is committed to sharing industry insights on trending HR practices across varied sectors. The award recipients were J K Fenner India (Best in Employee Engagement Strategy – large scale category); Dodla Dairy (Best in HR technology/ Analytics – large scale); Tata Coffee (Best in Performance Management Process – medium scale); Tomoegawa Aura India (Best in Performance Management Process – small scale); Omsree Papertek (Best in Learning and Development – medium scale); ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth (Best in Learning and Development – small scale); Techwave Consulting India (Champions in Talent Acquisition and Management – medium scale); Medwell Ventures (Champions in Talent Acquisition and Management – small scale); Kisan Fashion Mall (Jury Appreciation Award); and Sakshi Pal, Associate Director-HR, Techwave Consulting (HR Future Leader Award).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ftcci-awards-for-best-hr-practices-presented/article38017188.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC imposes Rs. 10,000 costs on Chief Secy||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday imposed costs of Rs. 10,000 on Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar for failing to file counter affidavits in batch of writ petitions filed in 2016. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji directed the CS to deposit the sum with the Prime Minister’s COVID Relief Fund by January 24, 2022. The bench passed the direction after hearing a batch of pleas filed by persons whose lands were acquired by the State government to enhance the storage capacity of Gouravelli Reservoir project from 1.44 tmc ft to 9 tmc ft. The petitioners contended that though they lost their properties four to five years ago, the government did not pay requisite compensation to them and take up rehabilitation measures as per the rules. The authorities issued GO nos. 123 and 214 in 2015 to secure lands from the farmers of Gudatipally and surrounding villages in Siddipet district for the increasing the reservoir’s capacity. Earlier, on November 11, the bench instructed the Revenue Principal Secretary to file counter-affidavit in response to the petitions within four weeks. However, the top official did not file any counter affidavits. He did not appear before the bench either. Taking a serious note of the failure of the officer failing to respond to its direction, the bench imposed costs on the CS who was holding the post of Revenue Principal Secretary. The matter was posted for January 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-imposes-rs-10000-costs-on-chief-secy/article38017212.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sri Chaitanya students excel in KAT Level-I||Sri Chaitanya Institutions has said 14,761 of its students have qualified for KAT level-2 conducted in math, physics and chemistry subjects, and this number was the highest for any institute in the country. The KAT level-1 exam is conducted for students of 6th to 10th classes as part of the KAT Olympiad, said institute chairman B.S. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sri-chaitanya-students-excel-in-kat-level-i/article38017194.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Labourer falls to death near CM farmhouse||A daily labourer died when he accidentally fell into a well while clearing bushes near Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s farmhouse at Erravalli in Siddipet district on Tuesday evening. Police said that R. Anjaneyulu (19) of Varadarajapuram village in Murkook mandal went to clear bushes at the Chief Minister’s farmhouse. The victim had epilepsy. His relatives lodged a police complaint. Though efforts were made to fish out his body from the well on Tuesday night itself, it was finally found on Wednesday morning. The CM had reportedly assured to help the family of the deceased. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/labourer-falls-to-death-near-cms-farmhouse/article38017226.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to speed up disposal of pleas against cadre allocation||As the process for allotment of employees to new local cadre gathered momentum, the State government has decided to expeditiously dispose of applications appealing against the allocation. The government has made it clear that employees should first join duty in the new local cadre to which he/she had been allotted after receipt of proceedings of allocation. This should be followed by submitting the appeal in a prescribed format along with a copy of the allocation proceedings to the district head of the department in case of district cadre and heads of departments for zonal and multi-zonal cadre. Thereafter, the district head or the HoD should compile all these applications and submit them to the secretary concerned. The secretary after due inquiry dispose of these appeals expeditiously. The government had simultaneously issued guidelines and formats pertaining to employees seeking allocation to new cadre on spouse grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-speed-up-disposal-of-pleas-against-cadre-allocation/article38017222.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIN scientists felicitated||National Institute of Nutrition director R. Hemalatha on Wednesday presented the first Tulpule awards in the senior and junior categories to scientists Bharathi Kulkarni, head of clinical division, and Paras Sharma in the food and chemistry division of the institute, for their respective contributions to nutritional and health sciences. The awards had been instituted by the Indian Council of Medical Research with donation amount from Pune-based Tulpule family in honour of former NIN director P.G. Tulpule (1980-83) and his late wife Malati Tulpule to encourage scientists as well as research scholars and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nin-scientists-felicitated/article38017189.ece
23 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘The princes have lost rights to the 35 mn. pounds’||A descendant of Mir Osman Ali Khan, the seventh and last Nizam, has claimed that princes Mukarram Jah and Muffakham Jah have lost rights to claim the 35 million Great Britain pounds pertaining to the Hyderabad Fund Case. Najaf Ali Khan, the descendant, claimed that there exists a document signed in 1967 in which both princes and grandsons of Mir Osman Ali Khan have renounced their titles and given it back to the seventh Nizam. Mr Khan said this renouncement means that Mir Osman Ali Khan’s 16 sons and 18 daughters are entitled to receive these funds. Mr Khan stated that in 2015, the UK court appointed an administrator to the seventh Nizam’s estate and that both princes and over 100 legal heirs were brought under the administrator. He further claimed that a succession certificate provided to this administrator is tantamount to misleading the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/princes-have-lost-rights-to-35-mn-pounds-says-nizam-heir/article38017198.ece
23 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Give details on manual scavengers’||The High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the State government seeking details of the manual scavengers identified in the State and the measures taken for their benefits as per the apex court orders issued in 2014. The direction was issued by a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukarmji while hearing a taken-up PIL petition relating to the death of two scavengers who lost their lives while cleaning a septic tank in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-details-on-manual-scavengers/article38017427.ece
23 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Developmental works||Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi inaugurated various developmental works in Banjara Hills division with an estimated cost of Rs. 61 lakh. The works include additional classrooms in NBT Nagar Government High School, laying of sewerage line in MLA Colony, remodelling of sewerage line at Prem Nagar, Khairthabad, and sewerage line at Ambedkar Bhavan, Prem Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/developmental-works/article38017200.ece
23 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Commercial water bills to go online from April 1||Managing Director of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWSSB), Dana Kishore, informed on Wednesday that issuance of water bills and payments for commercial connections will henceforth be made 100% online from April 1 onwards. The Board has already done geo-tagging of the commercial connections and a digital initiative has been tested to send the bills through SMS, WhatsApp and email. Installing a meter is mandatory, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/commercial-water-bills-to-go-online-from-april-1/article38017204.ece
23 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Consul General of UAE meets RPO||The first Consul General of the United Arab Emirates in Hyderabad, Aaref Ali Ali Muhammad Al-Taboor Al-Nuaimi, paid a courtesy visit to Regional Passport Officer Dasari Balaiah. According to officers of the Regional Passport Office, the Consul Geranal and RPO exchanged pleasantries and discussed way and means to improve mutual cooperation between the UAE and Telangana. Also at the meeting were B Srinivasulu, Deputy Secretary, and Vikram Singh, Section Officer from the Minister of External Affairs Branch Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/consul-general-of-uae-meets-rpo/article38017211.ece
23 December 2021||Siddipet,TELANGANA||First 3-star hotel by TSTDC to be inaugurated in Siddipet||Finance and Health Minister Harish Rao will inaugurate a three-star hotel in Siddipet on Friday. The hotel at Nagulabanda under Siddipet Urban Development Authority was constructed at Rs. 15 crore. This is the first star hotel by the TSTDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/first-3-star-hotel-by-tstdc-to-be-inaugurated-in-siddipet/article38017214.ece
23 December 2021||WARANGAL,TELANGANA||Yashoda Seva Kendram inaugurated||Yashoda Charitable Foundation (YCF), the corporate social responsibility (CSR) arm of the Hyderabad-based Yashoda Hospitals Group, reached a major milestone in its service activities on Wednesday. In a key CSR initiative to promote youth empowerment through skill development and serve the needs of rural people, the YCF opened ‘Yashoda Seva Kendram’ - housing a mega function hall and skill development centre on Medipalli-Rampur village stretch in Nallabelli mandal. The spacious complex was constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.50 crore to serve as a skill development training hub and to cater to the needs of local population. Narsampet MLA Peddi Sudharshan Reddy inaugurated the centre in the presence of Yashoda Hospitals executive director Gorukanti Devender Rao and a host of others at the village on Wednesday morning. Speaking on the occasion, Mr Reddy lauded the initiative of Gorukanti brothers in setting up Yashoda Seva Kendram in their native village. Other speakers commended the YCF’s initiative to provide free training in basic computer skills, tailoring, and embroidery to local youth and women from poor families at the newly inaugurated ‘Yashoda Seva Kendram’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yashodas-new-centre-to-empower-youth/article38017197.ece
23 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Reworking quota for rural polls’||The Orissa High Court was informed by the State government that a new notification concerning the reservation for posts of Sarpanchs would be issued after the court found the government not fulfilling criteria on the reservation for Backward Classes of Citizens. A series of writ petitions were filed questioning the manner in which the Odisha government had applied Sections 10(5) and 10(6) of the Orissa Gram Panchayat Act, 1964, for determining the percentage in the post of Sarpanchs for reservation for SC, ST and BCC in the Panchayat elections to be held in 2022. The petitioners had sought urgent hearing as the Election Commission had written to the government proposing that the notification should be published by December 23, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/reworking-quota-for-rural-polls/article38017302.ece
23 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana tightens COVID curbs||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday announced that from January 1, 2022, people who have not received the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine will not be permitted to visit areas such as restaurants, malls, banks and office complexes. Mr. Vij was speaking in response to a calling attention motion moved during the ongoing winter session of the State Assembly. Mr. Vij said that he had sent a message to all the Superintendents of Police and Commissioners of Police of the State on imposing a fine of Rs. 500 on those not wearing masks. He said he also ordered Deputy Commissioners to carry out random checking on social gatherings or events. Camps would be set up to boost vaccination, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-tightens-covid-curbs/article38017111.ece
23 December 2021||GHAZIABAD,||A political game changer?||The Rashtriya Lok Dal has emerged as the biggest political beneficiary of the farmers’ agitation and poll pundits have dubbed its alliance with the Samajwadi Party as the principal opposition to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in western Uttar Pradesh in the upcoming Assembly elections. Ahead of the party’s second joint rally with the SP in the Jat-dominated Iglas town of Aligarh, observers say RLD president Jayant Singh reaching out to stakeholders during the agrarian unrest has helped revive the party in the Jat-Muslim belt. With a dozen-plus rallies in the region during the pandemic and calling for vote ki chot on the BJP, Mr. Singh seems to have launched an aggressive campaign. The massive crowd at his first joint rally early this month with SP president Akhilesh Yadav was an indication that the transfer of votes may not be a problem. The two parties are relying on the renewed Jat-Muslim bonhomie and also voicing concern over rising prices, joblessness and corruption. Though the seat-sharing formula is yet to be announced, party insiders say the RLD could get around 40 seats. But a few others point out it may not be an easy ride either. It is estimated that 80% of the farmers at the Ghazipur morcha of the agitation were Jats. A section feels that Mr. Singh stood for them and, therefore, should be given a chance, while another section is wary of his alliance with Mr. Yadav, given the history of acrimony between their fathers. There is a segment of Jats that feels past could be forgotten. For them, the first choice is the RLD but the second option could still be the BJP. The third section of farmers owes allegiance to the Bharatiya Kisan Union but has a soft corner for Yogi Aditynath. With the BJP repealing the farm laws and simultaneously raising the Kashi-Mathura-Aurangzeb pitch, it could be a heady concoction to resist. However, RLD ideologue Sompal Shastri said the party would rather take on the BJP’s communal card head-on and, unlike the Congress, keep the focus on farmers’ plight and other issues. Mr. Shastri insists that after the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013, Jats and Muslims have come together on their own and the Gurjars have turned against the BJP, while across the Ganga, the Yadavs are already in the fold. “The caste plus the minorities’ vote makes a winning combination.”  Tikait’s tilt If Mr. Singh lent political support to the farmers’ agitation, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait was the architect of the stir in west U.P. and his backing can tilt the outcome in the elections. Mr. Tikait has said he would look at what the party manifestoes offer to the farmers and has requested the parties to refrain from using his name and photograph in their posters. Observers say Mr. Tikait is buying time till the elections are notified because there is a section in the BKU that identifies with the nationalist agenda of the BJP. The RLD insiders dismiss it as just a facade for retaining the apolitical image of the BKU. “When Tikait urges for a vote against the BJP, it implies his support for the RLD in west U.P.,” said a party leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-political-game-changer/article38017119.ece
23 December 2021||Guwahati,||PIL in HC over ‘fake encounters’||A Public Interest Litigation has been filed in the Gauhati High Court by an advocate seeking an independent enquiry and a separate judicial probe into the alleged encounters by the Assam police since May this year. The PIL was filed by New Delhi-based advocate Arif Jwadder, who claims that over 80 such encounters have taken place in Assam since the new government took charge. Twenty-eight people were killed and 48 injured in the ‘fake encounters’, the advocate said. All these people were not criminals, the PIL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pil-in-hc-over-fake-encounters/article38017120.ece
23 December 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata tram users’ body demands restoration of services||An association of tram users in Kolkata is planning to hold a protest this weekend to demand mainly the restoration of services that were stopped after cyclone Amphan and that have remained suspended ever since. “Calcutta tramways is experiencing a stepmotherly attitude from the Transport Department since the Left Front regime. They have worked hard to reduce the ridership, service frequency and reliability. As a result, the system is currently existing only on paper. Only three routes are in operation at the moment and none of them offer a reliable service. Routes have been shut down one after another, under one pretext or the other,” Debasish Bhattacharyya, a retired scientist and president of Calcutta Tramways Users’ Association, told The Hindu . “Our demonstration will highlight one such irregularity along the Maidan stretch (the scenic route no. 36), where service was discontinued after the cyclone. Traction polls were installed, brackets were fixed but the service has not been restored till date. Many tram cars are becoming non-functional as they are left idle inside the depot. Everybody in power is indifferent to this issue. We demand restoration of services of all closed routes of tramways across the city,” Mr. Bhattacharyya said. ‘Priceless asset’ According to the association, it is an established fact that tramways or light rail systems have solved transit problems in all megacities. “Tramways are emerging in many cities, irrespective of their economic condition, across continents. All the cities that discontinued their tram services during the 1940-60s now regret it and some of them have restored their past glory but at a price. Despite being aware of the advantages of an existing and operational tramway system, Kolkata is systematically destroying its priceless asset,” said Arghyadip Hatua, an urban policy advisor and a member of the association. Transport Department officials were yet to respond to the question whether they intended to resume the suspended services anytime soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kolkata-tram-users-body-demands-restoration-of-services/article38017300.ece
23 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt.’s Shakti Bill seeks death sentence for rape||The Maharashtra government’s Shakti Criminal Laws (Maharashtra Amendement) Bill, 2020, on crimes against women and children has recommended capital punishment in rape cases, time-limit of 30 days to complete the probe since the day of registration of the complaint and has put onus on social media platforms as well as Internet data providing companies to share data for police investigation. State Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Wednesday presented the report by a joint committee of the State Assembly on the Shakti Bill in the State Assembly. A total of 13 meetings of the joint committee were held and submitted the amendments to the original Bill. The Bill was sent to the joint committee in the budget session of the Assembly for scrutiny and is likely to be passed in this winter session. Mr. Walse-Patil explained that probe in such crime cases should also be over within 30 days and in case it does not happen, 30 more days can be given after getting the reasons from the Special Inspector General or the Police Commissioner. The Bill also provides for punishment for failure on the part of social media platforms and mobile data providers to share data within seven days, if demanded by investigating officers in women assault cases. It may invite three months in jail or a fine of Rs. 25 lakh. “Section 326 of the IPC applied in case of acid attack to be amended to make provision of minimum 15 years to maximum life imprisonment to the guilty along with monetary fine. The expenditure of plastic surgery and face reconstruction operations will be taken care from the monetary fine to be charged on the guilty,” said the Home Minister. The earlier version of the Bill had scrapped the provision of anticipatory bail to individuals accused of assault on women. The new recommendations have cancelled this provision taking advice from senior lawyers. The Bill has also made provision of minimum one year to maximum of three years of imprisonment and Rs. 1lakh in fine on those who make false complaints of sexual assault. A new section (354E) has been proposed for outraging the modesty through electronic or digital means. CrPC 100 to be amended, as per which two social workers granted by the State government’s Women and Child Welfare department or two public servants can be taken as independent witness in cases of sexual harassment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-govts-shakti-bill-seeks-death-sentence-for-rape/article38017115.ece
23 December 2021||mumbai,||Kangana fails to appear before police||Actor Kangana Ranaut failed to appear before the Mumbai Police on Wednesday in connection with an FIR filed against her for a post that allegedly linked farmers’ protests to a separatist group, an official said. Her lawyer sought another date for appearance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kangana-fails-to-appear-before-police/article38017298.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rohini court shoot-out: police file chargesheet||The Delhi Police Crime Branch has filed an over 100-page chargesheet in connection with the murder of gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi inside a courtroom at the Rohini court complex. It has named seven persons as accused, including the two dead assailants who were in lawyer’s attire and breached the court’s security and shot dead Gogi. The chargesheet was filed before the court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Satbir Singh Lamba on December 17. The seven accused are Vinay Yadav, Umang Yadav, Sunil Baliyan, Naveen Dabas, Ashish Kumar, and the deceased, Rahul Tyagi and Jaideep. “During investigation, it was found that some other persons were also involved in the conspiracy to kill Gogi. Further investigation is in progress,” officials said. A senior officer, privy to the probe, said that during investigation, they found out that the conspiracy to kill Gogi was made inside Mandoli jail allegedly by rival gang member Tillu Tajpuriya and his associates. “We have found that it was a pre-emptive killing and the entire planning was made inside the jail. The two assailants were trained and briefed from inside the jail on how to breach the court’s security,” the officer said, adding that phones were used to communicate with the duo. The chargesheet includes Sections 302 (murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant Sections of the Arms Act. The FIR was registered at Rohini’s Prashant Vihar police station. Around 1.20 p.m. on September 24, Gogi was shot dead by two assailants inside courtroom number 207 when he was being produced by the third Battalion Guard. The police had said that the two were armed with deadly weapons and disguised as lawyers. In retaliatory fire by the police, both got injured and were declared brought dead at a hospital. Gogi was previously involved in 31 cases, the police said. He was in the judicial custody and was brought to Rohini court for appearance in a criminal trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rohini-court-shoot-out-police-file-chargesheet/article38017099.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Prohibition on gatherings continues in Capital: Govt.||In the wake of rising COVID-19 cases, the Delhi Government on Wednesday said that gatherings continue to be banned in the city, including the ones related to Christmas and New Year. “As per the DDMA (Delhi Disaster Management Authority) order dated December 15, 2021, all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and festival-related gatherings and congregations are completely prohibited in Delhi. Hence, all District Magistrates (DM) and District DCPs shall ensure that no cultural event, gatherings and congregations take place for celebrating Christmas or New Year in NCT of Delhi,” an order issued on Wednesday said. The order also said that the existing restrictions such as COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, 50% occupancy in bars and restaurants, cap of 200 people at weddings etc. are not being strictly complied with and asked the District Magistrates and the DCPs to enforce the restrictions and warned that there is a persistent rise in COVID-19 cases in Delhi. ‘Conduct surveys’ The District Magistrates have been asked to conduct surveys in their jurisdiction and identify crowded places and take action. Officials have also been asked to hold meetings with RWAs and market associations to sensitise people to the rising trend in cases. “It is observed that COVID-19 appropriate behaviour (wearing of mask. social distancing, frequent hand washing etc.) is not being complied with at public places. Therefore, all District Magistrates as well as District DCPs shall tighten their enforcement machinery and shall deploy sufficient number of enforcement teams on field for keeping utmost vigil at public places,” the order said.The District Magistrates have also been asked to submit daily reports on action taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/prohibition-on-gatherings-continues-in-capital-govt/article38017110.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Keeping Christmas spirit alive amid curbs||For Father Lawrence, who serves at the city’s Sacred Heart Cathedral, going door to door to perform carol singing activities during the Christmas month has remained a long-standing tradition, until COVID-19 disrupted the celebrations. Like the previous year, Mr. Lawrence said that carol singing continues to remain cancelled while a small celebration, within the church, has been scheduled for a limited number of people — who register online beforehand. Mr. Lawrence recalled that carol singing was a tradition for “as long as the church has existed”. However, the decision to call off the big celebrations was solely for the safety of the public. Online streaming “We used to host celebrations at the St. Columbus School grounds because the gathering would be massive. This year, we are hosting a limited number of people on the church premises for a small prayer service,” he said, adding that most of the churches in Delhi were to hold celebrations in a similar fashion. With the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) prohibiting cultural, religious and festival related gatherings in view of the rising cases of the Omicron variant, Mr. Lawrence said that even the smaller celebration “will have to be called off” and that the prayer service will be streamed online “if there is a complete curb on celebrations”. Father George Manimala, who serves at the Shrine of Our Lady of Health in Okhla, said that only a small event will be held for this year’s Christmas celebrations. However, Mr. Manimala said that carol singing activities have been planned in “one or two areas”, in consultation with residents’ welfare associations, while maintaining a limited number of people. Unlike the large-scale celebrations that were held before the pandemic, Mr. Manimala said that this year’s celebrations have been planned keeping the COVID-19 restrictions in mind and a Christmas mass will be held for a limited gathering, in the morning and evening hours. “People also need prayer because it helps. We also have an online service where they can participate. I personally don’t think that the Christmas spirit has died down, the situation was much worse last year. The spirit is still very much intact,” said Mr. Manimala. For 23-year-old Denis Thomas, a city-based musician, participating in carol singing has been a tradition since he was an eight-year-old. While Mr. Thomas has found the opportunity to recite carols through a private event — at a restaurant — for this year, he emphasised that “it’s not the same as going to church during the Christmas week”. “My father was a choir conductor and every year, I would participate in the Christmas celebrations which had carol services too. The Christmas week, from December 18 to 25, would usually be packed with gatherings, but after the pandemic, it has not been the same with the limited capacity and fewer events. From a musician’s perspective, Delhi would see plenty of events, during this season, which would keep us busy but now the events and the pay have reduced quite significantly,” said Mr. Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/keeping-christmas-spirit-alive-amid-curbs/article38017105.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi police again rapped for their lackadaisical attitude in riots case||A Delhi court has yet again pulled up the police in a matter pertaining to the Delhi riots, which has been pending since June last year, and said that the court is unable to commit the case to the Sessions Judge due to the lackadaisical attitude of the police officers of Delhi Police’s Crime Branch and due to non-appearance of prosecutors in the case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg asked for an explanation from the Investigating Officer (IO) in the case as well as the DCP (Crime Branch) as to why appropriate action as per law not be taken against them for non-compliance with directions of the court. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Garg made these observations while hearing a matter related to an FIR lodged at the Dayalpur police station pertaining to the murder of head constable Ratan Lal and causing head injuries to another DCP-level officer. No acknowledgement The court said that no acknowledgement has been made by the police or the prosecution regarding the supply of deficient copies to one of the accused in the case, Athar Khan. “It is further submitted by counsel for accused Athar Khan that the deficient copies in terms of order dated November 11, 2021, have not yet been supplied to him by the IO. No acknowledgement regarding supply of copies in terms of order dated November 11 has been placed on record by the IO; not the IO as well as the Special Public Prosecutor for State appeared today [Wednesday] in the court,” the order said. The matter has been posted to January 17 next year. Previous incident This is not the first time the court has pulled up the prosecutors for non-compliance with its directions and absence from the proceedings. Earlier this month, a court had pulled up the police for what it called a “sorry state of affairs” after noting that no prosecutor was present during the hearing in a Delhi riots case and that such instances were leading to unnecessary adjournments. In October too, a Delhi court had pulled up the police for their “confused conduct” and lack of coordination with prosecutors in the Delhi riots case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-again-rapped-for-their-lackadaisical-attitude-in-riots-case/article38017102.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC issues directions for streamlining juvenile justice delivery system||In its sustained effort to streamline the functioning of juvenile justice delivery system, the Delhi High Court has passed a series of directions, including a quarterly review of the progress of the Individual Care Plan (ICP) and rehabilitation card of children in conflict with law by the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB). A Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani also ordered the Delhi Government to furnish the number of children/juveniles who were transferred from adult jails to child care institutions in the last five years with details of the numbers found in Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails along with the offences they were charged with. The Bench said it was required to “betterunderstandthe systemic flaws that lead to delinquent children/juveniles ending up in adult jails”. Plans in place It noted that the final dispositional order in respect of a child found to have been in conflict with law must contain an ICP drawn up by the Probation Officer or Child Welfare Officer for a child’s rehabilitation. After the enquiry proceedings conclude, if a child is remanded in an observation home, the rehabilitative process is required to be conducted within such place during the period of the child’s stay, it added. The Rehabilitation-cum-Placement Officer is required to draw up a rehabilitation card and the JJB is to monitor the progress of the child based on the ICP and the card, the High Court said. Additionally, the court ordered that all JJBs must ensure post-release plan, which is required to be drawn up two months before a child is due to leave a child care institution. The court was informed that since Delhi has 11 judicial districts, 11 District Child Protection Officers (DCPOs) are required to be appointed by the State. However, currently only four DCPOs have been appointed. The court directed the Delhi Government to appoint seven additional DCPOs within six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-issues-directions-for-streamlining-juvenile-justice-delivery-system/article38017096.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||At 125, city reports highest virus cases in six months||Continuing the upward trend, 125 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the highest in six months, taking the total number of cases to 14,42,515, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Wednesday. There was no COVID-19-related death in the last 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,102. Of the total cases, 14,16,789 people have recovered and there are 624 active cases. On June 22, 134 cases were reported. A total of 63,313 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.20%, which is also the highest in more than five months. It has remained the same for the last three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/at-125-city-reports-highest-virus-cases-in-six-months/article38017106.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNUSU alleges bias against poor students at viva voce||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) and other groups protested outside the University Grants Commission (UGC) office on Wednesday alleging that students belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes were being discriminated at the viva voce conducted during the time of admissions. JNU had denied claims JNU had earlier denied such claims made by the students and said that the university follows a fair, transparent, and inclusive admission policy which is the foundation of its proven academic excellence. “The marginalisation of students from socially and economically poor backgrounds was clearly exposed by the fact that many students who scored high marks in the entrance examination did poorly in the interview,” activists from the Students Federation of India said at the protest. JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said that repeated attack on education and the rights of students is becoming a major challenge for the student community. “The National Education Policy 2020 betrays the very ethos of public-funded education in the country; it poses the threat of widening the gap that exists between students from marginalised communities and others. What underwent in JNU during the viva voce was only another instance of a long-standing culture of bias against the disadvantaged,” Ms. Ghosh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnusu-alleges-bias-against-poor-students-at-viva-voce/article38017098.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. yet to release pending dues’||North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Raja Iqbal on Wednesday said that the Delhi Government is yet to pay “Rs. 328.60 crore” to the civic body for the current year. He was responding to Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s statement that “75%” of the funds were released to the corporations. North civic body’s Leader of the Opposition Vikas Goyal (AAP) said the outstanding rent to be collected from the SDMC “could have” solved the financial crisis that the corporation is currently facing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-yet-to-release-pending-dues/article38017100.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘DPSRU to play crucial role in training yoga teachers’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that Delhi Pharmaceutical Science and Research University (DPSRU) would play a key role in taking forward the Government’s “Dilli Ki Yogshala’ campaign by training yoga teachers through diploma programmes. The campaign seeks to provide the people of Delhi, who are willing to learn yoga, with a yoga teacher at their home so that they can improve their fitness. The Deputy Chief Minister was addressing the students at the 4th convocation of DPSRU. More than 500 students were awarded master’s degree on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dpsru-to-play-crucial-role-in-training-yoga-teachers/article38017103.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality still ‘severe’ in city||The air quality in the city continued to be in the “severe” category for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The air quality index (AQI) is likely to be in the upper end of the “very poor” category for the next two days, as per the Government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The AQI was 407 on Wednesday, up from 402 on Tuesday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. “An improvement is expected from December 24,” SAFAR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-still-severe-in-city/article38017108.ece
23 December 2021||Patna,||Nitish embarks on social reform campaign from Champaran||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday embarked upon his Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan (social reform campaign) from Motihari in East Champaran district to raise awareness about social ills such as child marriage and the dowry system. Mr. Kumar said he would participate only in those marriage functions where dowry had not been taken by the family of the bridegroom .“If people want to invite me, they should get it printed in the invitation card that no dowry had been taken in that marriage,” Mr. Kumar told a gathering at Gandhi Maidan in Motihari, the headquarters of East Champaran district. Mr. Kumar also appealed to people to enforce prohibition in their area and highlighted how peace had returned in society after prohibition was enforced in the State in April 2016. “Even Mahatma Gandhi had advocated against liquor consumption and termed it the biggest evil of mankind. But some people have always been in the habit of making unnecessary fuss over prohibition,” he said. He also spoke on social ills such as child marriage and how it had a bad impact on girl’s health. Mr. Kumar held a meeting with the officials of both East and West Champaran districts to review the progress of different welfare schemes, enforcement of prohibition and the steps taken for the abolition of child marriage and the dowry system. As part of his campaign, Mr. Kumar will hold public meetings in 12 district headquarters, including the final one in Patna on January 15. He has undertaken as many as 12 yatras (journeys) across the State since coming to power in November 2005, during which he addressed public meetings on different issues and reviewed government schemes. Reform system: Tejashwi Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly Tejashwi Yadav took a jibe at Mr. Kumar’s social reform campaign. “Instead of social reform campaign, he [Mr. Kumar] should reform system in the State,” Mr. Yadav said. “The system has completely collapsed in the State, thanks to the bureaucracy of the government. Inflation, migration, unemployment and poverty have also reached all-time high. Liquor ban has also failed and the State is in dire situation due to failure of bureaucracy. Once the system is reformed, these issues will be automatically resolved,” Mr. Yadav said. “Why has Chief Minister Nitish Kumar launched a social reform campaign when he has been ruling the State for the past 16 years?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nitish-embarks-on-social-reform-campaign-from-champaran/article38017113.ece
23 December 2021||HONG KONG,||China endorses Hong Kong’s elections||China’s President Xi Jinping on Wednesday gave a strong endorsement to both Hong Kong’s current Chief Executive, Carrie Lam, and its recently held “patriots only” elections, which saw a record low turnout and no participation by most of the pro-democracy Opposition candidates. Ms. Lam, who faced widespread criticism in Hong Kong over her administration’s handling of the 2019 pro-democracy protests, met Mr. Xi in Beijing, in what was his first face-to-face meeting with a senior official from outside the Chinese mainland since February last year, according to the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post . Mr. Xi has not left China since a visit to Myanmar in mid-January 2020, days before the lockdown of Wuhan where the COVID-19 pandemic began. A new Chief Executive for Hong Kong will be chosen by an Election Committee in March. Ms. Lam has not said whether she will seek to stay on for another term, and denied that her annual trip to the Chinese capital to deliver a “work report” would see her seek Beijing’s endorsement. Acknowledging Lam Mr. Xi nonetheless gave her one, saying that “the central authorities fully acknowledge the performance of Carrie Lam and the HKSAR [Hong Kong Special Administrative Region] government in fulfilling their duties”, State-broadcaster China Central Television reported. “The city has gone from a period of chaos to stability,” he said, also praising “the HKSAR government's efforts to contain COVID-19 and boost the city's economic recovery”. On Sunday’s Legislative Council (LegCo) elections, the Chinese leader said the polls “proved that the improved electoral system is in line with the principle of ‘One Country, Two Systems’ as well as the reality of Hong Kong”. “The elections had manifested the democratic rights which allowed Hong Kong compatriots to be masters of their own home, and implemented the principles of patriots administering Hong Kong,” he said. “It also established a political system which ensures the balanced participation of various sectors.” The “patriots only” polls were swept by pro-Beijing candidates after the new electoral system, put forward by Beijing in March, essentially ruled out the participation of most of the pro-democracy Opposition candidates and also reduced the number of directly elected representatives in LegCo from 50% to 22%, with the rest nominated. Record low turnout The new system also screens candidates with a committee determining their eligibility and whether they are “patriots”, part of a new push by Beijing to ensure “patriots administering Hong Kong”. The polls saw a record low turnout, down to only 30.2% of registered voters, down from 58.28% in the last elections in 2016 with the number of people casting their ballot falling by as much as 60%. G7 concerns On Tuesday, G7 Foreign Ministers (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.S., U.K.) and the EU in a joint statement expressed “grave concern over the erosion of democratic elements of the SAR’s electoral system”, saying that the changes “severely restrict the choice of candidates on the ballot paper” and “undermined Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy”. The statement brought a sharp response from Beijing’s Liaison Office in Hong Kong, whose spokesperson, in a statement, “expressed the office's strong indignation” at what he called "a clumsy political trick and gross interference in China’s internal affairs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-endorses-hong-kongs-elections/article38016627.ece
23 December 2021||HONG KONG,||Chinese city of 13 mn locked down||Facing the biggest outbreak of COVID-19 cases in weeks, China’s authorities on Wednesday issued a lockdown order for the 13 million residents of Xian, the provincial capital of northwestern Shaanxi. Officials said the city had reported more than 140 cases in the last 10 days, which are high numbers for China’s “zero COVID” strategy that calls for lockdowns and mass testing to ensure cases remain zero. Persisting challenges The latest outbreak underlines the difficulties in continuing that strategy with more transmissible variants, coming weeks after an outbreak that spread to more than a dozen provinces brought targeted lockdowns in November. The latest cluster in Xian was reported to be cases of Delta variant, and as yet there have not been local cases of the Omicron variant reported in China. Epidemiological investigations suggested the Xian outbreak was linked to a flight from Pakistan and an infection being transmitted to a worker at a hotel where passengers were quarantining, media reports in China said, adding that investigations were ongoing. Authorities in Xian said the city’s 13 million residents should stay home and asked them to not travel outside the city. China’s government is particularly concerned ahead of the February Winter Olympic Games in Beijing, which also coincide with the Lunar New Year holiday that usually sees millions of people travel home. While there is no complete travel ban in Xian, those leaving require COVID-19 tests and clearance from their employers, Reuters quoted authorities as saying, adding that starting December 23, only one person in each home will be allowed to go out to buy essentials once every two days. Sweeping measures Similarly sweeping measures were put in place in several cities in November, with lockdowns of neighbourhoods, mass testing, and tens of thousands of people moved to central quarantine facilities after a wave of cases in 16 provinces across China. The continuing “Zero COVID” approach has broadly been successful in allowing China, where the COVID-19 pandemic first began, to avoid a major second wave. The measures also include continuing restrictions on international travel, leaving China’s mainland and Hong Kong among the few places yet to open to the rest of the world two years into the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-city-of-13-mn-locked-down/article38016628.ece
23 December 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel PM meets U.S. National Security Adviser over Iran||The U.S. National Security Adviser (NSA) held talks on Wednesday with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, who warned that negotiations in Vienna on Iran’s nuclear programme had “profound ramifications” for Israeli security. Mr. Bennett’s government has remained firmly opposed to ongoing international efforts to revive a 2015 accord that saw Iran agree to curbs on its nuclear activities in exchange for sanctions relief. Jake Sullivan, NSA to U.S. President Joe Biden, said his visit to Israel had come at “a critical juncture.” “It’s important that we sit together and develop a common strategy, a common outlook, and find a way forward that fundamentally secures your country’s interests and mine,” Mr. Sullivan said, according to an Israeli government statement. He did not directly mention Iran but the Israeli statement said the meeting focused on the Vienna talks. Mr. Bennett has called for the negotiations to be halted, accusing Iran of “nuclear blackmail” and charging that revenue it gained from sanctions relief would be used to acquire weapons to harm Israelis. Lead U.S. Iran negotiator Rob Malley told CNN on Tuesday that there are only “some weeks” left to revive the deal if Tehran continues its nuclear activities at the current pace. Negotiations to restore the pact known as the Joint Collective Plan of Action resumed in November. Washington was a party to the original agreement, but withdrew under president Donald Trump in 2018. The Biden administration has warned it may soon be too late to revive the JCPOA. “It really depends on the pace of their nuclear process,” said Mr. Malley, the U.S. special envoy for Iran. “If they halt the nuclear advances, we have more time,” Mr. Malley said. “If they continue at their current pace, we have some weeks left but not much more than that, at which point the conclusion will be there’s no deal to be revived,” he added. Iran says it only wants to develop a civil nuclear programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-pm-meets-us-national-security-adviser-over-iran/article38016620.ece
23 December 2021||Brussels,||EU initiates action after Poland violates bloc laws||The EU announced on Wednesday it is launching legal action against Poland for ignoring European Union law and undermining the independence of its national judiciary. EU economy commissioner Paolo Gentiloni said the infringement proceedings targeted Poland for breaching the primacy of EU law and for deciding that certain articles of EU treaties were incompatible with Polish laws. The step escalates a long-running feud between Warsaw and Brussels over Poland’s perceived backsliding on EU democratic norms. Brussels is already withholding approval of coronavirus recovery funds for Poland over the row. Poland’s Deputy Justice Minister Sebastian Kaleta hit back by calling the EU announcement “an attack on the Polish constitution and our sovereignty”. Legal action from Brussels was expected given persistent defiance from Poland’s Constitutional Court to the European Court of Justice (ECJ). Mr. Gentiloni told a media conference the Polish moves “breached the general principles of autonomy, primacy, effectiveness and uniform application of Union law and the binding rulings of the Court of Justice”. The European Commission, he said, considers the Polish Constitutional Court “no longer meets the requirements of an independent and impartial tribunal established by law, as required” by a fundamental EU treaty. He said Poland had two months to respond to a formal letter setting out the grounds of the infringement procedure. In the event of no satisfactory reply, the matter could be sent to the ECJ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-initiates-action-after-poland-violates-bloc-laws/article38016618.ece
23 December 2021||Moscow,||Russia expects talks with West in January||Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Wednesday that he expects negotiations with the United States on Moscow’s security demands to begin in January, with concerns mounting over the Ukraine conflict. His comments come after the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Karen Donfried told reporters on Tuesday she also understands talks with Russia will begin in January, while warning that some Russian proposals were “unacceptable.” Warning issued However, the Foreign Minister cautioned the United States against dragging out any negotiations and reiterated that although Russia did not want conflict, it was prepared to take steps to defend itself if a situation were to arise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-expects-talks-with-west-in-january/article38016623.ece
23 December 2021||Kabul,||Taliban call UN move on aid ‘a good step’||The Taliban government on Wednesday praised the UN Security Council’s resolution facilitating humanitarian aid to Afghanistan as a “good step”, spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. “We appreciate it (as) it can help Afghanistan’s economic situation,” Mujahid said, adding that he hoped that the international community will also “speed up” efforts to remove other crippling financial sanctions imposed on entities linked to the Islamists. The spokesman’s remarks came soon after the UN Security Council unanimously adopted a U.S.-proposed resolution to facilitate humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, which is on the verge of economic collapse. But Mujahid said the country was not facing such a dire situation, although food prices and unemployment had risen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-call-un-move-on-aid-a-good-step/article38016924.ece
23 December 2021||Bangkok,||70 missing after landslip in Myanmar||A landslide at a remote jade mine in northern Myanmar’s Kachin state killed one person and left at least 70 missing on Wednesday and a search and rescue operation was under way, rescue officials said. Hpakant is the centre of the world’s biggest and most lucrative jade mining industry. Gayunar Rescue Team official Nyo Chaw said more than 70 miners who were digging for jade were swept into a lake a couple of hours before dawn when the landslide hit. Earth and waste from several mines around Lonekhin village slid 60 meters down a cliff and struck the miners, he said. At least five women and three small shops were also buried. The body of a jade worker was unearthed from heavy mud by midday, Nyo Chaw said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/70-missing-after-landslide-in-myanmar/article38016624.ece
23 December 2021||Athens,||US opens probe into Tesla letting drivers play video games||The U.S. has opened a formal investigation into a report that Tesla vehicles allow people to play video games on a centre touch screen while they are driving. The probe by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration covers about 5,80,000 electric cars and SUVs from model years 2017 through 2022.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-opens-probe-into-tesla-letting-drivers-play-video-games/article38016625.ece
23 December 2021||Loboc,||Philippine typhoon survivors plead for help||Philippine island was devastated by Typhoon Rai that left hundreds dead across the country and survivors pleading for food and water. At least 98 people lost their lives, Governor Arthur Yap said. Another 16 were still missing. He pleaded for President Duterte to send funds to buy food and water for desperate residents.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/philippine-typhoon-survivors-plead-for-help/article38016622.ece
23 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. health regulator authorises Pfizer’s Covid pill||The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authorised Pfizer‘s COVID pill for high-risk people aged 12 and over. Pfizer’s treatment is a combination of two pills taken over five days that was shown in a clinical trial of 2,200 people to be safe and reduced the risk of hospitalisations and deaths by 88%.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-health-regulator-authorises-pfizers-covid-pill/article38016925.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||As a regional leader, not a victim of circumstance||Addressing an Indian Ocean Conference this month, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar listed two “trend lines” that have most influenced the “evolution” of Indian Ocean countries: a greater caution in power projection by the United States, and the rise of China that has permeated many spheres but also resulted in territorial tensions. He also listed two developments that have the most heightened uncertainties in the region: the American pull-out from Afghanistan and the novel coronavirus pandemic. While challenges to India and its neighbourhood were quite correctly identified, it is on these very factors that Indian leadership in the region has been challenged the most, and has fallen short. Handling the Afghan issue To begin with, there is the challenge that the situation in Afghanistan has thrown up, triggered by the U.S. decision to pull out all troops. Four months after the Taliban takeover of Kabul, it is clear that New Delhi has failed to effect outcomes in a country where it has had a role historically, and is now left studying the threats that will emanate from Afghanistan — from terror groups, narcotics, and mass migration to flee the growing humanitarian crisis there. Three failures mark the Narendra Modi government’s efforts on Afghanistan thus far: the past, the present and the future. The first is a failure to recognise where U.S. policy was leading, especially after it signed the Doha Agreement of February 2020, that made the Taliban a legitimate interlocutor, and did not impose a ceasefire with the Afghan security forces as a pre-condition. That the Government continued to insist that it was “on the same page” with the U.S. merely ensured it was blindsided when the U.S., in conjunction with its Troika Plus-mates (Russia, China and Pakistan), paved the way for the fall of the Afghan republic. The second is one that New Delhi persists in today: the failure to secure its friends in Afghanistan. A stubborn resistance to allowing Afghans needing shelter — this includes students, artists and women activists, Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF) and National Directorate of Security (NDS) officials who are in particular danger because they trained in India, and members of Afghan minorities that are not Sikh or Hindu (Hazaras, Tajiks, Ahmadis and Shi’as) — has left thousands of Afghans feeling betrayed by a country they once considered “second home”. The cancellation of all visas that had been granted prior to August has only strengthened the belief that the Government has closed its doors to the very Afghan “brothers and sisters” in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reportedly promised to stand by during a Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) meeting on August 17. The third, is a failure to sow the seeds today for a better future for Afghanistan tomorrow, one which has a strong Indian presence in it. Among all the Afghan friends New Delhi has chosen to shun are members of opposition groups, including the “Resistance Front” led by Ahmad Massoud and former Vice-President Amrullah Saleh. The wariness to meet, support or host those who pose a counter to the Taliban regime today — even to provide a platform for them to speak — is in sharp contrast to the 1990s when New Delhi kept up its contacts with the Northern Alliance, supported their families in India, and admitted thousands of other Afghan refugees, an act that held it in good stead for two decades, after the Taliban was defeated in 2001. The Modi government’s moves thus far, building furtive links with the Taliban, with plans to send a small amount of food and aid through Pakistan (not its independently built route via Chabahar), and convening a conference of National Security Advisers of Central Asian countries, while proactive, will hardly fulfil that purpose in the future. Above all, India cannot be seen as toeing a line laid out by “western powers” that have themselves been defeated in the country on whether or not to re-establish its presence in Kabul or rebuild connectivity initiatives. Nor can it be seen as complicit in actions by the Russia-China combine that have protected the Taliban in Kabul and the Tatmadaw in Naypyitaw to subvert two of the world’s newest democracies. Dealing with China The next big challenge India has faced is from Chinese aggression, quite directly. Regardless of the Indian Prime Minister’s statement in June 2020 that “neither has anyone come in, nor is anyone inside” Indian territory, it is clear from a number of ground sources, satellite maps and official releases that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has amassed along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in unprecedented numbers for “peace-time”, built villages and settled populations inside disputed territory claimed by India; it has also dug trenches, brought in heavy artillery and prepared road and helicopter and aircraft landing infrastructure for its forces right up to the boundary with India. The Government’s reticence in acknowledging the Chinese actions is no longer seen as being “discretion over valour”. It is seen, particularly in the region, as deliberate diffidence on India’s part, particularly given the brutal killing of 20 Indian soldiers at Galwan last year. More surprising is the oft-repeated official statement that despite dozens of rounds of military and ministerial talks, the Government is unaware of the reasons for the Chinese action, which is disingenuous or exposes a lack of strategic thinking. Those who have analysed the situation more closely have pointed to five decided objectives behind China’s aggression at the LAC: apart from the obvious hegemonistic line Beijing has adopted to “reclaim” territory it claims it has lost over hundreds of years from the South China Sea to Tibet, the PLA plan is: to restrict India’s recent efforts at building border infrastructure, bridges, and roads right up to the LAC; to restrict any possible perceived threat to Xinjiang and Tibet; to restrict India’s ability to threaten China’s key Belt and Road project, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), including a second link highway it plans from the Mustagh pass in occupied Gilgit-Baltistan to Pakistan, and to blunt any plans as outlined by the Home Minister in 2019 for India to reclaim Aksai Chin and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) militarily. Impact of some bad moves In the face of such a clear-cut strategy, New Delhi must not only counter China more vocally and robustly but also be seen to provide leadership to the region that outpowers Beijing’s influence. The first is to resolve not to make spaces for China in the manner that the Modi government has during the coronavirus pandemic. By failing to keep its promises to provide vaccines, even those that had been paid for by countries such as Bangladesh and Nepal, and to send the paltry number required by Bhutan and the Maldives, India has left an indelible scar in the region. Second, India cannot cast itself as a counter to China by invoking its democratic system unless it is prepared to adhere to the very principles the Indian Republic’s founders committed to: as a pluralistic, representative, inclusive power that respects the rights of each citizen, the media, and civil society. While neighbours may not emulate India, they admire these very qualities that differentiate New Delhi from Beijing. The third imperative, which would promote India’s leadership in the region, is to stop seeing collaborations with other countries for projects in South Asia as a “win-win”. In fact, recent surveys by think tanks Carnegie (https://bit.ly/32iRy9h) and the Centre for Social and Economic Progress (https://bit.ly/3soXRCX) have found that while India is a preferred strategic partner for most of the countries in the neighbourhood (with the obvious exception of Pakistan), possible Indian collaborations with the U.S., Japan, Europe, etc. are not as popular, especially as they are seen as “anti-China” rival platforms, which these countries would want to avoid. These partnerships also hamper India’s ability to stand up for its neighbours when required, as some in Dhaka had hoped it might, when the U.S. chose to slap sanctions on Bangladesh’s multi-agency anti-terror Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) force right as the nation’s 50th anniversary celebrations began. As a result, New Delhi must block all external attempts to recast India as a “middle power”, one which looks to the example of others to decide its best interests and needs the support of other powers to chart its course of action in its neighbourhood. More than anything else, India’s response to neighbourhood challenges must not paint it as a “victim of circumstance” but as an arbiter of its own destiny, and the region’s. suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/as-a-regional-leader-not-a-victim-of-circumstance/article38016609.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking beyond the Forest Rights Act||The Forest Rights Act (FRA) has been in existence for 15 years. As on April 30, 2020, the Ministry of Tribal Affairs had received 42,50,602 claims (individual and community), of which titles were distributed to 46% of the applicants. If the Forest Department’s views are considered, the implementation process is more or less over. But the supporters of tribal rights allege that the Department is overlooking the genuine claims of the tribal people. Despite the Ministry being the implementing agency, the role of the Forest Department in granting titles is crucial because the lands claimed are under its jurisdiction. While both sides hold extreme positions, the situation on the ground presents a mixed picture. Issues in implementation The journey of the FRA’s implementation has never been smooth. The Act provides for democratic tenets in the implementation process. In the first stage, it requires the constitution of a Forest Rights Committee comprising members from within the village by conducting a Gram Sabha with two-thirds of the members present at the meeting. The process was not followed in many places. These committees were mostly constituted by the Panchayat Secretaries upon the directives received from District Magistrates at short notice. The nominations for members for the taluk-level and district-level committees were also not transparent. The contribution of women to the forest economy is well known. The FRA provides for equal rights in titles issued under the Act for women. They have the equitable role at every stage of decision-making. However, on the ground, the women were hardly visible in this regard. It was disappointing that in the initial stages of implementation, there was insistence on satellite images as evidence while other admissible proofs were ignored, as happened in Gujarat. This resulted in mass rejections of claims by the authorities. It is a different matter that a writ petition filed by the civil society groups in 2011 forced the authorities to look into the matter afresh in the State. In some villages around Bastar, Chhattisgarh, the plots claimed and the documents confirming the award did not match. Besides, the extent of land that was awarded was far smaller than what was claimed within the ceiling. The claimants did not protest anticipating that whatever little they had received could be taken back by the authorities. Further, various welfare and developmental schemes of the Rural Department were not extended everywhere to the tribal people who received documents of land possession under the FRA despite the directives issued by the Ministry to treat them on a par with others. Overall, poor awareness levels among the tribal people proved to be a handicap, especially in the scheduled areas which are remotely located. To effectively present claims, a fair understanding of the Act and its implementation process is necessary. Some NGOs, like in Dang district of Gujarat, made a difference by hand-holding the beneficiaries at every step. However, the involvement of NGOs was missing in some interior areas in States like Chhattisgarh where insurgency was affecting the lives of the people. Evidence suggests that implementation was better in areas which were fairly close to urban settings or where accessibility was easy. In these places, most Central and State government schemes and programmes such as Deendayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana, Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, National Food Security Act, National Health Mission; Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana; and Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana were implemented, empowering the people to assert their positions. Declining produce, livelihoods Many tribal areas are witnessing a decline in the quality of forest produce in their vicinity, thus forcing them to look for other sources of livelihood. In Chhattisgarh, in many villages, earnings from activities such as collection of tendu leaves for rolling local cigars were affected when there was an influx of labourers from Bihar who were willing to work for low wages. Poor market and exploitation by local traders/middlemen were no less demoralising. The recognition given to their lands under the FRA gave the tribal people a psychological boost. However, they possess lands (including the lands recognised under the FRA) that are small, of poor quality (particularly lands located on hill slopes) and are not very fertile. The lack of irrigation facilities forces them to depend only on rainfall. To enhance their income, they migrate to work as construction or road-laying labourers. In their opinion, this will continue until the wages earned through any source in the villages matches with the wages in urban areas. NGO representatives working in the tribal areas believe that the livelihoods of the locals would improve if horticulture practices are promoted in addition to bamboo and aloe vera plantations with an assured market. A popular recommendation is medical and ecotourism along the lines of the Kerala model. On the other hand, given the quality of education received by the youth in the remote districts, the possibility of acquiring meaningful jobs remains thin. Those accustomed to urban culture do not feel like going back to their villages. Civil society groups, therefore, believe that providing skill-based education with assured jobs on a large scale in proportion to the demand would do wonders in these areas. A majority of the tribal communities in India are poor and landless. They practise small-scale farming, pastoralism, and nomadic herding. On the Human Development Index, the tribal-populated States always rank lower than the national average. Not long ago, a tragic news article was published about a tribal man walking 12 km in Odisha carrying his dead wife on his shoulder all night. A Chhattisgarh tribesman who had led the members of his village in a march to Delhi in 2004 to demand forest rights told this researcher that the lives of the tribal people are insignificant for our leaders. He said the Central government in the 1970s generously welcomed refugees from Bangladesh into forests and provided them a house and a land to farm, whereas natives were still being denied the same. The way forward The FRA was never going to be a panacea to address all the issues of the tribal people, but it is important. To improve the condition of the tribal people, especially those living in remote areas, there needs to be a push on every possible aspect of their socioeconomic life. This can be attained if schemes and programmes already drafted for the tribal people are implemented in letter and spirit across the country. With protective laws like the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996, in place, it is only a matter of will. One way forward could be to induct people who are sensitive to the cause of tribal people in the decision-making process at every stage. Madhusudan Bandi is a faculty member with the Gujarat Institute of Development Research, Ahmedabad. Email: madhusudan_bandi@gidr.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/looking-beyond-the-forest-rights-act/article38016615.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A marketplace of hurt||Comedian Munawar Faruqui’s show scheduled in Bengaluru on November 28, 2021 was cancelled by the organisers on advice from the Bengaluru Police that the show “could create chaos and could disturb the public peace and harmony which may further lead to law and order problems” based on “credible information that several organisations are opposing this stand-up comedy show.” The police did not cite any provision of law under which the performance could be prohibited, nor did they wait for the show to start to assess the risk posed by the “several organisations” they referred to. In January this year, Mr. Faruqui was arrested at a venue in Indore even before he could perform his set. The arrest came after a complaint from Eklavya Singh, the son of a BJP MLA, who accused Faruqui of making fun of Hindu deities and Home Minister Amit Shah. The alleged jokes, however, were not made at all. Mr. Faruqui spent over a month in prison before he was granted bail. Subsequently, comedian Kunal Kamra’s shows in Bengaluru were cancelled for similar reasons. These incidents demonstrate how the marketplace of outrage is growing, fuelled by groups addicted to the high of being offended, with the tacit support of the executive. Comedians have become fair game for vicious troll armies. Matters have escalated now to such an extent that the danger is not just online but involves threats to disrupt shows. Succumbing to the heckler’s veto The reaction of the police in preventing such performances reflects a growing acceptance of the heckler’s veto, which allows the state to prevent speech/expression when individuals and groups opposed to such speech/ expression commit or threaten to commit acts of violence in reaction to it. By succumbing to the heckler’s veto, the state suppresses the speech/expression that is potentially disruptive rather than protecting those whose speech is under threat from the hecklers. In India, the heckler’s veto gets legal sanction from exceptions in Article 19(2) of the Constitution which permit the state to make laws imposing reasonable restrictions on the right of speech and expression in the interests of ‘public order’ and ‘incitement to an offence’. These exceptions gave a new lease of life to various colonial laws suppressing speech and expression, such as Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295A (outraging religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief) of the Indian Penal Code. A chilling effect on expression Courts have disapproved of the executive bowing down to the heckler’s veto in several cases involving films that offended various groups. In 2019, the Supreme Court, while examining a ‘shadow ban’ on a film in West Bengal, stated that “the police are not in a free society the self-appointed guardians of public morality.... They cannot arrogate to themselves the authority to be willing allies in the suppression of dissent and obstruction of speech and expression” ( Indibily Creative Pvt. Ltd. v. Govt. Of West Bengal ). In the context of Padmaavat (2018), the apex court cast a duty on the State government to manage the law-and-order situation whenever a film is exhibited. It said that it is the government’s responsibility to protect the persons involved in the exhibition of the film and the audience watching it, if necessary. However, the contestations over offence rarely reach the courts; they usually play out on the streets or on the Internet. The ease with which the executive capitulates to offended groups has created a marketplace of hurt rather than a marketplace of ideas that the right to speech and expression was intended to create. Legal scholar Harry Kalven aptly said that “[B]y giving the police wide discretion to stop the speaker because of audience hostility, the state... in effect transfers the power of censorship to the crowd. Moreover, the police are likely to share the views of the angry audience; hence, their perception of the unrest may be coloured by their assessment of the speaker’s message.” These incidents also indicate that the executive has excessive power to regulate speech. This can be viewed as a broader tendency to confront problems of multi-community, multi-religious democracy through censorship rather than debate and discussion. The consequence of these developments will be a chilling effect on future expression. Even if a court of law overturns such a ban, the prospects of pretrial incarceration and a lengthy trial are sufficient disincentives for comedians not to put out material that could be perceived as offensive to any group. In the long run, we face the disturbing prospect of the police becoming gatekeepers over what content reaches the public domain and what does not. Leah Verghese is with DAKSH, a non-profit based in Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-marketplace-of-hurt/article38016617.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A for Assam, N for Northeast||On Monday, the Nagaland Assembly convened for a special session during which it demanded the repeal of the contentious Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) not just from the State but everywhere in the Northeast. The resolution was triggered by the botched Indian Army operation of December 4 that led to the death of 14 civilians in Mon district. Even as the House was in session, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the Act will continue to be in force in his State and the government would take a call at a later date “if this kind of peaceful situation continues”. Incidentally, the Nagaland Assembly is without an Opposition, with all parties becoming constituents of the Neiphiu Rio-led United Democratic Alliance in August to “work collectively towards achieving a peaceful and amicable solution” to the protracted Naga political imbroglio. On Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s orders, Mr. Sarma met Thuingaleng Muivah, the general secretary of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah), in September. He explained away his discordant note on AFSPA as “in the context of our State and not Nagaland because I have no jurisdiction to do so”. As BJP’s point man, troubleshooter, Mr. Fix-it all rolled into one for the Northeast, the former Congressman often finds himself in situations where his role as convener of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), forged by the BJP in 2016 as an agglomeration of parties vying with the Congress, is at cross purposes with his helmsmanship of the Assam government. AFSPA isn’t a one-off. The starkest illustration came during the border crisis with Mizoram when six Assam police personnel and a bystander were killed in firing on July 26 on National Highway 306. Mr. Sarma swiftly donned the Chief Minister’s hat, issuing provocative statements that he justified as boosting the morale of his police force and trading charges with his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga, a NEDA ally, on Twitter while tagging the Prime Minister’s Office and Mr. Shah. As a freshly minted BJP man, Mr. Sarma has tagged his older reputation of an efficient administrator to that of a firebrand Hindutva proponent, pushing issues such as beef ban, the need for a fresh National Register of Citizens exercise, and implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and supposedly illegal land encroachments by supposedly illegal immigrants to the forefront of the governance agenda. This, in a culturally, religiously, ethnically diverse State surrounded by an even more diverse neighbourhood, is no enviable task. But it isn’t quite the paradox it seems to be. For one, a polarising rhetoric in Assam hasn’t worked to the BJP’s detriment. The party retained power and through open invitations to defect, extended by the Chief Minister to Opposition lawmakers, has inched towards the simple majority mark on its own. As far as the broader region is concerned, the NEDA convener knows all too well that frontier State politicians are instinctively loath to alienate themselves from the patronage networks that flow from being in alignment with the Centre. A BJP-led government in Manipur, by that token, owes as much to this need for access to the purse strings as the manoeuvring skills of Mr. Sarma. With the Congress in disarray in the Northeast, the bigger threat to Mr. Sarma’s Chief Minister/NEDA convener dualism is the new Trinamool Congress push to mop up a slice of the 25 Lok Sabha seats from the Northeast come 2024. The party has already deployed its Bengal bounce to good effect in Assam, Tripura and Meghalaya. If Congress stirs itself up to contest this new bid for Opposition paramountcy, the man credited with expanding the BJP’s footprint in the Northeast would have much work to do to safeguard the gains of years past. abdus.salam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-for-assam-n-for-northeast/article38016612.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Warning bells||India has reported over 200 cases of the highly infectious Omicron variant and given that there were no cases when the month began, this has put the Centre in a high state of alert. An unmistakable foreboding was writ large in a letter by the Union Health Secretary to the Chief Secretaries of States and Union Territories on Tuesday that has asked them to be prepared for the worst. It said that Omicron was at least “three times more transmissible” than the Delta variant, and therefore “greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision-making, strict and prompt containment action” were required at the local and district levels. It also underlined two specific parameters which States have to be vigilant about: a test positivity of 10% or more in the last week and bed occupancy crossing 40% or more on oxygen-supported or intensive care units. There were echoes in the letter of the days when India was under a complete lockdown — it exhorted district officials, when required, to impose night curfew, strictly regulate large gatherings, curtail numbers in marriages and funerals, and restrict numbers in offices, industries and public transport. It also directed pre-emptive action. Maharashtra and Delhi have reported the highest number of cases of Omicron, followed by Telangana, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Kerala and Gujarat. India’s daily case count has ebbed and has remained well below 10,000 for most of the month — a first since May 2020; close to 90% of the adult population has been vaccinated with at least one dose. From the numbers alone, India is in a much better position than from last year or even as recently as this summer when the devastating second wave struck a body blow. However, the consternation in the Centre appears to derive from the experience of the last two years when waves in Europe and the United States were harbingers of havoc in India. While last year it appeared that vaccines would be the world’s passport out of the pandemic, it now seems that even a third dose is inadequate. India is overwhelmingly dependent on a single vaccine in spite of two being produced here; none of the mRNA vaccines is available. Drug regulators are yet to clear vaccines for children and booster doses partly out of concerns that this may trigger a shortfall. A good 40% of adults — and they are still the most vulnerable to severe disease — are yet to be fully vaccinated. Crowds and public mingling are at pre-pandemic levels and the coming months will see huge crowds as part of election campaigning. The true impact of Omicron will be known over the next few weeks but the Centre must continue to strike the gong of caution while facilitating greater availability of essential medicines, hospital beds and vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/warning-bells/article38016604.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Troubled waters||The arrest of 68 Tamil Nadu fishermen by the Sri Lankan authorities between December 18 and 20 and the impounding of 10 boats for “poaching” in territorial waters have again raised concerns about the fate of the men. It is a matter of comfort and relief that the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka is working to secure their early release. The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin, in his communication to the External Affairs Minister, S. Jaishankar, on Monday, has underscored the need to get back 75 fishing boats too from Sri Lanka. Fishermen from Tamil Nadu getting arrested and released later has become a routine affair, but there have been cases of deaths. In January 2021, four fishermen from Ramanathapuram district lost their lives after their vessel collided with a Sri Lankan naval craft. There was a similar case in October in which a fisherman died. This is why the Palk Bay fishing dispute needs a resolution soon. The fact that many rounds of discussions — at the levels of the fishermen and the governments of the two countries — have not led to any tangible improvement in the situation should not deter the pursuit of sustained engagement to sort out a problem that involves humanitarian and livelihood issues. The bone of contention between the two countries has been the use of bottom trawlers by the Tamil Nadu fishermen, a practice opposed in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province on the ground that trawling damages the marine ecosystem. This practice has been banned in Sri Lanka and there have been agitations for stringent enforcement of the law. More than anything else, the fishermen of Tamil Nadu should take into account the fact that their counterparts on the other side of the Palk Strait are still struggling to pick up the threads of their lives after a brutal civil war. Given that an ambitious Rs. 1,600 crore scheme of replacing in three years 2,000 bottom trawlers with deep-sea fishing boats equipped with long lines and gill nets continues to be a disappointment, both the Central and Tamil Nadu governments need to take up fresh initiatives to get the fishermen on board. The main reason for failure is the component of cost to be borne by the fishermen, accounting for 30% of the unit cost of Rs. 80 lakh; the two governments take care of the remaining 70%. Apart from increasing the unit cost at least to Rs. 1.2 crore, which will be at the same level as that of a similar scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), the Governments must increase their share of subsidy. They should also motivate the fishermen to adopt sea cage farming and sea/ocean ranching, which were all covered under the PMMSY. Such an approach is essential as the fishermen find it hard to restrict themselves to India’s territorial waters, given the limited marine wealth and area on the Indian side. But, the priority now for New Delhi should be in securing the swift release of the 68 fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/troubled-waters/article38016605.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The next step (From an editorial)||With the United States and other friends of Pakistan in the Security Council at last coming down to earth and not continuing to attempt to use that forum to blackguard India, the deadlock in the Council over Bangla Desh was broken yesterday and a resolution has been adopted calling for a “durable cease-fire” and for troop withdrawals “as soon as practicable”. Earlier, American-sponsored resolutions had failed to run the gauntlet of the Soviet veto and Indian objections because they had called for immediate troop withdrawals that would have left the people of Bangla Desh once again to the tender mercies of the West Pakistani Army with its terrible record of savagery. Though the present Council resolution too has not said anything about the basic issue in Bangla Desh, namely the desire of its people to be independent, it has the merit of being an effort to create a hostilities-free climate for working out the future of not only Bangla Desh but of divided Kashmir too. The success of this effort of course depends on how Pakistan is going to honour the Council’s resolution. For while India has categorically declared it has no intention to hold on to any real estate outside its territory, President Bhutto is talking about avenging his country’s ignominious defeat and re-annexing the lost East Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-next-step-from-an-editorial/article38016610.ece
23 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Tyagi sees need for tweaking norms for ‘new age’ tech firms||Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) chairman Ajay Tyagi on Wednesday called for an appropriate regulatory framework for listing of new age tech companies, also known as ‘growth companies’. “Recently, there has been an increasing trend of new age tech companies coming out with their IPOs,” he said. “Such companies are characterised by their significantly different business model and are asset light in nature,” he observed. “In 2021-22, out of the 23 IPOs on the main board with issue size over Rs. 1,000 crore, 5 were by companies with non-traditional business models. Such companies access capital markets both to provide exit to existing investors and to fund their growth ambitions,” he said, addressing the Association of Investment Bankers of India. “These non-traditional companies offer additional regulatory challenges. Having an appropriate regulatory framework for listing of such companies is also important to attract fresh PE/VC investments in start-ups.” Highlighting that typically the new age tech companies were loss making at the time of listing, Mr. Tyagi said the extant regulatory framework acknowledged that. “Going forward, based on experience gained and stakeholders’ feedback, there would be learnings and the need for appropriate tweaking of regulations,” he said. Stressing merchant bankers’ crucial role in ensuring market integrity, he said there were “various challenges, including... valuation related apprehensions”. “Appropriate pricing of the issue [for such firms] is a crucial aspect,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tyagi-sees-need-for-tweaking-norms-for-new-age-tech-firms/article38016591.ece
23 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Das pitched for continued policy support to aid revival||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das pitched for continued policy support to nurture revival, especially in sectors which are exposed to the evolving headwinds in the wake of spread of Omicron variant of the coronavirus, MPC minutes released by the central bank show. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) had, on December 8, unanimously voted for status quo on policy rates for the ninth consecutive time. The minutes released on Wednesday cite Mr. Das as having said that there was growing uncertainty regarding the evolving global macroeconomic outlook. On the domestic front, even as the prospects for economic activity were improving, there was still slack with key drivers like private consumption remaining well below their pre-pandemic levels, he had said. “Given these uncertainties, continued policy support is warranted for a durable, broad-based and self-sustaining rebound, especially to nurture revival in sectors which are lagging and to safeguard those which are exposed to the evolving headwinds,” the Governor had said. MPC member and RBI Deputy Governor Michael Debabrata Patra too had expressed concerns on the spread of the new variant of the coronavirus, saying “suddenly, the global outlook has darkened”. “As countries race to contain Omicron with travel restraints and new quarantine and social distancing measures, the global recovery and the inflation outlook are at risk again,” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/das-pitched-for-continued-policy-support-to-aid-revival/article38016587.ece
23 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Sony’s India unit agrees to absorb Zee Entertainment||Sony Pictures Networks India Private Ltd. (SPNI) and Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (ZEEL) have agreed to merge ZEEL with and into SPNI and combine their linear networks, digital assets, production operations and program libraries. After closing, the new combined company will be publicly listed in India. As per the terms of the definitive agreements, SPNI will have cash balance of $1.5 billion at closing, including through infusion by the current shareholders of SPNI and the founders of ZEEL. SPNI is an indirect subsidiary of Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc. (SPE). Post merger SPE will indirectly hold a majority 50.86% of the combined company, ZEEL’s founders will own 3.99%, and the other ZEEL shareholders will hold a 45.15% stake. Punit Goenka of ZEEL will lead the combined company as its Managing Director & CEO. The majority of the board of directors of the merged entity will be nominated by the Sony Group and will include the current SPNI MD N.P. Singh. Mr. Singh will assume a broader executive position at SPE as Chairman, Sony Pictures India reporting to Ravi Ahuja, SPE’s Chairman of Global Television Studios. ZEEL’s founders have agreed to limit the equity that they may own in the combined company to 20% of its outstanding shares. “It is a significant milestone for all of us, as two leading media & entertainment companies join hands to drive the next era of entertainment,” said Mr. Goenka. “The combined company will create a comprehensive entertainment business, enabling us to serve our consumers with wider content choices,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sonys-india-unit-agrees-to-absorb-zee-entertainment/article38016593.ece
23 December 2021||MUMBAI,||India adds 33 unicorns in one year, displaces U.K.||Adding 33 ‘unicorns’ in a single year has helped India displace the United Kingdom (U.K.) to be third in the list of countries that are home to such enterprises valued at more than $1 billion each, according to a report. India was placed fourth when it came to the number of unicorns last year. However, the U.S. and northern neighbour China, who occupy the first two ranks, are way ahead, according to the data compiled by Hurun Research Institute. The U.S. added 254 unicorns and now totals 487 companies in the coveted list, while China added 74 to take its tally to 301 start-ups having a valuation of more than $1 billion, it said. The top-two occupants are home to 74% of the unicorn universe, it said.   The U.K. added only 15 unicorns to take its total to 39, and hence got displaced by India, it said. “India is in the midst of a start-up boom, more than doubling its unicorns to take its official tally of unicorns to 54, and overtake the U.K. to third place in the world,” Hurun Report India’s MD and chief researcher Anas Rahman Junaid said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-adds-33-unicorns-in-one-year-displaces-uk/article38016589.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sitharaman concludes parleys for Union Budget||Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman concluded consultations for the Union Budget 2022-2023 after a conference with economists. More than 120 invitees participated in eight meetings scheduled in the period from December 15, the Finance Ministry said. “The stakeholder groups include representatives and experts from agriculture and agro processing industry; industry, infrastructure and climate change; financial sector and capital markets; services and trade; social sector; trade unions and labour organisations and economists,” it said. The groups made several suggestions on various issues that included increased R&D spending and rationalisation of income tax slabs. Ms. Sitharaman assured participants that the suggestions would be carefully considered while preparing the Budget, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sitharaman-concludes-parleys-for-union-budget/article38016597.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amazon files writ on scope of ED probe||Amazon on Wednesday filed a writ petition in the Delhi High Court seeking clarifications on the scope of Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) investigations into alleged foreign exchange violations by the company, sources said. Last month, Amazon had said it was in receipt of summons by the ED in connection with its deal with the Future Group. As per sources, Amazon said the ED was expanding the scope of its investigations by seeking privileged and confidential legal advice it received in ordinary course of business since it started marketplace operations and that such requests weren’t related to the agency’s probe into the Future-Amazon deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-files-writ-on-scope-of-ed-probe/article38016583.ece
23 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Amazon to acquire Prione JV||Prione Business Services, the joint venture (JV) between N.R. Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran and Amazon, will be acquired by Amazon, Catamaran and Amazon said in a joint media statement. In August, the partners had announced their decision to not continue the JV beyond May 2022. Amazon would acquire Catamaran’s shareholding in Prione, including all assets and liabilities, they said. “The businesses of the joint venture shall continue under the leadership of the current management and on receipt of regulatory approvals, the boards of Prione and Cloudtail will take steps to complete the transaction,’’ according to the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-to-acquire-prione-jv/article38016584.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||CG Power and Industrial Solution says liquidation of its arm CG Ganz completed||CG Power and Industrial Solutions said the liquidation of its arm CG Ganz has been completed. In a filing, the firm said, “we wish to inform you that the liquidation process for CG Ganz has been completed and the name of that entity has been deleted from the records of the local authority in Hungary where CG Ganz was registered.”PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cg-power-and-industrial-solution-says-liquidation-of-its-arm-cg-ganz-completed/article38016585.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Akasa Air unveils logo||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala- promoted Akasa Air on Wednesday unveiled its logo which includes the symbol A along with the tag line, ‘It’s Your Sky’. “The Rising A is inspired by elements from the sky. ‘It’s Your Sky’ is the brand’s promise to embrace everyone and to create an inclusive environment for all Indians,” the airline said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/akasa-air-unveils-logo/article38016595.ece
23 December 2021||Dhaka,||India pips Pakistan to bronze; Korea triumphs||A misfiring India was made to toil hard before getting the better of Pakistan 4-3 in a pulsating third-fourth place contest to clinch the bronze at the Asian Champions Trophy men’s hockey tournament here on Wednesday. South Korea emerged as the champion after beating Japan 4-2 in a shootout following a 3-3 stalemate at the end of the regulation 60 minutes of the title clash. After having topped the round-robin stages, India was far from impressive in its last two games, and the Manpreet Singh-led side had to play out of its skin to outwit Pakistan and finish on the podium. Just two conversions After being stunned by Japan 3-5 in the semifinal on Tuesday, much was expected from India against Pakistan. It did press hard and created numerous chances, including 11 penalty corners, out of which it converted just two. India, which was the defending champion along with Pakistan in the last edition of the tournament in Muscat, will thus return with a consolation prize. The Indian team took the lead in the very first minute through vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh before Sumit (45th), Varun Kumar (53rd) and Akashdeep Singh (57th) struck a goal each. Pakistan’s goals were scored by Afraz (10th), Abdul Rana (33rd) and Ahmed Nadeem (57th). It was India’s second win over Pakistan in the tournament after having beaten it 3-1 in the round-robin stages. Two unnecessary yellow cards — to Hardik Singh and Sumit — in the last five minutes didn’t help India, but the suspensions didn’t hurt the side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-pips-pakistan-to-bronze-korea-triumphs/article38016694.ece
23 December 2021||Jaipur,||Services shocks Kerala, storms into semifinals||For Services to topple a strong Kerala, it needed a disciplined performance and luck to favour it. The toss evened the scales just slightly, and self-destruction by Kerala’s middle-order batters meant Services brushed aside its opponent with relative ease at the K. L. Saini Stadium here. The seven-wicket win helped Services make it to the semifinals of the Vijay Hazare Trophy for the first time. Decisive contributions Fast bowler Diwesh Pathania (three for 19) and opening batter Ravi Chauhan (95, 90b, 13x4, 3x6) made decisive contributions with ball and bat, respectively, ensuring a thorough performance from a team devoid of superstars. Inserted in, Kerala was put under pressure by the fast bowlers — especially Pathania — from the get go. In his excellent first spell, Pathania got two wickets in two balls with deliveries that moved away slightly after pitching. Later, Pathania came back to help wipe the tail in a hurry, but the real damage was done when the seamers weren’t bowling, after the patient and solid Rohan Kunnummal (85, 106b, 7x4, 2x6) had steadied the ship in the company of Vinoop Manoharan and Sachin Baby. First, Sachin top edged while attempting a sweep off Pulkit Narang, the off-spinner and was caught out in the 31st over. Soon after, Sanju Samson, the captain, smashed a half-volley from Narang straight to the fielder at long-on to be dismissed for two. Then, the set Rohan got out, too, run out at the non-strikers’ end after a mix-up, in the 37th. From 135 for three, Kerala had slumped to 161 for six. It was bowled out for 175, losing five wickets for just 25 runs. Services’ top order still had to see off the new ball and to safely negotiate Basil Thampi & Co. Wickets did fall, but once the fast bowlers were given a rest, opener Chauhan and Rajat Paliwal (65, 86b, 8x4) started to keep the scoreboard ticking. By the 16th over, the tide had turned, Chauhan reaching his half-century with a slog-sweep for six. That it wasn’t Kerala’s day was signified when Rohan, the top-scorer for his side, dropped a catch in the 27th over. Chauhan had slog-swept the ball to deep midwicket where Rohan, diving forward, couldn’t hold on.    Kerala paid the price for irresponsible batting as Services made it to the semifinals for the first time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/services-shocks-kerala-enters-semis/article38016955.ece
23 December 2021||TENHIPALAM,||10 more records rewritten on the third day of the State junior championship||It is raining records at the State junior athletics meet. If five records were set on day two, the third day saw that number double at the University Stadium here on Wednesday.  The winners:   Boys: U-20: 400m: Abhijith Simon (Alp) 48.35s. 1,500m: J. Rijoy (Pkd) 4:00.34. 5,000m: N.V. Amith (Tsr) 15:32.16. 110m hurdles: V.K. Muhammed Lazan (Kkd) 14.11.   U-18: 400m: K.R. Rijith (Pkd) 49.41. 110m hurdles: R.K. Viswajith (Pkd) 14.72. 1,500m: M.S. Athul Krishna (Tsr) 4:17.99. Long jump: K. Muhammed Asief (Wyd) 7.51. Javelin: Muhammed Shahil (Pkd) 55.01.   U-16: 300m: T. Aghosh (Kkd) 37.31, NMR; OR: 37.81, P. Abiram (KSAA), 2020. 5,000m race walking: K.K. Jithin Raj (Mlp) 27:03.82. 80m hurdles: K. Kiran (Pkd) 10.90, NMR; OR: 11.30s, A.B. Vimal (Wyd), 2021. Long jump: Albin Antony (Knr) 6.31. Hexathlon: Irfan Mohammed (Mlp) 2946 pts., NMR: OR: 2845, Roshan Roy (Ktm) 2020.   U-14: High jump: Devak Bhushan (Kkd) 1.51. Shot put: Sachu Martin (Alp) 13.26, NMR; OR: 11.36, K.K. Mohammed Nisham (Mlp), 2021. Ball throw: Thejas Chandran (Wyd) 67.04: NMR; OR: 66.65, P.K. Vishnu (Wyd), 2021.   Girls: U-20: 400m: Gowri Nandana (Ekm) 54.63. 1,500m: C. Chanthini (Pkd) 4:38.53. 3,000m: G. Jinsy (Ekm) 11:00.82. 100m hurdles: Ann Rose Tomy (Tsr) 14.22, NMR; OR: 14.29, Aparna Roy (Kkd), 2021. 10,000m race walking: Sandra Surendran (Ekm) 49:57.00: NMR; OR: 53:19.60, K.T. Neena (Pkd), 2015. High jump: Meera Shibu (Ekm) 1.72, NMR; OR: 1.71, Libia Shaji (Ekm), 2016. Pole vault: Arathy A. Nair (Ekm) 3.10. Shot put: Diya Shyju (Tsr) 10.50.   U-18: 400m: Saniya Treesa Tomy (Kkd) 56.92. 100m hurdles: R. Adithya (Ekm) 15.27. 1,500m: Devika Ben (Ktm) 5:06.28. 3000m: Ans Mariya Thomas (Ekm) 10:47.94. 5,000m race walking: Miya Rose (Pkd) 29:28.92. Long jump: Lakshmi S. Reji (Ekm) 5.23. Pole vault: Rose Mariya Joseph (Ekm) 2.30m. 4x100m medley relay: Kozhikode 2:20.09.   U-16: 300m: Hritika Menon (Ekm) 41.87. 80m hurdles: Antreesa Mathew (Ktm) 12.49. Long jump: Mubassina Mohammed (Kkd) 5.90, NMR; OR: 5.68, E.S. Sivapriya (Tsr), 2021. Javelin: Mariya Sibi (Kkd) 25.0. Discus: V.S. Anupriya (Kgd) 37.23: NMR; OR: 36.51, P.A. Athulya (Tsr), 2017.   Medley relay: Kozhikode (2:24.84).   U-14: High jump: C.P. Ashmika (Kkd) 1.34 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/10-more-records-rewritten-on-the-third-day-of-the-state-junior-championship/article38017259.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vijay’s stunning win over Vishnu proves crucial for Yoddhas||Vijay Sundar Prashant saved a match point and unleashed a crisp volley to beat Olympian Vishnu Vardhan 5-4(6) to fetch a one-point lead for Stag Babolat Yoddhas, that proved decisive in the team’s 25-24 victory over DMG Crusaders in the Centena Pro Tennis League at the RK Khanna Stadium here on Wednesday. Vijay had done well to sustain the momentum for his team after Nishant Dabas and Vanshika Chaudhary had brought the teams on par in the second rubber. Later, Ishaque beat Karan 5-2 to gain a precious advantage for Yoddhas. The cushion of three games proved hard to bridge for Crusaders, though it won the last rubber 5-3 through Rishi Kapur and Kashish Bhatia. The slender win pushed Yoddhas to the second spot in group-B in the race for the semifinals, behind Bangalore Challengers which was well served by Aman Dahiya, Sai Samhitha, Niki Poonacha and Dilip Mohanty who won five of the six matches for the team for a thumping 28-14 win over Team Radiant. In the other group, Indian Aviators was leading and Sapphire Superstars was second, slightly ahead of Sankara, in the qualification race.  The results: Bangalore Challengers bt Team Radiant 28-14 [Aman Dahiya lost to Parv Nage 3-5; Aman & Sai Samhitha bt Parv & Prerna Bhambri 5-1; Niki Poonacha bt Saketh Myneni 5-2; Niki & Paras Dahiya bt Saketh & Suraj Prabodh 5-4(5); Paras Dahiya bt Suraj Prabodh 5-2; Dilip Mohanty & Sai bt Arjun Uppal & Prerna 5-0].   Indian Aviators bt Pro Veri Supersmashers 23-21 [Ajay Malik bt Aditya Nandal 5-2; Ajay & Diva Bhatia bt Aditya & Mahika Khanna 5-0; Sriram Balaji lost to Ramkumar Ramanathan 4-5 (5); Balaji & Siddhant Banthia bt Ramkumar & Nitin Kumar Sinha 5-4(3); Banthia lost to Nitin 1-5; Swarandeep Singh & Diva lost to Mohit Phogat & Mahika 3-5].   Stag Babolat Yoddhas bt DMG Crusaders 25-24 [Nishant Dabas lost to Bushan Haobam 3-5; Nishant & VAnshika Chaudhary bt Bushan & Kashish Bhatia 5-3; Vijay Sundar Prashant bt Vishnu Vardhan 5-4(6); Vijay & Ishaque Eqbal lost to Vishnu & Karan Singh 4-5(5); Ishaque bt Karan 5-2; Nishant Goel & Vanshika lost to Rishi Kapur & Kashish 3-5].   Sapphire Superstars bt Sankara 23-17 [Chirag Duhan bt Shivank Bhatnagar 5-2; Chirag & Riya Sachdeva bt Shivank & Niyati Kukreti 5-1; Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan lost to Arjun Kadhe 0-5; Jeevan & Prithvi Sekhar lost to Arjun & Parikshit Somani 3-5; Prithvi bt Parikshit 5-3; Aditya Khanna & Riya bt Ashish Khanna & Niyati 5-1] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijays-stunning-win-over-vishnu-proves-crucial-for-yoddhas/article38016601.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mega auction likely to be held in Bengaluru on February 7 and 8||The BCCI is planning to hold the two-day mega Indian Premier League auction on February 7 and 8 in Bengaluru, a senior BCCI official said on Wednesday. It could well be the last mega auction that BCCI might conduct as most of the original IPL franchises want it to be discontinued. “Unless the COVID-19 situation worsens, we will have the IPL mega auction in India. The two-day event will be held on February 7 and 8 and like other years, we plan to hold it in Bengaluru. Preparations are underway,” said a senior BCCI official on condition of anonymity. There were reports that the auction will be held in the UAE, but the BCCI has no such plans as of now. However, with the emergence of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 and cases on the rise, the situation will remain fluid. But if there are restrictions with regards to overseas travel (unless all owners decide to use charter planes), conducting the auction in India will be less of a logistical nightmare. The 2022 edition of the IPL will be a 10-team affair with the Sanjiv Goenka-owned Lucknow franchise, along with venture capital firm CVC-owned Ahmedabad, making their debut in the league. CVC is, however, waiting for its Letter of Intent from the BCCI but is expected to get an all-clear in the next few weeks. Both teams have time till Christmas to announce their three draft picks but the BCCI might extend the dates for both as CVC is yet to get clearance. Most of the franchise owners feel that mega auctions have passed their sell-by-date and a team’s composition and balance gets severely compromised when there are auctions every three years. Delhi Capitals co-owner Parth Jindal had, in fact, gone on record saying how it is tough to release players after having put in effort to build a team. “It is very sad to lose Shreyas Iyer, Shikhar Dhawan, Kagiso Rabada and Ashwin. Going forward, the IPL should look at this because it’s not that you build a team, groom young players and lose them after three years,” said Jindal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-mega-auction-likely-to-be-held-in-bengaluru-on-february-7-and-8/article38016696.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Clinical Blasters blow away CFC||Kerala Blasters’ great turnaround story continues in the ISL. Three nights ago, the men from Kochi were placed ninth in the 11-team league. On Wednesday, they found themselves in the third spot after posting an impressive 3-0 win against Chennaiyin FC at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco, through goals from Jorge Pereyra Diaz, Sahal Samad and Adrian Luna. They are now just a point behind the leader Mumbai City FC. Blasters are on 12 points, the same as Jamshedpur FC, which is placed higher, having scored more goals (the two teams are tied on goal difference). Chennaiyin remained on 11 points and dropped to sixth place. Coach Ivan Vukomanovic could not have hoped for a better follow up from his boys after the stunning victory over defending champion Mumbai on Sunday. Though Chennaiyin put up a good fight, Blasters was clearly the better side. They attacked with relish and made good use of the opportunities that came their way. One of them arrived as early as the ninth minute. Diaz made it count as he firmly drove the fine assist from Lalthathanga Khawlhring past a desperately diving goalkeeper. Chennaiyin custodian Vishal Kaith then had a moment to forget as he twice failed to clear the ball, resulting in Sahal scoring on the second attempt off a pass from Alvaro Vazquez. The opening half saw Chennaiyin come up with some fine counter-attacks. But 24 minutes into the second half, Luna’s strike sealed the contest. He was named Hero of the Match. Few would argue with that.  The result: Kerala Blasters 3 (Pereyra 9, Sahal 38, Luna 79) bt Chennaiyin FC 0.   Today’s m atch: HFC vs SCEB .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clinical-blasters-blow-away-cfc/article38016698.ece
23 December 2021||BENGALURU,||U Mumba tames the Bulls||Abhishek Singh was the star for U Mumba as it beat Bengaluru Bulls 46-30 in the Pro Kabaddi League season opener here on Wednesday. The U Mumba raider clinched a Super 10 (19 points) and was ably supported by the team’s defence in a statement victory by the season 2 champion. Pawan Sehrawat had an off-day for Bengaluru Bulls, which missed a quality third raider to support Chandran Ranjit and Pawan. At half-time, U Mumba had a seven-point lead (24-17) before pulling away further and finishing a 46-30 win. In the second match, Telugu Titans made an incredible comeback to tie 40-40 with Tamil Thalaivas. Manjeet was the star raider for the Thalaivas with a Super 10 (12 raid points) while Siddharth Desai, despite spending a lot of time away from the mat, clinched a crucial Super 10 (11 points) for the Titans. The lack of do-or-die raids in the first half was testimony to the high pace with which the contest was played. A 3-point super raid with four minutes remaining for half-time by Manjeet gave Thalaivas an opportunity to inflict an all out and it did so in the 18th minute to make it 20-20. The momentum helped Thalaivas end the half 23-21. Captain Rohit Kumar's absence meant Titans looked rudderless. However, it had enough in the tank to snatch a tie.  The results: U Mumba bt Bengaluru Bulls 46-30; Telugu Titans tied with Tamil Thalaivas 40-40; Bengal Warriors bt UP Yoddha 38-33 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/u-mumba-tames-the-bulls/article38016700.ece
23 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Unseeded Manush stuns top seed Sanil in quarterfinals||Manush Shah’s current ranking — 14 in the domestic and 402 in the international level — is not something to crow about. But the 20-year-old has been working hard and recent results are a testimony of it. The singles crown in the Ecuador International Open in November boosted his confidence and the paddler from Gujarat showed glimpses of his capabilities at the domestic level too with an 8-11, 11-8, 8-11, 13-11, 7-11, 12-10, 11-7 upset victory over top seed Sanil Shetty in the men’s quarterfinals of the UTT National-ranking South Zone table tennis tournament at the Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium here on Wednesday. Unseeded here, Manush’s gritty fight back in the fourth and sixth games underelined his abilities. In fact, Sanil had a match-point at 10-9 in the sixth game, but Manush served well and put pressure on his opponent’s backhand to clinch it. Sanil crumbled in the seventh and deciding game, making quite a few unforced errors on his favourite stroke — the forehand. “I lost in the pre-quarterfinals in the two previous National-ranking tournaments and learnt from them. My aim is to try and be part of the Indian team for the 2022 Commonwealth Games,” said Manush. Maharashtra’s Anannya Basak, who upset women’s top seed Prapti Sen (RSPB) in the pre-quarterfinals, lost to Swasthika Ghosh in the next round in six games. Similarly, Tamil Nadu’s V. Kowshika (TTTA) defeated fourth-seeded Sutirtha Mukherjee in the round-of-16, but went down to Ayhika Mukherjee in four straight games. Vedhalakshmi goes down Earlier, Tamil Nadu’s Vedhalakshmi Devi, who had accounted for Madhurika Patkar in the first round, lost in the second to Anusha Kutumbale of Maharashtra in six games.  The results:   Quarterfinals: Men: Manush Shah (Guj) bt Sanil Shetty (PSPB) 8-11, 11-8, 8-11, 13-11, 7-11, 12-10, 11-7; Anirban Ghosh (RSPB) bt Anthony Amalraj (PSPB) 11-9, 9-11, 5-11, 11-7, 11-6, 2-11, 11-3; Harmeet Desai (Guj) bt Jeet Chandra (AAI) 11-9, 11-13, 11-9, 11-5, 11-7; Shubh Goel (Del) bt Arjun Ghosh (RSPB) 11-7, 13-11, 11-5, 11-6.   Women: Swastika Ghosh (AAI) bt Anannya Basak (Mah) 7-11, 11-8, 10-12, 11-8, 11-4, 11-9; Ayhika Mukherjee (RBI) bt Kowshika Venkatesan (TTTA) 11-9, 11-4, 11-9, 11-8; Diya Chitale (Mah) bt Takeme Sarkar (RSPB) 11-13, 11-7, 11-6, 12-10, 11-5; Sreeja Akula (RBI) bt Reeth Rishya (PSPB) 11-5, 11-6, 11-9, 9-11, 10-12, 11-7 .   I lost in the pre-quarterfinals in the two previous National-ranking tournaments and learnt from them. My aim is to try and be part of the Indian team for the 2022 Commonwealth GamesManush||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unseeded-manush-shocks-top-seed-sanil-in-quarterfinals/article38016702.ece
23 December 2021||Jaipur,||Fit-again Nagarkoti wants to make up for lost time||Kamlesh Nagarkoti’s stock was on a high after the 2018 Under-19 World Cup and when he was snapped up by Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL auction. A lively fast bowler, capable bat and brilliant fielder, he had all the boxes ticked to progress higher until injury had a say. Since then he hardly played matches over the last three years. He missed the 2018 and 2019 editions before playing 10 matches in 2020 and one this year. This is the first time he has completed both the Syed Mushtaq Ali that ended last year and the Vijay Hazare Trophy in three years. Nagarkoti said, “I have been injured for a while so it was important for me to be back playing for my State again and perform well. When I was at the NCA, I was practising according to a set workload. I planned to be fit for all the matches in this tournament by utilising my training regimen well. When asked about dealing with the disappointment of injuries, Nagarkoti said, “Every sportsperson goes through periods of absence due to injury. What is important is how impactful the comeback is. In the beginning, I was struggling with my pace. At KKR, Omkar Salvi is working with me and I have my coach Surendra Singh Rathod. I consulted them when planning to make small changes to my bowling action, and it helped a lot. I didn’t face a problem with my pace.” Elaborating, the pacer said, “The three years were good as well as bad. It was good because I was at the NCA and spent time with (Rahul) Dravid sir. I learnt a lot. When you get injured the next time, you know what to do and what to avoid — the things that add to the load and to manage those. So I learnt these things.” Will wait for my time “The disappointment was the realisation that if I hadn’t been injured, I may have played at higher levels sooner. But that’s fine; everyone has his time, and I will wait for my time to come and perform when I get the chance.” With a small tweak in action without compromising his pace and swing, the 21-year-old feels he is back on track and wants to make up for the lost time.  First time Nagarkoti has completed both the Syed Mushtaq Ali and Hazare Trophy in three years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fit-again-nagarkoti-wants-to-make-up-for-lost-time/article38016991.ece
23 December 2021||PUNE,||Karman rattles Nefisa before retiring with injury||Karman Kaur Thandi raised hopes of a knock out punch to top seed Nefisa Berberovic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but was undone by a wrist injury that saw her retire in the third set in the pre-quarterfinals of the NECC $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana on Wednesday. Nefisa led 4-6, 6-4, 2-0, having survived five break points in the first game of the decider, when the tall Karman retired after medical attention, unable to cope with a painful wrist. National champion Shrivalli Bhamidipaty fought hard but was beaten in three sets by Nigina Abduraimova of Uzbekistan. Vaidehi Chaudhari also put up a good performance against Valeriya Strakhova of Ukraine before losing in straight sets. The Indian challenge ended in singles, but the home players kept their hopes alive by progressing to the doubles quarterfinals.  The results (pre-quarterfinals):   Singles: Nefisa Berberovic (BIH) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 4-6, 6-4, 2-0 (retd.); Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) bt Akiko Omae (Jpn) 6-1, 6-1; Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) 6-2, 6-3.   Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Vaidehi Chaudhari 7-5, 6-4; Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) bt Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) 1-6, 6-4, 6-3; Chihiro Muramatsu (Jpn) bt Farhat Aleen Qamar 6-2, 6-0; Nigina Abduraimova (Uzb) bt Shrivalli Bhamidipaty 6-4, 3-6, 6-2; Anna Danilina (Kaz) bt Misaki Matsuda (Jpn) 6-3, 7-6(7).   Doubles: Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Pooja Ingale & Ramya Natarajan 6-0, 6-4.   Sathwika Sama & Saumya Vig bt Sarah Pang (Sgp) & Arthi Muniyan 6-3, 6-0; Hiroko Kuwata (Jpn) & Rutuja Bhosale bt Vaidehi Chaudhari & Zeel Desai 7-6(3), 6-3.   Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) & Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Nidhi Chilumula & Snehal Mane 6-1, 6-2; Funa Kozaki & Misaki Matsuda (Jpn) bt Weronika Baszak (Pol) & Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) 6-1, 6-3; Akiko Omae & Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) bt Naho Sato (Jpn) & Prarthana Thombare 6-7(1), 6-3, [10-2].   Jennifer Luikham & Mihika Yadav bt Humera Baharmus & Shrivalli Bhamidipaty 2-6, 6-3, [10-5].   Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) & Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) bt Nigina Abduraimova (Uzb) & Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) 6-3, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karman-rattles-nefisa-before-retiring/article38017090.ece
23 December 2021||Surat,||Sachin and Boopathi hit unbeaten double centuries||B. Sachin (218 not out, 402b, 21x4, 2x6) and M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar (219 not out, 241b, 30x4, 2x6) were involved in an unbroken 376-run stand as Tamil Nadu declared at 580 for two in its first innings on the third day of its Cooch Behar Trophy (men’s u-19) Elite C fourth round against Himachal on Wednesday. Himachal, which made 170 in its first essay, was 265 for six at stumps in the second innings.  The scores:   Himachal Pradesh 170 & 265/6 in 72 overs (Raghav Angra 64, Vaibhav S. Kalta 65 batting, Daksh N. Narayan 40, B. Aaditya 3/97) vs Tamil Nadu 580/2 decl. in 142 overs (R. Vimal Khumar 92, B. Sachin 218 n.o., A. Badrinath 41, M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar 219 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sachin-and-boopathi-hit-unbeaten-double-tons/article38017002.ece
23 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Kiran, Aakarshi emerge champions||Kerala’s Kiran George and top seed Aakarshi Kashyap of Chhattisgarh clinched the men’s and women’s singles titles in the all-India senior ranking badminton tournament here on Wednesday. In the men’s summit clash, Kiran defeated the experienced Subhankar Dey 21-17, 21-12 in 39 minutes while the women’s singles final saw Aakarshi cruise past qualifier Tanya Hemanth of Karnataka 21-15, 21-12. National champions and Women’s doubles top seeds Shikha Gautam and Ashwini Bhat got the better of Uttar Pradesh's Shruti Mishra and Shailja Shukla 21-14, 21-16 while the unseeded combination of Rohan Kapoor and Sanjana Santosh defeated S. Sunjith and Gowrikrishna 21-18, 21-16 to clinch the mixed doubles title. In men’s doubles, Hariharan Amsakarunan and Ruban Kumar got the better of Ravikrishna P.S. and Sankarprasad Udaykumar 22-20, 19-21, 21-18. The overall prize money for the tournament is Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiran-aakarshi-emerge-champions/article38016949.ece
23 December 2021||Kovilpatti,||Haryana knocks out Tamil Nadu||Haryana registered a facile 7-3 win over Tamil Nadu in the quarterfinals of the 11th Junior National men’s hockey championship at the SDAT astroturf grounds here on Wednesday. The Tamil Nadu boys conceded two goals in the space of four minutes but shot back strongly the very next minute to reduce the margin through S. Aravind Kumar. Thereafter, the experienced Haryana side applied the pressure on the host and added three more goals to its tally. Deepak was the man in command for the team scoring twice during this period. Tamil Nadu pressed hard in the final quarter. B. Sathish and Aravind worked hard for the team to score a goal apiece. And, so did Deepak and Rohit for Haryana to seal a comfortable win. In another quarterfinal clash, Chandigarh staved off a stiff challenge to defeat a fighting Punjab 3-2 for a place in the last four.  The results (quarterfinals): Chandigarh 3 (Rohit 2, Sumit) bt Punjab 2 (Simranjot Singh, Rajinder Singh).   Haryana 7 (Deepak 3, Amandeep 2, Pankaj, Rohit) bt Tamil Nadu 3 (B. Sathish, Aravind, S. Aravind Kumar).   Uttar Pradesh 9 (Sharda Nand Tiwari 5, Manish Sahani 2, Vishnukanth Singh, Mohammad Haris) bt Delhi 0 .   Odisha 4 (Sudeep Sirmako 2, Amandeep Lakra, Susanth Toppo) bt Bihar 1 (Monu Kumar).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haryana-knocks-out-tn/article38016953.ece
23 December 2021||Johannesburg,||India-SA to celebrate 30 years of ties||January 3 is when the first ball of the second Test between India and South Africa will be bowled. Ironically, the first home Test post isolation was played at the same stadium, against the same opponent, 30 years earlier. “Part of the 30-year anniversary of the cricketing ties between India and South Africa includes the celebration and recognition of the most iconic moments and individuals in the 30-year history of the stadium,” stated a Cricket South Africa (CSA) release. In terms of celebrating iconic players and individuals, the stadium will unveil the top 100-players Hall of Fame (domestic, foreign, women and men) who have graced the wicket post the ICC lifting the ban. Off-the-field legends who have contributed significantly to the development of the stadium in the province will be honoured. Walk of Fame will also be unveiled — these are the Kings, Queens, Dignitaries and iconic entertainment legends. Special moments like 2003 Cricket World Cup, 2009 IPL, FIFA 2010 Goodwill match, 2015 Greatest ODI ever will also be recognised. Test number 1201 took place from November 26-30, 1992, at the Wanderers Stadium, when the Indian cricket team toured SA for four Tests and seven ODIs from October 29, 1992-January 6, 1993. Captained by Kepler Wessels, South Africa won the four-match series 1-0, with Allan Donald emerging as the player-of-the-series. Founded on September 22, 1956, the 66-year-old stadium hosted its first international Test match in 1956 when England won by 131 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-sa-to-celebrate-30-years-of-ties/article38016689.ece
23 December 2021||Mumbai:,||St. Andrews may score over his rivals||St. Andrews, who hails from trainer Bezan Chenoy's yard, may score over his rivals in the Royal Calcutta Turf Club Cup, the main event of Thursday's (Dec. 23) races here. Rails will be placed six metres wide from 1200m to 1000m and thereafter nine metres wide from 800m upto the winning post.  FREE RADICAL PLATE (1,200m), Maiden, 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 46 — 2.00 p.m.: 1. Multiencrypted (7) Sandesh 59, 2. Perfect Man (5) C.S. Jodha 57.5, 3. Connaught (6) T.S. Jodha 57, 4. Key To The Mint (8) Parmar 57, 5. San Salvatore (11) Zervan 57, 6. Fidato (1) A. Imran Khan 56, 7. Cherished (3) P.S. Chouhan 55.5, 8. Galloping Glory (4) Bhawani 55.5, 9. Spirit Bay (10) Zeeshan 55, 10. Caprifla (2) Dashrath 54.5 and 11. Silent Knight (9) A. Prakash 54.5.  1. KEY TO THE MINT,   2. MULTIENCRYPTED,   3. PERFECT MAN   WELCOME CUP (1,200m), Maiden (Terms), 2-y-o only — 2.30: 1. Arbitrage (1) Parmar 56, 2. Coeur De Lion (3) Dashrath 56, 3. Hooves Of Thunder (5) Sandesh 56, 4. Jerusalem (6) Yash Narredu 56, 5. Pegaso (4) Mosin 56 and 6. Kimiko (2) Neeraj 54.5.  1. COEUR DE LION, 2. HOOVES OF THUNDER   ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (1,200m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward — 3.00: 1. Mystic Bay (6) Yash Narredu 59, 2. Silver Flames (2) A. Imran Khan 59, 3. St. Andrews (7) Aniket 59, 4. Augustus Caesar (5) Neeraj 58.5, 5. Gazino (4) Peter 58.5, 6. Hidden Gold (3) Parmar 52.5 and 7. Golden Guest (1) Sandesh 52.  1. ST. ANDREWS,   2. GOLDEN GUEST, 3. MYSTIC BAY   GODSPEED PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 3.30: 1. Majestic Warrior (4) Aniket 62, 2. Pokerface (6) Shelar 59, 3. Pride's Angel (7) Sandesh 55.5, 4. Northern Lights (2) P.S. Chouhan 52.5, 5. Rambler (1) Zeeshan 52.5, 6. Vincenzo (5) C.S. Jodha 51 and 7. The Awakening (3) Neeraj 50.  1. NORTHERN LIGHTS, 2. PRIDE'S ANGEL, 3. THE AWAKENING   QUEST FOR CASH PLATE (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 4.00: 1. Belenus (2) Neeraj 61, 2. Kinnara (8) P.S. Chouhan 59, 3. Wild Fire (5) Aniket 59, 4. Impermanence (1) Sandesh 58.5, 5. Dilbar (7) S. Amit 55.5, 6. C'est L'Amour (12) Bhawani 55, 7. Lagertha (3) P. Vinod 55, 8. Turmeric Tower (4) Dashrath 55, 9. Magic In The Wind (11) Parmar 54.5, 10. Shae (9) Shelar 53.5, 11. Slam Dunk (6) Zeeshan 53.5, 12. Untitled (10) Shubham 52, 13. Little More (14) Peter 49.5 and 14. Sparkling Glory (13) Ayyar 49.  1. KINNARA, 2. IMPERMANENCE, 3. LAGERTHA   RUNNING STAR PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 4.30: 1. Raffaello (7) Sandesh 60, 2. Fassbinder (5) Zervan 59, 3. Love Warrior (3) Neeraj 58.5, 4. Flaming Fire (4) Yash Narredu 58, 5. Tristar (8) Shelar 55.5, 6. Ciplad (9) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 7. Hyperdimensional (1) Parmar 54, 8. Sunlord (6) P.S. Chouhan 53.5 and 9. Midas Touch (2) Bhawani 52.  1. FLAMING FIRE, 2. RAFFAELLO, 3. CIPLAD   SECRET HALO PLATE (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 5.00: 1. Noble Lord (2) A. Imran Khan 61.5, 2. Waverunner (8) P. Vinod 61.5, 3. Bloomsbury (6) Aniket 60.5, 4. Demetrius (12) Zervan 60.5, 5. Emerald (10) Kirtish 60.5, 6. Rhythm Of Nature (1) Ayyar 60.5, 7. Thundering Spirit (11) Mosin 60.5, 8. Hellbent (4) Parmar 59.5, 9. Magical Journey (5) Bhawani 59, 10. Flower Power (14) Dashrath 55.5, 11. Airmax (9) Zeeshan 55, 12. Supreme Being (7) A. Prakash 53.5, 13. Spiritual Rock (13) Nadeem 52 and 14. Whispering Queen (3) Raghuveer 50.5.  1. EMERALD, 2. BLOOMSBURY, 3. HELLBENT   Day's Best: NORTHERN LIGHTS. Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/st-andrews-may-score-over-his-rivals/article38017355.ece
23 December 2021||Jaipur,||Prerak stars as Saurashtra makes last four||Saurashtra cruised to a seven-wicket win over Vidarbha in the quarterfinals of the Vijay Hazare Trophy thanks to disciplined efforts from its seam bowlers here on Wednesday. Electing to field, led by skipper Jaydev Unadkat, the Saurashtra pacers kept picking wickets and ran through the Vidarbha batting order easily to bowl them out for just 150. Late surge If not for Apoorv Wankhede’s late surge of 72 (69b, 5x4, 5x6), Vidarbha was staring at a possibility of being bowled out for less than 100. In its chase, despite losing three quick wickets, a 116-run unbroken stand between Prerak Mankad (77 n.o., 72b, 10x4, 2x6) and Arpit Vasavada (41 n.o., 66b, 6x4) ensured Saurashtra reached the target in under 30 overs to set up a semifinal clash against Tamil Nadu on Friday. Skipper Faiz Fazal held fort at one end and stitched a small partnership with Akshay Wadkar for the fourth wicket. Defending a paltry total, Vidarbha started promisingly with pacer Aditya Thakare removing the openers quickly. When Jackson fell, Saurashtra was in trouble at 35 for three before Mankad and Vasavada took charge. Vasavada started with three boundaries off Lalit Yadav through the off-side with beautiful drives and a late-cut. Soon Mankad joined the party, going after Lalit picking three boundaries in an over and attacking the spinners with ease to seal the chase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prerak-stars-as-saurashtra-makes-the-last-four/article38016998.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||HFC looks to ride momentum against SCEB||Hyderabad FC will aim to improve its position in the standings when it meets bottom-placed SC East Bengal in an ISL fixture at Bambolim on Thursday. The Hyderabad franchise has been a vastly improved side, maintaining an unbeaten streak of five matches. A victory against East Bengal will push Hyderabad, on 11 points from six matches, to the second spot behind defending champion Mumbai City FC (on 15 from seven). Hyderabad has done well, thanks to the balance it has maintained between attack and defence. Australian Joel Chianese and Nigerian Bartholomew Ogbeche have been quite incisive and instrumental in the team notching up three wins so far. Hyderabad has been solid defensively too, conceding just five goals in six games. “We will try to win, but we won’t see the opponents as being placed in the bottom. It is true that East Bengal is not in the best of form but the three draws it has got this season have come against teams in the top half of the table,” said Hyderabad coach Manuel Marquez. East Bengal, plagued by injuries, is on an 11-match winless streak (including the last four matches of the previous season). It will have to do something extraordinary to turn things around. “In the seven matches we have played, we conceded silly goals. “The decision-making has not been up to the mark,” said East Bengal coach Jose Manuel Diaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-fc-looks-to-ride-momentum-against-sceb/article38017178.ece
23 December 2021||Gobichettipalayam,||Gobi Arts to meet Kongu ASC||Host Gobi Arts and Science College scored a four-wicket win over Erode ASC in the semifinal of the Bharathiar University inter-collegiate D-Zone cricket tournament here on Wednesday. In the final, it will take on Kongu ASC which got the better of Sri Vasavi ASC by 165 runs.  The scores (semifinals): Erode ASC 80/9 in 20 overs (Dhayanithi 3/12) lost to Gobi ASC 82/6 in 10.3 overs .   Kongu ASC 249/6 in 20 overs (Dravid 76, Gokul 61, Meganadhan 43, Sathyamoorthi 3/30) bt Sri Vasavi Arts & Science College 84 in 19.4 overs (Gokul 3/9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gobi-arts-to-meet-kongu-asc/article38017062.ece
23 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Mascot, logo unveiled for Kerala Olympic Games||The mascot and logo for the inaugural Kerala Olympic Games were unveiled at a simple ceremony here on Wednesday. The mascot, christened as Neeraj, and the logo, both created by artist C. V. Jinan, was made public by Minister for Education and Labour V. Sivankutty in the presence of internationals, senior functionaries of the Kerala Olympic Association, office-bearers of sports associations and coaches. Sivankutty hoped that the Games would help Kerala sports to resurrect itself after all sporting activities had come to a grinding halt due to the pandemic. The initiative of the KOA needs to be lauded, he said, as efforts are also being made to district level Games are to be held prior to the State event. However, he cautioned, that the KOA should not rest on its laurels after the inaugural edition and should work hard to hold such Games at regular intervals. KOA president V. Sunil Kumar presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mascot-logo-unveiled-for-kerala-olympic-games/article38017230.ece
23 December 2021||Barcelona,||Barcelona holds Sevilla||Sevilla was held 1-1 at home by Barcelona in a match the hosts finished with 10 men after defender Jules Kounde was sent off with a direct red card for throwing the ball into an opponent's face. Papu Gómez put Sevilla ahead in the 32nd minute as steady rain fell upon the Sánchez Pijuán field. Ronald Araújo headed in Ousmane Dembele's corner kick to equalise for Barcelona just before halftime. The match was deadlocked in the 64th when Kounde lost his cool. After Barcelona defender Jordi Alba had twice bumped him in the back while disputing a ball going out of bounds, Kounde grabbed the ball and slung it into his face from close range. The referee did not hesitate to show him a red card. Juventus took advantage of Atalanta's goalless draw at Genoa with a 2-0 win over Cagliari which inched it closer to Serie A's Champions League places, as Salernitana's trip to Udinese became the season's first coronavirus-related casualty.  The results: LaLiga: Villarreal 5 (Gerard 18, 88, Dia 27, 76, Pino 79) bt Alaves 2 (Pons 44, Joselu 65); Sevilla 1 (Papu Gomez 32) drew with Barcelona 1 (Araujo 45).   Serie A: Genoa 0 drew with Atalanta 0; Juventus 2 (Kean 40, Bernardeschi 83) bt Cagliari 0; Udinese vs Salernitana abandoned (Salernitana did not travel after being blocked by health authorities due to COVID-19 cases in squad) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-holds-sevilla/article38016692.ece
23 December 2021||Melbourne,||Tiley ‘confident’ COVID-hit Nadal will play||Australian Open chief Craig Tiley said on Wednesday he was confident that Rafael Nadal will play in Melbourne despite testing positive for COVID-19, as fresh doubts emerged over Novak Djokovic. Spanish star Nadal said on Monday that he tested positive after returning home from an exhibition tournament in Abu Dhabi and was experiencing “some unpleasant moments”. While the 20-time Grand Slam champion said he was examining all his playing commitments, Tiley believes Nadal will be sufficiently recovered to chase his second Australian Open title in January. “I’m confident Rafa will be here,” the tournament director told reporters in Melbourne. “Players that are testing positive now will complete a period of time until they are no longer infectious and they’ll be fine.” World No. 1 Djokovic, who has won nine of his 20 Grand Slams at Melbourne Park, remains in serious doubt over his refusal to confirm if he has been vaccinated. Not guaranteed The 34-year-old has been named on the tournament entry list but his father Srdjan reportedly said his participation is still not guaranteed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tiley-confident-covid-hit-nadal-will-play/article38017366.ece
23 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Former DYES Director Anandan passes away||A.J. Anandan, IPS (Retd), former Director General of Police, Karnataka, and Director, Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports, passed away here on Wednesday. He was 84. Anandan, who joined the Indian Police Service in 1962, served two periods in the DYES, as director from 1978 to 1983 and as commissioner from 1993 to 1995. He was instrumental in establishing the first sports schools in Karnataka in Kudige (Kodagu) and Bengaluru in 1982 and also the Karnataka Sports Authority in 1995. He played a leading role in bringing the National Games to Karnataka in 1997. Anandan contributed significantly to policies that led to the establishment of playing fields and stadiums at the taluk and village levels and strived hard towards helping sportspersons access professional courses. Through special recruitment drives, he helped provide employment to more than 400 sportspersons in the police department. The Karnataka Olympic Association condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-dyes-director-anandan-passes-away/article38016946.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||GBSSS fights back to draw||Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Ghuman Hera, Delhi, fought back from being 1-4 down to score three goals in the final quarter for a 4-4 draw and shared points with St. Mary’s High School, Simdega, in a Pool A1 match of the quarterfinal league at the 38th Nehru sub-junior boys hockey tournament.  The results: DGNCC 2 (Pardeep, Raman) bt SHA, Jalandhar 0; St. Mary’s HS, Simdega 4 (Ankit Kerketta 2, Aman Samad 2) drew with GBSSS, Delhi 4 (Naman Sharma, Mohd. Jaeed, Harsh Phalswal, Nishant) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gbsss-fights-back-to-draw/article38017089.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Glittering performance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/glittering-performance/article38017367.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Glittering performance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/glittering-performance/article38017356.ece
23 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Srikanth back in top-10||Riding on a historic silver in the World Championships, India’s Kidambi Srikanth jumped four spots to regain his place in the world’s top-10 in the latest BWF rankings. The 28-year-old was rewarded for his final finish in Huelva as he grabbed the 10th spot. Lakshya Sen, who also clinched a maiden bronze at the Worlds, moved up two places to 17th, but B. Sai Praneeth slipped to the 18th spot. H.S. Prannoy improved six places to 26th. In women’s singles, P.V. Sindhu remained static at seventh, while Saina Nehwal is at the 25th place. The men’s doubles pair of Chirag Shetty and R. Satwiksairaj slipped one spot to 10th, while Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy regained their place in the top-20 of women’s doubles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikanth-back-in-top-10/article38016997.ece
23 December 2021||Paris,||Bencic, Jabeur positive||Olympic tennis champion Belinda Bencic and Tunisian Ons Jabeur have tested positive for COVID-19 after competing in the Abu Dhabi exhibition, both confirmed on Tuesday, a day after Rafael Nadal announced he had also tested positive. Former men’s World No. 1 Nadal’s Spanish coach Carlos Moya, 45, also announced on Tuesday he had tested positive on his return from Abu Dhabi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bencic-jabeur-positive/article38017373.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Glittering performance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/glittering-performance/article38017183.ece
23 December 2021||Seoul,||Riya Bhatia loses early||Riya Bhatia lost 6-0, 6-2 to Anastasia Kulikova of Finland in the first round of the $115,000 WTA tennis tournament here.   Other results: First round:   $15,000 ITF men, Doha, Qatar: Rishab Agarwal bt Aleksandre Bakshi (Geo) 0-6, 4-2 (retired). Doubles: Rishab Agarwal & Rishi Reddy bt Bogdan Ionut Apostol (Rou) & Martin Krumich (Cze) 4-6, 6-3, [10-4]; Adil Kalyanpur & Sasikumar Mukund bt Dragos Nicolae Madaras (Swe) & Marat Sharipov (Rus) 6-4, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Giza, Egypt: Yasmin Ezzat (Egy) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-4, 6-1. Doubles: Fatma Al Nabhani (Oma) & Jasmijn Gimbrere (Ned) bt Ya Yi Yang (Tpe) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-4, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-bhatia-loses-early/article38016598.ece
23 December 2021||London,||Archer has second surgery||Fast bowler Jofra Archer has undergone a second operation on his injured right elbow and will be sidelined until next summer, the England and Wales Cricket Board said on Tuesday. The England paceman, whose absence is being felt during the current Ashes series, had surgery on Dec. 11 in London. “The procedure addressed the long-standing stress fracture of his right elbow,” the ECB said in a statement. The 26-year-old Archer has not played at the highest level for nine months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-has-second-surgery/article38016599.ece
23 December 2021||DUBAI,||Labuschagne ranked No. 1||Indian captain Virat Kohli slipped one spot to seventh in the latest ICC rankings for Test batters even as Australia’s Marnus Labuschagne, riding on his prolific Ashes form, displaced England skipper Joe Root to become the new world No. 1. India’s Rohit Sharma remained static at fifth position. Among the bowlers, R. Ashwin is still in second place behind Australia skipper Pat Cummins. Kohli was earlier placed sixth and is now seventh with 756 points. In the player rankings for T20Is, Pakistan captain Babar Azam reclaimed the top spot in the list for batters after just one week of losing it. K.L. Rahul is best placed Indian at fifth position. There are no Indian bowlers in top-10 T20 list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/labuschagne-ranked-no-1/article38016690.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Time off||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/time-off/article38016704.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Srinivas and Harshini win 100m titles||MCC’s Nalu Bothu Shanmuga Srinivas (10.53s) and MOP Vaishnav’s Harshini Saravanan (11.75s) emerged the fastest in the AL Mudaliar athletics meet on Wednesday.  The results (winners only):   Men: 100m: Nalu Bothu Shanmuga Srinivas (MCC) 10.53s; 400m: K. Saran (The New College) 48.2; 10000m: M. Sathish Kumar (Loy) 33:26:75s; 20km walk: G. Sarathy (Loy) 1:55:42.27; Shot put: P. Surya Prakash (Loy) 15.32m.   Women: 100m: Harshini Saravanan (MOP Vaishnav) 11.75; 100mH: K. Nandhini (MOP) 14.61; 400m: K. Roshini (MOP) 58.9; 10000m: M. R. Mithra (Ethiraj) 42:20:38s; 5km walk: T. Brindha (Soka Ikeda) 32:24:01; Discus: M. Karunya (MOP) 43.85m; Javelin: N. Hemamalini (SDNB Vaishnav) 43.72; Shot put: B. Vaishnavi (Pachaiyappa’s, Chen) 10.90 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srinivas-and-harshini-win-100m-titles/article38016993.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Jangra scalps eight||Man of the match Mohit Jangra picked up eight wickets conceding just five runs as Airport Authority of India thrashed CWC by 10 wickets, winning in just 1.1 overs in the All India Public Sector tournament. In the day’s other match, Jyot Chhaya and Dhruv Shorey picked up three wickets each in Reserve Bank of India’s 10 wicket win against Coal India Limited.  The scores: CWC 26 in 9 overs (Mohit Jangra 8/5) lost to AAI 30/0 in 1.1 overs (Ajay Ohera 26 n.o.); CIL 86 in 14.3 overs (Sultan 26, Jyot Chhaya 3/16, Dhurv Shorey 3/29) lost to RBI 87/0 in 8.5 overs (Sumit Ghadlgavkar 40 n.o., Kuldeep Hooda 39 n.o.) .      Roshan Kumar Yadav top-scored with 71 as Aarbin Cricket Academy won by 4 wickets against West Delhi Cricket Academy in the Academy Cricket League u-16 tournament.  The scores: WDCA 203/9 in 40 overs (Sarthak Rawat 85 n.o.) lost to ACA 204/6 in 37.4 overs (Roshan Kumar Yadav 71, Suryansh Sharma 31 n.o., Ayush Yadav 4/19) .    Veer Aggarwal’s unbeaten 58 helped Turf Sultans beat UB Lions by eight wickets in the Turf junior cricket league u-11 tournament.  The scores:   UB Lions 103/6 in 20 overs (Vidant 36 n.o., Dev Muradia 3/7) lost to Turf Sultans 108/2 in 16.1 overs (Veer Agarwal 58 n.o.).   Century for Rudra Bidhuri  Rudra Bidhuri scored an unbeaten 153 as WCL Cricket Academy won by 36 runs against Madan Lal Cricket Academy in the 2nd Kanta Devi Memorial tournament.  The scores: WCLA 266/2 in 30 overs (Rudra Bidhuri 153 n.o.) bt MLCA 230/9 in 30 overs (Mayanshu Ranawat 63, Anikait Mishra 64, Uttkarsh Mishra 3/27) .   Naman, Arun score half-centuries  Half-centuries from Arun Rajora and Naman Tiwari helped Anand Sports Akshardham win by 25 runs against NSP-XI in the 1st DR Sharma Memorial tournament.  The scores: ASA 199 in 34.4 overs (Arun Rajora 66, Naman Tiwari 56, Rasheed Naseen 4/12) bt NSP-XI 174 in 39.3 overs (Yash Virat 57) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jangra-scalps-eight/article38017088.ece
23 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Visakhapatnam-I men, Krishna women are champions||Visakhapatnam-I men and Krishna women emerged champions in the S. Kodandaramaiah senior inter-district volleyball championships here on Wednesday. In the men’s final, Visakhapatnam-I bt West Godavari 21-17, 21-18 while Krishna women put it across SPSR Nellore 21-19, 9-21, 16-14. Andhra Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, P.V.G.R. Naidu, MLA and president of Visakhapatnam District Volleyball Association, gave away the prizes.  The results:   Men (final): Visakhapatnam-I bt West Godavari 21-17, 21-18. Third place: Visakhapatnam-II bt SPSR Nellore 21-19, 9-21, 16-14.   Women (final): Krishna bt East Godavari 13-21, 21-16, 15-11. Third place: West Godavari bt Visakhapatnam-I 21-17, 21-12 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/visakhapatnam-i-men-krishna-women-are-champions/article38017372.ece
23 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM:,||Karnataka takes first innings lead||Karnataka took a vital first innings lead of 28 runs against Mumbai on the third day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) four-day cricket championship Elite Group E match here on Wednesday. Resuming at 170 for two, Mumbai finished the first innings at 297 despite Musheer Khan (99, 260b, 14x4, 1x6) and Ved Prakash Jaiswal (74, 305b, 11x4) adding an unbroken 149 runs for the second wicket.  The scores: Karnataka 325 in 98.3 overs & 96/3 in 30 overs (Thippa Reddy 42 batting) vs Mumbai 297 in 135.4 overs (Musheer Khan 99, Ved Prakash Jaiswal 74, Rajvir Wadhwa 4/48).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-takes-first-innings-lead/article38017328.ece
23 December 2021||New Delhi,||Meet||Indian teenager Anahat Singh has won the prestigious Junior US Open Squash tournament in the U-15 girls' category in Philladelphia. The 13-year-old Delhi girl defeated Jayda Marei of Egypt 11-9, 11-5, 8-11, 11-5 in the final. In the semifinal, she beat US junior national champion Dixon Hill 11-8, 11-9, 11-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meet/article38017001.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Bondage of karma||Sastras state that karma or action always binds one to the cycle of birth. The jiva takes birth to exhaust his past karma and the omniscient Lord allots the fruits of karma to each jiva without any partiality. There is a verse in Virata Parva in the Mahabharata that describes how all of us reap what has been sowed in the past. If a person experiences the comforts of this world at a certain point of time for a certain length of period, it only means that sometime in the past his karma had been good and he is reaping the benefits at that point of time. Likewise, the converse is also true. If a person is in dire straits in this life, it is also the result of his past deeds. Anyway, it is clear that all worldly comforts earned through past karmas may seem attractive but are very temporary and unstable, pointed out Velukkudi Sri Krishnan in a discourse. Since sin leads to sorrow and virtue gives peace of mind and happiness, sastras advise moderation in all our habits in life. The feelings of joy or sorrow arise in the mind that constantly undergoes modifications. In the Gita, when Krishna describes Karma Yoga, He points out that generally people are involved in action to meet some immediate goal. But He quotes the example of Janaka and other kings who had ruled the kingdom and people in a dispassionate manner and attained mukti. Their aim is to inspire the path of engaging in action in a dispassionate way, without any selfish interest. By controlling the mind and the senses and by striving for ‘atma Paramatma awareness,’ one is sure to gain peace of mind. During our lifetime, we have the chance to improve our punya karma account by being sensitive to matters of right and wrong and exercise our sense of viveka and vairagya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/bondage-of-karma/article38016657.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 07:26 IST,||Sudoku — December 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-22-2021/article38017489.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Catch me if you can||Sporting an ear-to-ear smile, Anshu Bisht settles at his PC gaming station at home in Haldwani, Uttarakhand. He picks up his controller and puts on his headset as his livestream kicks off. Anshu, better known as GamerFleet, says into the mic — as the audience numbers tick upwards into the thousands — he has something special planned: a speedrun for the popular world-building game Minecraft. Speedrunning, as its name suggests, sees the playing of a video game, or a section of it, with the intent of completing it as fast as possible, be it for entertainment or competition. Geared towards the completionist among gamers, it has garnered quite a cult following over the past two decades. Speedrunning, done both in a solo environment or a more competitive e-sports space, can be done on a mobile device like a smartphone or a tablet, as well as the typical console and PC setups. Speedrun gaming picked up pace globally around two years ago amongst the Gen-Z and Gen-alpha communities after US-based Minecraft YouTuber Dream ventured into it. His most viewed speedrun video has more than 100 million views, and this is where Indian gamers, including Anshu, found a space for gaming content to grow in the last year. As Anshu kicks off his speedrun, he dashes through a pixellated forest, stopping here and there to build a couple of shelters to ward off some monsters in the night. In a stream of rushed Hindi, he shares his in-game coordinates with his audiences who may want to ‘meet’ up with him. Anshu, who broke a personal record of 40 minutes in mid-August for a Minecraft speedrun, shares he was inspired to start speedrunning after seeing international creators having a go. “Normally I complete Minecraft in 15 to 30 days, building everything with the best armour and resources. But when speedrunning, I only tend to make important upgrades. Anyone can play the game but only a few can speedrun a game within a limited time; it does require some practice and skill.” Head in the game Respected in India’s speedrun circles, Noida-based Rudraansh AKA TheRealCCV points out, “Speedrunning isn’t about direct competition like player-versus-player (PvP) games such as Dota, League of Legends, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive.” Popular speedrun games include nostalgic ones such as Super Mario 64 (1996) and Legend of Zelda (1998) which kicked off the movement, as well as recent next-gen releases such as Control (2020) and Resident Evil Village (2020); Minecraft, however, has stayed a go-to favourite for speedrun gamers over the years, peaking among Gen-Z and Gen-Alpha after iconic Minecraft YouTuber Dream ventured into it. Anshu’s YouTube channel GamerFleet is nearing 1.5 million subscribers. He chooses his speedrun games carefully, explaining, “The qualities I look at in video games that make it ideal for speedrunning are: the game should be interesting enough to play over and over again, the cinematics in between should be skippable, and there should be enough shortcuts to skip the grinding parts of the game.” Known for his outrageous comedy during his streams, Wales-based Pammi AKA Chapati Hindustani Gamer — whose YouTube channel has more than 7.2 million subscribers — has a strong connection with his Indian audiences, often playing Roblox and Minecraft. He advises new speedrunners, “Pick a game that you’re passionate about and that also challenges you and not irritate you. This will help you create more engaging content. Many pros finish Minecraft speedruns in under 30 minutes.” He sheepishly admits that the fastest he could complete Minecraft was in four hours about three months ago in August, adding, “Embarrassing, but I loved it!” The India status quo Speedrunning games — driven by high adrenalin — have created a niche and engaging community since the 1990s across the world. Large-scale worldwide events like Games Done Quick amass hundreds of thousands of viewers and have raked in millions of dollars for charity. However, Pranav claims the community is larger and more active in the West than in India, thanks to Twitch.  The online hub for all things to do with the gaming style, Speedrun.com has currently amassed a database of more than 2.5 million runs in more than 25,000 games from 9,24,944 users. The site has leaderboards, community moderation of games, marathons and schedules as well as helpful resources for other gamers. Keen to get more Indian games into speedruns, Rudraansh has been an organiser and a caster in the smaller-scale tri-monthly tournament Getting Over It Duos. He, along with four other people, organise the tournament. To date, the organisation has accumulated a prize pool of around $2,350 throughout the first four tournaments and registrations from over 63 India-based teams and counting. Rohit Naresh Jagarsia, founder and CEO, Revenant Esports speaks on the “lucrative” potential of this gaming category, “In India, there’s a big audience behind mobile titles which are multiplayer games that cannot be speedrun by the book. However, people generally speedrun games like Battlegrounds Mobile India, Call Of Duty Mobile and Free Fire by pushing ranks and competing with other leaderboard players. If pushing ranks and grinding leaderboards also counts as speedrunning a multiplayer game, then I think India has a massive appetite for this space within gaming.” It sure looks like the future is bright and monied for speedrunning in India. Mumbai-based Ronodeep Dasgupta — known for his YouTube channel The RawKnee Games that has more than 3.1 million subscribers — agrees, “The Internet has moved away from long-form content with Instagram Reels and YouTube Shorts, so a speedrun would be an interesting event to watch since it would take about 20 minutes. It might take between 40 and 45 minutes for games like Counter-Strike: Global Offensive and PUBG to finish. A speedrun might be the YouTube Shorts of esports.” In March, Ronodeep was elated to beat his Minecraft speedrun record in under 20 minutes. He elaborates, “The Indian speedrunning community is seeing steady growth on YouTube in the past year, but the actual potential of these games is yet to be explored in the country.” Looking forward to this growing content wave for gamers, Pammi sums it up, “There is a sense of thrill, drama, suspense, euphoria, and disappointment in speedrun gaming content. It is a complete entertainment package.”  Keep up with tech Over the last year, with next-generation consoles such as the Xbox Series X and S and the PlayStation 5 and more powerful PCs, speedrunning has been given a fresh spotlight so that gamers and developers can show off the experience of racing through a game. Pammi says that it is important to speedrun a game that has fast loading times. Pranav Panpalia, the founder of Delhi-based gaming influencer agency Opraahfx, explains, “The hardware, like the console, is created keeping heavy-duty gaming in mind. Few brands even involve pro-gamers to test their products before launching them to the larger public/audiences.” He also says there is an important software aspect to it; a few speedrun games come with some tech limitations; for example, a few Japanese versions of video games are a bit faster as they have less text and load faster. Therefore, gamers of that geography have an unfair advantage over others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/catch-me-if-you-can/article38016873.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Where everybody knows your name||Arjun Mohan has stories to tell — real life stories, of strangers in the city becoming best friends, of self-professed experts humbled by happy amateurs, of revelry and camaraderie. Having organised regular pub quizzes — among other things — in multiple cities for over a decade, he is a staunch witness to the community-building power a local pub can possess, should it choose to. In Chennai, he has been hosting the Thursday night pub quiz at Watson’s, T Nagar, since 2018. “I used to conduct them in Bangalore, and when I moved to Chennai, Watson’s gave me the go-ahead to do it here as well,” he says. And so, he has, for every Thursday barring flood or pandemic, with a community of quizzers that has only grown more faithful post-lockdown. Fraternities do not necessarily need to be built over food and drink, but it certainly does help. Which is why pubs, lounges and cafes like these are trying to build an identity that goes beyond their culinary offerings. As Jaffar Sadiq, manager of Watson’s Chennai, points out, “We want our identity to be more than just a food and drinks place. We have salsa nights on Mondays and karaoke on Wednesdays, besides quizzes and either local or visiting DJs on other nights. Each of these events draws a specific set of people, who keep coming back for it.” After the COVID-19 lockdowns, the crowds are back almost with a vengeance, making up for lost time and making new memories with renewed gutso. This is what Arjun calls a “post-pandemic shift”: while many participants earlier used to be people who moved to Chennai for work and were looking for new friends and activities, now it is predominantly the same people coming back to strengthen pre-existing bonds. This human connection is key, for more reasons than one. Take the city’s standup comics, for instance. Says comic Aaquib Jaleel, “While online shows during the pandemic have been good for networking and for ensuring that the art form survives, most comics — including me — have been constantly craving real facetime since the pandemic started.” The reasons are many, from picking up facial cues to getting spurred by the crowd’s audience — comedy, even as a solo act, is by its nature a two-way craft. In Chennai, one of the first spaces to restart comedy open mics after lockdown was Burgerman. Navneeth S, founder of Aragora Comedy that conducts these events, is grateful: “They do more than just give us a space to stand and perform. They have been publicising our LOLing Tuesday events consistently on social media; they follow up with us if the schedule falls through; they do not mind if on some days, we have an audience of just four people.” While this looks like progress, there is plenty more to be done. Srikanth Natarajan of The Chennai Scene, who organises, publicises and supports independent artistes in the city, is torn between the sheer relief of seeing his friends back on stage, and wanting more. “While there are a number of pubs who let people perform, only a few invest in making sure a gig goes well, with a proper stage, lighting and equipment. Chennai has very few venues dedicated to music performances, where talent can actually thrive and grow. But through the unlock, and with our feedback and needs in mind, places like Black Orchid are slowly coming to save us.” Eco-friendly buddies As the city’s events calendar inches towards normalcy and more diners start to step out, Cafe28 in RA Puram bears witness to old friends meeting new ones every day — planning upcycled wardrobes, swapping lunch recipes and discussing vegan products. True to the ethos of Earth Story, Dhaval’s long-running eco friendly store in Adyar, Cafe28 intends to give a leg-up to vegan food startups of the city. The counters are currently taken up by six city food brands including Aakaariya and Co, Lyfe by Soul Garden Bistro, Eat With Lilly and Green Mowgli. Between them, the food entrepreneurs offer everything from gelatos to vegan kheema pav and a host of gourmet burgers, with mock meats and vegetable options. There is also a clothes-swap area, a gelato counter and a simple table that can seat up to six or eight people at a time. Needless to say, the city’s vegan community has begun to throng — not only because of their loyalty to Earth Story’s products and eco-conscious markets, but also because of the events conducted at Cafe28. Other lounges in the city, too, have been doubling up as a platform for the city’s music or standup comedy circles, either by hosting regular sets of established talent, or open mics for new folk, one way or another helping build and foster fraternities. One of Arjun’s fondest memories is of “a table of grey-haired ladies, sitting back with cosmopolitans, absolutely destroying intense teams who were used to quizzing on competitive levels. They were very quick with the tricky music questions. They were laughing.” Aaquib’s words about standup can also be applied to other fraternities: “It is nice to see that the scene did not disintegrate completely during the pandemic. Having people come together and help us set up a community again, is great to see.”   While many participants earlier used to be people who moved to Chennai for work and were looking for new friends and activities, now it is largely the same people coming back to strengthen pre-existing bonds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/where-everybody-knows-your-name/article38016876.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Raw appeal||Vasanth Ravi, the bearded man with intense eyes, won appreciation for his performance in Taramani . The 33-year-old, whose roots are in Tirunelveli, holds an MBBS degree and a Masters in Healthcare Management. His second film Rocky , presented by actor Nayanthara and director Vignesh Shivan, features film maker Bharathiraja and Rohini among the cast. It is set to hit screens today. Excerpts from a phone interview with the actor: From the trailer, Rocky seems to be an intense drama. What drew you to the script? lIt is very close to my heart. After Taramani , I was looking for something really different, and Rocky ’s story was the best among the ones I listened to. I fell in love with the screenplay, and felt that this had to be my second film. I signed other projects only after Rocky was frozen. I hoped it would have a theatrical release and it is finally happening. I want the audience to enjoy the cinematic experience it has to offer. It is an action drama, bundled with lots of emotions. It feels like a European action drama from the way it is shot and presented. Both of your films have seen their share of delays... lI have been patient all these years. This is the reason I have been able to survive in this industry. Taramani was a long process; we started shoot in December 2013 and the film released in August 2017. Rocky ’s shoot started in mid-2018 and it is releasing now. Looking back, I have done only two films from 2014 till date. But I have the confidence that I have done good work. This faith keeps me going. What did you do to keep the actor in you engaged during these intermittent years? lI kept myself motivated; I observed people around me, which is important for an actor. I enjoy solitude and spent time at Tiruvannamalai and Auroville. How was it working with an experienced director such as Ram and then with Arun Matheswaran, a debutant? lWith Ram sir, everything happens on the spot. You go to the set with an idea of a scene, but it develops there. There is no script book... the film just evolves on the set. Working with him was raw. Arun was the dialogue writer for Irudhi Suttru and comes from director Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s school of thought, and is well-planned. We knew about how many shots we will take on which day, as everything was designed in advance. What next? lI’ve signed three projects; there are light-hearted, romantic films as well as dark subjects. Next year looks interesting as there will be no gap, and films will be continuously rolling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/raw-appeal/article38016856.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The minimalist with maximum effect||Renowned architect Laurie Baker’s underlying principle was to give everyone a place to live. “He never thought about creating architectural wonders, making an extravagant statement to the world with his architecture or putting his signature on the building. He always believed that the building should be the reflection of a person living in it and not the architecture,” says Sandhya Kannan, the curator of the exhibition titled Laurie Baker: A tribute to the architect of DakshinaChitra. The exhibition that is on till January 30 is a tribute to Baker who designed and created the museum at DakshinaChitra. It reflects upon the simplistic and minimalistic designs of the architect. Sandhya mentions an instance from Baker’s life where a man with a 15-member family wanted a house built with a budget of Rs. 10,000, which Baker did. “We are trying to show different aspects of Baker’s personality. Ideas such as being eco-friendly, sustainable and down to earth. In the exhibit, we will be displaying artifacts such as Baker’s construction plans, letters, photographs and short books that he wrote on brick work, using mud. There will also be resultant documents of surveys taken by DakshinaChitra on the vernacular architecture in the country,” she says. Baker primarily used mud and bricks in his construction, something that is found off the soil, and within a few miles of the construction site. He believed that it was not necessary to go too far and wide to procure materials in order to build a house. His architecture in Kerala is an example of this. He used materials such as jackfruit tree wood and laterite soil to build houses, which his student Benny Kuriakose later went on to popularise. Kuriakose too contributed towards the Kerala section of DakshinaChitra. “Why spend a fortune on non eco-friendly building material when you can spend a lot less on eco-friendly material that’s found in Nature in abundance,” says Sandhya shedding light on Baker’s eco-friendly mindset. Baker also had an objective to change the way people approached accommodation in non-sustainable and impractical ways which consisted of grand looking buildings and grandiose architecture.  The exhibition is on between 10am and 5pm at Varija Art Gallery, DakshinaChitra Museum.   For details log on to www.dakshinachitra.net or call: 27472603.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-minimalist-with-maximum-effect/article38016907.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A thing called love||Shashaa Tirupati delves deep into personal experiences for her independent music. The inspiration for her upcoming debut EP came from her frame of mind during the pandemic. Titled I’m sorry, Heart , the entire EP was put together during the months following the COVID-19 outbreak, when Shashaa was visiting her father in Canada. “I was going through this phase when I was smitten by somebody, and that kind of led to this. I randomly put together some lyrics that go along with the sentiment, and recorded and sent it to guitarist Keba Jeremiah, who loved it,” recalls Mumbai-based Shashaa, currently in Chennai for a couple of film song recordings. Over the span of two months, Shashaa and Keba got to work, putting the melody and soundwork together. They recorded the songs and shot the video in March this year. The first, titled ‘In My Skin’, will be released in the first week of January. “There’ll be a release every month after that.”  I’m sorry, Heart will chronicle four stages of a relationship — the first meeting, falling in love, the first argument and finally, parting ways. “The catch is that none of this really happens. It’s in the mind of a girl who has lived an entire relationship with someone she knows she has no future with,” Shashaa explains. Considering the mood the songs were set in, she ensured her ‘imperfections’ were on display while recording. “Even the song about falling in love, which is a beautiful feeling, has some latent pathos. As it is so intimate, you’ll hear the cracks and flaws in my voice, and the slides in the guitar (by Keba Jeremiah). It’s literally me pouring my heart out.” Shashaa has been working through the pandemic; she recorded about 40 songs for composers, apart from working on her own music. She also conducted live sessions online called Friday Knights, where she held long conversations with real-life heroes. But, of course, music was what kept her going. “Post the pandemic phase, musicians and audiences have become very welcoming about collaborations,” says Shashaa, whose most recent film song features in AR Rahman’s Atrangi Re , the Dhanush-starrer releasing this week.  Even the song about falling in love, which is a beautiful feeling, has some latent pathos Shashaa Tirupati||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-thing-called-love/article38016878.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Gather around the casuarina tree||Beyond the clink of wine glasses, aroma of fruit cake, and the bauble-heavy trees sitting pretty in living room corners, Christmas in most Indian cities has a distinctive regional character from shared community meals to carols steeped in folklore. These smaller celebrations, which are far from the urban experience, capture the spirit of the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/gather-around-the-casuarina-tree/article38016923.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||On a separate track||“Do not play cinema songs. Play the keerthanais that you were taught first before attempting other things,” Rajhesh Vaidhya’s father used to tell him when he was a child, trying to master the nuances of the veena. Whenever his father stepped out, a young Rajhesh would try playing a film number. “My first attempt was Ilaiyaraaja’s ‘Pani Vizhum’ ( Ninaivellam Nithya ). I was so obsessed with that tune that I would long for the few minutes when my dad was not around, to try and play that number,” beams Rajhesh, as he narrates this anecdote at his Ashok Nagar residence. That fascination continues till date. Today, Rajhesh is the go-to veena player for leading music composers. Apart from his multiple live concerts in the December music season, he is currently thrilled about two things: completing a thousand episodes of his popular Do You Have A Minute series on social media, and turning music composer for a Tamil film. The series kickstarted on March 24, 2019, when the musician thought about playing audience requests — in a short, snappy format. “In my live concerts, I used to take a lot of requests and this was planned as an extension of that. The plan was to film about 40-50 videos,” he reveals. Mixed bag of melodies  But the response was overwhelming. Requests for him to play both popular and underrated songs kept pouring in, and Rajhesh kept filming every day. He completed 1,000 posts recently with a fast rendition of ‘Vetri Kodi Kattu’ from Rajinikanth’s Padayappa . The time that audiences had during lockdowns helped these short one-minute videos gain traction. “The veena still holds sway among audiences,” he says, citing Anirudh’s recent Western-classical fusion ‘So Baby’ track from Doctor in which he played the instrument. Rajhesh has also played for Ilaiyaraaja and Yuvan Shankar Raja in their forthcoming film projects. The year 2022 promises to be special for the musician, for he will soon debut as a composer in upcoming Tamil film, Shot Boot 3 , directed by Arun Vaidyanathan. “It’ll be a happy kids-based film that hopes to spread a lot of love and positivity. My music will have a variety of genres, to suit the needs of the subject.” Currently, Rajhesh has taken a short break from his Do You Have A Minute series, but promises to return in the New Year with more vigour and fresh songs. Apart from some new collaborations, Rajhesh is also working on a unique veena-based four-minute single. “It will not feature keyboards or percussion; whatever you hear will be the sound of the veena playing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-a-separate-track/article38016884.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow the trail||A colony of ants is frozen in motion. They seem to trudge across a wall and around what appears to be three golden domes and work together, typical of their behaviour. But here, they are made of copper and brass. National Award-winning artist Maria Antony Raj’s sculpture, titled Ants, says volumes about his preoccupation with natural phenomena that inspire human behaviour. Ants and his other sculptures that have been in the making for the last 15 years, now stand in DakshinaChitra Museum’s Kadambari Art Gallery for public viewing. The artist, who resides and works from Cholamandal Artists’ Village, is a man of very few words. But his work speaks for itself. A sense of fragility emanates from his sculptures that look closely at animal behaviour, that is often, unknowingly, mimicked by mankind. His fascination for anthills is what inspired him first to conjure up figures that resembled the shape, but comprising varying elements. “The ant has always been seen as a social role model to humans. From folk tales and proverbs to moral stories, the ant is portrayed as hardworking, honest and cooperative. Though small, the ant has succeeded,” says Maria. The way in which ants share food and work in union, is another metaphor that often presents itself in his work. On the other hand, his series titled Butterfly features delicate, visual takes on how birds and insects interact with the magarantham (pollen) in flowers. Entirely made with brass, copper sheets and wires, these are also mobile sculptures that Maria says “have just the right, subtle movement, but have not lost their form in the space.” Of late, the artist has been engaging a lot with mobile sculptures. “When the sculpture is kept at a fixed place, it seems to be still and aloof. I always think of ways to make it more communicative,” says Maria. Butterfly etches out an oft-seen scene at the park, of butterflies in pursuit of a flower to comfortably settle on. While the petals are done in brass sheets, the anther and pollen are made of copper wires. He says his “deep approach” towards such simple occurrences is what lends itself to a sculpture. And why does he stick to such themes? “Globalisation and the current struggle to retain cultural values, leads me to keep it simple.”  Butterfly is on display at DakshinaChitra Museum’s Kadambari Art Gallery till January 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/follow-the-trail/article38016887.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Comeback mode||After GM Sundar was signed on to play a gangster in Nalan Kumarasamy’s Kadhalum Kadanthu Pogum , Vijay Sethupathi had an interesting idea for him. Having watched Sivaji Ganesan’s Thiruvilayadal the previous night, Sethupathi wondered if Sundar could impersonate the thespian’s walk in the film. Both Nalan and Sethupathi insisted that Sundar watch the film in order to get the body language right, but the latter was adamant on going directly for the take. For, this was what Sundar had been doing since he was 13. Life for Sundar came a full circle at that moment, when he mimicked Sivaji’s walk. It had taken 20 years for his professional career to take off; he was “waiting for someone to tie a bell around this cat’s neck”. GM Sundar graduated from the then Adyar Film Institute, Chennai where he studied acting alongside actors Nassar and Archana. Here, he learnt the theoretical aspects of acting and began to study trained method actors such as Marlon Brando. His exposure to world cinema and having watched the work of international filmmakers such as Jean-Luc Godard, Akira Kurosawa and Federico Fellini helped him sharpen his craft. “But the irony is, when I started to act in the ‘80s, I couldn’t apply any of the things I learnt from these masters,” says Sundar, at his Besant Nagar office. Sundar has a fair point. Even though he has been active since the ‘80s, he has mostly acted in forgettable films. His most notable works from that era are K Balachander’s Punnagai Mannan and Kamal Haasan-starrer Sathya . When he did not get the desired roles he hoped for, Sundar switched to theatre and became one of the lead actors in drama school Koothupattarai. “Just because I didn’t get films at that point of time, I didn’t lose hope. You can call that period a hiatus but I was only doing my homework as an actor,” he says. Long road Though he would fall into depression, Sundar says he could afford to stay in the business of acting because of his privileged background. “But the passion was killing me,” he says, “I was just waiting for a forum where I could apply what I had learnt. It required a lot of mental perseverance.” But the wait did not go to waste. People began to recognise Sundar again after Kadhalum Kadanthu Pogum ; he has now been getting author-backed characters to play. The lesson he learnt in due course is saying ‘no’. “Today’s ‘bro culture’ directors understand the importance of etching out characters and the need to give something different to the audience.” Sundar’s performance in films such as Magamuni and Mandela stood out. Then came Pa Ranjith’s Sarpatta Parambarai , in which he played Duraikannu Vaathiyar who goes against Rangan Vaathiyar, played by Pasupathy, Sundar’s junior at Koothupattarai. The rousing boxing drama became such a huge hit that Sundar’s character turned into a meme fest online. “Even though Ranjith is the creator of Sarpatta …, it is the actor who recreates it on the set.” In fact, it was Ranjith who recommended Sundar for Writer , which releases this Friday. Playing the role of a lawyer, Sundar says the film is about RTI and will spark the kind of reaction Jai Bhim created. Sundar says he was able to survive in the industry because he is also a businessman, a luxury most people cannot afford. “I have to run my family too. It’s ultimately a balancing act,” he adds. By sharing his side of the story, Sundar says he wants to inspire the young generation and wants them to not lose hope. “I have had a rollercoaster of a career. With each film I get now, I am sowing seeds. Because, I have realised that my next offer depends on my previous performance.”  What’s next? Sundar will be next seen in Ajith Kumar-starrer Valimai . He will also play an important role in Karthi’s Viruman , directed by Muthiah. In addition to this, Sundar has signed an anthology with independent filmmaker Vijay Jayapal and has a web series coming out. “I am not saying that I want to be a jack of all trades, but I just want to make my presence felt across mediums.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/comeback-mode/article38016852.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Mirroring worlds||Choi Ji Young’s translucent canvases of people walking up an alleyway and waiting for the subway leads this vast display. Click, zoom and scroll through adjacent walls to find surrounding works spanning mediums: from Korean rice paper to fabric and thread on canvas, there is a lot to see. In a virtual, pristine white, cursor-enabled “navigable” box, stand 22 such works — 11 from India, and 11 from Korea — by young, emerging artists. After a pandemic-induced break last year, this collaborative art show by InKo Centre in association with the Indian Art Museum in Seoul, titled Emerging Canvas is back for its seventh edition. Curated by Cupid Lee from Seoul and Vaishnavi Ramanathan from Chennai, the show had over 50 artists send in their portfolios. From this, 11 each were selected for the final display. The show that focusses on artists working with two-dimensional media (painting, drawing, printmaking and so on), attempts to identify talent that is yet to find a formal platform in the art world. There is no definitive running theme that ties the works together. But the spotlight was trained on “hopeful works” that look back on daily life lost because of the pandemic, or the dream of a bright future in an uneasy reality, says Cupid who curated the Korean section of the display. Vaishnavi, who curated the Indian section of the exhibit, adds, “Both of us focussed on young emerging talent while taking into consideration the larger social, political and artistic backdrop against which they work.” The possibility of refreshing ideas is what Cupid was specifically looking for: “Art is always craving a fresh start,” she adds. The collection is a mix of abstract, realist and surreal works. Gimesoo’s Forgotten World 1 catches attention with its dark blue and green tones, depicting a beautiful street view veiled in the night. A few canvases away is V Saranraj’s Oppari Singers’ Portraits — realistic etchings on the musical instrument,parai. Whereas Sagar Naik Mule’s Mind Of My Father is an unusual portrait that uses river mud, red soil, fish scales, dry mushrooms and pen on paper as mediums. “Saranraj from Tamil Nadu captured my attention for the way he engages with the people he portrays in his work. I was also impressed by the way he uses materials and techniques that organically emerge from the life of the people he portrays, to convey a broader vision of humanity,” says Vaishnavi. Vishwanath Kuttum on the other hand connects present day incidents, both from everyday life and larger socio-political events, with his childhood in the Andaman Islands in his work. And, Bang Gyu Tae, an artist who overcame developmental disorders as a child, paints his world with simple yet bright colours on canvas. How did a completely virtual display affect the show’s curation? Cupid says that high definition photos are used for the show — “So you can check the details of works that cannot be seen with the naked eye. The virtual art museum lets you appreciate works without being restricted by time and region.” In a physical show one has to be mindful of whether the works can be transported easily or accommodated within the given space. “In an online show, there is considerable freedom with regard to these aspects,” Vaishnavi adds.  On display till January 7, at www.inkocentre.org/Virtual_Connect_   Infotainment.html   The spotlight was trained on “hopeful works” that look back on daily life lost because of the pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mirroring-worlds/article38016916.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A rugged hero and his scar return||Jack Reacher enters a town in the middle of nowhere. A woman is looking for her twin brother and there is a dirty bomb to diffuse. Better Off Dead (published by Penguin Random House) is the latest book in a series of thrillers detailing the adventures of an ex-military policeman who solves problems and gets rid of bad guys. Reacher, who was 36 in the first book, Killing Floor (1997), would be getting on in years now. “Early on in the series, I was scrupulous about making him a year older,” says author Lee Child (67) on a video call from Colorado, US. “There are 26 books now so technically, Reacher probably should have a walking stick by now. We do not mention the age anymore, and it seems to work well.” Lee’s brother, Andrew (53), who has been co-authoring the books since last year’s The Sentinel , chimes in from Wyoming, “We have to decide what kind of stories we want to tell based on what we think people want to read. They do not want to read about a geriatric guy staggering about with a walking stick”. (laughs)  Reacher is two things in one, Lee says. “He is an individual and a symbol, of the mysterious stranger, or the knight errant. We have got to make him up to date at the same time reminding people that this is a mythic figure that goes back thousands of years.” The collaboration the second time around has been easier, Lee says. “  I wanted to take advantage of Andrew coming on board, to make Reacher a little more modern in terms of technology. I am old fashioned and therefore so was Reacher. He only just discovered texting a few books ago. I said to Andrew, we have got to push Reacher forward a little bit in terms of technology. That gave us a narrower field to work in. We did not have any restrictions on Better Off Dead . That freedom made it an absolute blast.”  Better Off Dead begins with a James Bond kind of pre-credit sequence which ends with Reacher on a slab in the morgue. “When we started the book, most of our discussions were about the tone of the book. I had the idea for what ended up being the second scene, with a single tree, amongst these hundreds of miles of barren landscape and a crashed Jeep.” Andrew then thought there is a better way to do it. “I thought the only thing to do is to put it down on paper, and send it to Lee.” Big brother loved the idea and called it a killer opening.  In Better Off Dead , like all other Reacher books, the antagonist, Dendoncker, is particularly nasty. “There is a temptation to make the villain worse and worse,” says Lee. “What we try and do is the opposite of that. We worked hard to make the villain human and plausible, certainly nasty, but an identifiable type of person.” The key word is personal, says Andrew. “ In order to connect with the reader, you have to have that personal sense of repulsion, something that is going to engage you on an individual level.” Scar tissue The blast in Beirut that gave Reacher his scar makes an appearance in the book. “It is to remind people of his long and troubled history,” says Lee. “The scar was first mentioned in the second book, Die Trying , which is now 24 books ago.” Andrew says it works on two levels. “If it is the first Reacher book you pick up, you would find out about the scar and that is all you need to know. If you are a long-term Reacher fan, then it is like a reward, an Easter egg. It was personal to Reacher because he was injured and carries the scar. People around him were killed. It is not something that you could possibly walk away from.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-rugged-hero-and-his-scar-return/article38016913.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from the memory palace||At a time when the Tamil literary space rang with few voices of women, writer Sivasankari made her mark with novels and short stories on subjects that most hesitated to take on, such as alcoholism, homosexuality, adoption and surrogacy. To that repertoire, she has now added her memoir — Suryavamsam . Penned in Tamil, it has been translated into English by journalist Chitradeepa Anantharam. For long, the writer was urged by her long-time assistant, Lalitha, that she write her biography. Sivasankari hesitated as “It would involve having to tear the masks off several people, hurt several people,” because a biography is in its nature, a brutally honest document. Lalitha told her then to write her memoirs instead, where she could choose what to recall. In an unforeseen play of events, Lalitha passed away from cancer. For years, they had worked together and so after this, Sivasankari decided to stop writing. At this point, Meenakshi, the editor of Rani magazine, approached her and offered to type out the chapters. And that is how the memoirs took shape — Sivasankari dictating two chapters at a time and Meenakshi typing them out. “When I spoke about the passing of my father, of how I had to put my pet dog Shyama to sleep, of how my husband died, I would cry, and watching me, Meenakshi would cry too,” Sivasankari says, recalling the emotionally-charged walk down memory lane. Of course, all memories were not so punishing: The book engages with her childhood, playful teen years, the blossoming of a tender love, wedding, friendship with famous personalities like late Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, J Jayalalithaa, and much more in a style that weaves skilfully back and forth in time, spiralling back to fond memories, with the practised ease of a great storyteller. To a different beat “I learnt Bharatanatyam from the great guru KJ Sarasa. She would come home and teach my cousin, Shanthasankari, and me for two hours at a stretch, three times a week. My passion was dancing and I never dreamt I would become a writer,” she says. She wanted to become a world-class dancer, but her keen insight took her on a literary treasure hunt. One day in 1968, five years into her marriage, she was very disturbed by an incident; she sat down and started writing about it. It found voice as a short story on being childless — Avargal Pesattum (Let them talk) — which she sent to Kalki magazine, and there had her first acceptance. “I was welcomed from the very start. No magazine ever rejected what I wrote. This is just a fact, I am not saying it out of pride,” she says in her own measured way, when asked about the challenges in entering the literary world. The book outlines her path as a writer and her own metamorphosis — a shift in writing from matters centred around the personal to those of general concern. This document captures 70 years of life in Madras, now Chennai— memories of a city that has transformed many times over the years, its famous people, its ways and means — like an insect trapped in amber. “No one’s life is full of rose petals,” she says, when asked what she wishes to convey through the memoir. “There are many stones and thorns everywhere. We have to know how to face life and move on. My life has been full of blessings, but there have been many losses too. I could have cried about this, but I did not. When people put down Suryavamsam , I want them to feel more positive, accept life and move on.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/notes-from-the-memory-palace/article38016910.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The wind beneath her wings||“I was frozen,” laughs P Kamali, recalling the moment she stood on the podium, waiting to receive her silver medal. The 12-year-old from the seaside town of Mamallapuram won the medal at the 59th National Roller Skating Championship held in Mohali, Punjab, from December 11 to 22. “The ceremony took place at 9pm and it was extremely cold,” she says, adding that on top of that, she felt shivers run through her body owing to the weight of the moment. “I was really happy that day,” says Kamali. Kamali is among Mamallapuram’s star skaters. She started skateboarding when she was five years old. “She did not have professional training; her training came from observing fellow skaters and travellers from abroad who visited our village,” says P Suganthi, Kamali’s mother. When her daughter was selected for the Nationals, Suganthi decided to take her to the championship herself. “This is the first time we travelled this far together,” says the 36-year-old. “The weather was a shocker for us, so was the food,” she adds, laughing: “We had chapatis three times a day, that too with curd and butter. It was quite different for us since we are used to rice and meen kozhambu .” Suganthi and Kamali reached the venue four days ahead of the event. “This was so that she can practise on the ramp there. She does not have a good one to skate on at Mamallapuram,” explains Suganthi. Kamali says she did not expect to win. “I participated to simply try my hand at the Nationals. It was a chance for me to train on good ramps,” she says. The success in Mohali has earned her a place at the Asian Roller Sports Championships. “She is the only girl from Tamil Nadu among four others who got selected,” says Suganthi. Suganthi’s life is not free of hardship. “In my younger years, I was not able to do anything I wanted. Which is why I want my daughter to achieve her dreams. I will take her wherever she wishes to go; be her rock-solid support,” she says. “In fact, we went to Mohali to understand what it takes to be part of such a big sporting event. It was our first lesson, one that will hopefully teach us how to strike gold the next time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-wind-beneath-her-wings/article38016881.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahul Sankrityan: ‘Byomkesh Bakshi’ to Guru Dutt, the references for Nani and Sai Pallavi’s ‘Shyam Singha Roy’||Yesteryear actor Uttam Kumar’s hairstyle, director Guru Dutt’s thin moustache, gelled curly locks and sparkling gaze, Satyajit Ray’s body language, and Kamal Haasan’s cuffs in Nayakan were among the several reference points for creating actor Nani’s look for the titular character in Telugu film Shyam Singha Roy . Director Rahul Sankrityan has been fascinated by the arts, cinema and culture of Bengal and when a story that takes place substantially in Bengal was pitched to him by writer Satyadev Janga, he perked up. “I loved the initial story and we built on it,” says Rahul. The film, releasing tomorrow, has a story that unfolds in two timelines — a contemporary space inhabited by new-age filmmaker Vasu (Nani), Krithi Shetty, Madonna Sebastian, Leela Samson and others, and that of Shyam Singha Roy and Sai Pallavi’s character in the Bengal of 1969-70. Rahul says, “A lot of detailing went into creating Vasu’s world which in turn connects him with Shyam’s world.” The Bengal portions are a throwback to 1969 and 1970, a period that Rahul refers to as an “interesting time in India and Bengal”. References from the lives of Rabindranath Tagore and Raja Ram Mohan Roy were used to develop the character of Shyam, a communist writer. “Both Tagore and Roy were social reformers who hailed from the upper class and rebelled against regressive practices.” The story also talks about the devadasi tradition, featuring Sai Pallavi in that scenario. “This story talks about how women bore the brunt of superstitious and exploitative practices.” To create the period Bengal setting, Rahul and the production design team led by Avinash Kolla referenced Bengal literature and cinema, particularly Byomkesh Bakshi . Striking a balance between Bengali and Telugu lines posed a challenge. What came in handy was the learning that Telugu is recognised as an official language in West Bengal. “During Independence, several people from Srikakulam moved to Bengal to work in the Railways. Today, there are several pockets in Bengal where Telugu-speaking people form 40% to 50% of the voting population.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rahul-sankrityan-byomkesh-bakshi-to-guru-dutt-the-references-for-nani-and-sai-pallavis-shyam-singha-roy/article38016861.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The rummy thing about Christmas cake||Traditional bakeries in Chennai that have been around for decades, tell their story through recipes that have stood the test of time, changing tastes, and a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-rummy-thing-about-christmas-cake/article38016901.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The right step||Regina Cassandra will be playing the role of dancer Mrinalini Sarabhai in SonyLIV’s show Rocket Boys . This will be her first Hindi OTT release. In a statement, she says, “Dancers have a certain body language, and it was a challenge to get it right. Mrinalini ji was a very dignified lady who was not prone to any dramatics, no matter what storm she was facing in her private life.” Rocket Boys, which also features Jim Sarbh and Ishwak Singh in lead roles, has been directed by Abhay Pannu and produced by Siddharth Roy Kapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-right-step/article38016854.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dhanush wants to play Rajinikanth||Koffee with Karan is back! Well, not quite. But a version of it, with a special Koffee Shots With Karan episode featuring Atrangi Re stars Dhanush and Sara Ali Khan, and of course, host Karan Johar. Karan begins the show by praising Dhanush for his National Award-winning performance in Asuran , and then the conversation moves on to the making of Atrangi Re , director Aanand L Rai, and even what Sara feels about the age gap between her and her male co-stars Dhanush and Akshay Kumar. In the rapid fire session that followed, Dhanush revealed that he would like to play his father-in-law Rajinikanth in the Superstar’s biopic, and also star in that of music legend Ilaiyaraaja’s! He also revealed he would like to remake his 2007 Tamil hit film Polladhavan , directed by Vetrimaaran, in Hindi, if given the chance. Dhanush’s Atrangi Re is scheduled for a premiere on Disney+ Hotstar on December 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dhanush-wants-to-play-rajinikanth/article38016858.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from the memory palace||At a time when the Tamil literary space rang with few voices of women, writer Sivasankari made her mark with novels and short stories on subjects that most hesitated to take on, such as alcoholism, homosexuality, adoption and surrogacy. To that repertoire, she has now added her memoir — Suryavamsam . Penned in Tamil, it has been translated into English by journalist Chitradeepa Anantharam. For long, the writer was urged by her long-time assistant, Lalitha, that she write her biography. Sivasankari hesitated as “It would involve having to tear the masks off several people, hurt several people,” because a biography is in its nature, a brutally honest document. Lalitha told her then to write her memoirs instead, where she could choose what to recall. In an unforeseen play of events, Lalitha passed away from cancer. For years, they had worked together and so after this, Sivasankari decided to stop writing. At this point, Meenakshi, the editor of Rani magazine, approached her and offered to type out the chapters. And that is how the memoirs took shape — Sivasankari dictating two chapters at a time and Meenakshi typing them out. “When I spoke about the passing of my father, of how I had to put my pet dog Shyama to sleep, of how my husband died, I would cry, and watching me, Meenakshi would cry too,” Sivasankari says, recalling the emotionally-charged walk down memory lane. Of course, all memories were not so punishing: The book engages with her childhood, playful teen years, the blossoming of a tender love, wedding, friendship with famous personalities like late Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, J Jayalalithaa, and much more in a style that weaves skilfully back and forth in time, spiralling back to fond memories, with the practised ease of a great storyteller. To a different beat “I learnt Bharatanatyam from the great guru KJ Sarasa. She would come home and teach my cousin, Shanthasankari, and me for two hours at a stretch, three times a week. My passion was dancing and I never dreamt I would become a writer,” she says. She wanted to become a world-class dancer, but her keen insight took her on a literary treasure hunt. One day in 1968, five years into her marriage, she was very disturbed by an incident; she sat down and started writing about it. It found voice as a short story on being childless — Avargal Pesattum (Let them talk) — which she sent to Kalki magazine, and there had her first acceptance. “I was welcomed from the very start. No magazine ever rejected what I wrote. This is just a fact, I am not saying it out of pride,” she says in her own measured way, when asked about the challenges in entering the literary world. The book outlines her path as a writer and her own metamorphosis — a shift in writing from matters centred around the personal to those of general concern. This document captures 70 years of life in Madras, now Chennai— memories of a city that has transformed many times over the years, its famous people, its ways and means — like an insect trapped in amber. “No one’s life is full of rose petals,” she says, when asked what she wishes to convey through the memoir. “There are many stones and thorns everywhere. We have to know how to face life and move on. My life has been full of blessings, but there have been many losses too. I could have cried about this, but I did not. When people put down Suryavamsam , I want them to feel more positive, accept life and move on.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/notes-from-the-memory-palace/article38017292.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The rummy thing about Christmas cake||Traditional bakeries in Chennai that have been around for decades, tell their story through recipes that have stood the test of time, changing tastes, and a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-rummy-thing-about-christmas-cake/article38017291.ece
23 December 2021||December 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Tale of a reluctant mother||Over the years we have been told that motherhood is the most blissful state for a woman. But is it? A new book by journalist Zehra Naqvi re-examines the stereotypes that we hold about motherhood. Released recently at New Delhi’s India International Centre, The Reluctant Mother (Hay House India) seeks to open conversations about this complexity and fluidity, so that women do not have to lead their entire lives hiding their true experiences and emotions. Zehra’s approach to life had been largely shaped by her father whom she describes as an extremely progressive man. “My sister and I were not brought up with gender-defined roles. From the very beginning, we were taught to dream and rise, to be courageous, and always speak the truth. We were always encouraged to hone our unique talents and abilities. Our father quoted this couplet by Iqbal to us, every day — ‘ Khudi ko kar buland itna, ki har taqdeer se pehle / Khuda bande se khud poochey, bata teri raza kya hai’ (Elevate thyself to such a height, that before thy destiny is inscribed/ The Maker himself would ask his slave, what do you wish for me to write).”  Edited excerpts:   What was the catalyst for the book?   It started off as a blog in 2013 when my son was almost a year old. The blog took birth in my mind while watching the film Julie and Julia . As I watched Julie Powell blogging about her life every day, picking one recipe each day from Julia Child’s famous cookbook, I found myself identifying with Julie and how she felt like she was at the lowest ebb of her life. My life, too, had been flung off-track, post motherhood. A difficult pregnancy had led me to quit my job, and circumstances became such that I had to move back to my hometown, with my husband and I living in different cities. I felt completely derailed and on top of it, completely alone because I was surrounded by relatives and family members who couldn’t fathom that a mother might want anything else except the child. As a society we are fed on images of women wanting nothing except motherhood, and so I could not find a single person who understood my inner turmoil. This turmoil led me to blog about my emotions and experiences because I needed to put my truth out there. What I had not expected in the least was the stream of messages I began to get, both from Indian women and women across the globe, thanking me. They called me courageous and expressed how they had the exact same emotions but couldn’t utter a word for fear of judgement and shame being heaped upon them. It was these women who began to suggest, over and over again, that my story should take the form of a book because it had universal resonance for young women of my generation.  Why do you think motherhood needs to be talked about?   We have placed mothers on a pedestal, glorifying them as goddesses,so that mothers cannot speak about their difficulties and travails even in whispers, for fear of being harshly judged, for fear of being called selfish and ungrateful. They are ordered to be thankful for having a child because there are numerous childless couples in the world. But there can be no competition in pain and suffering; there are no units for measurement of pain. Suffering, no matter how small, is immeasurable and incomparable. And therefore, one person’s struggles cannot be made a reason to belittle the struggles of another. It is extremely important to re-examine the stereotypes we hold about motherhood because mothers are, in the end, human beings, and must be allowed to voice their feelings like any other human. As Shashi Deshpande wrote in Writing From The Margin & Other Essays : ‘When I became a mother, I found such a discrepancy between what I was told about how mothers felt, and what I really felt, that I was deeply disturbed.’ The fact is that motherhood is a volatile experience, full of unprecedented highs and lows. It is full of mixed emotions and inner conflict.  Some might say the book runs counter to the roles defined by biology/nature.   It is important to declare that this book is not against the idea of motherhood, nor does it ask women to stop having children. It lays bare the unspoken truth of motherhood and asks the world for greater empathy, and greater equality for women. It also tries to make the point that parenthood is a progression of marriage, not the purpose of marriage. As for biology, it is funny how concerns of biology and nature are only ever brought up as arguments to support patriarchy. If nature is indeed the true parameter, then the question arises — is it also against nature and biology to limit the family size, because contraception is an artificial concept, not prevalent among animals? The fact is that humans have gone beyond biology in every possible way, even defying gravity by travelling in space. The only time that ‘nature’ is ever brought out in an argument is to keep women in their ‘place’.  How has your spouse responded to the book?   He is a rare and unique man who possesses extraordinary levels of empathy, kindness and wisdom. The three years after the birth of our son were difficult for both of us, as recorded in the book, because circumstances had forced us to live away from each other when neither of us wanted to do so. He understands my conflict and struggles perfectly, and has been beside me through the worst possible storms in life. It was he who soothed me and quelled all my fears when I was struggling with the idea of sharing my life so openly. The fact is that he is the hero of this book, and this book is as much a love story of a young couple, as it is a mother’s story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tale-of-a-reluctant-mother/article38017370.ece
