24 December 2021||CHANDIGARH/NEW DELHI,||Explosion in Ludhiana court leaves one dead, six injured||One person was killed and six persons were injured in an explosion at the district court complex in Ludhiana on Thursday. Political parties asserted that the incident was an attempt to create disturbances in Punjab ahead of Assembly elections in early 2022. “An explosion was heard from the public toilet on the second floor of the building around 12:15 p.m. The police rushed to the spot. The reason behind the incident has yet to be ascertained,” Ludhiana Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said. “A body was recovered from the spot and we are trying to identify the person, who is also our suspect as well because it seems the impact of the explosive was taken by the person,” he said. Either the person was carrying the explosive or he was very near to it. But it is only preliminary and can’t be confirmed yet. The area has been cleared and police teams are searching the complex. A bomb disposal team is on the job and an NSG team from Delhi is on the way, Mr. Bhullar said. All the injured are out of danger. Anti-Punjab forces: CM Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi drew a parallel between the registration of an FIR against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia and the Ludhiana blast as well as the recent sacrilege incidents. At a rally in Mullanpur Dakha, he said, “As to why such a horrendous incident took place only after Majithia was cornered by the law. There are some anti-Punjab forces who want to disrupt the peace of the State. Why all ‘beadbis’ [sacrilege] and blasts are happening just after Majithia was booked? We are also probing this angle to the recent dastardly acts that have been perpetrated.” The police recently registered a case against Mr. Majithia under different sections of the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, triggering a political furore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/explosion-in-ludhiana-court-leaves-one-dead-six-injured/article38024913.ece
24 December 2021||MADURAI,||Madurai gets new Urban Development Authority||In a significant move, the Tamil Nadu government has constituted the formation of a new urban development authority for Madurai. The Government Order issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu has said that with population growing over the last three decades, it has become imperative for an orderly development and hence, a separate Authority would provide urban planners to focus on the city’s development. The composition of the Urban Development Authority comprises Principal Secretary (Housing and Urban Development) as the chairman, Madurai District Collector would be the vice-chairman. The Heads of Departments of Finance, Transport, Industries, Public Works, Muncipal Administration and Water Supply, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj would be ex-officio members. Also, the Director (Town & Country Planning), Commissioner Madurai Corporation, MD (TN Housing Board), MD TN Urban Habitat Development Board, MD TWAD would be ex-officio members. Apart from this, the G.O., has stated that two persons from housing, trade and industry, one person from academic institution with planning shall also be part of the Authority. A full-time Member Secretary would also be appointed. The objective and functions of the Authority would be to prepare development plans for the area under its jurisdiction and enforce them. Also, the formulation of any other plan for development of Madurai Urban Area would be taken up. Advisory council The Secretary (Department of MSME), Director (District Industries Centre), Commissioner of Police (Madurai City), CE (PWD), CE (Highways), Director Collegiate Education, a person with knowledge of architecture, two persons from commerce and industry, two elected representatives from Madurai Corporation, other elected representatives from Madurai would be nominated to the advisory council as ex-officio members. The ex-officio members would advise the Madurai Urban Development Authority in the preparation and implementation of development plans with senior town planner and engineers on board. On the lines of Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, the Director Town and Country Planning would implement the New Urban Development Authority, Madurai, the G.O., stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-urban-development-authority-constituted/article38025123.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,||Karnataka passes anti-conversion Bill||The Karnataka Assembly on Thursday adopted the contentious, anti-conversion Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 through voice vote in the ongoing winter session, even as the Congress and Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) members staged a dharna in the Well of the House. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tried to turn tables on the Congress with documents that showed the Siddaramaiah-led government had in 2016 envisaged a similar Bill, Mr. Siddaramaiah, the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly — initially taken aback by the revelation — argued that though there had been a draft, it was never brought before the Cabinet. This exchange was followed by a discussion on the Bill, which the Congress members argued was inadequate. The arguments reached a flashpoint with a remark by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa about “cutting into pieces” whoever came in the way of protecting Hindus. This triggered angry reactions, followed by dharna in the Well. Intervening in the chaos, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urged Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to adopt the Bill since Opposition members were attempting to stall the session. While Congress members raised high-decibel slogans and held placards in the Well, BJP members passed the Bill with a vociferous voice vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-protests-karnataka-passes-anti-conversion-bill/article38024699.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,||Anti-conversion Bill passed in Assembly amidst protests||The State Assembly on Thursday adopted the contentious Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, (anti-conversion Bill) through voice vote at the ongoing Winter session, even as the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) members staged a dharna in the Well of the House. While the BJP tried to turn the tables on the Congress with documents that showed that the Siddaramaiah-led Government in 2016 had envisaged a similar Bill, the Leader of Opposition, Mr. Siddaramaiah, initally taken aback by the revelation, later argued that though there was a draft it was never brought before the Cabinet. This exchange was followed by a discussion on the Bill, which the Congress members argued was inadequate. The arguments reached a flashpoint with a remark by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa about “cutting into pieces” whoever comes in the way of protecting Hindus. It triggered angry reactions, followed by a dharna in the Well. Intervening in the chaos, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urged Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri to adopt the Bill since the Opposition members were attempting to stall the session. While the Congress members raised high decibel slogans and held placards in the Well, the BJP members passed the Bill in a vociferous voice vote. Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that the Bill reflected the “hidden agenda of the RSS” since the genesis of the Bill was a petition from people connected to the RSS in 2009. He read out census numbers to show that the Bill was premised on the false notion that population of minorities was rising. Mr. Eshwarappa accused Congress president Sonia Gandhi of preventing the Bill from being brought before the cabinet earlier. “If you (Mr. Siddaramaiah) had tried to bring the Bill, you would have been removed.” He went on to say, “We will protect dharma. We will cut into pieces whoever comes in the way.” As chaos broke out in the House following this remark, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said: “RSS is committed to anti-conversion Bill. It is not a hidden agenda, it is an open secret. Why did the Congress Government in 2016 initiate the Bill during its tenure following RSS’s policy?... You are a party to this Bill.” The Bill is yet to be placed before the Legislative Council, where the BJP currently does not have a majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-conversion-bill-passed-in-assembly-amidst-protests/article38024941.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Idol at Chickballapur grotto vandalised||Miscreants vandalised the idol of St. Anthony at a grotto of St. Anthony’s church at Soosaipalya in Chickballapur on Thursday. The incident came to light when some people visited the church in the morning. They informed the priest who called the police and filed a complaint. This is the 11th incident of attack on churches across Karnataka since September this year, said Kantha Raju, spokesperson for the archdiocese. Special teams The Chickballapur police formed three special teams to track down the vandals who damaged the idol near Rangadhama lake. Superintendent o Police Mithun Kumar G.K., along with senior officials, visited the spot and directed the police to intensify patrolling and provide security to other religious places and idols/statues in and around the district. Based on the complaint filed by J. Antony Daniel, the parish priest, the Chickballapur Rural police have registered a case against unknown persons. They have been charged under Section 295 (destruction, damage, or defilement of a place of worship or an object held sacred, with intent to insult the religion of a class of persons), 153A (offence of promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of IPC and also under various sections of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. Fr. Daniel, in his complaint, said that the incident came to light around 6.30 a.m. when a few devotees visited the site to pray and noticed the damage. The idol was installed 25 years ago and devotees from Chickballapur, Saraipalya, and even Bengaluru visited to offer prayers. Apart from the 2-ft POP idol of St. Anthony, the miscreants have also vandalised the idol of Jesus, he said. The special team have initiated investigations and are gathering details about the incident to identify the miscreants. The police have some clues, a police officer said.  This is the 11th incident of attack on churches across Karnataka since September this year, said Kantha Raju, spokesperson for the archdiocese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/idol-at-chickballapur-grotto-vandalised/article38024950.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,||Amidst protests, Karnataka passes anti-conversion Bill||The Karnataka Assembly on Thursday adopted the contentious, anti-conversion Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 through voice vote in the ongoing winter session, even as the Congress and Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) members staged a dharna in the Well of the House. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tried to turn tables on the Congress with documents that showed that the Siddaramaiah-led government had in 2016 envisaged a similar Bill, Mr. Siddaramaiah, the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly — initially taken aback by the revelation — argued that though there had been a draft, it was never brought before the Cabinet. This exchange was followed by a discussion on the Bill, which the Congress members argued was inadequate.  The arguments reached a flashpoint with a remark by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa about “cutting into pieces” whoever came in the way of protecting Hindus. This triggered angry reactions, followed by dharna in the Well. Intervening in the chaos, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urged Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to adopt the Bill since Opposition members were attempting to stall the session. While Congress members raised high-decibel slogans and held placards in the Well, BJP members passed the Bill with a vociferous voice vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amidst-protests-karnataka-passes-anti-conversion-bill/article38025423.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Haridwar hate speech: FIR filed for promoting enmity||A day after videos of Hindutva leader Yati Narsinghanand calling for violence against Muslims and advocating militant Hinduism went viral, the Uttarakhand police on Thursday filed an FIR against one “Wasim Rizvi, alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi” and others involved. In a tweet, the police said it had taken cognisance of the videos showing provocative speeches against a religion that were viral on social media. Ashok Kumar, DGP, told The Hindu that the police had received a complaint as well. The FIR registered under Section 153A of the IPC (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) related to the statements made at the recent Dharam Sansad held in Haridwar. Role unclear Wasim Rizvi was a former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Central Shia Waqf Board. He reportedly converted to Hinduism. What exactly his role was in the incident is not yet known. The statements calling for violence against Muslims were made at the three-day event from December 17 in Haridwar and in an interview to a social media channel. DGP’s warning Mr. Kumar said: “Action will be taken as per law.” Earlier this year, Narsinghanand’s comments about Prophet Muhammad during a press conference in Delhi caused controversy and led to the Delhi police filing an FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haridwar-hate-speech-fir-filed-for-promoting-enmity/article38024936.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,||Students returning from high-risk States should undergo tests: DC||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Thursday said students from Kerala and Maharashtra should return with COVID-19 negative certificates to hostels/paying guest accommodations after spending Christmas and year-end holidays in their native places and undergo RT-PCR tests on arrival. Dr. Rajendra told reporters here there were fluctuations in new COVID-19 cases in the last few days because of some clusters. The district has 164 active cases: 35 in hospitals and 129 under home isolation. The case fatality ratio was at 1.17. The overall test positivity rate (TPR) of Dakshina Kannada was 0.26 % with Mangaluru City Corporation area accounting to 0.43 %, followed by 0.21 % in Sullia taluk, 0.12% in Belthangady taluk, 0.08 % in Bantwal taluk, and 0.03% in Puttur taluk. The TPR in Kerala, Dr. Rajendra said, was between 8 and 9 % and 6% in neighbouring Kasaragod district. Dr. Rajendra said those returning from Kerala and Maharashtra to hostels and paying guest accommodations should have RT-PCR negative certificate. “Institutions should subject these students to RT-PCR test and quarantine them for a week. Students may be allowed to attend classes if they test negative after another RT-PCR test,” he said. While expressing difficulty for the district administration to enforce COVID-19 norms, Dr. Rajendra said the learned people of the district should exercise self restraint during Christmas, year-end, and other festivities. “Avoid visiting crowded places, sport masks, and follow social distance,” he said. Stating that 93% of the targeted population in the district was covered with the first dose of vaccine, Dr. Rajendra said around 1.15 lakh people were yet to receive it. Vaccine hesitancy was more prevalent in areas bordering Kerala, including parts of Ullal, Kotekar etc. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara said assistance of local politicians and religious heads was being taken to convince people to get vaccinated. The administration has gathered from school students that about 35,000 of their family members were yet to be vaccinated. “House-to-house visits were being made to convince them to receive vaccine,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-returning-from-high-risk-states-should-undergo-tests-dc/article38025304.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Govt. to strengthen testing capacity, home isolation system||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said his Government was keeping a close eye on the spread of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 in the Capital and was preparing to increase the testing capacity to three lakh per day from the current capacity of 60,000-70,000. After a review meeting on the preparations to handle another possible wave of COVID-19, Mr. Kejriwal said according to medical experts, the Omicron variant spreads very fast but most infections are mild and patients do not need hospitalisation. Buffer medicine stock “Keeping the nature of the variant in mind, we are upscaling our home isolation programme so that we can deal with up to one lakh cases a day from the current 1,000 cases a day. This way patients can be treated at home and they do not have to rush to hospitals if they test positive,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that the Government was ensuring that a two-month buffer stock of medicines was being maintained and the oxygen infrastructure had been completely transformed after learning from the experience in previous waves. The Delhi Government informed that approximately 37,000 COVID-19 beds and 10,594 COVID ICU beds have been prepared and 100 oxygen beds can be set up in every ward of Delhi within two weeks of intimation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-to-strengthen-testing-capacity-home-isolation-system/article38025064.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||NGT appoints four-member panel to look into work atop Rushikonda||Subsequent to the hearing on an application moved by Member of Parliament from Narsapuram Raghu Ramakrishna Raju Kanumuru, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has appointed a four-member committee to seek factual and action taken report for the alleged violation of environment norms in the course of construction work on the Rushikonda Hill, on the Beach Road, in Visakhapatnam. The MP in his application had alleged that there was gross violation of the Master Plan notified by the Urban Development Department under the AP Development Areas (Development) Act of 1975. Mr. Raju had stated in his application that the area was environmentally sensitive and under Public Trust Doctrine, and that the State needed to protect it. The Bench headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel passed an order on December 17, stating that the allegations were of serious nature and affecting the Rushikonda Hill. “We find it necessary to verify the factual position by appointing an independent four-member committee of CPCB, State PCB, SEIAA, Andhra Pradesh, and District Magistrate, Visakhapatnam,” the order stated. The NGT order also directed that the factual and action taken report be furnished to the tribunal within two months. New resort Ever since the State Government demolished the existing resort on the hill and started the construction of a new resort on a land measuring about 9.8 acres with a built up area of 19,968 sq mts, at a cost of Rs. 240 crores, the project had been in the eye of the storm. Opposition parties and environmentalists had been crying foul stating that the project was being constructed flouting CRZ and environmental norms. But Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao had said that the State Government had got the required CRZ clearance from MoEFFCC for the construction of the resort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngt-appoints-four-member-panel-to-look-into-work-on-rushikonda-hill/article38025370.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,||27-year-old man who returned from Ghana tests positive for Omicron||A 27-year-old man from the city, who returned from Ghana via Dubai on December 16, was found positive for the Omicron variant. According to District COVID Nodal Officer H. Ashok, the passenger came from Ghana to Dubai and from there he arrived at the Mangaluru International Airport on December 16. Following rapid test, the passenger was found positive for COVID-19 and he was kept under isolation at the Government Wenlock Hospital. As he came from a high risk country, his throat and nasal swabs were sent for genomic study on December 17 and he was found to have been infected by Omicron on Thursday. As per the Omicron protocol, he will undergo RT-PCR test on Friday and Saturday, which are his ninth and tenth day of his isolation. If found negative, he will then undergo home quarantine for seven days and be declared as recovered from the infection. Dr. Ashok said 17 of his co-passengers from the district tested negative for the infection and they are quarantined. They will undergo RT-PCR test on Thursday, which is the eighth day of their quarantine, he said. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said of 120 throat and nasal swab samples sent for genomic study, reports of 33 cases have been made available of which seven were Omicron cases. Results of 87 samples were awaited. Dr. Rajendra said six patients, who have recovered from Omicron, have taken the genome report in a positive way though some did have inconvenience to undergo 10 days quarantine and subject themselves to RTP-CR tests on the ninth and tenth day of quarantine. Dakshina Kannada district administration will shortly send a proposal to the State Government to have a genome testing facility in the district, he said Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara said on an average 7,500 RTPCR tests were being done every day. Though this was good testing rate, the district administration has prepared to increase the daily testing by another 2,000, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/27-year-old-man-who-returned-from-ghana-tests-positive-for-omicron/article38025303.ece
24 December 2021||BHOPAL,||‘No panchayat polls in M.P. without OBC quota’||The Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution stating that no panchayat election will be held in the State without reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs). This comes even as the nomination process for the first phase of the three-phase panchayat polls has begun. The elections are scheduled to take place on January 6, January 28 and February 16 next year. The resolution was proposed by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan amid din in the House, after the Question Hour session got disrupted due to three adjournments following uproar over the OBC reservation issue. Leader of the Opposition Kamal Nath later said the resolution has been brought two days after the Congress raised the demand. On December 17, the Supreme Court had directed the State Election Commission to stay the poll process on seats reserved for OBCs in the local body polls and to re-notify them as general category ones due to a lack of empirical data on OBC backwardness. The SC’s directive came after Congress leader Manmohan Nagar, president of the Bhopal zila panchayat, approached it pleading that the State Government violated the provisions on reservation rotation and delimitation for panchayat polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-panchayat-polls-in-mp-without-obc-quota/article38025063.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Earthquake in Chickballapur again||For a second day in a row, an earthquake was reported in Chickballapur taluk on Thursday. The National Centre for Seismology said it occurred at 2.16 p.m. and had a magnitude of 3.6. People felt the land trembling in Settigere, Beeraganhalli and surrounding villages and many ran out of buildings scared. This is just a few kilometers away from Mandikal and Bhogaparthi villages, where tremors of 3.1 and 3.3 magnitude were reported on Wednesday morning. At 3.14 p.m., on Thursday, the seismology centre recorded an earthquake of magnitude 3.5, 50 km north-west - north of Vellore, Tamil Nadu, also in the vicinity of the same area. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre attributes the tremors to hydroseismicity — seismic activity induced by elevation of water table in recharge areas due to heavy rainfall in Chickballapur. The district received very heavy rainfall in October, causing most lakes and rivers to overflow. Villages in Kalaburagi, Bidar and Vijayapura also experienced similar tremors post monsoon and National Geophysical Research Institute visited the spot and pointed at hydroseismicity as the reason. Manoj Rajan, Director, KSNDMC, said a team of experts from the centre would visit the affected villages over the weekend and later he would write to NGRI to take up a field study. The epicentre of the earthquake on Thursday was at 1.2 km south-east of Sadenahalli village, Gollahalli gram panchayat and tremors were felt 1.3 km north-west of Beeraganahalli, of Gollahalli gram panchayat, and 2.8 km of south-west of Settigere village of Addagallu gram panchayat. Naveen Kumar, a resident of Shettigere village, said he felt the ground shaking and felt like he was about to fall down when he was standing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/earthquake-in-chickballapur-again/article38024964.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Gouravelli project work: tension as Gudatipally-Husnabad road is cut off||Tension prevailed at Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal of Siddipet district as land oustees of Gouravelli reservoir tried to stop work on the project demanding compensation and police resorted to lathicharge. About 15 oustees, including women, were injured in the melee. Since early morning on Thursday, large number of policemen wearing protective gears started arriving at the project site in vehicles. Sensing something amiss, a large number of oustees also arrived there. Soon after mobilising the police, the authorities commenced the reservoir works ignoring the appeals by oustees. Alleging that the works are being taken up without full payment of compensation, the oustees tried to stop the work. Police used force to stop them and caned them, resulting in injuries to 15 persons. For more than four hours the tension continued. “The officials are trying close the road that connects Gudatipally, Somaji tanda, Banda tanda, Jalvai tanda, Chintal tanda, Tenugupallty and Maddilapally with Husnabad. There are about 1,100 families residing in these villages. There is no other way to reach the villages except this route. What can we do if they close the road?” asked Baddam Yella Reddy, one of the oustees from Gudatipally. The villagers reopened the road again by evening but the reservoir works were stopped for the time being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gouravelli-project-work-tension-as-gudatipally-husnabad-road-is-cut-off/article38025388.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,||33 more persons test positive for Omicron variant in Tamil Nadu||The samples of 33 persons, which included those of international travellers and their contacts, have tested positive for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Tamil Nadu. With this, the State has 34 confirmed cases of the variant, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Thursday. Earlier, whole genome sequencing detected the Omicron variant in the sample of a 47-year-old man who had travelled from Nigeria to Chennai through Doha. He and two of his relatives were discharged from Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, after they tested negative on completion of 10 days of hospitalisation. They were advised seven-day home isolation, the Minister told reporters here. The National Institute of Virology, Pune, on Wednesday night released the results of the samples that were lifted over the last 20 days. “With one person already found infected with Omicron, the samples of 33 persons returned positive for the variant. All of them are in hospital isolation and are being monitored,” he said. The results of 23 samples were awaited. Foreign returnees Of the 33 persons, 29 were international travellers and their contacts. “Of the remaining four, we were able to track one person’s history of travel to the U.S. The travel history of the rest is unknown, and we are trying to find out whether they had come in contact with any person with a travel history. Though all four were identified in Chennai, one is from Salem and another has left for Kerala,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-tn-33-more-persons-test-positive-for-omicron/article38024963.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA files chargesheet in Darbhanga blast case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed a chargesheet against five persons, alleging that the bomb blast at Bihar’s Darbhanga railway station on June 17 was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operatives. Among those arraigned are Mohammed Nasir Khan and his brother Imran Malik, who are from Kairana in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli and had been living in Hyderabad; Saleem Ahmed and Kafil Ahmad from Kairana; and Iqbal Kana, who belongs to Shamli and has been operating from Lahore. The NIA probe revealed that the alleged LeT operatives had planned to set ablaze a moving long-distance train by planting an improvised explosive device (IED), which would lead to the death of a large number of passengers and damage public property. It is alleged that at the instance of Iqbal Kana, Nasir Khan and his brother configured the IED using locally procured chemicals and placed it in a parcel of clothes. On June 15, they booked the parcel at the Secunderabad railway office using a fake PAN card. The railway workers kept it in the Secunderabad-Darbhanga Express, which left the station at night. According to the NIA, the accused persons intended to trigger the blast during the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-files-chargesheet-in-darbhanga-blast-case/article38024945.ece
24 December 2021||PEDDAPALLI,||Dumper operator of SCCL killed in freak accident||A dumper operator of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) was killed in a freak accident at the Open Cast Project-I in Ramagundam-III area early on Thursday morning. The 46-year-old dumper operator, identified as K Srinivasa Rao, died on the spot in the collision involving two dumpers at the OCP-I during the third shift at around 4.30 a.m. Despite adequate lighting arrangements on the premises of the OCP, dense fog is believed to have led to the collision of the dumpers, sources said. The tragic incident coincided with the State-owned SCCL’s Foundation Day. This is the third accident in the SCCL’s coal mines in less than one-and-a-half months. In a statement, the CITU-affiliated Singareni Collieries Employees Union (SCEU) president T Raja Reddy demanded that the SCCL management should take concrete steps to improve safety in both the underground and open cast coal mines. He further demanded Rs. 1 crore ex gratia to the bereaved family of the dumper operator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dumper-operator-of-sccl-killed-in-freak-accident/article38025181.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Haridwar hate speech: FIR filed for promoting enmity||A day after videos of Hindutva leader Yati Narsinghanand calling for violence against Muslims and advocating militant Hinduism went viral, the Uttarakhand police on Thursday filed an FIR against one “Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi” and others involved. In a tweet, the police said it took cognisance of the videos showing provocative speeches against a religion that were viral on social media. Ashok Kumar, DGP, told The Hindu that the police had received a complaint as well. The FIR registered under Section 153A of the IPC (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) related to the statements made at the recent Dharam Sansad held in Haridwar. Wasim Rizvi was a former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Central Shia Waqf Board. He reportedly converted to Hinduism. What exactly his role was in the incident is not yet known. The statements calling for violence against Muslims were made at the three-day event from December 17 in Haridwar and in an interview to a social media channel. Mr. Kumar said: “Action will be taken as per law.” Earlier this year, Narsinghanand’s comments about Prophet Muhammad during a press conference caused controversy and led to the Delhi police filing an FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haridwar-hate-speech-fir-filed-for-promoting-enmity/article38024911.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Population not the sole factor in J&K delimitation’||A provision in delimitation acts from 1952 onward, which says other than population, factors like physical features, boundaries of administrative units, communication facilities and public convenience, should be taken into account while drawing constituency boundaries, has led to the Opposition’s concerns over the ongoing delimitation of Jammu and Kashmir. While officials of the Delimitation Commission say they have followed the rule in recommending six additional seats in Jammu and one in Kashmir, the National Conference (NC) has objected to the proposal, terming it unacceptable. The proposed increase in seats would tilt the balance of political power towards Jammu and away from the Kashmir Valley. The proposal shared with associate members of the Delimitation Commission on Monday calls for increasing the number of seats in Kashmir to 47 and Jammu to 43, according to the members. After the meeting, NC MP and associate member of the Commission Hasnain Masoodi said the proposed increase was not based on the 2011 Census. Asked about criticism of the proposal, a senior official involved with the process said the provision to consider factors other than population had “always been adhered to”. The official said Uttarakhand had all hill districts with 20% less population than the districts in the plains in the 2008 delimitation. Former Chief Election Commissioner O.P. Rawat said the provision has been followed in other cases, like in Lakshadweep, which has one parliamentary constituency despite having a much smaller population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/non-population-criteria-always-part-of-delimitation/article38024906.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hate speech: FIR filed for promoting enmity||A day after videos of Hindutva leader Yati Narsinghanand calling for violence against Muslims and advocating militant Hinduism went viral, the Uttarakhand police on Thursday filed an FIR against one “Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi” and others involved. In a tweet, the police said it took cognisance of the videos showing provocative speeches against a religion that were viral on social media. Ashok Kumar, DGP, told The Hindu that the police had received a complaint as well. The FIR registered under Section 153A of the IPC (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) related to the statements made at the recent Dharam Sansad in Haridwar. Wasim Rizvi was a former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Central Shia Waqf Board. He reportedly converted to Hinduism. The statements calling for violence were made at the three-day event from December 17 in Haridwar and in an interview to a social media channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hate-speech-fir-filed-for-promoting-enmity/article38025422.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,||State reports 12 new cases of Omicron||Karnataka on Thursday reported 12 new cases of Omicron, taking the State’s tally to 31. Seven of the new cases are female patients, including two girls aged nine and 11 years old. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who tweeted about the new cases, said while 10 are from Bengaluru, one each has been reported from Mangaluru and Mysuru. According to health department officials, a 20-year-old woman, a 56-year-old man, a 54-year-old woman, a 31-year-old man, a 42-year-old man, an 18-year-old woman, a 21-year-old man, a 49-year-old woman, an 11-year-old girl and a 59-year-old woman have contracted the Omicron variant in Bengaluru. Among the Bengaluru cases, five had a travel history to the United Kingdom, one had returned from Denmark, and another person had returned from Nigeria. The three others from Bengaluru did not have a travel history and their contact with an international traveller is being ascertained. On Thursday, Karnataka reported 299 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,03,564. Bengaluru Urban reported 210 cases and one death. The State’s toll rose to 38,301 on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-12-new-cases-of-omicron/article38024938.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||At work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-work/article38025160.ece
24 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Ban rallies, put off U.P. polls, High Court urges PM, ECI||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Election Commission of India (ECI) to immediately ban rallies and public meetings of political parties, and consider postponing the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election due to rising cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19. The court requested the ECI to possibly postpone the election, scheduled for February, by one or two months. Citing news reports of increasing COVID-19 cases and deaths, the HC said the third wave “is at our doorstep”. Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav, while hearing a bail petition, appealed to the ECI to bring an immediate end to the large rallies and public meetings. Justice Yadav appealed to the ECI to direct parties to campaign through newspapers and Doordarshan or other television channels instead. “If there is life, election rallies and meetings can be held in future as well and Article 21 of the Constitution provides us the Right to Life,” said Justice Yadav in his order in Hindi. The HC judge, while praising the PM’s vaccination drive, requested him to take into consideration the “frightening situation”. The court expressed concern over lakhs of people gathering at public meetings and said it was not possible to follow any COVID-19 protocol at these events. If not stopped in time, the result would be be even more frightening than the second wave, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ban-rallies-put-off-up-polls-hc-urges-pm-eci/article38024937.ece
24 December 2021||Vizianagaram,||Ashok denies disrupting proceedings||Hereditary trustee of the Kodandarama temple at Ramateertham Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju has said police cases will not deter him from protecting the tradition and culture of the temples. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, while referring to the row he was involved in the stone-laying ceremony for reconstruction of temple on Wednesday, made it clear that he had not disrupted the proceedings marking the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ashok-denies-disrupting-proceedings/article38025432.ece
24 December 2021||KADAPA,||CM lays stone for wood panel unit||A whopping one lakh acres of plantation will be taken up at Gopavaram in Kadapa district and the adoption of sustainable development practices is set to transform the region, as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy laid the foundation stone for CenturyPly’s largest integrated wood panel manufacturing unit in the district on Thursday. The region is earmarked as a potential agro industry hub. Mr. Jagan said his government was committed to attracting industries and investment to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-lays-stone-for-wood-panel-unit/article38024909.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Idol at Chickballapur grotto vandalised||Miscreants vandalised the idol of St. Anthony at a grotto of St. Anthony’s church at Soosaipalya in Chickballapur on Thursday. The incident came to light when some people visited the church in the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/idol-at-chickballapur-grotto-vandalised/article38024943.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,||Drive to clear pavements of encroachments begins||The Mangaluru City Corporation on Thursday launched a drive to clear footpaths and roads of encroachment, particularly by unauthorised petty shops and such other installations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drive-to-clear-pavements-of-encroachments-begins/article38025306.ece
24 December 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool’s Firhad returns as Kolkata Mayor||Senior Trinamool Congress leader and Cabinet Minister Firhad Hakim was on Wednesday renominated by party chairperson Mamata Banerjee as the Mayor of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The decision was announced at a meeting of elected party councillors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamools-firhad-returns-as-kolkata-mayor/article38025065.ece
24 December 2021||Lucknow,||For us, the cow is mother, and is sacred, says PM||Talking about the cow may be a “crime for some people” but “for us, the cow is mother” and is “revered”, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, hitting out at people who “make fun of cows and buffaloes”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-us-the-cow-is-mother-and-is-sacred-says-pm/article38025067.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,||Not sure if my mother converted: Goolihatti||BJP member from Hosadurga Goolihatti Shekar, whose accusation of his mother being converted during the last legislature session had started the discussion on the anti-conversion Bill, on Thursday surprised all by saying that he was “not sure” about the conversion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-sure-if-my-mother-converted-goolihatti/article38025156.ece
24 December 2021||MYSURU,||Plans afoot to uproot lantana from BRT reserve||There are plans to uproot lantana spread over 70,000 hectares of forests in BRT Tiger Reserve and Bandipur during the course of next five years. But there are concerns that uprooting it on such a scale will entail disturbance to the forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plans-afoot-to-uproot-lantana-from-brt-reserve/article38025158.ece
24 December 2021||Lucknow,||For us, the cow is mother and is sacred, says Prime Minister||Talking about the cow may be a “crime for some people” but “for us, the cow is mother” and is “revered”, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, hitting out at people who “make fun of cows and buffaloes”. “Some people have created such a situation that talking about the cow and govardhan is some form of a gunah (crime). They have made it a crime. The cow can be a crime for some people, but for us the cow is mother, it is revered,” Mr. Modi said in Varanasi. The PM made the comments at an event where he laid the foundation stone of the Banas Dairy Sankul, a dairy spread across 30 acres with a facility for processing five lakh litres of milk per day. It will be built at a cost of Rs. 475 crore, the government has said. Mr. Modi stressed on the economic utility of the cow for Indians and said that strengthening the dairy sector in the country was among the top priorities of his government. “Those who make fun of cows and buffaloes forget that the livelihood of eight crore families in the country is based on livestock. It is due to the effort of these families, India produces milk worth almost Rs. 8.5 lakh crore each year. This amount is more than the value of wheat and rice produced,” said the PM. The “double engine government” of Mr. Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was standing strongly and honestly with farmers and cattle rearers, he further said, stressing that milk production in the country had increased by about 45% in the last six-seven years. Today, India produces about 22% of the world’s milk, he said. Mr. Modi said that his government was not only delivering vikas (development) but also promoting the virasat (heritage) of the country but that some people “who think about their selfish interests”, do not like the development of U.P. and had also started “objecting” to the Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor recently opened by him in Varanasi. Mr. Modi accused previous governments of viewing U.P. only through the lens of caste and religion. In their “syllabus” and “dictionary”, they only had “mafia vad ,” “ parivarvad ” (nepotism) and illegal grab of homes and land, he said. “When I talk of the double development of Kashi and U.P. by the double engine government, some people feel pained,” Mr. Modi added. The PM also digitally transferred about Rs. 35 crore as bonus to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh milk producers associated with Banas Dairy, and laid the foundation stone for the biogas-based electricity generation plant for the Milk Producers Cooperative Union plant in Ramnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-us-the-cow-is-mother-and-is-sacred-says-prime-minister/article38024624.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India seeks early return of democracy in Myanmar||Democracy should be restored in Myanmar “at the earliest”, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla conveyed to the military rulers of Myanmar during his December 22-23 visit. He met Chairman, State Administrative Council, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, who has been internationally isolated because of the violent crackdown on protesting citizens, and conveyed India’s desire to engage various stakeholders to end the crisis in the Southeast Asian country. “Foreign Secretary emphasised India’s interest in seeing Myanmar’s return to democracy at the earliest; release of detainees and prisoners; resolution of issues through dialogue and complete cessation of all violence,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement. Since February 2, India has expressed concern at the ongoing military campaign against the democratic elements in Myanmar but this statement has additional significance, as it is the first time the government has hinted that India is ready to mediate among various sides to end the crisis. Mr. Shringla raised India’s past engagements with various stakeholders to stabilise the country and suggested that New Delhi could talk to all sides to end the crisis. No meeting with Suu Kyi During the two-day visit, Mr. Shringla met representatives of the NLD, foreign diplomats and civil society activists. Sources explained that the Indian side sought a meeting with jailed NLD leader Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi but the military junta denied permission for the meeting. Mr. Shringla also met representatives of pro-military Union Solidarity and Development Party of Myanmar. Family members of Gen. Min Aung Hlaing came under U.S. sanctions after the February coup and he was excluded from the annual ASEAN summit of leaders as the Myanmar military continued its violence against the citizens demanding restoration of democracy. Influx of the displaced The MEA said that as a “democracy and close neighbour”, “India proposed to renew these efforts for Myanmar to emerge as a stable, democratic, federal union in accordance with the wishes of the people of Myanmar”. India had hosted various democratic groups of Myanmar for many years after the 1988 crackdown that forced them to seek shelter abroad. Apart from escalating narcotic and insurgent movements in the northeastern States, the influx of displaced people from Myanmar has added to India’s problems. In the recent past, apart from civilians, even police personnel from Myanmar have taken refuge in States like Mizoram. Mr. Shringla reminded the Myanmarese rulers that India shared 1700-km long border with Myanmar that runs along Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland and Mizoram. He raised the recent killing of the Commanding Officer of an Assam Rifles unit along with his wife and child in an ambush by militants in Manipur and pointed out that “any developments” in Myanmar would “have a direct impact on India’s bordering regions”. “Peace and stability in Myanmar remain of utmost importance to India,” the MEA stated. The movement of arms and ammunition inside Myanmar had increased in the last 10 months after the democratic protest quickly received support from the insurgent groups in Myanmar’s forested regions that border India. India’s call for an end to “all violence”, indicates that both the military crackdown against dissidents and the activities of the armed rebels should be controlled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-seeks-early-return-of-democracy-in-myanmar/article38024643.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||RS counters Kharge’s comments on Venkaiah||The Rajya Sabha Secretariat has sought to counter the Opposition narrative on the winter session of Parliament. Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, a statement said, had made all the necessary efforts to enable normal functioning of the House. The statement was essentially to counter Leader of Opposition (LoP) Mallikarjun Kharge’s comment that while the Opposition and the government were wrestling, there was no one to mediate in the fight. This is the first instance in Mr. Naidu’s tenure as the Chairman of the Upper House that such a statement has been issued. The statement stressed that Mr. Naidu had conversations with leaders from both the sides, and on several occasions in the House, he urged both the sides to resolve the matter amicably through discussion. “It is informed that initially it was proposed to the Hon’ble Chairman that the Leader of the Opposition would express regret on behalf of all the 12 suspended Members on the Floor of the House,” it stated. But subsequently, the Opposition parties said that the other parties whose members were among the suspended would disagree with the LoP in case he expressed regret on behalf of all the suspended. “It was even suggested that if all parties concerned were not on board, regret could be expressed on behalf of the parties willing to do so. But nothing happened thereafter,” it noted. Precedent cited The Chairman, it observed, also suggested to the government to move a motion for the termination of the suspension in case such a regret was expressed. The precedent of former LoP Arun Jaitley expressing regret on behalf of seven members suspended for their misconduct during the passage of the Women’s Reservation Bill in 2010 was also cited during the discussions. The Opposition parties had refused to participate in the probe into the events of the monsoon session. There was no progress, it asserted, due to shifting positions of the concerned and perhaps, due to unwillingness to regret the misconduct of suspended members and lack of agreement among the parties concerned on regretting the incidents that led to suspension. “It is hence, incorrect and misleading on the part of concerned to suggest that the Hon’ble Chairman did not take initiative to resolve the stalemate. Hon’ble Chairman could not have forced any section of the House to take a particular view in the matter of suspension to resolve the stalemate over it even as he consistently engaged himself with both sides of the House to find a way forward for normal functioning of the House upholding its dignity and decorum,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-counters-kharges-comments-on-venkaiah/article38024661.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rush to get Rajpath ready for R-Day||From the construction workers rushing to the finish line to the Border Security Force personnel standing guard, Rajpath was abuzz with activity this week as the government rushed to get it ready in time for the Republic Day Parade (January 26), when people would get the first glimpse of the redesigned Central Vista. Speaking to The Hindu about the design of the whole project, which includes a new Parliament, Secretariat buildings and the Prime Minister’s residence, HCP Design, Planning and Management managing director Bimal Patel, who is the Centre’s consultant for the project, said that the goal was to create something that a large number of Indians connected with. Diverse preferences “The aesthetic preferences of Indians are very diverse. Some have very avant-garde tastes, while others have very traditional preferences. National icons have to resonate with this very wide diversity of tastes. Corbusier, when he designed Chandigarh, was not required to create an architecture that would resonate with a wide range of Indians – an architecture that they could relate with, find meaningful, and think of as their own. Lutyens was required to do so when he designed New Delhi,” he said. The redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue, which started in February and is the first project under the larger Central Vista revamp nearing completion, was still a work in progress when this correspondent visited the site on December 21. Huge workforce Workers were busy giving the granite pathways along the lawns a flame finish, in order to make the stone less slippery. Cranes carrying materials moved up and down Rajpath, while bleachers ordered for the parade lay under covers on the lawns. According to an official involved with the project, over 5,000 workers in two shifts were engaged to complete the project. Barricades separated the canals, parking lots and toilet blocks under construction from the road and the lawns, which were the first priority for completion, an official stated. In a written statement on December 22, HCP said, “The Central Vista Avenue will be ready for the Republic Day Parade. Some facilities are to be completed later”. Toilet blocks, bridges over the canals and vending zones were among the facilities that would be opened after the Republic Day Parade, the official associated with the project noted. On December 2, the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, which is the nodal Ministry for the entire revamp, informed Parliament that 60% of the work of the Rs. 608 crore-Central Vista Avenue project had been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rush-to-get-rajpath-ready-for-r-day/article38024641.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Not all Muslims oppose marriage Bill||While Muslim political parties have opposed amendments to the child marriage law to raise the age of marriage for women to 21, terming them an attack on personal laws, voices within the community advocating equal rights, have welcomed the move. Muslims don’t have a codified personal law unlike other religious communities. The Muslim Personal (Shariat) Application Act, 1937 states that Shariat or the Islamic law will apply in all questions regarding marriage, dissolution of marriage, maintenance, dower, guardianship, gifts, etc. Under Shariat, puberty or 15 years is the minimum age of marriage. The Koran, however, is not in favour of child marriages. The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) or PCMA Bill, 2021, which has been referred to a standing committee seeks to raise the age of marriage for women to 21, making it the same as the age of marriage for men. It also says that it will over ride all personal laws — Section 2 of the Bill states that it will apply to citizens of India “notwithstanding anything contrary or inconsistent in” Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872; the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936; the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937; the Special Marriage Act, 1954; the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955; and the Foreign Marriage Act, 1969. Separately, Section 6 also seeks to amend all the above laws, barring the Muslim Personal Law. In each of these laws, the Bill substitutes the age of marriage of 18 for women with 21 years. It doesn’t touch the Muslim Personal Law as it relies upon Shariat. ‘No codified law’ “While we welcome raising the age of marriage to 21, we want this amendment to the PCMA, 2006 to state unequivocally that this law applies to the Muslim community also. Otherwise, the Muslim girl does not stand to benefit from this law or its amendment,” says a statement from the Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan (BMMA). “It has been 75 years of Independence and we still don’t have a comprehensively codified personal law. All the other religions have their codified personal laws. We have been deprived of our legislative protections when it comes to practices like polygamy, or child marriages or triple talaq,” BMMA’s Noorjehan Safia told The Hindu . The PCMA Bill codifies the legal stand on child marriages within personal laws. While there have been contradictory judgments from courts such as Punjab and Haryana High Court and Gujarat High Court in the past on whether personal laws trump the PCMA or vice versa, the Supreme Court in Independent Thought versus Union of India, 2017, settled the law and held that the PCMA will over-rule personal laws. Unlike a blanket reform through a move like the Uniform Civil Code, piecemeal reforms in personal laws are more desirable, say experts. “As a votary of piecemeal reforms I welcome the move,” says Dr. Faizan Mustafa, Vice-Chancellor, the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR). He adds though, “the Jaya Jaitly task force on age of marriage didn’t talk about changes to personal laws, but focused on women’s empowerment, need for access to education and health and preventing early pregnancies. Not only has the government failed to address these concerns it will additionally curtail the freedom to marry at the age of 18, which is permitted globally.” In 2016, the Ministry of Law and Justice tasked the Law Commission to examine matters in relation to uniform civil code (UCC). In 2018, when the Commission submitted its Consultation Paper on Reform of Family Law it steered clear of making any recommendations on UCC and held that it was “neither necessary nor desirable” and favoured “piecemeal changes to laws”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-all-muslims-oppose-marriage-bill/article38024649.ece
24 December 2021||Pune,||Father-vs-son contest in Goa election||The renomination of former Goa Chief Minister and 11-time MLA Pratapsingh Rane by the Congress for the Poriem Assembly constituency has set the stage for a fraught “father versus son” contest in the upcoming Assembly election. The octogenarian Mr. Rane, who has been the coastal State’s longest serving Chief Minister — holding the post no less than six times for different periods between 1980 and 2007 — has been challenged by his son, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vishwajit Rane, who is State’s Health Minister and the MLA from neighbouring Valpoi constituency, less than 20 km from Poriem. Earlier, when his name did not figure in the first list of eight candidates, speculation was rife that he was unwilling to contest this time around. This was put to rest by the Congress central election committee’s announcement on Wednesday evening. The Congress’ official decision to field the stalwart came a day after Mr. Vishwajit Rane had brusquely exhorted his father to “gracefully retire” from the political arena while claiming that he had lost connect with the younger voters. Test of competence The younger Rane expressed confidence of winning Poriem by a margin of at least 10,000 votes — a significant number given the small electorate sizes of Goa’s Assembly seats. Asked whether it would be a son versus father battle, he tersely replied: “It will be a fight between who is more competent and who is less so.” He said his father may have taken the decision to contest owing to pressure from the central Congress leadership and the Goa Congress. Poriem and Valpoi form part of the verdant Sattari sub-district, the virtual fiefdom of the Rane clan and where Mr. Pratapsingh Rane still retains an overwhelming influence today, having won every Assembly election since 1972. The younger Rane was initially with the Congress and represented Valpoi since 2007, he joined the BJP after the 2017 Assembly election. Since then, the BJP has steadily exerted its influence under his leadership in Valpoi and Poriem. While the Congress has been steadily losing ground in Goa, it nearly imploded in 2019 when 10 of its 15 MLAs joined the BJP. This process is continuing ahead of the 2022 Assembly election with Aleixo Lourenco, party’s Curtorim MLA and State working president, defecting to the Trinamool Congress leaving the Congress with just two MLAs currently — the elder Mr. Rane and Digambar Kamat, also a former Chief Minister. The BJP had been making strenuous efforts to woo the senior Mr. Rane with Devendra Fadnavis visiting his residence in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/father-vs-son-contest-in-goa-elections/article38024629.ece
24 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||RLD chief flays BJP for poor track record on ‘real’ issues||Addressing a massive joint rally of the Rashtriya Lok Dal and the Samajwadi Party in Iglas town in Aligarh district, Uttar Pradesh, on the birth anniversary of Chaudhary Charan Singh, RLD chief Jayant Singh chose not to respond to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Hindutva agenda and instead focused on the poor financial state of U.P., unemployment, farmers’ plight and law and order. Without taking names, he referred to his early morning meeting with Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait at Kisan Ghat, the memorial of Chaudhary Charan Singh in Delhi, and said those who stood for farmers would work together to uproot the anti-farmer powers. “Akhileshji and I have joined hands to rejig the equation of Chaudhary Charan Singh. In some places he will lead the alliance, in others, I will take charge,” he said in the Jat-dominated region, perhaps to bury doubts over possible fissures in the alliance. Claiming that the BJP has cheated the farmers, Mr. Singh said Home Minister Amit Shah had in 2017 promised to establish a fund for farmers in the name of Chaudhary Charan Singh. “Where is that programme? The Prime Minister promised to double farmers’ income in seven years. In seven days, we will enter 2022 but the farmers’ income has not been doubled.” He reiterated it was the unity of the farmers that made the PM, who didn’t reconsider demonetisation, to repeal the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rld-chief-flays-bjp-for-poor-track-record-on-real-issues/article38024621.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Centre advices caution while using ed-tech platforms||The Union government on Thursday issued a list of dos and don’ts for the public while subscribing to tutorials and courses on various ed tech platforms. The Ministry of Education in an advisory said the decision should be well considered and offers of free services by some companies should be carefully evaluated. “It has come to the notice of the Department of School Education and Literacy that some ed-tech companies are luring parents in the garb of offering free services and getting the Electronic Fund Transfer [EFT] mandate signed or activating the auto-debit feature, especially targeting the vulnerable families,” it said. The Ministry advised parents to not sign up for any loans for paying for content on these platforms. The applications should not be installed on mobile phones without verifying its authenticity. “Do not share any personal videos and photos. Use caution against turning on the video feature or getting on video calls on an unverified platform. Keep your child’s safety at the utmost priority.” It also advised precautions in the form of parent consent for any purchases, using OTP-based payment methods and avoiding clicking on pop up screens or attachments. It asked parents and schools to read the terms and conditions carefully before acknowledging the acceptance of learning software, cautioning them that the personal data could be tracked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-advices-caution-while-using-ed-tech-platforms/article38024899.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool and I-PAC work as one team: party||A day after comments from Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien drawing a distinction between the party and political consultancy group — I-PAC, the party in a tweet said that the two are working as one team and will continue to collaborate. In a tweet, the party said that the reports suggesting differences between the two were “hugely speculative and unsubstantiated”. During a media interaction at the conclusion of the Winter Session of Parliament on Wednesday, Mr. O’Brien had said, “We are a political party and they (I-PAC) are our political collaborators.” Ahead of the West Bengal Assembly election, the Trinamool had signed a five-year agreement with I-PAC. Key role He said that the I-PAC has an important role to play at the ground level as a political consultancy firm but the final call rests with the 21-member working committee of the party and primarily with Trinamool Congress Chairperson Mamata Banerjee. In a tweet from Trinamool Congress’s official handle, the party said on Thursday, “Under the leadership of @MamataOfficial, we work as one team and will continue to collaborate in the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-and-i-pac-work-as-one-team-party/article38024630.ece
24 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Turtle trail to get a boost with mass tagging||Scientists have resumed tagging of Olive Ridley turtles at Rushikulya rookery along the Odisha coast, which would help them identify the migration path and places visited by the marine reptiles after congregation and nesting. Researchers of the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) are carrying out tagging of the Olive Ridleys at three mass nesting sites — Gahirmatha, Devi River mouth and Rushikulya. The exercise was undertaken in Odisha in January 2021 after a span of about 25 years and 1,556 turtles had been tagged. On Wednesday, the ZSI team tagged 22 turtles (11 male and 11 female) in association with the Odisha Forest and Environment Department along the Rushikulya coast. “We are studying the path taken by turtles in the sea, if they keep coming to one nesting site for laying eggs, and the number of sites they visit over the years. Besides, the growth of turtles could be measured during the current study,” said Anil Mohapatra, ZSI scientist, who leads the research team at Gopalpur, on Thursday. Dr. Mohapatra added, “The study would also reveal the inter-rookery movement of turtles in Odisha. The migration pattern to other countries would be recorded in detail.” The metal tags affixed to turtles are non-corrosive and they do not harm their body. It can be removed later. The tags are uniquely numbered containing details such as the name of the organisation, country-code and email address. “If researchers in other countries come across the tagged turtles, they will email their location in longitude and latitude to us. There is an established network working on turtles,” said the scientist. “We intend to tag 30,000 turtles over a period of 10 years,” he said. Mass congregation of Olive Ridleys has been found to be very encouraging along the Rushikulya coast. The mass nesting picked up after the crossing of Cyclone Jawad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/turtle-trail-to-get-a-boost-with-mass-tagging/article38024903.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA files chargesheet in Darbhanga blast case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed a chargesheet against five persons, alleging that the bomb blast at Bihar’s Darbhanga railway station on June 17 was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operatives. Among those arraigned are Mohammed Nasir Khan and his brother Imran Malik, who are from Kairana in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli and had been living in Hyderabad; Saleem Ahmed and Kafil Ahmad from Kairana; and Iqbal Kana, who belongs to Shamli and has been operating from Lahore. The NIA probe revealed that the alleged LeT operatives had planned to set ablaze a moving long-distance train by planting an improvised explosive device (IED), which would lead to the death of a large number of passengers and damage public property. It is alleged that at the instance of Iqbal Kana, Nasir Khan and his brother configured the IED using locally procured chemicals and placed it in a parcel of clothes. On June 15, they booked the parcel at the Secunderabad railway office using a fake PAN card. According to the NIA, the accused intended to trigger the blast during the night. The fire caused in the running train could have engulfed the sleeping passengers, causing maximum casualty. However, the bomb exploded after the parcel was offloaded and no one was injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-files-chargesheet-in-darbhanga-blast-case/article38025424.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Population not the sole factor in J&K delimitation’||The proposal shared with associate members of the Delimitation Commission on Monday calls for increasing the number of seats in Kashmir to 47 and Jammu to 43, according to the members. After the meeting, NC MP and associate member of the Commission Hasnain Masoodi said the proposed increase was not based on the 2011 Census. Section 9 (1) (a) of the Delimitation Act, 2002, read with Section 60 (2) (b) of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, specified that all “constituencies shall, as far as practicable, be geographically compact areas, and regard shall be had to physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units, facilities of communication and public convenience”. Former Chief Election Commissioner O.P. Rawat said the provision has been followed in other cases, like in Lakshadweep, which has one parliamentary constituency despite having a much smaller populationthan others. Mr. Rawat added that as far as the Jammu and Kashmir delimitation was concerned, going by the initial proposal, the rules had been followed. “For the Opposition, it appears they have to find some issues that they can raise a red flag, which they may have found,” Mr. Rawat said. Former CEC and member of the last Delimitation Commission, N. Gopalaswami, said “generally, delimitation is conducted on the basis of the population”. However, “if there are issues that impede the smooth conduct of elections”, they should be addressed. For instance, he said there could be a constituency split by a hill or the need to correct wrong delimitation in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/non-population-issues-part-of-delimitation/article38024622.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Congress leaders reach out to Harish Rawat||A day after former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat took to Twitter to vent his frustration with his party, the Congress, its leadership is said to have reached out to him to address his grievances, a party insider stated on Thursday. There is no official word from the party but party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is said to have spoken to Mr. Rawat after his ‘outburst’. Mr. Rawat, along with Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Pritam Singh, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Ganesh Godiyal and party leader Yashpal Arya, is expected to meet former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday to discuss poll preparedness in Uttarakhand. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Mr. Rawat said that while those in power had let loose “crocodiles” in the sea of elections that he had to navigate, his own party had adopted a negative attitude. “Isn’t it strange that we have to swim in the sea of elections and the organisational structure for cooperation in most places, instead of extending a hand in cooperation, is either turning its back or playing a negative role,” he observed on Wednesday. While he talked of taking sanyas from politics, many in the Congress believed that it was a pressure tactic to force the party’s top leadership to declare him as chief ministerial face in the coming polls. So far, the party has been insisting on going into the Assembly polls, expected early next year, under a “collective leadership”. Reacting to Mr. Rawat’s tweet, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari, who had publically criticised the former’s handling of Punjab, took a dig at him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-leaders-reach-out-to-harish-rawat/article38024625.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka seeks SC probe into Ayodhya land deals||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Thursday accused the BJP-Rashrtiya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionaries of “indulging in corruption” in the name of Lord Ram and hurting the faith of millions of devotees by ‘misusing’ the funds of the Ram Temple Trust in questionable land transactions. Ms. Vadra, who is in charge of party in Uttar Pradesh, dismissed the probe ordered by the State government to inquire into the news reports that government officials and BJP leaders ‘rushed in’ to buy land at Ayodhya after the Supreme Court in November 2019 cleared the construction of Ram temple. ‘It is an eyewash’ Terming the probe an “eyewash,” Ms. Vadra said at a press conference that the Supreme Court should intervene. Land belonging to Dalits that was not allowed to be sold was also being “usurped and illegally bought” by officials and their relatives, she alleged and questioned the “silence” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. BJP leaders have “sold the sentiments, faith and religion by indulging in loot and misuse of donations” received for the Ram temple, she stated. “The money from the Ram Mandir Trust is being basically misused to benefit government officials and members of the BJP and the RSS,” she remarked. “A piece of land which was sold in 2017 to a certain person was then sold by that person in two parts. The first part, it was 10,000 square metres, was sold directly to the Ram Mandir Trust for Rs. 8 crore. The second part, which was 12000 square metres, was sold 19 minutes later to a certain Ravi Mohan Tiwari for Rs. 2 crore. Five minutes later, this Mr. Ravi Mohan Tiwari, is selling that Rs. 2 crore land for Rs. 18.5 core to the Ram Mandir Trust,” she said. “The Prime Minister and the Chief Minister are trying to save those who have indulged in theft of donations for the Ram temple. As per the registered land deeds, there is a 1300 per cent rise in land price within five minutes. The massive corruption in Trust money is very clear,” she alleged. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, who also explained details of various transactions, claimed that this was one of the fastest appreciation of land value anywhere in the world that rose by over Rs. 5.5 lakh every second. Ms. Vadra said, “The Trust was formed on an order of the Supreme Court, the enquiry should be done at that level... It is my view that the court, perhaps even suo motu, should intervene because here we are talking about the faith of millions. The fact that millions of people, not necessarily well off people, poor people also have given their savings to this trust, there is some moral responsibility owed to them.” Officials named She named Ayodhya Mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay and his nephew, besides trustee Anil Mishra and Champat Rai, secretary of the Ram temple Trust, as being involved in the land deals. “You cannot order an inquiry at the level of a district magistrate when the person, who has signed the paper, is the Mayor. It is absolutely ridiculous, so who are you trying to fool,” she asked.  Poor people also have given their savings to this trust, there is some moral responsibility owed to them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-seeks-sc-probe-into-ayodhya-land-deals/article38024627.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Blast in Ludhiana court leaves 1 dead, 6 injured||Earlier, after visiting the blast site, Mr. Channi observed that intelligence agencies and the police were working on all theories and would soon crack the case. “Prima facie, it seems that the deceased person was the perpetrator of this crime. The body has not been removed so that investigation and crime scene is not tampered with. A high-level probe has been ordered and all government agencies would unearth the truth in this case soon,” he remarked. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has sought a report from the Punjab government on the blast, a senior government official said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was also briefed about the incident, the official added. An eyewitness told The Hindu that the blast was so powerful that it badly damaged one of the walls in the complex besides shattering most of the windows of the building. At the time of the explosion, hundreds of people were in the complex. SAD president Sukhbir Badal asserted that the blast was a direct fallout of the conspiracies being hatched to destabilise the peace of the State. “We had said earlier that people will be provoked by communal incidents. This has happened with sacrilege also being committed at a temple after the desecration of Sri Harmandar Sahib [Golden Temple]. Now a bomb blast has also occurred. The State government and especially the State police chief should focus on maintaining law and order instead of keeping themselves busy in vendetta politics,” he said. He also demanded that a sitting judge of the High Court should monitor the probe into the recent cases of sacrilege “Sikhs and Punjabis do not have any faith in the Congress government and its Home Minister,” he stated. Hitting out at the Congress, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said the police were working with hands tied at the back and had been keeping information about drones and tiffin box bombs under the carpet. While condemning the blast, he alleged that anti-national forces were taking advantage of the situation as the government had completely failed to give security any priority. “Drones and bombs are being constantly pushed into Punjab by Pakistan’s ISI, and it is the duty of the State government to remain extra vigilant against it. ,” he said. The Aam Aadmi Party strongly condemned the blast and questioned the government about the ‘declining’ law and order situation in the State. Former Punjab Chief Minister Captain (retd.) Amarinder Singh said he was saddened by the death in the blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/blast-in-ludhiana-court-leaves-1-dead-6-injured/article38024632.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Karnataka passes anti-conversion Bill||Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that the Bill reflected the “hidden agenda of the RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)” since the genesis of the Bill was a petition from people connected to the RSS in 2009. He read out census numbers to show that the Bill was premised on the false notion that the population of minorities was rising. Mr. Eshwarappa accused Congress president Sonia Gandhi of stalling the Bill from being brought before the Cabinet earlier. “If you [Mr. Siddaramaiah] had tried to bring the Bill, you would have been removed,” he said. He went on to say, “We will protect dharma . We will cut into pieces whoever comes in the way.” As chaos descended on the House following this remark, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai stated, “The RSS is committed to an anti-conversion Bill. It is not a hidden agenda, it is an open secret. Why did the Congress government in 2016 initiate the Bill during its tenure following the RSS’s policy?... You are a party to this Bill.” The Bill is yet to be placed before the Karnataka Legislative Council, where currently the BJP does not have a majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-passes-anti-conversion-bill/article38024633.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||NIA files chargesheet in Darbhanga blast case||On June 15, they booked the parcel at the Secunderabad railway office using a fake PAN card. The railway workers kept it inthe Secunderabad-Darbhanga Express, which left the station at night. According to the NIA, the accused persons intended to trigger the blast during night hours. The fire caused by the explosion in the running train would have engulfed the sleeping passengers, causing maximum casualty. However, the bomb exploded after the parcel was offloaded at the Darbhanga railway station. No one was injured. The NIA alleged that on Iqbal Kana’s instruction, Nasir Khan had travelled to Pakistan and undergone training in the handling of arms and ammunition and configuring IEDs. He also received funds from Pakistan on various occasions for executing the conspiracy. “After the incident, the Pakistan-based handlers tried to facilitate the escape of the accused persons abroad via Nepal. However, they were arrested,” said an official. As alleged, Saleem Ahmed also knew Iqbal Kana, who was initially into smuggling of fake Indian currency, as both were from the same village. The accused visited Pakistan several times during 1990-2005 to import garments and was earlier roped in by Iqbal Kana for smuggling forged currency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-files-chargesheet-in-darbhanga-blast-case/article38024634.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Case cannot be quashed after prima facie proof’||Criminal proceedings against an accused person cannot be quashed merely because the charge-sheet was not filed by the police against some of his co-accused in the case, the Supreme Court has clarified. An accused person whose involvement in a crime has been prima facie proved during a thorough investigation cannot claim to be treated on a par with others against whom no material was found to be charge-sheeted, the court noted in a recent order. “Merely because some other persons who might have committed the offences, but were not arraigned as accused and were not charge-sheeted cannot be a ground to quash the criminal proceedings against the accused who is charge-sheeted after a thorough investigation,” a Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and B.V. Nagarathna observed. The order was pronounced in a case of criminal conspiracy, cheating and inducement to dishonestly deliver property involving a bank. The bank had filed the conspiracy case directly before the Court of Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru. The police investigated the complaint and filed a charge-sheet against the main accused but not two of the co-accused in the case. The main accused managed to get the case quashed by filing an appeal before the High Court, following which the bank approached the Supreme Court successfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-cannot-be-quashed-after-prima-facie-proof/article38024636.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Modi calls for ‘high alert’ against Omicron variant||Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, in a review meeting on Thursday, directed top officials coordinating India’s COVID-19 response to maintain a “high level of vigil and alertness at all levels”. He directed the Centre to closely coordinate with the States to support their efforts of public health measures of containment and management. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had in a letter on Wednesday directed the States to impose stringent restrictions on people’s movement if test positivity and bed occupancy in their districts crossed certain thresholds. Officials briefed the Prime Minister about the emerging global scenario driven by the new variant, Omicron, with an overview of the surge in cases in countries with high vaccination coverage. India has so far reported 236 instances of the Omicron variant since December 4. According to an official statement, the Prime Minister said the “fight against the pandemic is not over”. He added that “the need for continued adherence to COVID-safe behaviour is of paramount importance even today”. Work with States Mr. Modi directed officials to ensure that the health systems in the States, beginning from the the district-level, were strengthened to meet any challenge posed by the new variant. It was important for the States to ensure that oxygen supply equipment were installed and fully functional, he told officials. He directed officials that the Central government should send teams to the States with low vaccination, rising cases and insufficient health infrastructure to assist them improve the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-calls-for-high-alert-on-omicron/article38024646.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Anti-conversion Bill passed in Assembly amid protests||Intervening in the chaos, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urged Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri to adopt the Bill since the Opposition members were attempting to stall the session. While the Congress members raised high decibel slogans and held placards in the Well, the BJP members passed the Bill in a vociferous voice vote. Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that the Bill reflected the “hidden agenda of the RSS” since the genesis of the Bill was a petition from people connected to the RSS in 2009. He read out census numbers to show that the Bill was premised on the false notion that population of minorities was rising.  Mr. Eshwarappa accused Congress president Sonia Gandhi of preventing the Bill from being brought before the cabinet earlier. “If you (Mr. Siddaramaiah) had tried to bring the Bill, you would have been removed.” He went on to say, “We will protect dharma. We will cut into pieces whoever comes in the way.” As chaos broke out in the House following this remark, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said: “RSS is committed to anti-conversion Bill. It is not a hidden agenda, it is an open secret. Why did the Congress Government in 2016 initiate the Bill during its tenure following RSS’s policy?... You are a party to this Bill.” The Bill is yet to be placed before the Legislative Council, where the BJP currently does not have a majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-conversion-bill-passed-in-assembly-amid-protests/article38024944.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Restrict huge gatherings: HC||The government should also comply with the directives connected to controlling the new variant explained in a letter issued to all States on November 11 by Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. One of the counsels for the petitioners requested the bench to direct the government to inform court about the status of vaccination in the State as it stood third in Omicron cases. The bench posted all petitions to January 4 for hearing, stating that it would monitor enforcement of the directives related to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restrict-huge-gatherings-hc/article38025176.ece
24 December 2021||Mumbai,||Elgar Parishad case: activists to seek review||Eight activists accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, who were denied default bail by the Bombay High Court earlier this month, told the HC on December 23 that they will file review petitions against the Order which was based on a “factual error”. On December 1, the court granted default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj, also an accused in the case, on the ground that the Pune sessions court, which had granted extension of time to the Pune Police for filing of charge sheet after the mandatory 90-day period was over, did not have the jurisdiction to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elgar-parishad-case-activists-to-seek-review/article38024662.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab Cong. MPs meet Sonia Gandhi||The blast at a court complex in Ludhiana and the recent incidents of lynching in Amritsar and Kapurthala over attempted sacrilege figured in a meeting of Congress members of Parliament from Punjab with party president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday. The failure to condemn the lynching incidents by the Chief Minister, State Home Minister or any of top party functionaries was also noted at the meeting, said sources. The need to maintain communal peace in the State given its history of militancy was stressed upon by the MPs. The electoral strategy for the upcoming polls was also discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cong-mps-meet-sonia-gandhi/article38024895.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-Australia trade deal to be fast-tracked||Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal on Wednesday held a virtual meeting with his Australian counterpart Dan Tehan to fast-track negotiation regarding the bilateral Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA). Both sides had pledged in September that an “early harvest announcement” for an interim trade deal would be achieved by December and an official press release issued after the virtual discussion revealed that talks are currently on for the interim agreement. “The Ministers appreciated the progress made in various rounds of talks between the chief negotiators of both sides and discussed the way forward for an early conclusion of interim agreement,” a press release issued by the government said. Mr. Tehan had visited India in September when both sides agreed to move towards the final conclusion of CECA. A Joint Statement issued at the end of the “2+2” meeting had informed that an “early harvest announcement” regarding the interim trade deal would be made by December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-australia-trade-deal-to-be-fast-tracked/article38024638.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Call to play Indian music at airports||The Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) has requested Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia to make it mandatory for the country’s airlines and airports to play Indian music. “We urge you that if it can be made compulsory for Indian airlines to play Indian music, it will reach the people. We have seen that airlines in India often only play foreign music, which neither one can enjoy, nor does one understand,” said President, Indian Council for Cultural Relations and Rajya Sabha MP, Vinay Saharabuddhe at an event where he handed over a letter on the issue from the Council as well as eminent artistes such as Rita Ganguly, Wasifuddin Dagar, Pandit Sanjeev Abhyankar and Bollywood singer and music composer Anu Malik. In its letter, the Council recommended playing “Indian classical or light vocal and instrumental music” as this would go a long way in “strengthening emotional connect of our people to our civilisational traditions in music and arts”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-to-play-indian-music-at-airports/article38024898.ece
24 December 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool’s Firhad back as Kolkata Mayor||Senior Trinamool Congress leader and Cabinet Minister Firhad Hakim was on Wednesday renominated by party chairperson Mamata Banerjee as the Mayor of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC). The decision was announced at a meeting of elected party councillors. The Trinamool won 134 of the 144 wards in the recent KMC polls. Ms. Banerjee, who publicly announced Mr. Hakim as the leader of the party and the KMC, asked if anyone had any objection to the announcement. The decision to renominate Mr. Hakim, who has been at the helm of affairs at the KMC since December 2018, points out that the Chief Minister has kept her faith in the old guard. Ms. Banerjee had been conservative in selection of candidates for the civic polls and relied mainly on party faithfuls and their family members. “I want to thank Mamata Banerjee for giving me this opportunity to serve the people of Kolkata again. I have been appointed as the leader of the party and after taking oath as Mayor, I will work towards implementing the manifesto,” Mr. Hakim said. Mala Roy, South Kolkata MP who contested and won from ward number 88, has been nominated as the KMC chairperson. Atin Ghosh was nominated as the Deputy Mayor. Ms. Banerjee had announced 12 members of the Mayor-in-Council and chairpersons of the 16 boroughs. Other civic polls In another development, the West Bengal government informed the Calcutta High Court that polls to the civic bodies in Asansol, Siliguri, Chandannnagar and Bidhannagar would be held on January 22. There are 111 civic bodies in the State where elections are to be held in the next few months. The government has told the court that polls to civic bodies will be completed by May 2022.  After taking oath as Mayor, I will work towards implementing the manifesto Firhad Hakim Trinamool Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamools-firhad-returns-as-kolkata-mayor/article38024651.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Gadkari inaugurates intelligent transport system on Eastern Peripheral Expressway||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday inaugurated an intelligent transport system on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway to minimise traffic woes and enhance safety . He said India needs to improve its road engineering as every year, around 1.5 lakh people are killed in 5 lakh accidents across the country. The ITS can receive alerts to ensure that ambulance reaches the spot within 10-15 minutes.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gadkari-inaugurates-intelligent-transport-system-on-eastern-peripheral-expressway/article38024647.ece
24 December 2021||Bhopal,||No panchayat polls without OBC reservation, says resolution passed in M.P. Assembly||The Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution, which stated that no panchayat polls will be held in the State without reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). State Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who is also the Leader of the House, proposed the resolution saying that the State government wants every section of the society to get justice.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-panchayat-polls-without-obc-reservation-says-resolution-passed-in-mp-assembly/article38024654.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC defers hearing of Juhi Chawla’s 5G petition||The Delhi High Court on Thursday posted for January 25 the hearing on actor Juhi Chawla's appeal against an order dismissing her lawsuit against the 5G rollout, saying there was no grave urgency in the matter. Dismissing Ms. Chawla’s petition against the rollout of 5G technology in India in June with costs of Rs. 20 lakh, the High Court had called it “defective” and that it was filed only for “media publicity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-defers-hearing-of-juhi-chawlas-5g-petition/article38024655.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pearls Group scam: CBI arrests 11||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested 11 people in a case involving Pearls Group, which allegedly collected about Rs. 60,000 crore from close to five crore investors from across the country by floating unauthorised schemes. Five of the accused, Chander Bhushan Dhillon, Prem Seth, Manmohan Kamal Mahajan, Mohanlal Sehajpal and Kanwaljit Singh Toor, were from the group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pearls-group-scam-cbi-arrests-11/article38024659.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 100 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 100 crore of a businessman and his family members for allegedly cheating the IDBI Bank by fraudulently taking Kisan Credit Card (KCC) loans. The accused has been identified as Rebba Satyanarayana. The properties attached by the agency include agricultural lands, fish ponds, commercial sites, plots and flats in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, besides bank balances. The ED’s money laundering probe is based on a FIR by the Central Bureau of Investigation against Satyanarayana and others for allegedly taking KCC fish tank loans to the tune of Rs. 112.41 crore in the name of benami borrowers. According to the agency, the accused conspired with bank officials and others to get the loans sanctioned in the name of his family members, relatives and acquaintances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-100-crore/article38024639.ece
24 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Akhilesh Yadav in isolation for three days||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has decided to isolate himself for three days after his wife and other family members tested positive for COVID-19. As a result, he would not participate in the much anticipated joint rally of the SP and the Rashtriya Lok Dal in Aligarh on December 23. In a tweet on Wednesday, Mr. Yadav said though he tested negative, he was isolating himself as a precautionary measure as the RT-PCR test results of some of the family members had come out positive. Earlier in the day, he tweeted wishes on the occasion of Kisan Diwas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-yadav-in-isolation-for-three-days/article38024631.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC to hear Amazon’s plea against ED on Jan. 5||The Delhi High Court on Thursday posted for January 5, hearing on plea of two Indian subsidiaries of e-retail giant Amazon against an alleged “fishing and roving investigation” being done by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The plea filed by — Amazon Wholesale (India) Pvt Ltd and Amazon Seller Services Pvt Ltd — said the ED’s February 19 directive and related proceedings overlaps with an earlier investigation being conducted by Bangalore Regional Office of the Enforcement Directorate. It sought a direction of the high court to the ED to “not conduct fishing and roving enquiry on matters covered by legal privilege and seek for information falling outside the purview of FEMA (Foreign Exchange Management Act)”. The plea said the two companies are Indian resident entities and are challenging the investigation as it pertains to transactions that have no foreign exchange element. The U.S.-based e-commence giant is embroiled in fiercely fought legal battle with Future Retail after the Kishore Biyani-led group in August last year agreed to sell its assets to Reliance Retail. These investigation are causing unnecessary harassment despite full co-operation by the companies, the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-to-hear-amazons-plea-against-ed-on-jan-5/article38024650.ece
24 December 2021||Mumbai,||Kangana appears before Mumbai Police in case related to social media post on farmers||Actor Kangana Ranaut appeared before the Mumbai Police on Thursday in connection with an FIR registered against her for a social media post that allegedly linked farmers’ protests to a separatist group, her lawyer said. Ms. Ranaut reached the Khar police station around 11 a.m. The FIR was registered following a complaint made by a Sikh body that claimed the actor had portrayed the farmers’ protest on Delhi borders as a Khalistani movement.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kangana-appears-before-mumbai-police-in-case-related-to-social-media-post-on-farmers/article38024653.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco to bear cost of installation of transformers||A slew of consumers recently knocked the doors of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), seeking relief from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd. (Tangedco) demand on them pay the cost of installing distribution transformers and related equipment for availing service connections. The regulator ruled that the Tangedco’s demands are in violation of norms and set guidelines, noting that the issue has State-wide ramifications. In November 2021, TNERC, hearing a case filed by Chennai-based Tara Murali, ruled that the cost pertaining to the distribution transformer and related structures had to be borne by the Tangedco while the cost pertaining to the installation of the high tension (HT) line and low tension (LT) on the premises must be paid by the consumer. In this case, the Tangedco had originally demanded Rs. 13,65,700 from the consumer in relation to six flats. This sum included Rs. 10,43,053 as estimated charges towards installing the distribution transformer and related work. While there were no issues with regard to charges under current consumption deposit, meter caution deposit and service connection charges, the main dispute was over charges for distribution transformers and related work. Selective application During the course of the hearing in the case, the Tangedco revised the total amount to Rs. 2,78,100. In its order, the TNERC said in 2015 it had clarified on the issue through an order that the cost of transformer and related infrastructure should be borne by the power utility. In one instance, after the consumer had approached the Commission for relief, the Tangedco had revised the charges. “This creates an impression that the respondent [Tangedco] is not clear in its mind and authoritative in its action in collecting the charges from the prospective consumers. Such an attitude of showing discrimination to consumers depending upon their course of legal actions does not augur well for a service organisation valuing the trust of the people,” it said. The TNERC also warned of statutory action against Tangedco officials if they collected charges unlawfully. Taking note of the Tangedco’s submission that there was a huge gap between the actual expenditure incurred on infrastructure extension (which is around Rs. 1,477.82 crore) and the development charges collected from consumers (around Rs. 436.51 crore), the Commission told the board to file a petition for revising the charges for each level of voltage and category, considering its financial viability. Till then, the Tangedco should stop charging consumers for distribution transformers and related infrastructure, it ruled. Four other consumers filed separate petitions before the TNERC on similar issues and this month the TNERC ruled that the order passed in Tara Murali’s case would apply to these as well and set aside the excess demand notice. Along with the demand notice, TNERC told Tangedco to enclose a sketch duly authenticated by the sanctioning authority with clear demarcation of the Tangedco side and consumer side costs and measurement of length of cable/line and proposed structure/equipment in the respective portions. The copy of the sanctioned estimate, comprising the entire details of quantity and cost should be enclosed with the said sketch, the TNERC said and added that all consumer clarifications should be addressed. The TNERC said excess charges collected should be refunded in 30 days or adjusted in future bills. Tangedco to appeal “The Tangedco should ensure no consumer suffered on account of the actions of field officials and a well-coordinated system has to be set in motion to take corrective action at the higher level to avoid consumers from knocking on the doors of the Commission for relief,” it said. A senior official from the Tangedco said they were going on an appeal against the orders of the TNERC. The offcial said that the poor financial position was one of the reasons for the utility to recover the expenses for erecting the infrastructure. “There is a provision in the Electricity Act, under Section 46, for erecting the infrastructure that is meant to be utilised by the particular premises and recovering the cost from the consumers,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-to-bear-cost-of-installation-of-transformers/article38025017.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin goes green by launching ‘Meendum Manjappai’ scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday launched ‘Meendum Manjappai’ scheme to promote the usage of cloth bags by the general public to discourage plastic bags, which have become rampant in the State over the years. Contending that plastic is harmful to environment, Mr. Stalin called upon the people to completely reduce its usage. Launching the campaign in Kalaivanar Arangam here, Mr. Stalin recalled how long ago yellow-coloured cloth bags were symbolic of auspicious occasion but eventually plastic bags replaced them.  Harmful effects The Chief Minister also listed out the harmful effects of single-use plastic products and highlighted the need for replacing them with cloth bags. “If the plastic is thrown away, it would take several years for it to decompose and adversely affect the soil. If the soil is affected, agriculture would be affected. Moreover, cattle eat plastics and die,” Mr. Stalin lamented. If plastic carry bags are thrown into waterbodies, the organisms there are affected and the water is polluted too, he pointed out. “The sea is affected when single-use plastic products are thrown into it. Aquatic organisms feed on them and die,” he added. Toxic chemicals emanate when the single-use plastic products are combusted and they affect the air quality, Mr. Stalin said. “So, considering the extent of its damage to the environment, we need to stop the usage of plastic," he appealed. So far, electricity connection to 130 factories have been withdrawn for violating the ban against single-use plastic. “The Government alone could not implement this, but the general public should join hands. If people reject plastic products, there can be a definite change,” the Chief Minister said. Minister for Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, Minister for Environment Siva V. Meyyanathan, Chennai Central MP Dayanidhi Maran, Secretary of Environment and Forests Supriya Sahu, Chairman of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board A. Udhayan, German Consul General in Chennai Karin Christina Maria Stoll and senior officials participated in the event.  If the plastic is thrown away, it would take several years for it to decompose and adversely affect the soil. If the soil is affected, agriculture would be affected M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-goes-green-by-launching-meendum-manjappai-scheme/article38024995.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Repair work paralyses vehicular traffic in Duraisamy subway||Traffic congestion has increased in the Duraisamy subway because of civic infrastructure work being carried out to repair the damage caused by the recent rain. Residents have requested the Greater Chennai Corporation and other line agencies to restore the stretch which connects West Mambalam with T. Nagar. The wearing course of the subway was damaged in the recent rain. A portion of the Brindavan Road near the Duraisamy subway has caved in, because of the damage caused to the sewer network by the recent rain. “Vehicles have been diverted to the narrow streets on either side of the Duraisamy subway. There is traffic congestion in the morning and evening,” said West Mambalam resident C. Ramesh. Officials said the Bridges Department of the Corporation planned to take up repairs to the wearing course of the Duraisamy subway and the Nungambakkam subway between December 24 and 27. “We have received permission from the traffic police to start the work,” said an official. Closed to traffic One side of the subway will be closed to traffic to facilitate the completion of the work. The work on the Duraisamy subway includes drilling of up to 300 mm and applying polyurethane for grouting. The construction joints, expansion joints and dummy joints will be cleaned. The concrete surface will be cleaned with water jet before laying micro-concrete at an average thickness of 75 mm. The work is expected to progress without any break. Curing is expected to be done for 24 hours before the stretch is opened on Monday morning. “The wearing course of the Nungambakkam subway was damaged on the northern side of the carriage-way. Permission has been sought from the traffic police,” said an official. After completion of the work on the northern side, the southern side of the subway near Loyola College would be taken up, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repair-work-paralyses-vehicular-traffic-in-duraisamy-subway/article38025025.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents ask for uniform delimitation of wards during public hearing||Residents demanded uniform demarcation of wards during the public hearing held for undertaking delimitation exercise in the newly-formed Tambaram Corporation. The public hearing organised by the Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission in Tambaram on Thursday saw residents and representatives of political parties from Pallavaram, Tambaram, Kundrathur, Mangadu, Ranipet, and Chitlapakkam, participating in it and voicing their concerns. Most of them said the present demarcation of wards in municipalities, special panchayats and panchayats had been done in a disorganised manner. K. Chinnaraj, an office-bearer of the Irumbuliyur Village Welfare Association, said the residents wholeheartedly welcomed the formation of the Tambaram Corporation but were disappointed with the relocation of Vijayarangam Street from Irumbuliyur to Ganapathipuram. This would cause hardship to residents who had to go in for change of address as well as travel a long distance to cast their vote in a different locality, he said. Dhanraj of Kundrathur said the division of wards had been carried out in a haphazard manner and urged the Delimitation Commission to fix a minimum population for each ward so that the size of the electorate remained the same in all wards. Residents of Mehta Nagar in Kundrathur gave a representation about their locality being divided into five wards disregarding their views. They wanted their wards to be redrawn so that all streets fell under one ward. Similar views were expressed by the people of Mangadu. Citing the population of Poonamallee, which had fewer wards, the residents of Mangadu wanted fewer number of wards. Former Pallavaram MLA and Municipality Chairman P. Dhansingh said the Pallavaram Municipality was supposed to be bigger than Tambaram Municipality. The officials of the Delimitation Commission should keep in view the population of the wards and not the number of houses. Social activist V. Santhanam said the public hearing should have been held before the announcement of the Tambaram Corporation with which Pallavaram Municipality had been merged. The Municipal Administration Department went ahead with the formation of the Tambaram Corporation ignoring the plea of the residents who wanted their suburb to be brought under the Greater Chennai Corporation. While demarcating the wards in the expanded Tambaram Corporation, the officials should keep in view the need for smaller wards where individuals could contest as Independent candidates for better opportunities. A senior official of Kancheepuram district said 42 petitions had been received. Of these, three petitions had been recommended to the Delimitation Commission for consideration. “The remaining 39 petitions are under study and would be sent to the Commission for action,” he added.  Officials should keep in view the population of the wards and not the number of houses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-uniform-delimitation-of-wards/article38025039.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 spreading within family, extended contacts||The number of Chennai’s daily COVID-19 cases, which remains above 100, has been fluctuating for quite sometime now. However, a majority of the patients who have tested positive were familymembers and extended contacts, say officials. The number of daily cases ranged from 127 on December 17 to 132 on December 21, and increasing to 145 on December 23. “Nearly 30-40% of the total cases are index cases. A majority of our daily cases are family members and extended contacts. The travel history and contact history of index cases are studied extensively like how we traced and tested all family members and extended contacts of the person who first tested positive for Omicron variant. Another cluster emerged recently at a private laboratory where 12 staff tested positive for COVID-19 after a person living in Mumbai visited them,” an official said. In fact, as part of screening and testing for detection of Omicron, the Greater Chennai Corporation had traced and tested 423 extended contacts in a particular case. Officials said that not many cases were reported in Zones I (Tiruvottiyur), II (Manali) and III (Madhavaram) of the north region while some localities in the central and south regions reported cases in two digits. As of December 22, 409 streets had active cases in the city. Of these, 352 streets had less than three cases. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said that they had asked the Greater Chennai Corporation to tighten surveillance and enforcement, especially in identified places such as markets. “The awareness is high in Chennai but it has not resulted in change in behaviour. We have stressed on the need to improve communication so that it results in behavioural change. We have asked them to ensure that when positive cases are identified, the extended contacts are to be fully covered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-spreading-within-family-extended-contacts/article38025007.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dashboard launched in CMO to monitor schemes||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launched the ‘CM Dashboard Monitoring System’ at his office on Thursday. It will enable him to track all welfare schemes, including the status of their implementation, fund allocation and the number of beneficiaries. It will help in proper monitoring, more efficiency, elimination of delays and prompt decisions. It will also update the Chief Minister on the storage in the key dams and rainfall patterns. Price mesh will monitor the prices of more than 25 foodgrains, vegetables and fruits and project a possible increase in the prices to facilitate government intervention. The status of the economy, including employment trends, and civil supplies will also be available on the dashboard, according to an official release. The dashboard will display the status of pleas and representations made on the Chief Minister Helpline and under the ‘CM In Your Constituency’ scheme, the daily police reports on major crimes, and the progress of housing schemes for the urban and rural poor and water supply schemes. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan; Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj; Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu; Secretary-I to the Chief Minister T. Udhayachandran; Managing Director of Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd. Ajay Yadav; CEO of Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency K. Vijayendra Pandian; and Adviser to TNeGA P.W.C. Davidar were present at the launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dashboard-launched-in-cmo-to-monitor-schemes/article38024993.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Conductors cannot question or touch women passengers’||In the wake of multiple incidents, where women passengers were verbally or sexually harassed by bus conductors, the government has decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, specifying that conductors cannot ask any inappropriate questions about the intention of travel of a woman passenger or a girl or touch them. The conductor cannot make any physical contact, sexual remarks or jokes with women or girls, a notification of the draft amendments to the Motor Vehicles Rules, made earlier this week by the Home Department, said. The draft amendment said the conductor cannot “touch any woman passenger or girl on the pretext that he is assisting her to get into or get down from the vehicle”. The conductor cannot behave in a way causing annoyance to any passengers, specifically women and girls. The draft rules also provide for enabling conductors to (after reasonable caution) either deboard male passengers or hand them over to any police station if they attempted or made any obscene act causing annoyance to female passengers. Earlier, the rules said conductors shall not ask any person, who has paid the legal fare, to alight from the vehicle before the conclusion of the journey. The obscene acts that could attract action include staring, leering, whistling, winking, making sexually offensive gestures or singing songs, uttering words, taking photos or videos causing annoyance to female passengers. Conductors must maintain a complaint book with serially numbered pages to be provided to any passenger for recording feedback. This book shall be produced on demand to police officers or Transport Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conductors-cannot-question-or-touch-women-passengers/article38025037.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco staff demand money for fixing cables’||There is a growing list of complaints from domestic consumers and commercial users that local electricity officials demand money for replacing worn out or punctured underground cables and other material for restoring electricity supply. There are instances of linemen asking residents to buy material to replace pillar boxes. While ‘shortage’ of underground cables is cited as the reason, the senior officials said it was the responsibility of the Tangedco to replace cables up to the pillar boxes. Recently, P. Nakkeeran, who runs a small factory in the Ambattur Industrial Estate, filed a complaint seeking action against an Executive Engineer and an Assistant Engineer for ‘demanding favours’ for restoring power supply in the street where a number of industries were located. Mr. Nakkeeran, who is an office-bearer of Arappor Iyakkam, said the officials claimed there was a shortage of manpower and money was needed to rectify the problem immediately. However, when it was brought to the notice of senior officials, the power supply was restored with the Tangedco’s own material but after a delay of more than one day. A senior official said there was no shortage of manpower or material, and action would be taken based on the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-staff-demand-money-for-fixing-cables/article38025014.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mamallapuram dance fest gets under way||The annual 30-day Indian Dance Festival organised by the Tamil Nadu Tourism Department began at Mamallapuram near Chennai on Thursday. Around 90 performances, including those of Bharathanatyam, Kuchipudi, Mohiniattam and Kathak and folk arts such as Oyilattam, Karagattam, Kavadi and Thappaattam will be held as part of the festival. Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises T.M. Anbarasan, who inaugurated the festival, urged the District Collector to draw up a traffic management plan for the town of Mamallapuram. “The number of visitors, both domestic and foreigners, is going up by the year. During some weekends, the traffic is unbearable. The government is taking every step to make the visit and stay of tourists to this town comfortable,” he said. In 2017, 1.50 crore tourists visited the town and in 2018 the number went up to 1.82 crore. In 2020, it came down to 36.8 lakh due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Anbarasan said. Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan said 1.90 lakh guests had attended the festival in 2019-2020. This year, the festival would go on till January 23, 2022. The programmes would be held in the evenings by following all COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mamallapuram-dance-fest-gets-under-way/article38025033.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 607 cases of COVID-19, eight deaths||Tamil Nadu logged 607 fresh cases of COVID-19 and eight deaths on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai’s daily tally saw a marginal rise as 145 persons tested positive for the infection. Among those who tested positive in the State were six international travellers — two each from Europe, the United Kingdom and the U.S.A. — and five persons who returned from other States by road — three from Andhra Pradesh and two from West Bengal. While Ariyalur had no fresh case of COVID-19, 24 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. With Chennai continuing to top the table of cases, Coimbatore recorded 92 cases, while there were 56 cases in Chengalpattu and 45 in Erode. Tiruppur logged 43 cases, while there were 30 cases in Salem and 27 in Namakkal. The fresh cases took the overall tally to 27,42,224, while the toll stood at 36,707. A total of 31 districts did not report any deaths. There were two deaths in Chennai, and one each in Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Erode, Salem, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi. Another 689 persons were discharged after treatment. This took the total recoveries to 26,98,628. There were a total of 6,889 active cases in the State. This included 1,325 persons in Chennai and 1,073 persons in Coimbatore. As many as 1,03,938 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,66,22,301. Testing approval One private laboratory — Sri Samraj Labs, Cuddalore — was approved for COVID-19 testing. A total 1,85,675 persons were vaccinated across the State, taking the total coverage of government vaccination centres so far to 7,84,44,667. Among those vaccinated were 1,02,108 persons aged 18 to 44 years, 55,170 persons aged 45 to 59 years and 27,594 senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-607-cases-of-covid-19-eight-deaths/article38024990.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assets worth Rs. 19.59 cr. attached in Santiago Martin’s case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached immovable properties worth Rs. 19.59 crore under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, (PMLA) in the case against Santiago Martin, also known as ‘lottery king’, and others. The attached properties consist of various immovable assets in the form of vacant lands situated in Tamil Nadu. The ED initiated a money laundering investigation on the basis of a charge sheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Kochi against Martin and others under the sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Lotteries (Regulation) Act, 1998. According to a statement issued by the ED, investigation revealed that the partners of M/s. M.J. Associates, Santiago Martin and N. Jayamurugan, made unlawful gain with a corresponding loss to the government of Sikkim to the extent of Rs. 910.29 crore by inflating the prize winning ticket’s claim for the period from April 2009 to August 2010. Martin, his companies and others have invested parts of the proceeds generated from the lottery business in immovable properties through more than 40 companies, which were created in the name of their family members and other associates to project the same as untainted properties. His companies have acquired immovable properties worth Rs. 19.59 crore from the loans and advances given by him and his family members. Earlier, the ED had attached assets worth Rs. 258 crore. With the present attachment, the total value has reached Rs. 277.59 crore. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assets-worth-rs-1959-cr-attached-in-santiago-martins-case/article38025003.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Installing CCTV cameras in spas, massage centres is mandatory’||The Madras High Court has made it mandatory for spas, massage and therapy centres to install closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras inside their premises to assist the police in ensuring that no objectionable activity such as prostitution takes place in those centres. Justice S.M. Subramaniam directed the Director General of Police (DGP) to issue appropriate orders to all spas, massage and therapy centres to not only install CCTV cameras but also make sure that they remain functional all the time so that the footage could be checked on demand. Directions to DGP The DGP was ordered to issue necessary directions to ensure that the spas, massage and therapy centres “conduct their business activities in a transparent manner and avoid secluded or closed rooms paving way for illegal activities.” The judge made it clear that the police could crack down on violators. “In the event of any reasonable suspicion, information or complaint, the police authorities are directed to initiate all appropriate actions in the manner known to law,” the judge wrote. The orders were passed while disposing of a writ petition filed in 2015 by the owner of an Ayurvedic therapy centre in Villupuram. The petitioner had urged the court to forbear the police from interfering in any manner with her lawful business. Refusing to issue such a direction, the judge said the court could not be expected to act upon a self-certification given by the petitioner, and that the police were duty bound to keep a check on such activities by conducting regular inspections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/installing-cctv-cameras-in-spas-massage-centres-is-mandatory/article38024991.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Justice Authinathan panel set up to make recommendations for release of life convicts||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a six-member committee headed by retired High Court judge Justice N. Authinathan to make recommendations for the premature release of life convicts on the basis of “good behaviour” and on “humanitarian grounds.” According to an official release, the panel would comprise the Director of Institute of Mental Health, the Director of Medical Education, Prisons Department Chief Probation Superintendent, a psychologist and a senior criminal lawyer. A senior officer in the Prison and Correctional Services Department would be its member- secretary. The panel’s proposed recommendations would benefit life convicts who have served 10 or 20 years, those who are elderly, sick with co-morbidities, mentally affected and differently abled, but could not be released under the existing guidelines. The panel would study relevant Supreme Court judgments, the existing Acts and rules and make its recommendations.  The panel would study relevant Supreme Court judgments, the existing Acts and rules and make its recommendations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/justice-authinathan-panel-set-up-to-make-recommendations-for-release-of-life-convicts/article38025030.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||19 start-ups get a grant of Rs. 5 lakh from govt.||As many as 19 start-ups from across Tamil Nadu, which were selected in the second edition of the Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund (TANSEED), received a grant of Rs. 5 lakh each from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday. This corpus of Rs. 95 lakh is the first tranche that has been disbursed. Each start-up is eligible for another Rs. 5 lakh in the coming months. Solinas Integrity Private Limited, which works in the water and sanitation industry to solve the problems of pipeline leakages and tank-cleaning; Dev Beetech India Private Limited, which has come out with an IoT-based device to track bees, and Mangoleap Private Limited (Gallabox), an omni-channel customer engagement platform, are among the start-ups that received the funding. Around 640 start-ups applied in the second edition and 53 of them were shortlisted for a boot camp. Finally, 30 start-ups made it to the pre-final pitch and 19 were chosen for the funding. Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Mission, mandated to build a vibrant ecosystem, has been implementing TANSEED to promote the start-up culture in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-start-ups-get-a-grant-of-rs-5-lakh-from-govt/article38025034.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC summons advocate||The Madras High Court on Thursday issued statutory notice to advocate R.D. Santhanakrishnan, who was found involved in an ‘erotic act’ with a woman during virtual court proceedings, in suo motu criminal contempt of court proceedings initiated against him and ordered his appearance on January 20. Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha passed the orders after the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) filed a preliminary report naming the advocate found in a video clipping circulated widely on the social media. The court was told that social media platforms had been asked to prevent its circulation. The court was told that the CB-CID had registered a case under various provisions of the IPC. The judges nominated advocate B. Vijay to represent the High Court Registry in the suo motu proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-summons-advocate/article38025029.ece
24 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Panel to make recommendations for premature release of life convicts||The State government has constituted a six-member committee headed by retired High Court judge Justice N. Authinathan to make recommendations for premature release of life convicts on the basis of “good behaviour” and “humanitarian grounds”. According to an official release, the panel would comprise the Director of Institute of Mental Health, Director of Medical Education, Prisons Department Chief Probation Superintendent, a psychologist and a senior criminal lawyer. A senior officer in the Prison and Correctional Services Department would be its member secretary. The panel’s proposed recommendations would benefit life convicts, who have served 10 or 20 years, and those who were elderly, sick with comorbidities, mentally affected and differently-abled, but could not be released under existing guidelines. The panel would study relevant Supreme Court judgments, existing Acts and rules and make its recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-make-recommendations-for-premature-release-of-life-convicts/article38025154.ece
24 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Conductors cannot question women passengers; touch them’||In the wake of multiple incidents, where women passengers were verbally or sexually harassed by bus conductors, the Tamil Nadu government has decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 specifying that conductors cannot ask any inappropriate questions about the intention of travel of a woman passenger or a girl or touch them. The conductor cannot make any physical contact, sexually-coloured remarks, comments or jokes with woman or girls, a notification of the draft amendments to Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 made earlier this week by the Home Department said. The draft amendment said the conductor cannot “touch any women passenger or girl on the false pretext that he is assisting her to get into or getting down the vehicle.” The conductor cannot behave in a way causing annoyance to any passengers, women and girl in specific. The draft rules also provides for enabling conductors to (after reasonable caution) either de-board male passenger or hand them over to any police station en route if they attempted or made any obscene act causing annoyance or harassment of the female passengers. Earlier, the rules said conductors shall not ask any person, who has paid the legal fare, to alight from the vehicle before the conclusion of the journey. The obscene acts that could attract action include staring, leering, whistling, winking, making sexually offensive gestures or singing songs, uttering words, taking photos or videos or any other form of electronic communication causing annoyance or harassment of female passengers. Conductors must maintain a complaint book with serially numbered pages to be provided to any passenger for recording feedback. This book shall be produced on demand to police officers or Transport Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conductors-cannot-question-women-passengers-touch-them/article38025155.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||National Health Mission signs MoU with four firms to expand Population Health Registry||National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu, has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a consortium of four organisations to expand works for the Population Health Registry (PHR), after piloting it in Kandamangalam block of Villupuram district. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said that 6.57 crore unique health IDs for people in the State were created for the PHR, an announcement made in the Assembly. With this, 25 more firms would be roped in by the end of January to take up work for PHR. The pilot project covered 79,000 residents of Kandamangalam under population-based screening, ‘ Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ and universal health coverage. Women health volunteers were engaged in health profiling of individuals in the block, according to officials. “PHR is like an operating system. The platform will serve as the backbone for health in the State,” an official also said. Officials said PHR would be based on the State family database. Firms would provide support, in areas such as engineering and technology for the project, and more would be roped in as Expression of Interest has been called for. The Minister handed over appreciation certificates to women health volunteers on the occasion. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Mission Director of NHM-Tamil Nadu Darez Ahamed were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-health-mission-signs-mou-with-four-firms-to-expand-population-health-registry/article38025358.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Integration of Ayush with public health system improves healthcare delivery’||Central Council for Research in Siddha and National Institute of Siddha (NIS), along with Tamil Nadu Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy, organised fifth Siddha Day celebrations in Chennai on Thursday. Union Minister for Ayush and Minister for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal said the Ministry of Ayush had implemented a scheme for free distribution of Ayush prophylactic medicines across the country through various nodal institutions to enhance the immunity of the public and combat the pandemic. He also lauded the State Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy’s initiatives in developing the indigenous system of medicine by providing healthcare through 1,079 Siddha units across the State. Integration of the Ayush system with the public health systems would improve the healthcare delivery by providing extended avenues to reach out to people. Means for management of chronic diseases, such as cancer and diabetes, are available in Siddha system that would complement the modern medical systems, he said. Munjpara Mahendrabhai Kalubhai, Minister of State, Ministry of Ayush and Ministry of Women and Child Development; State Health Minister M. Subramanian; Pramod Kumar Pathak, Special Secretary, Ministry of Ayush; and J. Radhakrishnan, Tamil Nadu Health and Family Welfare Secretary, were among those who took part in the event. Several events highlighting the Siddha system to treat communicable diseases, an integrated approach towards combating COVID-19 and the integration of Siddha and biomedicine to treat communicable diseases were also held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/integration-of-ayush-with-public-health-system-improves-healthcare-delivery/article38025117.ece
24 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Nalini granted a month’s ordinary leave: Govt.||The State Government on Thursday told the Madras High Court that it has passed orders on Wednesday granting a month’s ordinary leave to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict S. Nalini for taking care of her octogenarian mother residing in Vellore. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha, State Public Prosecutor (SPP) Hasan Mohammed Jinnah said, the convict would be allowed to step out of the prison after complying with certain formalities and the conditions that had been imposed for grant of leave. The submissions were made during the hearing of a writ petition filed by the convict’s mother S. Padma seeking a direction to the Government to consider two representations made by her daughter for grant of ordinary leave. Petitioner’s counsel M. Radhakrishnan withdrew the case after the submission made by the SPP. The prosecutor said the Government had already decided to release all seven convicts involved in the case, and that a September 2018 Cabinet recommendation in this regard was pending with the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nalini-granted-a-months-ordinary-leave-govt/article38024998.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders crackdown on unlicensed meat shops||The Madras High Court has directed the Director of Rural Development to instruct subordinates to crack down on all meat shops being run across the State without a valid licence and register criminal cases against those who slaughter animals without adhering to the appropriate rules and regulations. Justice S.M. Subramaniam also ordered strict implementation of the Tamil Nadu Village Panchayats (Prohibition or Regulation of the use of places for slaughtering animals and licensing of slaughterers) Rules, 1999, and insisted that disciplinary action must be initiated against officials who fail to comply. The orders were passed while disposing of a writ petition filed in 2015 complaining about a meat shop functioning without licence at Panagal village in Nagapattinam district. The judge agreed with the litigant that the officials often do not take stern action against the violators, leading to health hazards. “Health being the basic right of every citizen, any such complaint given by the people of a locality must be looked into, and swift actions must be initiated without any delay,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-crackdown-on-unlicensed-meat-shops/article38024999.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6 men, 3 juveniles held for murder||Six men and three schoolgirls have been arrested for the murder of a college student in Tiruvallur district. The deceased, Premkumar, 19, of Manivakkam, had extorted Rs. 1 lakh from the girls by blackmailing them. The two girls took up the matter with one of their sisters, a Plus Two student. In turn, she approached Ashok, her friend. Ashok and his friends took Premkumar to Echankadumettu in Periya Obalapuram. He was beaten to death and his body was buried. The Arambakkam police registered a case and took up investigation on a complaint from the village administrative officer on December 18. After investigation, the police arrested A. Ashok Kumar, 22; M. Lenin, 21; M. Praveen Kumar, 21; E. Jeganathan, 22; R. Stephen, 21; and R. Moses, 29 and the three schoolgirls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-men-3-juveniles-held-for-murder/article38025031.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Half-yearly break for govt. schools||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyamozhi has announced that students of government schools will have half-yearly holidays from December 25 to January 2. He was in Tirunelveli on Thursday to participate in a review meeting with Education Department officials from the southern districts. With schools reopening for senior classes in September and for other classes in November, it was anticipated that there might be no holidays this year owing to the delayed start to the academic year. Earlier, the School Education department called off the quarterly and half-yearly exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/half-yearly-break-for-govt-schools/article38025028.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Demolish dilapidated buildings: OPS||In the wake of the collapse of a dilapidated building in Madurai killing a policeman and injuring another, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Thursday urged the Tamil Nadu Government to survey and demolish all old and unused buildings to prevent such accidents. In a statement, he urged the Government to register a case against the owner of the building in Madurai. He added that since the policeman died while on duty, the announced solatium of Rs. 25 lakh should be increased. ‘Take action’ AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday demanded that the police take strict action against persons who assaulted the Naam Tamilar Katchi’s cadre at a public meeting near Morappur in Dharmapuri district earlier this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demolish-dilapidated-buildings-ops/article38025000.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Title conferred on Madurai G.S. Mani||The title of Naadha Kovidha was conferred on Carnatic Vidwan and guru Madurai G.S. Mani at the 20th Sangeetha Raga Mahotsavam of Naadhabrahmam held on Thursday. Justice S. Vimala, Member, Law Commission, Government of Tamil Nadu, who presented the title said that music was the panacea for all ills. She said that there was a need to take music to all homes. The title of ‘Vaidhya Sevanirata’ was conferred on D. Badrinarayanan and appreciation award was given to N.S. Kamakshi at the event in Vivekananda Hall, P.S. Senior Secondary School, Mylapore. Naadhabrahmam founder N. Subramanian said the event would go on for 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/title-conferred-on-madurai-gs-mani/article38025027.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for bank fraud in Chennai||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of the Central Crime Branch on Thursday arrested two persons for cheating HDFC Bank after availing a consumer loan. The accused have been identified as K. Saravanan, 37, of Thiruvallur Nagar, Kotturpuram; and N. Rajesh Kannan, 34, of Kuberan Nagar, Madipakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-bank-fraud-in-chennai/article38025013.ece
24 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation initiates steps to streamline its administration||Coimbatore Corporation has decided to sell off old, faulty street lights, fittings and poles, old and damaged school furniture and remove a few non-tax items from its demand list. The Corporation undertook the exercise at the October Council meetings, the details of which it made public a few days ago. In a resolution, the Corporation after calling for tender, received three bids for the 67,878 lights. It had assessed the value of the 67,878 lights and fittings at Rs. 74 lakh. Of the three bids, Chennai-based Global Steel company had placed its bid for Rs. 74.85 lakh, which was the highest. The Council, therefore, decided to award the tender to the company, the resolution said. Likewise, the Corporation decided to float tenders to sell off chairs, desk, racks, name boards and electronic accessories that heads of its schools had identified as scrap. The Corporation had constituted a team comprising assistant commissioner, revenue, and zonal assistant executive engineers to arrive at the value of each of those items. Based on the team’s recommendation, the Corporation would soon be floating a tender, said another resolution. The Corporation also used the October Council meeting to correct a few anomalies in the list of non-tax demands. For long, the Corporation had not updated the list of shops or markets or other assets it had let out on rent or annual lease. It identified 23 such assets and removed those from the list and also brought down its non-tax demand by Rs. 1.38 crore as it had demolished those shops or buildings or they were dilapidated to be given out on rent, the Council resolution said. In another major financial cleaning exercise, the Corporation decided to halve the caution and security deposits of 48 shops as it could not rent out those. The Corporation said it had made more than 10 attempts in the last three financial years to let out those shops but failed. It was understood that caution and security deposits being high was one of the reasons and therefore decided to bringdown the deposits from Rs. 1.19 crore to around Rs. 59 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-initiates-steps-to-streamline-its-administration/article38025058.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Si’Tarc launches project for MSMEs||The Scientific and Industrial Testing and Research Centre (Si’Tarc) and the Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI), Coimbatore chapter, have launched a programme here to empower the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs). President of Si’Tarc Ma. Sendil Kumar and its vice-president K. Mohan Senthil Kumar said the programme for MSMEs in the engineering sector was expected to start with about 100 units and in the long-term cover almost 10,000 units. “With the lockdown and raw material price rise, micro and small scale enterprises are in trouble. Many unit owners have moved out of business, taken up other jobs. From our side, we want to support these by helping the units adopt modern tools such as Kaizen and 5 S,” said Mr. Sendil Kumar. The units will pay Rs. 25,000 for the four-month programme. All the costs and processes at the unit will be analysed and by the end of four months, the unit will see 3 % to 5 % savings and recover the invested amount, they say. “Units with just one or two lathes or one or two CNC machines will benefit the most,” added Mr. Mohan Senthil Kumar. With these measures, the units will be able to take up Defence and high end orders later. The QCFI will sends its faculty to the participating units and guide the entrepreneurs. The units will get a certificate from QCFI at the end of the programme. If interested, they can take up intensified training later. Just about 2 % of MSMEs and hardly any in the micro sector have adopted these modern tools in Coimbatore district. Of the 50,000 MSMEs in the district, at least 10,000 to 20,000 should implement these tools in the long run, they add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sitarc-launches-project-for-msmes/article38025043.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLAs seek action against DMK workers||Following an altercation between workers of the AIADMK and the DMK near Kinathukadavu, AIADMK MLAs from Coimbatore submitted a petition to Inspector General of Police (IGP), West Zone, R. Sudhakar, on Thursday demanding action against the DMK workers, who allegedly hurled slippers at Pollachi MLA V. Jayaraman. Speaking to reporters, former Minister and Thondamuthur MLA S.P. Velumani said an inappropriate incident took place at Kothavadi tank, near Kinathukadavu, in Coimbatore on Tuesday, where Mr. Jayaraman visited to inspect the restoration of the waterbody. “As an MLA, he only visited to see the work that was being done,” he said. He also alleged that the police had registered a case against Mr. Jayaraman and other AIADMK supporters, and added that false cases were being foisted against his party’s members “as per the DMK’s orders.” On Tuesday, the residents organised an event at Kothavadi tank to celebrate the overflow in the tank after nearly 27 years. T he arrival of Mr. Jayaraman triggered a verbal altercation between the supporters of the two parties as both claimed credit for the tank’s restoration, which culminated in the hurling of slippers, purportedly aimed at the Pollachi MLA, by unidentified persons. MLAs P.R.G. Arunkumar , Amman K. Arjunan , S. Damodaran , A.K. Selvaraj , V.P. Kandasamy and K.R. Jayaram (Singanallur) were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-mlas-seek-action-against-dmk-workers/article38025050.ece
24 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Quality Circle Forum’s 35th national convention to be held in Coimbatore||Quality Circle Forum of India, Coimbatore chapter, will host its 35th national convention here from December 27 to 29. D.K. Srivastava, Executive Director of Quality Circle Forum of India, said as many as 2,022 case studies will be presented at the convention and select case studies will be presented at an international level next year. Of these, about 550 will be presented physically and the remaining virtually. The delegates will also go on an industrial tour to textile mills and foundries that have implemented ‘5S’. Apart from this, the Quality Circle Forum will launch a programme to handhold micro units. About one lakh MSMEs will be provided assistance with each chapter supporting 3,000 - 4,000 units. The faculty members of the Quality Circle will train trainers who will in turn train the MSMEs.  The convention will be held from Dec. 27 to 29||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quality-circle-forums-35th-national-convention-to-be-held-in-coimbatore/article38025047.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three youth killed in road accident||Three persons were killed on Wednesday when a government bus and the car in which they were travelling collided on Kangeyam-Dharapuram Road. The police said Arivalavan (25), Senthilkumar (24), Prabu (23), Jegan (24), Gokulakrishnan (18), Kandasamy (24) and Sabariraja (25) from Salem district were travelling from Palani to Salem. When they were travelling on Kangeyam-Dharapuram Road, Arivalavan allegedly lost control of the vehicle and it collided with the bus. While Arivalavan and Senthilkumar were declared dead on arrival at a hospital, Prabu died during treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-youth-killed-in-road-accident/article38025045.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Admission for engineering Ph.D course till Dec. 31||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham announced that admissions for full-time engineering Ph.D programmes are open till December 31. According to a release, applicants with CGPA above 6.5 at the Master’s Degree in M.E, M. Tech., M.Sc., MCA, MS by Research, and M.Phil are eligible to apply. Those interested shall apply online athttps://aoap.amrita.edu /phd/on or before December 31 and the selection will be based on academic records and online interviews. For further details, visithttps://www.amrita. edu/doctoral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admission-for-engineering-phd-course-till-dec-31/article38025041.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Agri power connections through tatkal||Electricity consumers, who had submitted applications for agri connections in Somanur, Kuniamuthur and Negamam areas, can get the connection through tatkal system approaching the respective Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) office with the required documents. They will have remit one-time charges of Rs. 2.5 lakh for a 5 HP connection, Rs. 2.75 lakh for a 7.5 HP connection, Rs. 3 lakh for a 10 HP connection and Rs. 4 lakh for a 15 HP connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agri-power-connections-through-tatkal/article38025040.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 16 years RI for sexually assaulting daughter||A 39-year-old man has been sentenced to 16 years rigorous imprisonment by the Mahila Court in Tiruppur on Thursday for sexually assaulting his 16-year-old daughter in 2020. The Tiruppur District Police said that the man was arrested by the Avinashi All Women Police on November 26, 2020. Mahila Court Judge V.P. Sugandhi also imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 on the accused. Booked under POCSO Act The Coimbatore District Police on Wednesday booked two persons on charges of sexually assaulting minor girls. In the first case, the Annur police arrested a 36-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting his 10-year-old daughter. The second case involved a 25-year-old youth, who allegedly assaulted a 16-year-old girl sexually and absconded. Efforts are on to nab him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-16-years-ri-for-sexually-assaulting-daughter/article38025044.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Book fair begins in city||‘Load the Box book fair,’ organised by Kitablovers, began at Meenakshi Hall at Pappanaickenpalayam on Thursday. Founder of Kitablovers, Harpreet Singh Chawla, said the fair will be held till December 26. Over two lakh books in Hindi and English will be available in the book fair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-fair-begins-in-city/article38025046.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 92 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 92 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll increased to 2,502. As many as 102 persons recovered on Thursday and the district had 1,073 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 43 new cases on Thursday. The district had 497 active cases as 55 persons recovered. The Health Department did not report new deaths and the toll remained as 1,019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-92-new-covid-19-cases/article38025052.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Suez exhibits Coimbatore’s water supply project in New Delhi||Suez India Private Limited, implementing Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation’s 24x7 Water Supply System, exhibited its project at the technical conference-cum-exhibition on 24x7 water supply systems technical conference organised by the Central Public Health & Environmental Engineering Organisation (CPHEEO) in New Delhi on Tuesday. Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, Housing and Urban Affairs and D. Thara, Joint Secretary, Housing and Urban Affairs, visited the stall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suez-exhibits-coimbatores-water-supply-project-in-new-delhi/article38025053.ece
24 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Stoppage at Anamalai Road railway station||Southern Railway - Palakkad Division has announced that the following trains will be provided with additional stoppage at Anamalai Road railway station from December 24. Train No.16731 Palakkad Junction -Tiruchendur Daily Unreserved Express will arrive at Anamalai 06.04 hours and depart at 06.05 hours. Train No.16732 Tiruchendur – Palakkad Junction Daily Unreserved Express will arrive at Anamalai railway station at 20.51 hrs and depart at 20.52 hrs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stoppage-at-anamalai-road-railway-station/article38025054.ece
24 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Payment of electricity bill||Electricity consumers in Devarayapuram division should pay the consumption charges of October for December too within 20 days as the readings could not be taken for administrative reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/payment-of-electricity-bill/article38025055.ece
24 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Collector lays stress on quick disposal of cases at Juvenile Justice Board||The District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) met here under District Collector S. Dhivyadarshini on Thursday to review the functioning of the multi-tiered child protection committees. Awareness Ms. Dhivyadarshini, who is also the chairperson of the DCPU, said the village level child protection committees were mandated to meet once in three months to review the various checks in place vis-à-vis child marriages, prevention of child marriages through timely intervention and information transmission in addition to creating awareness on the ills of child marriages. Besides, the committees should also act against sexual violence on children and encourage reporting of such crimes, the Collector said. She also underlined the need for quick disposal of cases before the Juvenile Justice Board. The District Child Welfare Committee was also asked to conduct periodic home visits to ascertain the well-being of children, who were sent out on adoption. Measures The meeting took stock of the protection and rehabilitation measures available for children in need of care and protection. M. Sivagandhi, District Child Protection Officer, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-lays-stress-on-quick-disposal-of-cases-at-juvenile-justice-board/article38025136.ece
24 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Book fair inaugurated||Dharmapuri book fair was inaugurated by Collector S. Dhivyadarshini at Madhurabai Subdararaja Rao marriage hall on Thursday. The third book fair has lined up literary treat for the bibliophiles here. On Friday, writer Chitra Balasubramanian will speak on “consumption as insatiable hunger”. On Saturday, archaealogist K. Amaarnath Ramakrishna will speak on “archaeology as Tamil pride”. On Sunday, author-story teller Pava. Selladurai will speak on “Travel through stories”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-fair-inaugurated/article38025135.ece
24 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||DGP orders CB-CID probe into suspicious death of girl||Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu has issued an order directing the Dindigul police to transfer the suspicious death case of a 12-year-old girl from Pachalur near Kodaikanal in Dindigul district to the CB-CID police. The order, police said, shall be enforced with immediate effect. He had also requested the DGP, CB-CID to nominate an investigation officer to probe the case. About a week ago, a 12-year-old girl was found dead with burn injuries on her body on her school campus at Pachalur near Kodaikanal. The Thandikudi police had registered a case of suspicious death under Section 174 of CrPC. The parents and family members had demanded a thorough probe into the death and initially refused to accept the body after postmortem was performed. However, senior officers intervened and assured that the probe would be fair and transparent following which they accepted the body and conducted the last rites in Dindigul. Meanwhile, CPI (M) senior leader and former Dindigul MLA Bala Bharathi had appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to deal with cases against girl children with an iron hand. Not only the cases against girl students and women were on the rise, but the police investigations too gave an impression that they were lenient towards the suspects, she said. A couple of women organisations and caste outfits in Dindigul district have already announced demonstrations in connection with the girl death case. Senior police officers, who inspected the scene of crime, led by DIG of Police Vijayakumari told reporters that preliminary probe suggested that there were no indications of any sexual assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-orders-cb-cid-probe-into-suspicious-death/article38025107.ece
24 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Shopping hub at Kalaimadu Silai to be ready by March next||With 85% works to construct a shopping hub at Kalaimadu Silai was completed, the hub is expected to be ready by March, 2022. Under the Smart City Mission, the Corporation began constructing the hub at a total cost of Rs. 17.40 crore and foundation stone was laid on March 10, 2020. Due to COVID-19 lockdown, work did not resume as planned and work began only in June, 2020. At present, most of the works were completed. The hub is being constructed on land measuring 2,821 sq.m. at a total build-up area of 7,199 sq.m. It has a ground floor and three floors to accommodate 70 shops, hyper markets, adequate space for car and two-wheeler parking, open dining area and other amenities. Officials said that once completed, the hub would provide revenue to the corporation and will also cater to the vehicle parking needs in the busy junction. They said that the hub will also be a landmark and will give a facelift to the infrastructure in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shopping-hub-at-kalaimadu-silai-to-be-ready-by-march-next/article38025147.ece
24 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farm workers seek pension in Erode||Members of the Tamil Manila Vivasaya Tholilalar Sangam have urged the State government to enact a separate law that ensures pension for farm workers. The association’s general body meeting was held at Sathyamangalam recently in which various resolutions were passed. A resolution wanted a monthly pension of Rs. 3,000 to be provided to each small and marginal farmer in the State. “A high level committee should be formed to study the life of farmers so that necessary steps could be taken to improve their standard”, the resolution said and wanted the welfare board for farmers, that was introduced during the DMK rule in 1996-2001 to be reintroduced. Other resolutions are providing Rs. 600 as daily wages to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and increasing the job days to 200 a year, constructing house at 400 sq ft at Rs. 6 lakh for each family who have no house and extend the free travel scheme for women in TNSTC buses in hilly areas. A resolution also wanted nutrient packs to be given to people in hilly areas and convert the ration card for tribal families, people in hill areas and workers without land as Antyodaya Anna Yojana family cards. Urging the government to fulfil the demands, the association decided to organise a conference in Chennai on January 22, in Tiruvarur on January 23, Tiruchi on January 24 and in Salem on January 25. It was decided to stage protests in all district headquarters on March 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-workers-seek-pension-in-erode/article38025144.ece
24 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||DVAC books case against five officials in Erode||Following the seizure of unaccounted cash of Rs. 51.32 lakh during the raid at the office of the Assistant Executive Engineer, Town Panchayat, Erode Zone, at Erode Collectorate on Wednesday, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) has registered a case against five persons on Thursday. Jurisdiction A total of 42 town panchayats in Erode district and 15 town panchayats in Tiruppur districts come under the jurisdiction of the office of the collectorate. Based on a tip-off that contractors had allegedly paid money to the officials as a tender had been floated for road works, officials raided the office and seized unaccounted cash. The raid that began at 3 p.m. on Wednesday ended at 11 p.m. A case has been registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act against the Assistant Executive Engineer Nagaraj, Junior Engineer Leelavathi, Tiruppur Thirumuruganpoondi Town Panchayat Junior Engineer Chelladurai, Mulanur Town Panchayat worker Selvam and a temporary worker Venkatesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-books-case-against-five-officials-in-erode/article38025141.ece
24 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Toor dal to be procured at two regulated markets in Erode||Under the Price Support Scheme (PSS), toor dal will be procured from farmers at Rs. 63 a kg at the two regulated markets functioning at Anthiyur and Boothapadi from January 2, 2022 to March 15, 2022. Collector H. Krishnanunni in a press release said that the toor dal is cultivated in the Kharif season in the district and the harvested dal will be procured at the two regulated market committees functioning under the Erode Market Committee.  Payment He said that the dal will be procured at Rs. 63 a kg at the quality fixed by the government and the payment will be made to the farmer’s bank account directly. Interested farmers should submit copies of their Aadhaar card, bank pass book, chitta adangal and other necessary documents to the two regulated markets and get benefited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toor-dal-to-be-procured-at-two-regulated-markets-in-erode/article38025145.ece
24 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Perundurai Sipcot I sub-station, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on December 27 at Perundurai North, Perundurai Town areas, Sipcot Premises (except south areas), Vavikadai, Thiruvachi, Solipalayam, Karumandichellipalayam, Thiruvengadampalayam Pudur, Kandampalayam, Kandampalayam Pudur, Velliyampalayam, Sullipalayam, Perundurai Town (except south areas), Chennimalai Road, Kunnathur Road, Bhavani Road, Slater Nagar, Olapalayam, Om Sakthi Nagar and Mandampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38025137.ece
24 December 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Karunanidhi’s friend Muthu no more||K. Muthu, 94, fondly known as ‘Koundampatti’ Muthu, a close friend of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, died at his native place near Kulithalai on Thursday. He died of age-related illness at a private hospital in Tiruch early morning. Muthu, a member of DMK since its inception, was in the forefront in spearheading the ideals of the party in the erstwhile undivided Tiruchi district. A staunch loyalist of DMK founder C.N. Annadurai, Muthu had close links with him even before he founded the party and took part in many struggles called by him against the Congress regime in Madras Presidency. At the invitation of Annadurai, Muthu resigned a job in Southern Railway and entered politics full time. He stayed in Salem, Kancheepuram and Chennai, then Madras, for about 20 years in the early years of the DMK to popularise the party ideals before being moved to his native in 1969. When Annadurai fielded Karunanidhi in Kulithalai constituency in 1957, Muthu shouldered the responsibility of familiarising him in the villages. Locals recall that Karunanidhi stayed in the house of Muthu and campaigned whenever he visited the Nangavaram area, a part of Kulithalai constituency. “I have heard elders recall Karunanidhi never forgot his friendship with him. Whenever he visited Tiruchi or Karur he would invariably meet Muthu and share nostalgic memories,” said Koundampatti R. Subramani, (71, a farmer leader. “The 23-day Nangavaram struggle, seeking ownership rights for those ploughing the lands of big landlords, was one among the struggles of the DMK that reached every nook and corner of the State in 1957. “ Thalaivar [Karunanidhi] and my father led the famous struggle,” said Anbalagan, son of Muthu. One of his sons, M .Annadurai works as Public Relations Officer in the Information and Public Relations Department.   Thalaivar and my father led the famous 23-day Nangavaram struggle Anbalagan son of Muthu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karunanidhis-friend-muthu-no-more/article38025112.ece
24 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Water level in KRP Dam rises close to full capacity||Krishnagiri reservoir has almost filled up to its full capacity with the water level of 51.85 ft, falling short of its 52 ft total reservoir capacity on Thursday. With the rain subsiding, the inflow to the reservoir had fallen considerably. The inflow was 462 cusecs, while the discharge was 527 cusecs. The storage in the reservoir was 1,649.27 tmcft against the total 1,666.29 tmcft. Water will be released from the KRP Dam by the end of this month for irrigation. Kelavarapalli dam in Hosur recorded a water level of 40.02 ft against the total level of 44.28 ft. The storage level in the dam stood at 333.88 tmcft of the total 480.86 tmcft. The inflow was 340 cusecs and the same quantum of water was being released from the dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-in-krp-dam-rises-close-to-full-capacity/article38025139.ece
24 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Roll revision process inspected||The Special Election Observer for Krishnagiri V. Shobana inspected the roll revision process in the district on Thursday. Ms. Shobana inspected the updating of the revisions to the electoral rolls in accordance with the applications received. The revision is being carried out with January 1, 2022 as the qualifying date for inclusion of new voters. She also inspected the maintenance of field registers of the booth level officials. According to the administration, the roll revision was carried out through a series of camps organised in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roll-revision-process-inspected/article38025140.ece
24 December 2021||Kumbakonam,TAMIL NADU||A simple grass that brings out the mellifluous notes of nagaswaram||Thiruvavaduthurai, the small town that conjures up the image of nagaswaram wizard Rajarathinam Pillai, is also closely associated with seevali, a reed that is fitted with the instrument to produce the music. If playing nagaswaram demands enormous lung power, making seevali is no less a demanding job. “The process of thirattuthal, shaping the reed into a fine piece, takes a toll on the back of the seevali maker. A rope is tied to a small bar erected on the floor and the other end is tied around the waist of the seevali maker. He has to constantly pull it to fine-tune the reed by tightening the yarn around it,” explained G. Muthuraman, a seevali maker, who won this year’s Fernandes Award instituted by Parivadini, an organisation promoting music, musicians and artisans involved in making musical instruments. Fernandes, known as Parlandu, was the mridhangam maker of Palghat Mani Iyer. “I suffered heavily and underwent a hip surgery to relieve the pain,” said Mr. Muthuraman, whose grandfather N. Natarajasundara Pillai and father N. Ganesan were also seevali makers. A special grass known as korukku thatti is used for making seevali. The bamboo-sized grass is transformed into reed. After being harvested from the river beds, it will be dried and kept aside for a year before being cut into small pieces for making seevali. “We will flatten each piece by placing it in a press. Then we will tie them together and boil. We boil it with paddy as others may simply boil in water,” said Mr. Muturaman. Then comes drying them under the sun for a few days, followed by soaking them in ‘neerakaram’, made by further diluting the water drained after cooking rice and fermented for a day. “The soaking will improve the reed’s texture. After that we subject it to ‘thiratuthal’ and fix a small copper pipe so that it can be inserted into nagaswaram,” Mr. Muthuraman said. The seevalis would be made depending on the pitch of the nagaswaram player. “The reed’s size will determine the pitch. Nagaswaram players from Andhra Pradesh and naiyandi melam artistes from Tirunelveli normally place orders for seevalis with high pitch.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-simple-grass-that-brings-out-the-mellifluous-notes-of-nagaswaram/article38025035.ece
24 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Union Aviation Minister’s refusal is disappointing, says trade body||The blatant refusal of the Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia to upgrade the status of Madurai airport as an international airport was a rude shock and thoroughly disappointing to the people of southern Tamil Nadu, said T.N. Agrofood Chamber of Commerce & Industry president S. Rethinavelu here on December 23. Speaking to The Hindu , he said, there was absolutely no logic in the reason given by him for the refusal that Tamil Nadu cannot claim the fourth international airport as some of the northern States are have only one. Provision of infrastructure was need based and not sugar candy distributed equally to the children in a classroom. The State was leading the chart of the most industrialised States in the country. The GST contribution of Tamil Nadu was higher than many States and Union territories. Madurai and many southern districts are blessed with agricultural or horticultural crops. Vegetables, fruits and processed food products are being exported. So, we need more international connectivity from Madurai airport. There was a good scope for tourism and medical tourism in south Tamil Nadu. While Tirupathi and Varanasi airports were declared as international airport on the ground of pilgrimage centre, despite both the airports having very much less international passengers when compared to Madurai, why not the most popular pilgrimage centre Madurai, with Sri Meenakshi Amman Temple, not similarly recognised, he asked. “Hence, it is crystal clear that the denial of Civil Aviation Minister to upgrade Madurai airport as International was against the development of the districts of southern and south central districts of Tamil Nadu in which we are having one third of the population of Tamil Nadu,” he said. When Kerala, with only one third GST contribution of Tamil Nadu, has four international airports, what was the difficulty for the Civil Aviation Ministry to declare Madurai as the fourth international airport of Tamil Nadu, he asked. During pre-pandemic year - 2019-20 - Madurai airport had handled 3.49 lakh international passengers, which was the highest among the 10 Customs airports in the country. Among the 27 International airports, 10 have handled international passengers lesser than Madurai airport. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should take up the issue with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in order to make southern districts industrially and economically vibrant, Mr. Rethinavelu said.  There is absolutely no logic that Tamil Nadu cannot claim the fourth international airport as some of the northern States have only one S. Rethinavelu Forum president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aviation-ministers-refusal-disappointing/article38025124.ece
24 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC recommends action against advocate for misbehaviour||Taking a serious note of an incident where an advocate misbehaved with a court staff in an inebriated condition on the court premises in Kamuthi, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Principal District Judge, Ramanathapuram to refer the matter to the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for initiating appropriate action against the advocate. The court also directed the Ramanathapuram police to register an FIR against the advocate. The court was hearing the petition filed by an advocate S. Ramanathan. The petitioner said that he came to know that in May a woman court staff was sexually assaulted by an advocate, N. Muniyasamy, who was the president of Kamuthi Advocates’ Association. The petitioner took up the issue with the Magistrate in charge. He also spoke to fellow advocates for initiating action against the Bar Association President. However, the petitioner was booked under Section 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place) of the Indian Penal Code. The de facto complainant was Muniyasamy. The petitioner filed the petition before the High Court seeking a direction to the authorities to register his complaint and initiate action against Muniyasamy for the alleged offence. Since an allegation of sexual assault on court campus was made, Justice G.R. Swaminathan sought a report from the Ramanathapuram Principal District Judge. The report revealed that the woman had sought transfer to another court in April and alleged that she was being disturbed by Muniyasamy. The matter was then forwarded to the Gender Sensitisation and Internal Complaints Committee (GSICC committee). The woman appeared before the committee and confirmed that the allegations made in her complaint were true. Since she was transferred to another court she did not want to pursue the matter against Muniyasamy. The committee decided not to take action against Muniyasamy and the complaint was closed. The occurrence was captured on CCTV camera and the footage was available. The allegations are extremely serious. The matter concerns the safety of a woman employee and the sanctity of the court. While the complainant / victim may not want to pursue the matter because she was granted the relief of transfer, the court cannot be a mute spectator to the incident. It cannot gloss it over. Prima facie the materials show the Bar President in a drunken condition, misbehaving with a woman court staff on the court premises during working hours, the judge said. The court said that the identity of the woman court staff should be strictly protected and appreciated the petitioner advocate Ramanathan for taking up the cause.  Though the victim may not want to pursue the matter because she was granted the relief of transfer, the court cannot be a mute spectator High Court Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-recommends-action-against-advocate-for-misbehaviour/article38025125.ece
24 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Traders complain of poor condition of Town Hall Road||Traders of Town Hall Road are furious over the pathetic condition of the important road which is used by hundreds of people daily, including devotees going to Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. “We have been putting up with the pothole-filled road for nearly two years,” said Ashraf Tayub who has a garment shop on the road. Town Hall Road is the major road to link Madurai railway station with a number of lodges, hotels, shops, besides the Meenakshi Temple. The very entry to the road from West Veli Street invites people with a big crater where water gets accumulated. The road was dug up for Smart Cities Mission work and the paver-blocks are intact in a section of the road, while the dug-up area has remained without black-topping for months together. With the uneven road surface and the loose paverblocks in some parts of the road make Town Hall Road dangerous for motorists and also pedestrians. “Every day, many people fall down on this road and get injured,” Mr. Tayub said. The traders have have sent a memorandum to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin, Madurai Collector and Corporation Commissioner seeking to set right the road at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-complain-of-poor-condition-of-town-hall-road/article38025295.ece
24 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan couple move Madras High Court Bench for relief||A Sri Lankan couple who fled the Island nation due to threats from political rivals moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Indian authorities not to deport them to Sri Lanka. In their petition, the couple said that they were associated with a political party. Due to a dispute with members of another political party, they were advised to flee the Island nation. The petitioners said that they left Sri Lanka along with their two children by boat. They reached Dhanushkodi and later travelled to Delhi to visit the Embassy of Switzerland to India seeking Visa and got it. When the couple approached the Foreign Regional Registration Office (FRRO) in New Delhi to receive an exit permit, they were referred to the office in Chennai where they were asked to get a clearance report from the police. Following an inquiry, it was found that the couple had illegally entered India. They were arrested and produced before the Judicial Magistrate concerned. After they were granted bail they were detained at the Special camp in Tiruchi. The children were entrusted in the custody of their relatives in India. Under these circumstances, the couple said the Embassy of Switzerland could extend their Visa and the Chennai police had also completed the investigation in the case and submitted a charge sheet. The petitioners apprehended that they could be detained at the camp permanently or could be deported to Sri Lanka. If they were sent back to Sri Lanka, they would suffer at the hands of their political rivals. The authorities should permit them to go to Switzerland, they said. Justice G.R. Swaminathan ordered notice to the Centre and the State and adjourned the hearing in the case till January 7. The court directed the Indian authorities not to deport the couple and their children till then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-couple-move-madras-high-court-bench-for-relief/article38025131.ece
24 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes FIR against YouTuber Maridhas||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday quashed the FIR registered by Melapalayam police in Tirunelveli against YouTuber Maridhas. He was booked for linking the Tablighi Jamaat’s conference held in Delhi last year to the outbreak of COVID-19 in Delhi and other parts of the country. Melapalayam police had booked Maridhas based on a complaint lodged by the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam functionary Mohammed Khader Meeran. The YouTuber was booked under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code. The complainant said that Maridhas had linked the Tablighi Jamaat’s conference held in Delhi last year to the outbreak of COVID-19 in Delhi and other parts of the country and had called it a new form of terrorism. The petitioner denied the allegations levelled against him. Justice G.R. Swaminathan noted that the complainant had come across the video posted on Maridhas’s YouTube channel last year. According to the complainant, the petitioner had referred to Islam and participation of muslims in Tablighi Jamaat in an offensive manner so as to create ill will between communities. The petitioner attempted to sow negative seeds in the minds of the people about Islam. As a result, a few others had also released intimidating and threatening videos. Following this the petitioner lodged a complaint and an FIR was registered. Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted that a person watching the offending video would definitely develop ill feelings towards Muslims. It is not necessary that the video should be viewed as a whole. Even if some stray sentences or lines occurring in the speech have the potential to create ill will, penal provisions would be attracted. Further, the AG pointed out that the FIR was registered in 2020 and the petitioner was granted anticipatory bail. But, he did not choose to surrender or submit sureties which clearly shows the respect the petitioner has for the court. The anticipatory bail stood vacated. He was arrested and police custody was sought. The Jurisdictional Magistrate was seized of the matter. The Investigation was at an early stage and ought not to be scuttled, he said. The counsel representing the de facto complainant said that lakhs of people had watched the video and the offence of promoting enmity was made out. Maridhas had not chosen to delete the offending video and had repeatedly referred to Islam, terrorism and Corona in the video. The video definitely poisoned the minds of the people, he said. The counsel for the petitioner contended that there was no ill feeling towards anyone. Quashing the FIR, Justice G.R. Swaminathan said the petitioner in his video had only spoken about the possible calamitous effects that might strike the nation on account of the incident. By no stretch of imagination this can be called as grossly indecent or scurrilous. At no point of time in his speech the petitioner questioned the religious beliefs of the Muslims. The judge was of the view that the attack was only on the “irresponsible conduct” of the Tablighi attendees of the congregation. According to the judge, the petitioner did not pit the Muslims against non-Muslims. A careful reading of the speech in the video would indicate that the petitioner felt alarmed by the incident. The incident also came under bitter and sharp criticism from the entire media. Those were the earlier days of the pandemic and even a slightly exaggerated reaction also can be accepted. The intention of the petitioner should be taken note of. The judge said the YouTuber had only called upon the attendees of the congregation to go to hospitals and have themselves checked. The government also resorted to contact tracing. Sharp criticism of an organisation cannot attract the provisions, the judge said and quashed the FIR registered against the YouTuber. The judge said Tablighi Jamaat cannot be equated with Islam. It is a religious organisation professing particular goals. No one can deny that Tablighi Jamaat came under severe and harsh criticism for its reckless and irresponsible conduct during March 2020. “There are established reports that its puritanical and revivalistic project prepares the ground for Islamic radicalisation. Probably that is why even Saudi Arabia has recently banned it as a terrorist organisation,” the judge added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-fir-against-maridhas/article38025036.ece
24 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Change in pattern of train services||Southern Railway has made the following changes in pattern of train services owing to track modification work planned at Ariyalur railway station in Tiruchi division from December 26 to January 15: Train No. 16127 Chennai Egmore - Guruvayur Express scheduled to leave Chennai Egmore on December 26 to 29 and December 31 to January 10 will be diverted via Chidambaram, Kumbakonam and Thanjavur on the main line instead of Virudhachalam chord line. Train No. 22632 Bikaner-Madurai Weekly Express scheduled to leave Bikaner on December 26 and January 2 and Train No. 20973 Ajmer-Rameswaram Weekly Express scheduled to leave Ajmer on December 25 and January 1 and 8 are also diverted via Kumbakonam-Thanjavur main line. Train No. 12636 Madurai - Chennai Egmore Vaigai Express scheduled to leave Madurai on December 30, 31 and January 6 and Train No. 16127 Guruvayur - Chennai Egmore Express scheduled to leave Guruvayur on January 9 are also diverted via Thanjavur-Kumbakonam main line. Train No. 12636 Madurai - Chennai Egmore Vaigai Express scheduled to leave Madurai on December 30, 31 and January 6 will be partially cancelled between Tambaram and Chennai Egmore. Train No. 12605 Chennai Egmore - Karaikudi Pallavan Express scheduled to leave Chennai Egmore on December 30, 31 and January 6 and will be partially cancelled between Chennai Egmore and Tambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-in-pattern-of-train-services/article38025120.ece
24 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Use of robots, AI in defence applications rising: official||With the wide use use of different types of robots in the defence sector, there is good scope for engineering graduates in this sector, said S. Krishna Kumar, Technical Officer, DRDO/CVRDE, (Defence Research and Development Organisation/Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment), Avadi, here on Wednesday. Delivering a lecture at Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ initiative, on role of DRDO in self-reliance and defence technologies, he said that application of Aritificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning and use of robots was increasing. Sustained research had led to launch of robotic dogs, mules, snakes with Artificial Intelligence - suited all climatic and geographical conditions. He explained the different types of robots and the way they are trained. For example, the dog robot can acclamatise itself to any region. It is trained in such a way that it would have walking practice in the morning and join a parade if used in defence applications. There are robots of all sizes, starting from the size of a mosquito. Such small-size robots are employed as a group to monitor a place. If they detect something wrong, it will pass the message to the control room. Mule robots lift weights. It can even lift a car. Then there are robots in the shape of a scorpion and birds. Bird robots can track the path taken by a person, he said. Interaction with students An interaction followed in which how robots would operate cars in the future so as to prevent accidents by minimising human error was discussed. Robots that can dance or cook or guard were also discussed. While crreating robots, the main thing to take under consideration is whether it will work in a particular temperature, the gathering was told. Velammal Educational Trust vice-chairman Ganesh Natarajan presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-of-robots-ai-in-defence-applications-rising-official/article38025292.ece
24 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai MP reiterates demand on airport issue||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has reiterated the demand to make Madurai airport an international terminal to enable operation of more flights to more international destinations. He said that the number of passengers who flew abroad from Madurai airport last year was higher than the number of passengers who flew out from two international airports in Uttar Pradesh - Varanasi and Kushinagar. Further, the number of passengers who flew out from Madurai airport to several international destinations is higher than those who flew out from 11 of the 21 international airports across the country. “Madurai continues to rank first in handling number of international passengers among the 10 customs airports announced by Union Aviation Ministry,” Mr. Venkatesan said in a statement. Because of these compelling reasons, the MP said, he and Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore recently demanded that Madurai airport be made an international airport. The Union government turns a deaf ear to this legitimate demand for the past several years. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP pointed out that the Civil Aviation Ministry had launched an international airport in Kushinagar in October 2021 and laid foundation stone for one at Noida in November and has declared that Ayodhya will have an international airport next year. He wondered what were the factors for launching international airports at these cities and sought to share the data. He complained that the Union government was refusing justice to Tamil Nadu that ranked second in GST contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-mp-reiterates-demand-on-airport-issue/article38025119.ece
24 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Office-bearers||L. Sevugan has assumed office as the chair and P. Sharmila Devi as co-chair of the Young Indians (Yi) Madurai Chapter for 2022. According to a press release, Mr. Sevugan is the MD of SV.A Heritage Constructions in Madurai and Ms. Sharmila Devi is a master coach having 12- year experience in leadership and relationship coaching with MSMEs and entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-bearers/article38025298.ece
24 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners demand removal of border check posts||The State Lorry Owners Federation has urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to remove border check posts, alleging rampant corruption. In a petition, the organisation said after the implementation of GST, Commercial Tax check posts on the State borders had been removed and this eliminated time delay and corruption at the check posts. Temporary permit and tax for the goods was implemented through an online system and this eased various hardships of truck owners. Following the amendment of Motor Vehicle Act 2019, on a trial basis, border check posts were removed in States such as Madhya Pradesh and Odisha and checks was shifted to an online system. However, in Tamil Nadu, at least Rs. 200 was being collected from trucks passing though the border check posts, the petitioners said and added that though they petitioned the previous government, no action was taken. The organisation requested the Chief Minister to remove the border check posts and implement the online system in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-demand-removal-of-border-check-posts/article38025152.ece
24 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry sanitary workers want a campaign||As the city searches for a more efficient and participatory model of waste management, Swachatha Corporation workers have urged the government to create awareness among residents to promote better solid waste management in the town and its suburbs. The staff members believe the goal will be impossible to achieve unless the government begins a sustained campaign to make the Union Territory litter-free and achieve the long-term plan of source segregation. ‘Strewn all over’ “Even now we see people throwing waste on the streets, though bins have been placed. People coming in vehicles would not get down and put the waste in the bin. Instead, they would throw it sitting in their vehicles. The cover carrying the waste would fall on the street. When we go to collect the waste, it will be all over the place,” said a sanitary worker. A supervisor associated with Swachatha Corporation said the government should rope in the MLAs for launching a sustained campaign against waste dumping on the streets, and for source segregation. “The government could display name-boards in commercial and residential areas on the need to make the Union Territory litter-free. The message could be put up at cinema halls and malls. Political leaders could use their birthdays to spread the message of cleanliness. We need a regular campaign, instead of having it on a particular day of the year,” the supervisor said. Government agencies and non-governmental organisations should recognise individuals and residents’ associations involved in cleanliness drives. Meeting soon Swachatha Corporation general manager Anoop Kumar Dukka told The Hindu that the organisation planned to involve religious heads and educational institutions in educating the residents more on waste disposal. “Soon, we will be meeting priests of temples, churches and moulavis of mosques to seek their help in spreading the message of cleanliness...,” he said. He said the Corporation planned to introduce 50 more pushcarts for garbage collection from homes and commercial establishments. Around 100 more bins had been placed, and 130 more would be provided soon.  We plan to involve religious heads and educational institutions in educating the residents more on proper waste disposal Anoop Kumar Dukka General manager, Swachatha Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitary-workers-pitch-for-a-campaign/article38025362.ece
24 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Swachatha Corporation to launch mobile App for grievance redressal in U.T.||To improve its services, Swachatha Corporation will launch a mobile application for residents to complain about waste accumulation in their localities. The application, which is being developed, will have features to help residents bring to the notice of the Corporation the waste left unattended by conservancy workers. It will also have features to upload photos and videos with contact details. Complainants could monitor the status of their grievances, said an official associated with the Corporation. The Corporation is entrusted with the task of collecting and disposing of solid waste, generated in the Puducherry and Oulgaret municipalities and the commune panchayats of Ariankuppam and Villianur. After it took over garbage management from the other local bodies, the Corporation launched a toll-free number (18004255119), WhatsApp number (7358391404) and landline number (2200518) for residents to file complaints. “The application will be a further addition to our service. It will further help us attend to complaints. If their complaints are not addressed, the residents can approach the authorities,” the official said. The Corporation is also planning to make facial recognition attendance mandatory for its 1,500-odd workforce. The supervisors would visit places and take photos of the workers on duty. “This will help us monitor the conservancy workers better,” he said.  It will further help us attend to complaints. If their complaints are not addressed, the residents can approach the authorities Swachatha Corporation official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swachatha-corporation-to-launch-mobile-app-for-grievance-redressal-in-ut/article38025364.ece
24 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. committed to fulfilling promises, says Puducherry CM||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Thursday said the AINRC-BJP government was committed to fulfilling all its promises to people. Speaking at an event to mark the International Day for the Differently Abled, hosted by the Social Welfare Department, he said the government had already begun implementing the schemes announced, such as the reopening of ration shops and distribution of Deepavali gifts of free rice and sugar to all card-holders. “We are taking steps to revive the sick public sector companies. We provided flood relief to the ration card-holders. An assessment of crop damage has been done. A relief of Rs. 20,000 per hectare of paddy will be given soon,” Mr. Rangasamy said. No roads were maintained properly when the Congress was in power; many were badly damaged in the recent rain. Steps have been taken to repair all of them. The government was also enhancing the housing scheme funds for the differently abled. Banks had been asked not to initiate recovery of dues as they could be set off against the enhanced funds. Mr. Rangasamy distributed marriage assistance to 15 differently abled persons, presented prizes to the winners of competitions and gave awards to those engaged in the uplift of the physically challenged. Social Welfare Minister C. Djeacoumar, V. Aroumougame and S. Ramesh, MLAs, and C. Udayakumar, Secretary, Social Welfare, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-committed-to-fulfilling-promises-says-chief-minister/article38025367.ece
24 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘No need to conduct Youth Festival’||The Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) has questioned the decision of the NDA government to hold the National Youth Festival in Puducherry next month. PCC president A.V. Subramanian sought an explanation on the conduct of the festival during the pandemic. The threat of the virus spreading still exists due to the mutated Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus, he said. The festival was to have been held in Himachal Pradesh. The government should explain why the venue was shifted to Puducherry. There was no necessity to organise it here when the administration was facing a financial crisis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-to-conduct-youth-festival/article38025365.ece
24 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records eight fresh COVID-19 infections||No death due to COVID-19 was reported in the Union Territory of Puducherry even as eight fresh cases were detected from 1,930 tests on Thursday. Puducherry accounted for seven of the fresh cases, followed by one in Karaikal. No fresh cases were reported in Yanam and Mahe. With eight patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases stood at 146. Of these, 35 patients were at hospital and 111 were in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.41%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.43%. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory remained at 1,880, with Puducherry logging 1,468, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has so far reported a cumulative aggregate of 1,29,374 cases and 1,27,348 recoveries. Of an estimated 20.33 lakh tests performed so far, over 17.22 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,414 persons took the vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered 13,63,052 doses so far.  Puducherry accounted for seven of the new cases followed by one in Karaikal. No new cases were reported in Yanam and Mahe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-eight-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38025368.ece
24 December 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Teams suspect sheep pox for death of animals||Following complaints from farmers that sheep are dying due to a mysterious disease in and around Zamin Kollankondan near here in the past few days, special teams of Animal Husbandry officials are investigating the cause of death. A farmer, D. Muthuraj, 49, said that he had lost 10 sheep in the last few days. “Many farmers in this area have been losing two or three sheep every day for more than a week,” according to Mt. Muthuraj. Suspecting that the sheep might have been infected with sheep pox, the farmers had administered vaccine bought from a private pharmacy. “We do not get any support from the local veterinary hospital,” he complained. A senior official from the Animal Husbandry Department said that two Assistant Directors - Ramesh (Animal Disease Intelligence Unit) and Rajeswari (Srivilliputtur) inspected the villages. After post-mortem of the sheep, the team lifted blood samples for further investigation. Vaccination The officials also suspect sheep pox and are on high alert to protect the other animals with vaccination. The officials claimed that the farmers did not inform the local veterinary hospital about the deaths. An Assistant Professor from Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University also visited the villages and created awareness about maintenance of cattle. The official said that if farmers had insured their animals, they would get compensation from the insurance companies for the dead animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-suspects-sheep-pox-for-death-of-animals/article38025118.ece
24 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman tests positive for Omicron in Salem||A 28-year-old woman, who had travelled to Salem from the United States of America, has tested positive for the Omicron variant of SARS-COV-2 virus. The patient is undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. Minister in-charge of Salem district K.N. Nehru reviewed the various preventive measures taken in the district. He told presspersons the woman landed at the Chennai Airport from the U.S. on December 13. A swab test was taken on December 17 after she came to Salem and the results turned positive for the Omicron variant of the virus. Three contacts of the woman had been quarantined and were being monitored, the Minister said. Mr. Nehru said swab tests had been taken for 157 of the 292 foreign travellers to the district so far and none tested positive. Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy said a 30-bedded separate ward had been readied to treat patients affected with the Omicron variant. According to health officials, 70 beds have been exclusively readied in the district at various health facilities to treat Omicron patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-tests-positive-for-omicron-in-salem/article38025150.ece
24 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Jaggery producers advised to install CCTV cameras in units||The district administration and Food Safety Department have advised jaggery manufacturers here to install CCTV cameras on their business premises. Omalur, Kadayampatti, Sankari and Edappadi are the major centres of jaggery production in the district and there are over 180 manufacturing units in the district. The State government recently ordered the manufacturers to install CCTV cameras in their units to prevent adulteration. They were told to make the recordings available for food safety officers whenever demanded. R. Kathiravan, Designated Officer, Food Safety, said the CCTV cameras should cover the entire manufacturing process. The jaggery producers had been advised on the ill-effects of adulteration and over 50 units had already installed the cameras, he added. According to officials, refined jaggery, maida, food colours, and fertilizers like super phosphate are some commonly used adulterants in jaggery to improve its colour, stickiness and shelf life. Mr. Kathiravan warned that stern action would be taken against the adulterators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jaggery-producers-advised-to-install-cctv-cameras-in-units/article38025151.ece
24 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Artistes seek permission to stage plays||Theatre artistes and other performers staged a protest in front of the Collectorate here on Thursday demanding permission to conduct stage dramas. Members of Vidhaigal Theatre Artists Association, dressed up in various mythological characters, lamented that the livelihood of stage performers and folk artistes had been severely affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown restrictions. They said there were over 5,000 artistes in Salem, Namakkal, Erode, Tiruppur and Karur districts and they had not been able to make a living through performances for over an year. The government should permit the conduct of cultural events as part of temple festivals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artistes-seek-permission-to-stage-plays/article38025148.ece
24 December 2021||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||‘Accord approval for project to restore Pallikaranai Marsh’||South Chennai Member of Parliament (MP) Thamizhachi Thangapandian has urged the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change to accord approval for the proposed project to restore the Pallikaranai Marshland in Chennai. The MP met Union Minister Bhupender Yadav along with Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan and submitted a letter, in which she said: “I am writing to you with regard to an important environmental project called, the Improved Resilience of Urban Ecosystem to Climate Change (IRUCC) through Restoration of Pallikaranai Marshland in Chennai. The project has been submitted under the International Green Climate Fund.” She posted the contents of the letter and photos of her meeting on Twitter. The project envisages preventing further degradation of the marsh, improvement and sustainable use of wetland hydrology, eco-tourism and eco-development. Detailed project report The detailed project report has been forwarded by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development to the Ministry. But the project remained pending with the Ministry for approval, she said. Ecosystem benefits Ms. Thangapandian explained that the Pallikaranai Marshland is a wetland in one of the most critical ecosystems of the country. It is important since it collects excess floodwater and increases the groundwater level in the region, hence, helping in dealing with climate change. It was estimated that a total of $38.11 million worth of ecosystem benefits to society is lost due to the degradation of the marshland. Considering the extreme importance of this project to both local residents and the ecosystem of the area near Pallikarnai, she urged the Ministry to approve the project at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accord-approval-for-project-to-restore-pallikaranai-marsh/article38025026.ece
24 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat Union meeting hall yet to be furnished||The Kumbakonam Panchayat Union meeting held on Thursday at Kumbakonam irked ward members due to lack of seating arrangements. Inquiry showed that the ward members who arrived at the Union office for the meeting were shocked when they were asked to sit on the floor that was covered by rugs. Irked by lack of furniture to conduct business, most of the members cutting across party lines staged a walk-out. They later participated in the meeting. Stating that a total of 21 resolutions were passed at the 27-member Panchayat Union, Chairman Gayathri Ashokkumar said the officials were yet to purchase furniture for the meeting hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-union-meeting-hall-yet-to-be-furnished/article38025096.ece
24 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Numismatics exhibition held||Hundreds of school students on Thursday witnessed old coins and currency notes displayed at a numismatic exhibition held at Government High School, Yenathikarambai, near Peravurani. Coins from the later Pandya and Chola periods, Maratha and Mysore regimes, Pudukottai Amman Kasu , currency notes and coins from 110 countries and postal stamps and covers were displayed at the exhibition organised by Pudukottai Numismatic Association. Several students from Panchayat Union Primary (East and West) schools also visited the numismatic exhibition that was inaugurated by Ammaiyandi village panchayat president Malligai V. Muthuramalingam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/numismatics-exhibition-held/article38025094.ece
24 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation serves notice on 16 houses||Corporation officials have served warning notices on 16 houses in Vetrivelpuram and Aathipuram in Ward 20 of Thoothukudi Corporation here after mosquito larvae breeding was found in these houses during a surprise check conducted by the urban civic body personnel. As this port town, which is gradually limping back to normalcy after inundation irritated the residents for more than two weeks, has started recording dengue cases, due to mosquito breeding in the rainwater stagnating in vacant plots and other places, surprise checks are conducted at houses to find if the water stagnating in the houses was providing potential breeding ground for mosquitoes. As the Corporation team, led by Sanitary Officer G. Stalin Backiyanathan, conducted surprise check in the houses in Vetrivelpuram and Aathipuram, they visited 800 houses and 2 schools in this area. When mosquito breeding was found in 16 houses, notices were served on the dwellers asking them to destroy the breeding grounds or face stringent action. Besides fumigating the entire area, fever camp was conducted in these two places. “Surprise checks will be conducted in all the places under the Thoothukudi Corporation,” the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-serves-notice-on-16-houses/article38025130.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Goodies galore this festive season in city||As the year draws to a close, confectioners in the city are busy undertaking orders for edible gifts for the festive season. The Christmas and New Year spirit has gripped home bakers with a strong online presence to bricks-and-mortar sweet shops, churning out fruit cakes, spiced cookies and gift hampers. Known more commonly as plum cake in India, this dried fruit- and nut-laden delicacy has travelled from Rome (where it had pomegranate seeds, pine nuts and raisins mixed with barley mash) to Britain, its colonies and beyond. In its modern avatar, the fruit cake uses large quantities of candied or dried fruits, nuts and spices, soaked in alcohol or fruit juice. “We started our Christmas plum cake preparation six months ago by soaking the mincemeat in rum and wine. We have received 700 orders so far, using up around 150 kg of fruit. Of course the pandemic and the fear of Omicron has hit demand in the past two years, but we are still hopeful of a good season in 2021,” Maria Arockiaraj, co-founder of Cake House, told The Hindu . Un-iced cakes are not the only sweetmeats on offer this year; Cake House and other leading bakeries have shifted to cookies and biscuits, complete with fancy packaging. “At least 70% of our customers prefer to gift our baked goods to their friends and family. In pre-pandemic times, we used to bake at least 800 kg of fruit cakes for corporate clients alone. Since things have changed drastically in the past two seasons, we are offering combination packs of cakes and cookies exclusively for Christmas and New Year,” said Mr. Arockiaraj. At Cake Waves, non-alcoholic plum cakes are turning out to be as popular as the traditional recipes using liquor in Tiruchi. “Our non-alcoholic Christmas cakes are liked by those with dietary restrictions, both for gifting and personal use. While we soak ingredients for our alcohol-based cakes four months in advance, for the non-alcoholic variety, we just need a week of fruit mince marination,” said Kirupanandam, partner, Cake Waves. Online baker Aishwarya C. Dhanraju of Cake Doe bakery adds that the braided East European bread-cake Babka , Dutch spiced cookies Pfeffernüsse and Kerala Christmas Cake to her festive season menu this year. “We have been preparing for Christmas from the end of Deepavali to keep up with the demand,” said Ms. Aishwarya, who runs her bakery with her sister. “I have modified the recipe for fruit cake to make it more Indianised this year,” she added. For Jerusha M Sampoorani, who runs the cloud-based Mom’s Kitchen, the festive season has been about fruit cakes, made to order for mostly elderly clients and church groups. “Sticky pudding cake has been a best-seller this year. There have also been much interest for carol gatherings in the past few weeks,” said Ms. Sampoorani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goodies-galore-this-festive-season-in-city/article38025411.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Digital literacy holds the key to pandemic-era schooling||The shift from offline to online classes in the past 20 months has not only changed the learning experience for school children, but also the way educational institutions are run, especially in Tier 2 cities such as Tiruchi and Thanjavur, say parents and teachers. The early winners have clearly been those who have invested in infrastructure to boost their network capability while re-training their teachers to handle the new normal. At the same time, the pandemic has also revealed how lack of digital access has created a new class of ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’ in the educational scenario. “While we switched to online education due to COVID-19, many other countries had already made it a part of their curriculum. We can move ahead only once we realise that digital literacy is inevitable, and that teachers will have to adapt their attitude and methodology accordingly,” Shiyam Sundar, director, Solar Trust, an NGO, told The Hindu . Parents and school managements may still be figuring out the nuances of online education, but children are far ahead of the curve, said Mr. Sundar. “The kids are quick enough to learn on their own today. Their teachers have to update to match them.” The age of children plays a role in how they absorb information online. “At the primary level [until Std 5], the students used online classes more as a way to connect with their teacher and classmates rather than to learn. With the senior classes [Std 10-12], barring the slow learners, the pupils found it easier to study online,” said Christy Subathra, correspondent, CREA Children’s Academy Higher Secondary School, Nagamangalam. Lack of social interaction Parents have seen the decline of social interaction and self-discipline among young children as a direct result of online classes. “It has been harder for nuclear families where both partners are working. The long hours spent by children in front of electronic devices have left them feeling isolated,” said Kannan, an IT professional working in Thanjavur. After a long spell of online classes, he has seen his seven-year-old daughter learn to stand up for herself after she recently resumed attending school on alternate days. “Instead of feeling dejected, she has started looking for solutions to her problems in class implicitly. This is something that only a physical school can teach,” Mr. Kannan said. Boards of education should consider lightening the ‘overdose’ of lessons during online classes, to prevent boredom and childhood stress. “Classes that start at 8.30 a.m. tend to go on for at least four hours, leaving the children distracted. And when their screens are switched off, they immediately shift to YouTube or gaming. It iss not enough for parents to pay the fees for online classes, they should be educated and tech-savvy to guide their children as well,” said local activist N. Jamaluddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-literacy-holds-the-key-to-pandemic-era-schooling/article38025113.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Human chain promotes manjappai to save Cauvery||A human chain formed by 800 college students on the Cauvery Bridge (connecting Chathiram area to Srirangam) in the early hours of Thursday highlighted the importance of using cotton cloth bag and saving the river from pollution. Organised by M.A.M. Business School in association with Thanneer, a voluntary organisation, and Thanneer Students Club, the ‘Save Cauvery River’ initiative saw college students, both men and women, hold up ‘ manjappai ’ (yellow cloth bag), and distribute them to the public. The human chain was formed across the bridge from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. Speaking to the Hindu , S. Dharmaraj, Airport Director, Airports Authority of India, Tiruchi International Airport and chief guest at the event, said: “We are celebrating the Nadi Utsav [Festival of Rivers] by focusing on the Cauvery and environmental awareness. Joining forces with educational institutions has helped us to promote the message of clean living.” “We would like to support the Tamil Nadu government’s campaign to bring back the use of manjappai by raising awareness among the youth,” said K. Sathish Kumar, assistant professor Kalai Kaviri College of Fine Arts and secretary of Thanneer and Students Club. “We chose to form the human chain at the Cauvery Bridge because even though the great river is a symbol of Tamil identity, it has sadly become polluted with plastic waste and industrial effluents,” he added. The students said they were eager to adopt eco-friendly ways of living. “There is no life without water, and keeping this great river clean is important for future generations,” said Manimaran. MBA student Nagajyothi said, “After learning about cloth bags, my friends and I have been inspired to give up plastic alternatives because they are non-biodegradable. We hope to spread the message among our friends and family.” M. Hemalatha, director, M.A.M. Business School, and K.C. Neelamegam, president, Thanneer, spoke at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/human-chain-promotes-manjappai-to-save-cauvery/article38025099.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Unidentified bodies get decent funeral, thanks to Tiruchi couple||A city-based couple has taken upon themselves the task of conducting the last rites of unidentified bodies. The bodies are handed over to the couple, who coordinate with police and Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, after investigation and if no claims are made. P. Vijayakumar and his wife M. Chitra perform the burial or cremation at their own expense. They have created a fund, which includes a portion of their monthly earnings, through which they foot the bill for rituals and other expenditure. Ms. Chitra, an advocate, says an incident that occurred when she was in class 9 is the motivation behind the initiative. An old woman living near her parents’ house died and her son did not perform the last rites. After days, Ms. Chitra and her friends collected money from neighbours and funded the funeral. While her family was not supportive, years later she expressed her intention to her husband who supported it. Her job as an advocate helps in forging trusting relationships with police personnel, who hand over the bodies to her, Ms. Chitra said. It also helps in navigating the legal formalities. However, such work is never without stigma. “"Many policemen have told me not to come to crematoriam or burial ground as a woman is not allowed there. Times are changing,” she quipped. When a person without known relatives dies, the body is kept at the mortuary in Tiruchi GH and police put out information about the person. “After about a week, they reach out to people like us who perform the funeral,” Mr. Vijayakumar said. So far, the couple has perfomed the funeral rites of 100 unidentified bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unidentified-bodies-get-decent-funeral-thanks-to-tiruchi-couple/article38025093.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fire destroys seven shops in Gandhi Market||Seven shops were gutted in a fire that broke out in Gandhi Market in the city early on Thursday. Two men sustained minor injuries and were admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. According to sources, the fire broke out due to gas leakage while an empty LPG cylinder was being replaced at a tea shop opposite to the clock tower. The cylinder was not closed properly, leading to the leak. The shop caught fire at 6:30 a.m. and quickly spread to nearby stalls. Fire and Rescue personnel rushed to the spot and doused the flames after nearly two hours. An official said that had the incident occurred a few hours late, during peak traffic hours, the damage might have been severe. The seven shops selling snacks, sweets, mobile phones and other things were completely gutted. “We are yet to enumerate the damages,” police sources said. The injured men, Paramasivam, who replaced the cylinder, and Thangaraj were a,dmitted to hospital with five to 10% burns and their condition was being monitored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-destroys-seven-shops-in-gandhi-market-two-injured/article38025110.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Good response to BDU courses||The response has been good for M.B.A and B.B.A programmes rolled out by Bharathidasan University (BDU) this year through online learning, in fulfilment of the norms specified by the Distance Education Board (DEB), of University Grants Commission. The admission process was wrapped up earlier this month for the 10 permitted online degree courses - the rest constituting B.A. in Tamil and English, and M.A. in Economics, English, History, Political Science, Public Administration and Tamil. So far, 1,600 admissions have been made for M.B.A, and the response has been robust for B.B.A, as well, A. Edward William Benjamin, Director of Centre for Distance and Online Education, said. The NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council) had, during 2019, accredited BDU with CGPA of 3.32 on seven-point scale at A+ grade valid till March 31, 2024, by virtue of which the university has been permitted to offer the three UG and seven PG programmes under Online Learning. The BDU fared well in all the seven parameters: curricular aspects, teaching-learning and evaluation; research, innovations and extension; infrastructure and learning resources; student support and progression; governance, leadership and management; and institutional values and best practices, to gain eligibility to offer programmes under online learning. The UGC had notified UGC (online courses or programmes) Regulations, 2018, in what was seen as a landmark reform in the field of higher education. However, programmes requiring practical / laboratory courses as a curricular requirement were not permitted for online learning. In fulfilment of the four quadrants approach: tutorial, content, web resources and self-assessment, Bharathidasan University's programmes under Online Learning has fulfilled the requirements of E-book (chapter level PDF content of self learning material), study guide (bullet notes of every chapter explained in simple way), practice test (question bank-chapter level), lab environment (for related subjects wherever necessary), discussion forum (on every course outcome), interactive videos (subject level), web resources (articles and reference videos at subject level), tutorial recorded videos (chapter level), live interactive sessions (webinar) and animated/ gamified module (subject level). The DEB has specified that the learners' engagement will be monitored via participation in ashynchronous, synchronous discussions, assignment activity and programme involvement. The analytics of learning management system will have be used for ensuring the learners participation at least for two hours every fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-bdus-online-programmes/article38025108.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||38 fresh cases in delta region||The central districts reported 38 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. This is the first time that the region has reported less than 40 cases on a single day since the second wave of the viral infection in May 2021. One patient succumbed to the illness in Tiruchi. All nine districts reported 10 or less cases. Ten patients each reported positive for the viral infection in Thanjavur and Karur. In Tiruchi, nine patients tested positive. Five patients reported COVID-19 positive in Tiruvarur, One patient each tested positive in Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Perambalur. In Ariyalur, no fresh case was reported on Thursday. Zero death in UT No death due to COVID-19 was reported in the Union Territory even as eight fresh cases were detected from 1,930 tests on Thursday. Puducherry accounted for seven of the new cases followed by one in Karaikal. No new cases were reported in Yanam and Mahe. With eight patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 146.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-fresh-cases/article38025101.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers to be appointed after transfer counselling||New teachers will be appointed in schools with sufficient strength of students after completing transfer of teachers through counselling and redeployment of surplus teachers from schools with inadequate students to ensure better quality of teaching, Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has said. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday after chairing a review meeting with the senior school education department officials from Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts, he said the government schools across the State had received over 5.35 lakh new students necessitating appointment of more teachers. He said 169 weak school buildings in Tirunelveli district would be demolished. “Right from cycle parking bay to classroom buildings, strength of every structure is being checked. If any structure is found to be weak, it will be razed down,” he said. Rejecting the allegation that the ongoing demolition of weak school buildings after the tragic accident was a “knee-jerk action,” he said he had a meeting with all Chief Educational Officers in August and asked them to check right from power connections to the strength of school buildings, which were then about to be reopened after remained closed for over two years. “Based on the reports submitted by the CEOs, we took remedial measures to ensure the safety of students,” he said. On providing compound walls to the government schools across the State, Mr. Mahesh, while admitting that construction of compound walls was necessary to protect school assets, said around 69,000 km-long compound walls had to be built. He informed that the Department of School Education would start separate counselling for boys and the girls on sexual harassment. He regretted that the teachers who were in the vicinity of the mishap should have rushed the victims to the hospitals immediately instead of waiting for the ambulance to arrive at the spot. “Similar unfortunate incident should not recur anywhere and we’re organising meetings to prevent mishaps on school premises,” he said. Earlier, he visited the three families that lost their children in the wall collapse and the injured students undergoing treatment in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. He assured them to extend all possible help after getting nod from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Commissioner for School Education Nandakumar and Collector V. Vishnu accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-to-be-appointed-after-transfer-counselling/article38025116.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Safeguard well-being of govt.-aided schools’||Speaker M. Appavu has urged the Department of School Education to ensure the welfare of government-aided schools by treating them as government schools as these privately managed schools, mostly being run by the minorities, safeguard the salient features of equality and social justice, the motto of the Tamil Nadu Government. Speaking at the review meeting, he said no private school that was started after 1991 – 1992 was given grant by the Tamil Nadu Government and highly qualified teachers working in most of these schools were getting meagre monthly salary which was less than what was given as wages to labourers of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi issued a Government Order in 2011 through which around 11,307 teachers would have benefited by getting salary from the government. But the G.O. was not implemented following change of guard. The previous regime issued another G.O. (217 of 2019) that froze new appointments of teachers in government-aided schools even though they had sufficient strength of students. “I appeal to the Department of Education to treat the government-aided schools like government schools as those who are administering these institutions are torch-bearers of the government’s policy of equality and social justice. Besides trashing the G.O. 217 of 2019, the department should take efforts to safeguard the well being of government-aided schools,” he said. Mr. Mahesh assured him to revisit G.O. He also urged the officials to conduct spoken English classes in all government and government-aided schools by roping in experts so as to strengthen their communication skills. Minister for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Anita R. Radhakrishnan and Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan, Special Officer, ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’, Ilam Bhagavath, MLAs and senior officials participated in the meeting that concentrated on implementation of ongoing programmes and safety of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-care-of-govt-aided-schools/article38025122.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||9 tonnes of ration rice seized||The Civil Supplies CID police have seized two vehicles with 9 tonnes of ration rice and arrested two persons in this connection. When the Civil Supplies CID police were conducting vehicle check along the Sivanthipatti – Kaaraseri Road on Thursday evening following information about ration rice smuggling, they intercepted a rice laden pick-up van. While the driver Durai of Thaathankulam near here managed to escape, the police arrested V. Karuthapandi, 42, of Kiruba Nagar here and his assistant S. Saravanan, 33, of Melappaattam near Palayamkottai and seized the vehicle with 2 tonnes of ration rice. The hunt is on to nab driver Durai. Based on the information extracted from Karuthapandi, the police seized another lorry with 7 tonnes of ration rice on the Sivanthipatti – Karaseri Road. During investigation, the police found that the Karuthapandi had purchased the ration rice from the locals and was smuggling it to Kerala. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized/article38025121.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber produced before court||Controversial YouTuber Maridhas was produced before a court in Tirunelveli on Thursday evening in connection with a case registered by the Melapalayam police. The YouTuber from Madurai was arrested by the Melapalayam police on December 16 in connection with a case registered in April 2020 based on the complaint from Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam functionary Mohammed Khader Meeran pbjecting to a video on Tablighi Jamaat's conference in New Delhi. When Mr. Maridhas was produced before Judicial Magistrate IV Jayashankar, his advocates informed the court that the case filed against him by the Melapalayam police had been quashed by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. Since the order quashing the FIR did not reach Tirunelveli, the Judicial Magistrate adjourned the case to December 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-produced-before-court/article38025133.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Thursday stood at 139.55 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 579.40 cusecs and 1,104.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 117.45 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 178 cusecs and 235 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38025417.ece
24 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ministers receive petitions from public||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Thursday accepted petitions from the residents of 13 wards in Tiruppur Corporation on various issues faced by them. A release said the petitions were submitted at the grievances redress meetings held for Wards 42 to 52, and 55 and 56. Mr. Saminathan said the corporation would initiate action on the petitions after studying the issues. Appropriate instructions had already been issued on issues such as drinking water supply, maintenance of street lights, infrastructure-related problems, pensions and house site pattas, the released quoted Mr. Saminathan as saying. Welfare assistance The two Ministers also gave away welfare assistance worth Rs. 8.85 lakhs to 70 beneficiaries. District Collector S. Vineeth, Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati and Tiruppur South MLA K. Selvaraj were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-receive-petitions-from-public/article38025051.ece
24 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Boy found dead near Avinashi||The Perumanallur police on Wednesday registered a case after a boy studying in Class VIII was found dead at his residence at Thoravalur, near Avinashi, in Tiruppur. According to the police, M. Kannan, 13, allegedly ended his life around 1 p.m. on Wednesday. He was studying at a school in Erode and had continued his schooling through online classes for over a year due to the pandemic. The police suspect that Kannan took the extreme step after allegedly being reprimanded by his parents for playing a video game on his smartphone.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-found-dead-near-avinashi/article38025048.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector pedals her way to office||Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan on Thursday pedalled her way to the District Collectorate from her camp office to create awareness among the public of the advantages of using bicycles. The Collector, who set off from the camp office located behind the Collectorate building on a bicycle, reached her cabin in about 20 minutes. Her assistants at the office, daffedar ,and armed security, also used bicycles to reach the Collectorate from the Collector’s camp office. The Collector’s gesture would help send a message that it would be better and apt to use bicycles for at least short distance travel as it would not only help keep oneself fit but also reduce carbon emission from automated vehicles, officials said. Already, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board has initiated several steps to dissuade the public from high dependency on motorised vehicles, the officials pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvarur-collector-pedals-her-way-to-office/article38025103.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Foundation laid for reconstruction of temple tank wall in Tiruvarur||Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan on Thursday laid the foundation for reconstruction of the damaged parapet wall of Kamalalayam tank at Thyagarajaswamy Temple. The parapet wall on the southern side of the tank was damaged to a distance of 148 feet during the heavy rain in October. Subsequently, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department (HR and CE ), which supervises the administration of the temple, decided to reconstruct the damaged portion at an estimated cost of Rs. 77 lakh. The work had been entrusted to Sri Selva Muthukumar Charitable Trust on the condition that the work be completed within the period mentioned in the agreement, sources said. Senior Revenue and HR and CE officials and Tiruvarur MLA Poondi K. Kalaivanan participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foundation-laid/article38025104.ece
24 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Banks, jewellery shops told to upgrade surveillance systems||The Superintendent of Police, Vellore, S. Rajesh Kannan, on Thursday instructed all banks, jewellery showrooms, pawn brokers and cooperatives in the district to upgrade their surveillance system by January 1. The system should have high-end CCTV cameras with better resolution installed in all four directions of the premises to prevent crime. Thursday's initiative comes in the wake of the gold and diamond jewellery heist in a gold retail chain’s outlet in Vellore on December 15. Subsequently, the police recovered the entire lost jewellery worth around Rs. 8 crore and arrested the suspect from his hideout in Odugathur village near Anaicut along Jawadhu Hills on Monday. Over 200 representatives of these establishments from various parts of the district participated in the three-hour-long meeting. Police officers shared their knowledge on preventing crime by taking safety measures. Special team “Special police teams will also be constituted to check whether the instructions given at this meeting are implemented by these establishments in the coming weeks. We have also encouraged the representatives to have an internal safety audit for their establishments on a yearly basis,” Mr. Rajesh Kannan said. One of the key safety lacuna that was found in last week's gold heist was absence of CCTV cameras with better resolution on all four directions of the gold retail showroom in Katpadi. This helped the suspect drill the rear side wall of the showroom for a week. Also, the police said that such crimes are committed mostly during monsoon and winter as residents are likely to mistake the drilling noise for thunder and lightning Another security lapse in such establishments was the lack of a monitoring system for security guards in their cabins, especially during night. Most of the crimes happen between 12 midnight and 3 a.m., when security personnel are fast asleep in front of the showrooms. “In this heist case, we found that the suspect was inside the showroom for almost two hours, from 12 in the midnight taking his time to decamp with the valuables,” he said. Some of the safety measures that need to be incorporated by these establishments, include pinhole CCTV cameras, burglars' alarm, access control system with thumb impressions, fire alarm, monitoring of CCTV cameras manually and through gadgets, additional storage facility for CCTV camera footage through cloud and at least a few cameras facing the stretches where such establishments are located. Albert John, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Vellore, K.S. Sundaramurthy, ADSP, P. Palani, DSP (Katpadi), and K. Ramamurthy, DSP (Gudiyatham), participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-jewellery-shops-told-to-upgrade-surveillance-systems/article38025419.ece
24 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs eight fresh COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,414 with eight fresh cases reported on December 23. With a total of 49,164 having been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 109. The district’s toll is 1141. In Ranipet district, four cases were reported and the total number of cases stood at 43,664. In Tirupattur district, three cases were reported on Thursday and the total number of cases stood at 29,455. Tiruvannamalai district reported three fresh cases, which took the total number of cases to 55,328.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-eight-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38025420.ece
24 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Police release video showing 2 men abandoning boy’s body||With little headway being made in the investigation into death of a five-year-old boy whose body was found on a push cart along Villupuram-Chennai National Highway on December 15, the Villupuram district police on Thursday released a CCTV camera clip of two persons carrying the body and abandoning it. In the footage, one of the men can be seen carrying the blanket-wrapped body on his shoulders. The duo then move it from the bus stand in Villupuram around midnight, abandon it on the push cart and return to the bus stand. According to a senior police official, “The child’s identity has not been determined yet. The two persons seen in the footage could either be outsiders or migrant labourers. The child was wearing the dress of an Anganwadi centre, and according to preliminary investigations, the boy could be from the State.” “We suspect that the two persons seen in the footage could be his relatives. The duo could have abandoned the body on the push cart fearing questioning by the police and doctors at hospitals. We are probing the case from various angles,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-release-video-showing-2-men-abandoning-boys-body/article38025002.ece
24 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Lookout circular issued against former Minister in cheating case||Virudhunagar police have issued a lookout circular against former AIADMK Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, who has been absconding to evade arrest in a cheating case. A senior police officer said Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police M. Manohar had issued the circular a couple of days ago to ensure that Mr. Bhalaji does not leave the country. Eight special teams are in search of Mr. Bhalaji who escaped from a public meeting on Friday, immediately after being alerted about the dismissal of his anticipatory bail by the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. The police said that Mr. Bhalaji changed three cars while fleeing through rural roads before the police could launch a hunt for him. The former Milk and Dairy Development Minister has been accused of having cheated several persons by taking money on the promise of getting them jobs in Aavin. Former AIADMK functionary Vijaya Nallathambi, who was accused by one of the victims of being a conduit, too claimed he had given Mr. Bhalaji Rs. 1.60 crore, which was collected from job seekers. Virudhunagar district Crime Branch police had registered two cases against Mr. Bhalaji and his assistants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lookout-circular-issued-against-former-minister-in-cheating-case/article38024997.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||33 more persons test positive for Omicron variant in T.N.||“With one person already found infected with Omicron, the samples of 33 persons returned positive for the variant. All of them are in hospital isolation and are being monitored,” he said. The results of 23 samples were awaited. Of the 33 persons, 29 were international travellers and their contacts. “Of the remaining four, we were able to track one person’s travel history to the U.S. The travel history of the rest is unknown, and we are trying to find out whether they had come in contact with any person with a travel history. Though all four were identified in Chennai, one is from Salem and another has left for Kerala,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. With three persons discharged, 31 persons infected with Omicron are hospitalised in Chennai, Madurai, Chengalpattu, Tiruvannamalai, Kerala and Salem. “Those who have completed 10 days of hospitalisation will be tested again. If negative, they will be discharged,” he said. Except for two children, all the remaining patients were vaccinated, the Minister said. So far, all 15,259 travellers from 12 at-risk countries were tested in the State. Of the 1,00,950 persons who travelled from non-risk countries, 2% of them — 2,870 persons — were tested at random. In total, 18,129 persons were tested, and 114 were found positive for COVID-19, Mr. Subramanian said. “Of them, the State Public Health Laboratory identified the S-gene dropout in 57 samples. All samples were sent to INSACOG laboratories for confirmation.” The Health Secretary said, “A total of 45 persons who returned from 21 countries had tested positive on arrival at the entry point on the first day. They included travellers from nine at-risk and 12 non-risk countries. On the eighth day, 48 tested positive for COVID-19. We traced a total of 4,835 contacts, and 21 of them were found to be positive. A total of 114 persons tested positive and 23 recovered.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-more-persons-test-positive-for-omicron-variant-in-tn/article38025004.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Workshop on ‘heritage rice’ variety held||THANJAVUR A State-level farmers’ meet for strengthening community seed banks of ‘heritage rice’ was held on SASTRA campus at Thirumalaisamudhram on Thursday. Farmers from 24 districts, including delta region, attended the meet. Seed bank capital of Rs. 2,000 was distributed to them for producing seeds of ‘heritage rice’ varieties. The seeds, 20 kg in each variety produced by them would be collected and distributed to 500 farmers for cultivation during the next cropping season. Highlighting the advantages of ‘heritage rice’ varieties, the chief guest, V. Balakrishnan, Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, K. Balamurugan, DDM, NABARD, Thanjavur, and P. Duraisingam, chairman, CREATE-Save our rice campaign, Tamil Nadu, exhorted farmers to involve themselves in the process of preserving traditional rice varieties. The meet was organised jointly by the Department of Science and Technology, SASTRA and CREATE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workshop-on-heritage-rice-variety-held/article38025097.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jingle bells||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jingle-bells/article38024679.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||45 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 45 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total cases to 1,07,480. While 54 persons were discharged, 547 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, taking the toll in the district to 710. In Salem, 30 persons tested positive. According to health officials, 25 cases were indigenous. As per the bulletin, one death was reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 27 cases were reported. Krishnagiri reported six cases and Dharmapuri seven cases and one death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article38025142.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society and Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal temple: Margazhi mahotsavam, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m.    Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: Painting exhibition, Art Gallery, Avanashi Road, 10 a.m.    Jansons Institute of Technology: Online speech contest on tackling plastic pollution, 3.15 p.m.  Kathir College of Arts and Science: Inter-department competition on essay writing to mark National Consumer Rights Day, 9.30 a.m.; integration of herbal medicine and modern technology in pandemic disease management, 10.30 a.m.; Design thinking, critical thinking and innovative design, 12 noon  DJ Academy for Managerial Excellence: E-Connect on myths and realities in entrepreneurship, 3 p.m.  Coimbatore Productivity Council: Sensitisation programme on sexual harassment of women at workplaces, 2.30 p.m.  KPR College of Arts, Science and Research: Motivational session by successful entrepreneur, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38025059.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Nandha Engineering College: Department of Mechanical Engineering, awareness programme on MSME and funding opportunities, M. Palanivel, Joint Director, Micro Small Medium Enterprise office, Coimbatore, resource person, 10 a.m.; Department of ECE, product launch, 11 a.m.; Department of Agriculture Engineering, Inauguration of Agro Tech Warriors Association and National Farmers Day, 10.30 a.m.  Nandha College of Technology: Department of Information Technology, Seminar on Data Science, M. Rajeswari, Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences, Coimbatore, resource person, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38025143.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Census figures show rampant conversion is a myth: Congress||The principal Opposition Congress on Thursday vehemently opposed the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, terming it as “draconian, inhuman, and anti-Constitution.” Participating in a debate on the Bill that was piloted by Home Minister Araga Jnanendra in the Legislative Assembly, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah argued that the Bill had been brought in to target a particular community. Observing that already there were provisions under existing laws to act against conversions through inducement, force, and misrepresentation, he maintained that the Bill would not stand legal scrutiny. “It is bound to be struck down by courts if legally challenged before them,” he remarked, and urged the Government to withdraw the Bill in a bid to prevent any embarrassment in the future in the form of legal scrutiny. Population figures Mr. Siddaramaiah sought to counter the argument that conversion due to force had reached such a menacing proportion that the population of Hindus had declined. Citing Census figures, he pointed out that the population of Hindus that accounted for 83.86% of the total population in the State in 2001 had actually increased to 84% in 2011. Similarly, the population of Muslims had increased from 12.23% to 12.93% from 2001 to 2011 while Christian population had actually reduced from 1.91% to 1.87% during this period. Making it clear that the Congress too was opposed to fraudulent conversions, he said the Government should look at the reasons for such conversions instead of targeting them. There were sociological reasons for it such as discrimination, he said. There was a dire need for the Government to address such issues, he maintained. Sociological factors Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that the BJP Government had brought in the controversial Bill to divert public attention from its failures on various fronts. He also took exception to the Bill discriminating between the conversions of other people and those belonging to SC/ST communities in terms of penal provision. Referring to this, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said stringent provisions were made to prevent fraudulent conversions of Dalis as they were being exploited. “It is our duty to prevent the exploitation of oppressed sections,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/census-figures-show-rampant-conversion-is-a-myth-congress/article38024975.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP turns tables on Cong., leaves Siddaramaiah embarrassed||The Congress had to face embarrassment even as the principal Opposition party was gearing up to oppose the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, in the Assembly, when the ruling BJP furnished documents showing that the draft of an anti-conversion Bill had been prepared in 2016 by the Government led by Siddaramaiah. Law panel’s draft Explaining the salient features of the Bill, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy maintained that the Karnataka Law Commission had prepared a draft Bill on the advise of the then Government. Referring to the documents furnished by the Government, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said the Law Commission had prepared a draft on the advise of the Social Welfare Department. The Bill had been scrutinised by then Law Minister T.B. Jayachandra on November 16, 2016. Later, then Social Welfare Minister H. Anjaneya had placed the records before Mr. Siddaramaiah, who had said that the draft Bill should be placed before the State Cabinet. However, the Bill was not placed before the Cabinet, he informed the Assembly. Mr. Siddaramaiah insisted that he had not signed any such document. He said that Mr. Jayachandra told him that no such draft Bill had been prepared. The Speaker adjourned the House at this point for some time and invited Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Madhuswamy to his chamber to verify the contents of the documents in his possession. Admits in House After doing so, Mr. Siddaramaiah admitted in the House that such a draft Bill had been prepared when he was the Chief Minister. However, he made it clear that his Government had not placed the draft Bill before the Cabinet. “We did not go ahead with the draft Bill. Hence, it is not proper to blame us by saying that we prepared the ground for tabling the present Bill,” he argued. He insisted that the present Bill introduced by the BJP Government is drastically different from the one prepared during his Government’s tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-turns-tables-on-cong-leaves-siddaramaiah-embarrassed/article38024970.ece
24 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Innovative employment policy being implemented’||“The employment policy that is being implemented in Karnataka is innovative. It will help the youth of the State face not just the challenges of today, but also of tomorrow,” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Thursday. He was speaking after inaugurating a job fair organised by the Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood at the KLS Gogte institute of technology. “The policy is future looking because it speaks in detail about skill training, industry requirements, entrepreneurship, and the State Government’s participation. The policy has definite guidelines about creating jobs for women. It does not just have provisions to create jobs for engineers or graduate. But it also speaks of how to create employment for school drop outs after equipping them with skills that could make them employable,” he said. The policy would help increase the employment potential in urban and rural areas and among IT and other sectors,” he said. It facilitates organisation of job fairs by various government departments. He claimed that Karnataka was the first State to formulate such a policy. “The theme for the job fairs being organised by the government is employment for all. This is the motto of our employment policy too. The policy will guide the direction of the industries department and all other departments,” he said. Though the policy was ready quite some time ago, job fairs could not be held due to the epidemic, he said. He stressed on the need for giving professional skills to young graduates that make them employable. “I have known of engineers who have passed their examinations with distinction, but cannot draw a straight line. This should change. Only an engineering degree is not enough. You need an extra skill set to join the industry of your choice,” Mr. Bommai, who is a mechanical engineer by training, said. The Department of Skill Training that was started in 2017, has created over 2 lakh jobs till now, he said. C.N. Ashwath Narayana said the State Government will set up government engineering colleges in districts that do not have one. “We will upgrade seven government engineering colleges into institutes of excellence on the line of IITs,” he said. Over 5,500 students from northern Karnataka districts had participated in the fair. Bellweather companies like Wipro, H P Ola, HCL, Byjus, TATA, and Toyota, were part of the 57 companies that had put up stalls. As many as 14 had organised virtual interviews.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/innovative-employment-policy-being-implemented/article38025168.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘40% bribe’ allegation leads to heated debate in Council||The allegation by contractors’ association on corruption in the execution of government works sparked off heated arguments in the Legislative Council on Thursday. Congress member C.M. Ibrahim, who raised the issue, said the president of the contractors’ association had complained to the Prime Minister accusing the elected representatives and officers of demanding 40% of funds allotted for government works as kickbacks. “The allegation had insulted members of both the Houses. The Government should issue notice to the association,” he said. Mr. Ibrahim said he would not politicise the issue as the complainant had made allegations against all elected representatives. While responding to the issue, Minister for Major and Minor Irrigation Govind Karjol said allegations of corruption had been levelled against people in power since the days of Kengal Hanumanthaiya, who built the Vidhana Soudha. “In this case, an opinion expressed by head of an association with 800 contractors cannot be construed as the opinion of all 42,000 registered contractors of the State,” he said. The Minister countered by stating that allegations were not backed by documents. If contractors had paid 40% commission, they should give the list of work they executed and names of those who took money, he said. As the Minister attempted to give a reference to an alleged conversation on corruption in the Congress office, JD(S) member Marithibbe Gowda wanted to know why the Minister had not given reply in writing. Members of the Congress also joined him, leading to heated argument with the ruling party members. They trooped to the well objecting to the Minister’s reply. They raised slogans against the Government. Chairman Basavaraj Horatti adjourned the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-bribe-allegation-leads-to-heated-debate-in-council/article38024971.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Re-tendering ordered for maintaining 12 key roads in city||The Karnataka State Road Development Corporation has been instructed to re-tender the works regarding the improvement and maintenance of 12 high traffic density corridors of Bengaluru city, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Answering a question by Congress member P.R. Ramesh in Legislative Council on Thursday, the Chief Minister said during the review of the tenders finalized, the Government noticed many loopholes. While the cost for development of roads is Rs. 335.17 crore, their maintenance for five years was to cost Rs. 785.31 crore. “Why would maintenance require so much more? Roads with white topping hardly require maintenance. Moreover, a blacklisted contractor was also finalized for the project. Considering these issues, the Government has instructed the corporation to re-tender,” he said. The Government has selected 12 roads, measuring total length of 191 km. Among them, two roads - Old Airport Road and Magadi Road - have been selected as demo stretches. The improvement of Old Airport Road was being done been at a cost of Rs. 4.65 crore and expenditure on Magadi Road was Rs. 4.70 crore, the Chief Minister said. The State Government has decided to take up re-modelling of 128 km-long stormwater drain in Bengaluru city at a cost of Rs. 1,200 crore to avoid flooding during heavy rain in the city, Mr. Bommai said. Responding to a question in Legislative Council on Thursday, Mr. Bommai said BBMP had identified bottlenecks in the stormwater drains that caused floods in the city. Encroachment Replying to another question, the CM said about 382 acres and 27 guntas of stormwater drains in the city had been encroached upon. BBMP had identified 2,626 cases of encroachment and among them 1,912 had been cleared before December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/re-tendering-ordered-for-maintaining-12-key-roads-in-city/article38024948.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Karnataka bans creation of new small agri survey numbers||In a bid to prevent formation of private layouts in small pieces of agricultural land where haphazard development has taken place across the State, especially around urban areas, the State Government has banned new creation of small agriculture survey numbers for the purpose of sale. The order withholding creation of agriculture survey numbers that is below the fixed minimum extent of survey number has been issued by the Commissioner of Survey Settlement and Land Records, Munish Moudgil. The minimum extent of survey number, according to Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, is three guntas in Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts and five guntas in the rest of the State. While the existing small survey number will remain valid, only inheritance of smaller extent survey numbers will be allowed to be created. The order has been passed under section 108 of Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, to ensure that false gunta sales of house sites in the name of agricultural land to bypass Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act does not happen. The order said that across the State, it has been found that the agricultural land is being bifurcated into small parcels and converted to residential sites resulting in haphazard development. “If anyone wants to sell house sites then they can resort to land conversion and sell even in less than 3 or 5 guntas extent after conversion,” said sources in Survey Settlement and Land Records. Sources said that while agriculture is very limited in the small parcels of land, a residential layout with facilities such as parks and CA sites is also not possible since 50% of the land area has to be earmarked for roads, CA sites and parks, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-bans-creation-of-new-small-agri-survey-numbers/article38024960.ece
24 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Kin donate farmer’s body||The family members of Rudrappa Veerappa Mokashi, 86, a farmer from Bailhongal and former chairman of M.K. Hubli sugar factory, donated his body and organs in Belagavi on Tuesday. The body was donated to the anatomy department of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) in Belagavi. His eyes were donated to the Eye Bank of KLE Dr. Prabhakar Kore Hospital and Medical Research Centre. The donation was facilitated by the Dr. Ramannavar Charitable Trust. Details can be had from the foundation at 9242496497.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kin-donate-farmers-body/article38025163.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Not sure if my mother converted: Goolihatti||BJP member from Hosadurga Goolihatti Shekar, whose accusation of his mother being converted during the last legislature session had started the discussion on the anti-conversion Bill, on Thursday surprised all by saying that he was “not sure” about the conversion. “My mother started going to church with another woman. She had health issues. I do not know if it was conversion,” he told the Legislative Assembly before the anti-conversion Bill was adopted. He said, “My mother was mentally weak and told me that she was feeling good (by going to church). She gave away pictures of Hindu gods and puja materials to a temple.” Tendering apology multiple times to the larger Christian community for his remarks made earlier in the last session, the legislator said that his grouse was against “some churches” that were indulging in conversion. “Priests in these churches are Lingayats and Bhovis. There are seven churches in my constituency and followers are from Lingayat, Bhovi, Kuruba, Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes. The belief is that anybody going there will overcome health issues,” he said. He had complained tothen Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa two years ago, and that family ties were getting affected owing to conversions, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-sure-if-my-mother-converted-goolihatti/article38024976.ece
24 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Talk on energy conservation held||A guest lecture on ‘need of the hour is to conserve energy’ was organised in KLE. Society’s R.L. Science Institute (Autonomous), Belagavi, on World Energy Conservation Day, recently. Shirish Kerur, Chief Learning Officer, Pragati Engineers, spoke on the topic. He spoke on various aspects including the scale of renewable and non-renewable energy usage, various strategies that can be adopted to conserve energy and also motivated students to adopt sustainable lifestyles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/talk-on-energy-conservation-held/article38025336.ece
24 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||JD(S) hits out||Janata Dal (Secular) leaders on Thursday used the discussion on the anti-conversion Bill to hit at the Congress after it emerged that a draft Bill had been made in 2016 when the party was in power. “Why was the draft Bill brought in 2016 and what was the objective? Did you (Congress) have an arrangement with the BJP then?” the former Minister H.D. Revanna asked in the Legislative Assembly. Opposing the Bill, he said that both the national parties were responsible as “the Congress initiated the Bill and the BJP continued with it.” “Mr. Siddaramaiah signed it and allowed it to be placed before the Cabinet and did not reject it,” he said, adding that there was a “match fixing” between the two national parties. JD(S) Legislature Party deputy leader Bandeppa Kashempur said, “Someone needs to tell who is the B team of the BJP.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-hits-out/article38024977.ece
24 December 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||‘Pampa and Ranna too converted’||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday observed that Karnataka had a history of religious conversion by stalwarts by choice. Participating in a debate on the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill in the Assembly, Mr. Siddaramaiah pointed out that greats of Kannada literary world such as Pampa and Ranna too had converted. Born Brahmins, they had embraced Jainism. Similarly, 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara founded the Lingayat religion. Several kings and their followers too converted to Jainism, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pampa-and-ranna-too-converted/article38024978.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Omicron scare has little impact on year-end travel plans||The Omicron scare seems to have had little impact on travel plans, except that most foreign destinations are out of bounds due to COVID-related restrictions. The domestic tourism scene is bustling with activity. Vijeth R., a techie in the city, said his family has planned a vacation to Ranthambore National Park, Rajasthan, for the New Year’s eve. “We have not been anywhere out for the past two years and planned this vacation. Now, again there is a scare of a possible third wave. But since we would be in a cottage inside the national park, we have decided to go ahead anyway,” he said. Sanjar Imam, President, Karnataka Tourism Forum, said Rajasthan, Goa and Jammu and Kashmir have emerged as the top domestic destinations of tourists going out of the State. While most international destinations are out of bounds, Maldives and Dubai, are two destinations that are taking tourists, and are doing well, he said. “While international travel is almost wiped out, we have achieved pre-pandemic traffic volumes during the year end season. However, this was not the case even a few weeks before this season and we expect this to drop again after the first week of January,” he said. “We observed a dip in bookings and several cancellations in November last week and the first week of December in the initial days of the Omicron scare. However, after a realisation that the infection is not severe and thecaseload in the country not on a steep hike, people are travelling, though many prefer to stay in secluded places like independent cottages,”he added. The hospitality industry in the State is also doing brisk business during the season. “Almost every resort and hotel worth the name in the State are fully booked and you can’t get a room now. All prominent destinations — Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Kabini, Sakleshpur, Hampi — are all booked,” said M. Ravi, of Karnataka Tourism Society. Sindhu Rupesh, Director, Tourism Department, said the response has been good this year, evident in how all the Jungle Lodges and Resorts and hotels by Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation are fully booked. However, the State Government guidelines banning parties/ events for the New Year’s eve may lead to some cancellations in the State’s resorts, it is now feared. “DJs and parties on New Year’s Eve are a part and parcel of the season. If there are no parties, guests will be forced to stay indoors, which they can do anyway at home. We fear that this may lead to several cancellations disrupting a good season. Many are heading to Goa since resorts and hotels there have confirmed parties will be part of the celebrations,” Mr. Ravi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-scare-has-little-impact-on-year-end-travel-plans/article38024947.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Oxygen crisis prompts State to augment infrastructure, supply||The year 2021 would most starkly be remembered for those heart-wrenching images of families and friends of COVID-19 patients running from pillar to post frantically in search of oxygenated beds. As the year winds down, with the vicious second wave of the pandemic behind us, where do we stand in terms of our oxygen needs and supply? Currently, of the total Central allocation of 1,200 MT of oxygen per day, the actual usage has been hovering around 160 MT per day for the last two months. Munish Moudgil, who is in charge of oxygen supply from refilling stations to healthcare facilities, said nearly 98% of the oxygen consumption is for patients with non-COVID ailments. Oxygen consumption had remained at 120 MT per day on an average during the pre-COVID-19 period. Karnataka, which had recorded nearly a five-fold rise in requirement of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic in April-May this year, now claims to be self-sufficient with a robust oxygen supply chain. While the State now has an overall storage capacity of 1,497 MT, 186 of the 262 new oxygen plants allocated under various initiatives and CSR funds have been commissioned. This augmentation was following the unprecedented crisis that Karnataka faced in 2021. While the maximum usage in 2020 during the first wave was not more than 420 MT per day, consumption shot up to 581.79 MT by April 30, 2021, and further to 885 metric tonnes on May 22, at its highest. The requirement in Bengaluru city alone was 285 MT per day. Amidst the oxygen crisis, Karnataka received a jolt on May 24 as a breakdown in two oxygen production plants in Ballari led to a shortfall of 20% of the daily supplies. The huge disruption in supplies reduced oxygen availability by 220 MT per day for a few days. The allocation by Centre -- 1,200 MT after intervention from courts -- did not help bridge the gap between demand and supply. Karnataka managed to get only around 850 MT on a daily basis from suppliers within the State for some time. The State Government, which was one of the first States to issue guidelines for medical oxygen management, had in June directed all medical colleges and private hospitals above 50 beds to install their own Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA)/refilling oxygen plants. While hospitals with above 100 beds have been directed to produce at least two times their normal requirement of oxygen, hospitals with a bed capacity of 50-99 have been asked to be gear up to meet their normal requirements.  Problem of plenty In fact, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) thinks that this could create a problem of plenty. It has objected to the directive for 50-bed hospitals on the grounds that the smaller hospitals will not be able to afford it. PHANA president H.M. Prasanna said that they might “end up with surplus oxygen.” The association has also approached the Karnataka High Court in this regard. Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, said, “Hitherto, oxygen supply to hospitals was mostly centralised and that resulted in severe strain on the supply chain during the pandemic. In this backdrop, we are trying to localise oxygen supply at the hospital level.” Karnataka has received 262 PSA oxygen plants under various initiatives, he said. Karnataka installed and commissioned 186 of these plants and work on 33 plants is underway. Medical oxygen supply in the State has been enhanced to 1,200 metric tonnes since the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-crisis-prompts-state-to-augment-infrastructure-supply/article38024956.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ground being prepared for legal challenge of Bill||Multiple organisations and activists are preparing to challenge the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, popularly called the anti-conversion Bill, in the High Court, after it is passed by the legislature and notified. Gujarat High Court, in August 2021, stayed parts of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, that dealt with inter-faith marriages. Similar provisions are part of the Bill in Karnataka, which would be raised by those who view this Bill as a violation of the Indian Constitution. IPC provisions Human rights advocate B.T. Venkatesh of Reach Law, who plans to challenge the legislation, said, “The Bill is a clear violation of Articles 15, 19, and 25 of the Constitution which provide for equality and the right to freedom of expression and religion. There are already provisions in the Indian Penal Code that deal with fraud, threatening with divine displeasure, and allurement and there is no need to bring another law.” Another senior advocate, C.S. Dwarakanath, former chairperson of the Karnataka Permanent Backward Classes Commission, said the Bill says post conversion the person would cease to get benefits from the Government that he/she was getting prior to the conversion, which runs contrary to the Backward Classes list in the State. “In Category I of the Backward Classes list, ‘Dalits converted to Christianity’ is listed as the 95th community eligible for benefits under the category with 4% reservation,” he pointed out. Section 8 of the Bill requires the person converting and the converter to give a 30 day advance notice to the district magistrate which will be notified, calling for objections. “This provision is unconstitutional, in violation of the right to privacy. In a similar case, the Himachal Pradesh High Court held that the notice requirement violated the freedom of conscience and privacy of an individual, and articulated that there must be a compelling state interest in interfering with this right,” said All-India Lawyers’ Association for Justice in a statement. Burden of proof Section 12 of the Bill, reverses the burden of proof as to whether the religious conversion is unlawful per the Bill, on the accused. “A foundational tenet of criminal jurisprudence is that a person is presumed to be innocent until proven guilty. The Supreme Court has time and again stated that the casting of burden of proof onthe accused cannot be allowed when the presumption is raised in relation to the proof of negative facts,” AILAJ said in the statement.  The Bill is a clear violation of Articles 15, 19, and 25 of the Constitution which provide for equality and the right to freedom of expression and religion. B.T. Venkatesh,human rights advocate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ground-being-prepared-for-legal-challenge-of-bill/article38024968.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Bengaluru Urban district achieves 100% second dose coverage||Bengaluru Urban (excluding BBMP) has now become the first district in Karnataka to achieve 100% second dose vaccination. According to data from the State Health and Family Welfare Department, although the district has an eligible population of 10,32,000, as many as 13,26,255 (129%) have been inoculated with the first dose. On August 29, this district had achieved 100% first dose coverage. Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner J. Manjunath said that the first dose vaccination exceeded the target in terms of first dose administration because of the floating population in the district. He said the district would now focus on covering the remaining 29% who had got their first dose there. “The target is based on a projection of the 2011 census. Many people came to Bengaluru Urban from BBMP limits to avoid queues and also from neighbouring districts of Kolar, Bengaluru Rural and Ramanagar. We covered workers from the industrial areas of Bommasandra, Jigani and others to achieve 100% coverage,” he said. The DC said micro planning including dry runs and data collection on the number of government, private hospitals, their infrastructure, manpower and beneficiaries was done before the programme began. On January 16, the vaccination drive was rolled out for healthcare workers, followed by frontline workers on February 2. The programme was further opened up for those senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities on March 1. “On May 1, we expanded the drive to cover priority groups such as construction workers, street vendors and garment workers. From June 21 when vaccine availability stabilised, vaccination melas and Lasika Utsavas were held and Bengaluru Urban district’s vaccination coverage was always high,” the DC said. According to data from the department, as of Thursday the second dose coverage in 16 districts is higher than the State average of 75%. While Kodagu, Mandya and Ramanagara followed Bengaluru Urban achieving 90%, 84% and 83% second dose coverage respectively, Kalaburgi, Raichuru, Haveri and Ballari have the least (second dose) coverage - 60%, 64% and 68% respectively. BBMP, which has an eligible population of 91,70,000 has the least first dose coverage at 91%. The second dose coverage here stands at 74%. As of Thursday, 4,73,25,955 of the State’s 4,89,16,000 eligible population has been covered with the first and 3,67,88,661 with second dose thereby registering 97% and 75% achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-bengaluru-urban-district-achieves-100-second-dose-coverage/article38024958.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Abatement of case against prime accused doesn’t annihilate abetment of co-accused’||The High Court of Karnataka has said that abatement of criminal case on the death of the main accused does not annihilate the charge of abetment against a co-accused while declining to quash the charge of abetment against the wife of a deceased public servant in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. “... death of the husband during trial before the charges are framed will not result in closure of trial against the co-accused, who is charged only for alleged abetment under Section 109 of the Indian Penal Code,” the court said. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while rejecting the plea of V.M. Saraswathy, 60, wife of late M. Selvakumar. The CBI had registered a corruption case under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, against her husband for allegedly possessing assets disproportionate to known sources of his income when he was working as the Deputy Director (Research) Training Centre, Central Coffee Research Institute, Coffee Research Station, Balehonnur, Chikkamagaluru district. The allegation against the petitioner-wife was that she had abetted her husband to commit the offence for purchase of many moveable and immovable properties in her name out of the ill-gotten money of her husband. The CBI had filed a chargesheet against them in 2015 and Selvakumar died in March 2017 before the special court for CBI cases could frame the charges against them. While the petitioner had moved the High Court questioning the direction of the special court to invoke charges under the PC Act against her, the CBI had questioned the special court’s order of framing charge against her under the PC Act instead of the charge of abetment under Section 109 of the IPC as alleged in the charge sheet. The CBI had not charged her under the PC Act. The High Court, while setting aside the special court’s order to frame charge against her under the PC Act, has said that trial against her would have to continue for the charge of abetment. “The question that had arisen for consideration is answered in the peculiar facts of this case holding that abatement does not annihilate abetment,” the court said. However, the High Court said that since she cannot be charged under the PC Act as per the law, the special court for corruption case cannot proceed against her, and the further proceedings for abetment would have to be continued before a competent court having jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abatement-of-case-against-prime-accused-doesnt-annihilate-abetment-of-co-accused/article38024973.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown today||There will be no power supply on Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Maruthi Layout, Malagala Village, Good Earth Road, BHEL Layout, Krishna Garden, Siddi Vinayaka Layout, Mahadeshwarnagara Main Road, Sir M.V. 1st, 3rd and 5th Blocks, BDA Area Block-1, Uttarahalli Road, Kodipalya, Annapoorneshwari Layout, Upkara Layout, RTO Office Road, BEL 1st and 2nd stages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-today/article38024952.ece
24 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kristu Jayanti College gets ‘A++’ accreditation||Kristu Jayanti College, Autonomous, Bengaluru, was recently, accredited with an ‘A++’ grade. The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) rated the institution with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.78 out of 4 in the third cycle of accreditation for seven years. Fr. Dr. Augustine George, Principal, Kristu Jayanti College, pointed out that it was a collective effort of the entire institution that resulted in the remarkable accomplishment. “When we got the score 3.78, we felt rewarded for the hard work done and it’s a success of the entire Kristu Jayanti College,” said Fr. Dr. Augustine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kristu-jayanti-college-gets-a-accreditation/article38024962.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre does not allow open vial policy for Covaxin||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (Immunisation division) has not permitted open vial policy for Covaxin. The Centre has also said that all vaccines, including COVID-19 vaccine, should not be utilised beyond the expiry date mentioned on the label of each vial. This follows the manufacturer Bharat Biotech’s announcement on Monday that opened vials of its vaccine against COVID-19 can be stored at 2-8°C for up to 28 days and are not required to be discarded immediately in a day or at the end of the immunisation session. The company had stated that the extension of Covaxin’s shelf life up to 12 months from the date of manufacturing was recently approved by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-does-not-allow-open-vial-policy-for-covaxin/article38024953.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress Foundation Day||The Congress has decided to celebrate its Foundation Day on December 28 at Maddur in Mandya district. The day is also celebrated as Seva Dal Day and all office-bearers and members of Seva Dal will participate in the event at Shivapura Satyagraha monument, Seva Dal leader Balram Bandori said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-foundation-day/article38024980.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested, marijuana seized||The Kengeri police on Thursday arrested two persons and recovered seven kg of marijuana and an autorickshaw from them. The accused, Irfan Pasha and Imra Pasha from Mysuru Road, were caught red-handed while selling the drugs to customers on Kengeri main road. They confessed that they sourced the drugs from their contact on the outskirts of the city and smuggled them into the city concealing them with vegetables and greens, the police said. The two have been taken into custody and investigations are on to track down the network and the source of the drugs, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7-kg-of-marijuana-seized/article38024961.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC permits BMRCL to fell 577 trees||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday permitted the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BMRCL) to fell 577 trees, translocate 212 trees and retain 44 trees on site at different stretches of phase 2A of the metro project as recommended by the Technical Expert Committee (TEC), which was set up on the court’s direction. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order while allowing an application filed by the BMRCL seeking the court’s nod based on the report submitted by the TEC on a request submitted by the BMRCL to remove 833 trees in different stretches. The Bench was hearing the PIL petition filed in 2018 by Dattatraya T. Devare and Bangalore Environment Trust complaining about non-implementation of Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976. The Bench noted that 256 can be saved by way of retaining 44 and translocation of 212 trees based on the assessment made by the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-permits-bmrcl-to-fell-577-trees/article38024951.ece
24 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||New Year celebrations at Dharmasthala opposed||Opposing New Year celebrations at Dharmasthala, ISKCON, and Art of Living centres, national president of Sri Ram Sene Pramod Mutalik warned of agitations if they were not cancelled. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday, Mr. Mutalik said that although the celebrations on January 1 were not related to Hindus, they were being held at these religious places. It would send a wrong message about Hinduism, he said. “The new year of Hindus begins with the Ugadi festival. Therefore, letters have been written to Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, and Madhu Pandit Dasa,” he said. On the new Bill to curb religious conversions, Mr. Mutalik said it was aimed at appeasing Hindus and it should not end up like the Act on prevention of cow slaughter. He said after implementation of the Act, Sri Ram Sene would constitute of a 10-member team comprising advocates and women in every taluk. The teams would collect information on forceful religious conversions and give it to the police, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-year-celebrations-at-dharmasthala-opposed/article38025173.ece
24 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NK issues not discussed during session: AAP||The Aam Admi Party has alleged that issues relating to north Karnataka were not raised and deliberated upon during the ongoing winter session of the State Legislature in Belagavi and it was a sheer waste of public money. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday, district committee member of AAP Vikash Soppin alleged that instead of taking issues concerning public welfare and projects, politics was being played to indirectly supporting desecration of statues of national heroes. “Instead of immediately taking steps to nab the culprits behind the desecration of statues, the BJP is playing politics over border and language. It has forgotten that it is in power and has supported the call for Karnataka bandh over the issue,” he said. Mr. Soppin alleged that neither the BJP nor the Congress and the JD(S) were interested in the overall development of north Karnataka and this they had shown during the ongoing winter session. “Moreover the leaders of these political parties were not interested in holding the Legislature session in Belagavi. There seems to be a conspiracy to show that if the session is held in Belagavi it will be of no use,” he alleged. He said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai seemed to have forgotten that he was part of the agitation over the long pending issue of Kalasa Banduri by saying that there was still confusion over preparing DPR (Detailed Project Report) and the water share allocated by the Tribunal. “If he has any concern for the region, he should immediately convene meeting of all the stakeholders and experts to resolve the confusion over preparing the DPR”, he said. AAP office bearers Vikas Soppin, Ananthkumar Bugadi, Shashikumar Sullad and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nk-issues-not-discussed-during-session-aap/article38025166.ece
24 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Distribution of Ashraya houses sought||Slum dwellers took out a protest march in Dharwad recently and staged a demonstration seeking early allotment of of houses under built under ‘Ashraya’ scheme in Hubballi and Dharwad. The slum dwellers took out the protest under the aegis of Janata Dal (Secular) and staged the demonstration in front of the office of Karnataka Slum Clearance Board in Dharwad. The protesters said that the Slum Clearance Board had constructed around 1,600 houses on Mantur Road in Hubballi and 1,070 houses at Lakmanahalli and Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Dharwad. Although these houses were constructed three years ago, not a single house had been allotted to beneficiaries so far. Consequently due to lack of maintenance, the structures were getting weak and turning unfit for occupancy, they alleged. President of Dharwad district unit president Gururaj Hunasimarad said that when Ashraya housing scheme began seven years ago. It took nearly four years for the contractor to complete the construction and after that they were locked and till date remained unallotted, he said. Mr. Hunasimarad alleged that because of influence being exerted upon the officials of the Slum Board by local MLAs, the allotment had been delayed inordinately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/distribution-of-ashraya-houses-sought/article38025338.ece
24 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad Bar council polls today||The election to choose the new body of office-bearers to the century-old Dharwad Bar Association will be held on Friday. As per the election schedule, the polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Dharwad Bar Association and a total of 1,200 voters have been declared eligible to vote. Incumbent president B.S. Godse is seeking second term and he is being challenged by C.S. Policepatil, who earlier served as secretary. Senior counsel R.I. Savadatti is too in the race. Ashish Magadum, Ashok Doddmani, M.P. Eragonda, and Vijay Sali are contesting for the post of vice-president, while N.R. Matti, M.G. Sangolli, and P.V. Vernekar are contesting for the post of secretary. Election will be held for seven posts of executive committee members. Of the seven posts one is reserved for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-bar-council-polls-today/article38025164.ece
24 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Gramin Bank signs MoU with Health Care Insurance||The Karnataka Gramin Bank, sponsored by Canara Bank, has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Care Health Insurance Limited to market the health insurance products for the bank customers across 22 districts of the State. The launch of various products includes those specially designed for the rural masses and farmers who comprise a good chunk of the clientele of the bank exceeding Rs. 1.5 crore. The MoU was signed by Shreenath Joshi, Chairman of the Karnataka Gramin Bank, and Atul Sabharwal, Business Head of the Care Health Insurance Limited, at a function held at the bank head quarters in Ballari city recently. Mr. Joshi said that the insurance products will go a long way in building a sense of security among the customers in the current pandemic situation, the initiative is a great leap forward in ensuring affordable health care plans. The bank will focus on its rural customers, meeting another goal under financial inclusion envisaged by Government of India by covering maximum people including farmers and artisans under the purview of health insurance, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-gramin-bank-signs-mou-with-health-care-insurance/article38025162.ece
24 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||CPI(M) dismisses allegation of extortion||Responding to an audio clip of a phone conversation between a functionary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and an officer of the Backward Classes Welfare Department in which the former demanded the latter “offer help” in providing food to the delegates attending the CPI(M) district conference, K. Neela, district secretary of the party, dismissed the allegation of extortion by stating that her party activist sought help from the officer just as other activists normally collected contributions for the event. “We had recently conducted the district conference of the party in Kalaburagi and the expenses of the entire event were managed with the contributions collected from the people. We never seek any assistance from exploiting classes such as big capitalists and the corporate classes for our activities. As part of mobilising the funds from the public, one of our activists contacted the officer in the Backward Classes Welfare Department and sought some financial assistance to provide food to the delegates attending the event. He did not force the officer at all,” Ms. Neela said at a press conference here recently. The party, she added, has a robust mechanism to look into the allegations of corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpim-dismisses-allegation-of-extortion/article38025337.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Drive to clear pavements and roads of encroachments begins||Mangaluru City Corporation on Thursday launched a drive to clear footpaths and roads of encroachment, particularly by unauthorised petty shops and such other installations. Commissioner Akshy Sridhar led the drive from Town Hall in the morning. He said the corporation council had earlier resolved to clear encroachment on roads and footpaths following a series of complaints from the residents, particularly senior citizens, about the inconvenience being caused to them. Mayor Premananda Shetty held a meeting with the Commissioner on Wednesday and asked him to execute the clearance drive immediately. A number of petty shops, including flower vendors, vegetable vendors, snacks vendors, vehicle repair garages and others had encroached upon public spaces causing severe inconvenience to the residents, he noted. Despite repeated caution to such unauthorised occupants of public places, they did not mend their way and continued to conduct the business thereby aggravating the misery of residents. Moreover the number of such unauthorised petty shops was constantly on the rise. Hence the move, he said. Mr. Sridhar said the corporation has formed five teams comprising 15 members for the drive. The drives would be conducted continuously during the forenoon and evenings across the city, the commissioner said. On Thursday, several encroachments at the State Bank bus terminal, Bondel, and other areas were cleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-to-clear-pavements-and-roads-of-encroachments-begins/article38025309.ece
24 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Head to Saligrama to enjoy kayaking amid mangroves||Want to have a closer look at the mangrove forests in the coast and enjoy the beauty of backwaters leisurely? Just head to Saligrama in Udupi district where one can enjoy kayaking amid thick mangroves in the backwaters of the Seetha. Two youngsters from Kodi in the vicinity of Parampalli near Saligrama have procured as many as eight kayaks investing close to Rs. 4.5 lakh on their own to take tourists amidst the lush mangroves. While the backwater formed by Seetha is about 8 km long, Lokesh and Mithun, the entrepreneurs, take tourists for about 3+3 km ride in about two hours. “Though Udupi district is blessed with abundant backwaters, the Parampalli stretch has one of the best mangroves with shallow waters thereby posing minimum threat to tourists,” said Mr. Lokesh. The depth is just about four-five feet along the stretch and even novices can paddle the kayak with ease, he told The Hindu on Tuesday. Mr. Lokesh and Mr. Mithun accompany tourists during the ride for guidance and also to sneak into thick mangroves. “Tides play crucial role in enhancing the rides. While high tides allow tourists to go into the mangroves, it becomes difficult during low tides. That’s why we ask tourists to inform us before coming,” he said. Asked what was the inspiration to introduce kayaking in the less popular region, Mr. Lokesh said he had heard and read lot about kayaking and other means of exploring backwaters. “The region also has one of the best mangroves and hence, we decided to introduce kayaking,” he said adding there was no government support for the initiative. “We arranged funds for procuring the kayaks,” he added. Kayaking starts and ends near the Parampalli bridge while the service is available between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. One can also witness birds and other wild as well as marine life during the ride. Tourists, besides being given tips about safe ride, are also provided life jackets for safety. For a two-hour ride, the organisers charge Rs. 300 per head while each kayak can host two people. For more details, call Mr. Lokesh on 98459 43030 or Mr. Mithun on 72592 77799. The road next to Mantapa Ice Cream in Saligrama town leads to Parampalli bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/head-to-saligrama-to-enjoy-kayaking-amid-mangroves/article38025308.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Act against moral policing and vigilantism: Civic group||The Mangalore Civic Group has urged the city and Dakshina Kannada district police to take immediate measures to curb the menace of moral policing in the region in view of the increasing incidences of attacks on citizens by vigilante groups. A delegation, comprising Prathapchandra Kedilaya, Suresh Nayak, Bhaskar Kiran and Oswald Pereira, met City Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar recently and submitted a memorandum in this regard. Similar representation was given to the DK Superintendent of Police. The group said in memorandum that the menace of moral policing that was haunting the region for many decades, has increased during the last few months with people being attacked in buses, parks, roads, beaches, colleges, hostels and other places. In many cases the offenders were booked but let off later without being brought to justice. Hence these violators have lost the fear of law, said a release quoting the group. Moral policing and religious vigilantism has disturbed peace and communal harmony in the city and the district and brought shame to Mangaluru adversely affecting educational institutions, tourism industry, and other businesses. The group suggested to the police to sensitise bus crew on the issue, collaborate with educational institutions, install warning posters in bus stops and parks and introduce a 24x7 helpline and women’s safety app. It also asked police to impose spot fines and book criminal cases, follow up the cases to secure conviction of the culprits. It urged the police to publicise in the media all the counter measures that they take to curb the menace. Mr. Kumar informed the members that police have been acting promptly on receiving complaints about vigilante incidents and strict law enforcement was being done to control such crimes. He told the delegates that his message to the youth of the city was to act responsibly and not to fall prey to bad influences and indulge in vigilante activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/act-against-moral-policing-and-vigilantism-civic-group/article38025311.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Culture of indifference is worse than hate: Mangaluru Bishop||Expressing his concerns over the growing culture of indifference, Mangaluru Bishop Peter Paul Saldanha on Thursday said many were promoting division, violence, and death. In his message on the eve of Christmas, the Bishop said growing culture of indifference today was worse than hate. “If we love someone that person has a place in our heart and if we hate the person, he will be in our mind. But if we foster indifference, that person does not exist for us. We do not care whether he is alive or dead. This is the danger we are in, for many promote division, violence and death,” he said. Jesus, the Bishop said, teaches by example to care and share, to give and forgive enemies, and never hate anyone. “Hatred and indifference will burn us before it burns others,” he said and added that it destroys conscience and goodness among people. “We become dead people walking, a kind of zombies,” he said. Expressing the need for fostering swachh mind and a pure heart, the Bishop said, “Let this Christmas be for us, a challenge to foster a pure heart so that we see God in our neighbour and in nature.” Udupi Bishop Gerald Lobo said freedom, peace, forgiveness, tolerance, harmony must become the breath of humans again. In his message, the Udupi Bishop said the world has gone through lot of suffering in the last two years of COVID-19 and this tired and depressed world was in need of new lease of life. There are many people who are not capable to celebrate Christmas in a worthy manner. “The Christmas spirit should be manifested through our sharing of resources with those who are deprived of them,” he said. Students of Rosario Group of Institutions celebrated Christmas on the institution premises in Mangaluru on Thursday. Rector of Rosario Cathedral Alfred John Pinto attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/culture-of-indifference-is-worse-than-hate-mangaluru-bishop/article38025313.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Six arrested for attempting to murder fish worker||The city police arrested six persons allegedly involved in hanging a fish worker upside down in a boat and assaulting him at the the harbour. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Konduru Polayya, 23, Avula Rajakumar, 26, Karpingari Ravi, 27, and Pralayakaveri Govindayya, 47, all from the Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh, Katangari Manohar, 21, and Votukuri Jalayya, 30, both from Prakasam district district in Andhra Pradesh. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Thursday that the victim, identified as Vaila Sheenu, 32, a native of Prakasam district, had recently joined the fishing vessel John Shailesh-2 for work. On December 14, Sheenu joined his fellow fishermen for a party held before they left for deep sea fishing the next day. On December 15 morning, the arrested persons questioned Sheenu over the absence of two mobile phones of the vessel crew. The arrested persons brought him to the fishing boat that was berthed at the harbour and hanged him upside down. Speaking a mix of Tamil and Telugu, the arrested persons allegedly assaulted Sheenu. The assault was recorded by a fish worker on board and was uploaded on social media. The Mangaluru South Police Inspector Lokesh A.C. received the video clip on his mobile phone. He checked and found that the incident occurred in the Mangaluru fishing harbour. Mr. Kumar said a team of Mangaluru South police traced Sheenu, who had taken shelter in his relative’s house in Karwar fearing further assault by the arrested persons. On his complaint on December 21 , the Mangaluru South police arrested the six persons on Thursday for the offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 148, 323, 324, 307, 364, 342 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Kumar said the police have so far not found criminal antecedents of the arrested persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-arrested-for-attempting-to-murder-fish-worker/article38025315.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||17 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 12 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. After the discharge of 17 patients, the district has 160 active cases and the test positivity rate was at 0.18%. Udupi reported five new cases, of which four patients were from Udupi taluk and one from outside the district. Following the discharge of three patients, the district has 26 active cases. With 3,412 persons vaccinated on Thursday, the total number in Dakshina Kannada was 29,10,098. In Udupi, 2,917 persons were jabbed and this took the total number of vaccinated persons to 17,82,440.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article38025317.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Gangadhar of Sri Ganesh Ambulance service dead||Gangadhar Attavar, 62, owner of Sri Ganesh Ambulance service, died early on Thursday. Mr. Attavar was known to serve needy patients for free. He worked along with fellow drivers of the fleet of ambulances during the COVID-19 waves. He was the go-to man for the city police in shifting decomposed and mutilated bodies to the mortuary. Mr. Attavar followed his father, who owned a petty shop near Government Wenlock Hospital, in running an ambulance from the hospital. In the last 35 years, Mr. Attavar added 18 ambulances to the fleet and provided jobs to many unemployed drivers. Mr. Attavar was unwell for the last three days. He was treated at a private hospital in Falnir and then shifted to another hospital where he succumbed. His last rites were performed at the Nandigudda crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gangadhar-of-sri-ganesh-ambulance-service-dead/article38025314.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Coaches to be restored||Southern Railway has decided to restore unreserved coaches in four pairs of trains operating out of Mangaluru Central. They are Train Nos. 16603/604 Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram-Mangaluru Central Maveli Express; Train Nos. 12601/602 Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central-Chennai Central Mangalore Mail; Train Nos. 16629/630 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central Malabar Express, and Train Nos. 22637/638 Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central-Chennai Central West Coast Express, a release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coaches-to-be-restored/article38025318.ece
24 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||Passenger Reservation System counters across Palakkad Division of Southern Railway will function on Sunday pattern on December 25, said a release from the Division. Accordingly, the counters would be functional between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. on single shift, it said.    Railways has extended the periodicity of operation of Train Nos. 02198/197 Jabalpur-Coimbatore- Jabalpur weekly superfast festival special express for two more weeks. A release from Konkan Railway Corporation here said Train No. 02198 would be extended up to January 14 (from December 31) and Train No. 02197 would be extended up to January 17 (from January 3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article38025310.ece
24 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Plans afoot to uproot lantana from BRT reserve, Bandipur||There are plans to uproot lantana spread over 70,000 hectares of forests in BRT Tiger Reserve and Bandipur during the course of next five years. While the BRT Tiger Reserve has notified the expression of interest to uproot lantana over 20,000 hectares of forest, the target for Bandipur is 50,000 hectares. However, the expression of interest for Bandipur is yet to be notified though it is ready and is expected to be floated in due course. A vast swathe of wildlife habitat in Bandipur, BRT Hills, M.M. Hills, and Nagarahole have been invaded by lantana which is inedible and degrades the ecosystem. But there are concerns that uprooting it on such a scale will entail disturbance to the forest as it will involve deployment of a large number of men and machinery. Wildlife activists said the habitat will suffer from disturbance and the transportation of the uprooted lantana and use of machinery will be on an industrial scale and it was bound to result in unauthorised entry of men and material to the critical tiger habitat. Though the decision to remove lantana is welcome, there should be a scientific study as to how to go about it, said the activists. However, Santosh, Deputy Conservator of Forests, BRT Tiger Reserve, said this is only the first step in addressing the problem posed by the proliferation of lantana and there will be extensive consultations with those who evince interest in the project and other stakeholders besides technical presentation on the issue. “We are removing lantana on a small scale and the results are encouraging as new vegetation, which was suppressed by the weed, was now proliferating and improving the habitat,” he added. Mr. Santosh said lantana spread over 20,000 hectares will be removed in five years at an average of 4,000 hectares per year. But given the hilly terrain, it is an approximation and the figures could vary. There will be continuous monitoring of the activity and priority will be given to the local tribals for uprooting the weed, he added. Preference will be given to agency which will use minimum machinery, as per the EoI and the density classification of lantana has been mapped and would be shared with the approved agency during the time of signing an MoU. The EoI also states that all expenses for uprooting, transporting, and converting it into useful products has to be borne by the agency at their own cost and no financial support will be given by the Forest Department. Besides, no permission will be issued to establish labour camps within the forest area. The EoI also states that uprooting of lantana should take place with “minimum disturbance to wildlife”. But this has been questioned by the activists on the grounds that deployment of men and material will automatically result in disturbance and every square inch of forest cannot be monitored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plans-afoot-to-uproot-lantana-from-brt-reserve-bandipur/article38024965.ece
24 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||First Omicron case detected in Mysuru||A nine-year-old child, who returned from an overseas trip, tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Mysuru on Thursday (December 23). This is the first Omicron case to be recorded in Mysuru. District Health Officer. K.H. Prasad, who confirmed the case, said the patient is asymptomatic. “The child is in isolation and steps have been taken to subject all the contacts of the patient for mandatory tests,” he added. Dr. Prasad told The Hindu that the swab samples of the child’s parents were negative but the family will be under observation. The repeat tests and genome sequencing of the contacts’ samples will be done. All the primary contacts and secondary contacts are being tracked by our teams, he added. “The family was in isolation on its return from abroad. There is no need to panic over the case. The public are advised to follow the COVID-19 guidelines and recommended precautions. The two doses of vaccine are vital to fight the disease, and people should get the doses for their safety at the earliest,” the DHO advised. Mysuru district reported 7 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the active case tally to 130. Post-Omicron outbreak, testing in the district has been stepped up with the health authorities given the target of carrying out about 5,000 tests daily. About 3,290 tests were done on Thursday, which is less than the target fixed. As many as 21 patients were discharged on Thursday with about 49 patients being treated under home isolation. Among the positive cases reported on Thursday, two, aged between 11 and 17 are from Mysuru city. Tests are also being carried out at places of tourist importance, including Mysuru palace. Inter-State travelers, even those carrying the vaccination certificates, are advised to get the test done for free on the palace premises. Rapid Antigen Test is done with a team from the Health Department putting up a counter for doing the tests following the detection of the new variant of COVID-19, which is described as a ‘variant of concern’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-omicron-case-detected-in-mysuru/article38025331.ece
24 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||UoM approves a slew of job-oriented courses||The University of Mysore has decided to permit students pursuing BA LLB and BCom LLB courses to write the examination in Kannada. It has also decided to introduce a slew of job-oriented courses based on demand and would benefit the student community. These and a few other decisions were taken at the Academic Council meeting of the varsity held on Thursday. The meeting was presided by the Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar and the council approved the choice given to the students to write the examination (BA LLB and BCom LLB)in Kannada or English. So far there was no such option and students had to write the examination in English only. Members of the council expressed apprehension over the availability of the lessons pertaining to law and other subjects in Kannada and hence the feasibility of providing such an option. But it nevertheless decided to permit the students to exercise the option. Prof. Hemantha Kumar subsequently told The Hindu that there was demand from a section of the student community seeking the Kannada option and the members of the Academic Council gave their concurrence. However, the classes and the medium of instruction will continue to be in English. In the meeting concerns were expressed about the limited availability of learning material in Kannada and hence it was decided to ascertain how other universities were coping with such a situation and whether learning material was being made available in Kananda. The Academic Council also gave its consent to a few of the constituent colleges to introduce new courses that were tailored to meet the industrial requirement and would help students in securing jobs. These are specialised in nature and include BBA in Aviation Management, BBC in Tourism and Hospitality, BBA in Tourism and Travel, BCA (Cloud Computing and Digital Science), BCA- Internet of Things, Bachelor of Vocational Course in Digital Architecture, BSc in Food Processing and Quality Management, certificate courses in digital health, machine learning, python programming among others. Sources said some of the courses will be offered by the institutes from the current academic year itself. The autonomous status of some of the first grade colleges has been renewed for one more year and they include Maharani’s Science College, Mysuru; SBRR Mahajan First Grade College; JSS Women’s College; JSS Arts Science, and Commerce College; St. Philomena’s College; Bharati Autonomous College, Bharatinagar, Mandya; Government Women’s College, Mandya; Government Arts and Commerce College, Hassan; and Government Science College, Hassan. The Academic Council also approved new gold medals for which the proposal was submitted by the donors. Registrar R. Shivappa, Registrar for Examination A.P. Gnanaprakash were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-approves-a-slew-of-job-oriented-courses/article38025328.ece
24 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Excess rain affects bird migration to Karnataka||Heavy rains across Karnataka during October and November this year have affected the winter migration of birds that otherwise used to flock in large numbers and roost in the water bodies of the State before flying out again during the onset of summer. The rains during the two months were the highest in the last 50 years and helped fill up the reservoirs and water bodies. But not all species of birds prefer a habitat replete with water except those that tend to swim or dabble like ducks. “We are witnessing a dispersal of bird population and the groups have scattered to different places in search of a more suitable habitat mainly marshy lands. Hence the bird count is low in the lakes that are full to the brim during this season,” said K. Manu, an ornithologist with more than 30 years of field experience. The winter migration normally commences in October and peaks during December-January. “But we are yet to see the avian beauties from Eurasian region even as late as in the third week of December,” said D. Rajkumar of Wildlife Conservation Foundation. The bar-headed Geese, which flies across the Himalayas from southern China and Mongolia, are yet to be sighted in large numbers either in Hadinaru near Nanjangud or Sira in Tumakuru. These birds tend to have a stopover in the wetlands around Vijayapura and the backwaters of Ghataprabha before heading towards southern parts of Karnataka. Teals, pin-tailed ducks, Gargini, Coot, Sandpipers, common pochards are a few other species that roost in State during winter. A majority of the winter migratory birds are waders and prefer the shallow and stagnant waters of a lake with hydrophytes or vegetation that draw insects and facilitate larvae formation. A stagnant and shallow pool provides a rich source of food for wading birds. But heavy rains and continuous inflow of water into lakes do not allow for their formation and this will benefit only the fish-eating birds, according to the bird watchers. Another scenario common across the State was the so-called lake development projects and use of excavators during desilting exercise which was forcing the birds to abandon such habitats. Mr. Rajkumar added that dredging results in disturbance of the shoreline and creation of artificial depth to hold more water, which dissuades the long-legged birds from settling in such aquatic systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/excess-rain-affects-bird-migration-to-karnataka/article38024966.ece
24 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath opposes anti-conversion Bill||Former Minister A.H.Vishwanath has expressed his opposition to the anti-conversion Bill tabled in the Assembly and said that it violated provisions of the Constitution. Addressing mediapersons here on Thursday, he said reformer-saint Basavanna preached universal human values and did not espouse any division but Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is set to change the status quo which will not win him any admirers or get societal approval. He said inter-community marriages were common and one could not be jailed for that. Restrictions were being imposed on freedom to pursue the religion of one’s choice. On the vandalism of the statue of Sangoli Rayanna in Belagavi, Mr. Vishwanath called for a ban on Maharashtra Ekikarana Samiti. Referring to the controversy surrounding Rangayana and the protests by theatre artistes, he said Rangayana had as many as 10 directors in the past and none tried to impose any particular ideology or view.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-opposes-anti-conversion-bill/article38025320.ece
24 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Curbs on hotels over year-end events questioned||The Hotel Owners’ Association in Mysuru has questioned the rationale behind permitting the annual flower show on the premises of Mysuru palace amidst the Omicron scare when the government has imposed curbs on New Year celebrations citing the outbreak of the new variant. The Mysore Palace Board is holding the flower show from December 25 to January 2. “We don’t understand the guidelines issued by the government when events like flower shows that attract a large number of people are permitted. We have also heard about fireworks display welcoming the New Year at the palace,” said Association president C. Narayana Gowda. He sought to know whether there are any separate guidelines for the district administration and hotels with regard to the compliance with COVID-19 protocols since the curbs on Christmas and New Year celebrations are confined to the hotel industry. “Is it reasonable to single out hotels,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-on-hotels-over-year-end-events-questioned/article38025327.ece
24 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru city achieves 100% first dose vaccine coverage||It’s official. Mysuru city has achieved 100 percent first dose vaccination coverage against COVID-19. As against the projected population of 18 years and above which is 8,72,116, a total of 8,72,770 got the first dose of vaccination, registering 100.07 percent between January and December, on Wednesday. The coverage included healthcare workers, frontline workers and other populations aged above 18 years. Also, 7,13,611 people above 18 years of age have received the second dose of vaccination, recording 81.83 per cent coverage in Mysuru urban, from January 16, 2021 to December 22 (till 7 p.m). In Mysuru rural, the first dose of vaccination coverage is expected to reach 100 per cent perhaps in the coming days as 98.11 percent of the target has been achieved. As against the vaccination target of 2,29,613, a otal of 2,25,270 got the first dose of vaccine, registering a coverage of 98.11 per cent. A total of 1,89,641 have received their second dose of vaccine achieving 82.59 per cent coverage. The district average in the case of first dose as on December 22 is 97.29 per cent - 23,71,941 people out of 24,38,000 got the first dose of vaccination. In the case of the second dose, the district average is 79.63 per cent – i.e. 19,41,431 citizens received two doses of vaccine to fight COVID-19. However, the taluks need to step up their vaccination strategies as, barring H D Kote, the coverage of second dose in other taluks has not crossed 80 per cent despite the ongoing efforts including the doorstep vaccination facilities for reaching the unreached. H D Kote has achieved 86.79 per cent second dose of vaccination. As many as 1,76,618 people in the taluk received both doses of vaccines. The vaccination coverage in taluks other than Mysuru urban and rural and T Narasipura taluk is, however, below the district average (97.29 per cent). The district average in case of second dose is 79.63 per cent (19,41,431 vaccinated). The taluks whose coverage of first dose of vaccination is below the district average are Nanjangud, Periyapatna, Hunsur, H.D. Kote and K.R. Nagar. The percentage of population vaccinated with the first dose in taluks – Nanjangud 96.73, Periyapatna 96.20, Hunsur 94.76, H.D. Kote 94.36, and K.R. Nagar 91.77. The percentage in T. Narsipur is 97.28. The percentage of population vaccinated with the second dose is like this – T Narsipur 74.70 percent, Nanjangud 79.14 percent, Periyapatna 79.79 percent, Hunsur 69.83 percent, H D Kote 86.79 percent and K R Nagar 76.76 percent. The district appears unlikely to achieve 100 per cent coverage of first dose in the district by this year-end. With about a week left for the year to come to end, the authorities are putting in best efforts to reach the target, as more than five taluks are below the district average in terms of coverage of first dose. The district average for the second dose is 79.63 per cent. Barring Periyapatna, T. Narsipur, H.D. Kote and K.R. Nagar, other taluks are below the district average in terms of second dose. The authorities here had earlier thought of reaching 100 per cent vaccination target (first dose) after the Omicron outbreak and ‘mandatory’ vaccination certificate at some places. Accordingly, the vaccination picked up pace soon after the detection of a new variant of the Coronavirus but it lost speed after sometime, giving rise to vaccine hesitancy. Mysuru should have achieved 100 per cent first dose coverage by now considering the vaccination pace in the beginning – after the second wave of pandemic.  The district average for first dose as on December 22 is 97.29% Barring H D Kote, the coverage of second dose in other taluks has not crossed 80% The taluks whose coverage of first dose of vaccination is below the district average are Nanjangud, Periyapatna, Hunsur, H.D. Kote and K.R. Nagar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-city-achieves-100-first-dose-vaccine-coverage/article38025330.ece
24 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Last rites’ to be performed for trees||Social activists and environmentalists will highlight their ire against a tree-felling incident by conducting the “last rites’’ for the trees in the city. The founder president of Mysore Grahakara Parishat, Bhamy V. Shenoy, said that they intend to mourn the felling of three fully grown gulmohar trees in Yadavgiri. He said the it was a brazen act of felling in violation of the tree act and wondered if it was to facilitate vehicle parking for an establishment in the vicinity or to facilitate a clearer view of its building. Mr. Shenoy said when the Forest Department was contacted and asked to initiate action, the person at the other end was annoyed and said the onus was on the complainant to identify the perpetuator of the act. “Though we had sent photos of the felled trees and its location, the Forest Department personnel insisted that we give a written complaint and would not take suo motu action’’, he said. Two MGP members met the Deputy Conservator of Forest Kamala Karikalan and she has promised to prosecute the guilty and levy fine, said Mr. Shenoy who pointed out that Ms. Karikalan has also planted four flowering trees at the spot. The NGOs will conduct the “final rites” of the felled trees on December 26 at 10.30 a.m., said Mr.Shenoy. For detailscall 8861096205 or 9845110202.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-rites-to-be-performed-for-trees/article38025326.ece
24 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Linguistic Society meet concludes in Mysuru||The 43rd International Conference of the Linguistic Society of India, hosted by Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) and LSI, concluded on Thursday. On this occasion, CIIL organised a valedictory session in which D.P. Pattanayak, Founder Director, CIIL, delivered the valedictory lecture virtually. In his address, Prof. Pattanayak said linguistics is on the decline and academicians and policy makers need to consider it seriously. He emphasised the need for promoting deep specialisations and interdisciplinary approaches. Linguists can play a major role in overcoming the language problems and contribute to national integrity, he opined. He also called for the establishment of linguistics and allied disciplines in all universities. On this occasion, two issues of the Journal of Indian Linguistics were launched. Umarani Pappuswamy, editor of the journal provided a glimpse of the journal issues and discussed the contents while D.P. Pattanayak launched them online. Sujoy Sarkar, Lecturer-cum- Junior Research Officer of CIIL and Coordinator, ICOLSI-43, presented the conference report. He said that 164 papers were presented during the three-day conference. G. Umamaheshwara Rao, President, Linguistic Society of India, thanked all the speakers and delegates. Shailendra Mohan, Director, CIIL, presided over the function. He said very soon CIIL will join hands with various government agencies and multinational companies to initiate new ventures aiming at research and development of Indian languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/linguistic-society-meet-concludes-in-mysuru/article38025319.ece
24 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Implement government schemes, officials told||Subhod Yadav, Joint Director of NITI Ayog, has said that considering the backwardness of Raichur and Yadgir districts, the Union Government has declared these two districts as aspiration districts among others in the country. Therefore, officials have to implement the schemes effectively to eradicate backwardness. He was addressing a meeting in Raichur on Thursday. Mr. Yadav said that every scheme introduced by the Union and the State Governments should reach beneficiaries effectively. The proposed schemes should be implemented within the period stipulated. Therefore, officials should understand the purpose of including districts in the aspiration districts by the NITI Ayog. The officials should ensure that there will be no discrimination by private hospitals in providing treatment to the patients with Ayushman Bharat cards, he said. Avinash Rajendran Menon, Deputy Commissioner, told officials to solve the technical and other problems in distributing food grains to the beneficiaries by the Food and Civil Supply department through the public distribution system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/implement-government-schemes-officials-told/article38025170.ece
24 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Take strict action against illegal sale of foodgrains’||Officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department should immediately act on complaints of illegal sale of foodgrains meant for public distribution system in the black market and conduct surprise raids on such activities, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya said. She was addressing a meeting in Yadgir recently. Dr. Ragapriya said that the district administration has been receiving complaints on such illegal activities. “The officials of the department should take legal action against the culprits without delay,” she said. While explaining to the Deputy Commissioner, officials said that for December, a total 52,351.75 quintals of rice and 4,630 quintals of wheat were distributed under National Food Security Act. It is also distributed 47,989.30 quintals of rice under Pradhanmantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-strict-action-against-illegal-sale-of-foodgrains/article38025171.ece
24 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Utilise local skills, DC urges industries||District has been producing sufficient human resources and such sources should be used properly to develop the district in all sectors, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has appealed. Inaugurating a programme jointly held by Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India, Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood department, zilla panchayat, and other departments in Yadgir recently, she said the district has enough skill developed sources. Therefore, industrialists should them and develop the industry in the district by using the schemes introduced by the Union and State Governments, she added. “Young skilled persons should get benefits from the government which introduced several schemes for them to develop automobile and other sectors,” she said. She further said that NITI Aayog will extend benefits for three years to those who register names with the Skill Development department to establish industries. She also appealed to the 18 companies that participated in the event to provide job opportunities to local persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/utilise-local-skills-dc-urges-industries/article38025172.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ghana returnee tests positive for Omicron||If found negative, he will then undergo home quarantine for seven days and be declared as recovered from the infection. Dr. Ashok said 17 of his co-passengers from the district tested negative for the infection and they are quarantined. They will undergo RT-PCR test on Thursday, which is the eighth day of their quarantine, he said. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said of 120 throat and nasal swab samples sent for genomic study, reports of 33 cases have been made available of which seven were Omicron cases. Results of 87 samples were awaited. Dr. Rajendra said six patients, who have recovered from Omicron, have taken the genome report in a positive way though some did have inconvenience to undergo 10 days quarantine and subject themselves to RTP-CR tests on the ninth and tenth day of quarantine. Dakshina Kannada district administration will shortly send a proposal to the State Government to have a genome testing facility in the district, he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ghana-returnee-tests-positive-for-omicron/article38025316.ece
24 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘BJP worker’s assailants have left State’||All assailants involved in the murder of BJP OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas have been identified, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Vijay Sakhare has said. Mr. Sakhare told reporters here on Thursday that the culprits had left the State. “Special police teams have been deployed to nab the culprits,” he said. Ranjith was hacked to death in his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha municipality around 7 a.m. on December 19. The BJP leader was attacked by a gang of 12 people. Meanwhile, an ambulance has been seized and its driver taken into custody in connection with the killing of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) State secretary K.S. Shan. The police suspect the killer gang used the ambulance to escape. Shan was attacked by assailants at Kuppezham in Mannancherry in Alappuzha around 7.30 p.m. on December 18. He succumbed to his injuries around 11.30 p.m. Mr. Sakhare said that the police had received relevant information regarding conspiracy in both cases. He, however, did not divulge further details. “It is a cat and mouse game. All those directly involved in the murders are absconding. We will nab them,” he said. Raids to continue Responding to the SDPI’s allegations regarding police searches in the houses of party activists, he said that raids and searches would continue to nab the culprits. The police have so far recorded the arrest of five SDPI activists in connection with the murder of Ranjith and two RSS workers in Shan murder case. The police on Thursday brought RSS workers Rajendraprasad and Ratheesh to the RSS district office in Alappuzha as part of evidence collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-workers-assailants-have-left-state/article38025254.ece
24 December 2021||Hyderabad,KERALA||Omicron: issue guidelines in 3 days, Telangana told||The Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the State government to frame guidelines in three days to prevent the possible spread of Omicron in view of the upcoming festival and New Year celebrations. A bench comprising Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, while hearing a batch of PILs on COVID-19 issues, directed the State government to issue a set of rules and guidelines in terms of the directives of the Centre to prevent Omicron spread and measures to tackle COVID-19. As there will be congregations during the festival season, the court asked the government to issue guidelines on containment, wearing masks, imposing penalties and for sensitising the people to be careful. The counsel for the petitioner prayed for court direction to the State government to impose restrictions as is being done by some States. The petitioner also sought conducting tests on the borders on those travelling to Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/omicron-issue-guidelines-in-3-days-telangana-told/article38025247.ece
24 December 2021||Idukki,KERALA||50-year jail term for raping minor||Fast track special court judge T.G. Varghese on Thursday sentenced a youth to 50 years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1.2 lakh for raping a minor girl, who was his neighbour for four years. The child revealed the abuse at a counselling held by the district child welfare committee at school. Thankamani resident Sojan, 33, was arrested after the committee filed a case with the police. The court sentenced him to two terms of 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 50,000 each for raping a child below 12 years and committing the crime more than once. A fine of Rs. 10,000 each and two jail terms of five years were imposed for sexual atrocities and in consideration of the seriousness of the crime. The convict would undergo the jail terms concurrently for 20 years. The fine imposed should be given to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50-year-jail-term-for-raping-minor/article38025244.ece
24 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Special career guidance||Samanwaya, a career event organised by the National Employment Service in association with the District Employment Exchange for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe youths in Wayanad, will be held at the CIGI auditorium here on Monday. T. Siddique, MLA, will inaugurate the programme at 10 a.m. on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-career-guidance/article38025222.ece
24 December 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||4 killed as truck overturns||Four persons died when a lorry carrying timber overturned at Panathur, Kasaragod district, on Thursday evening. The lorry fell into a canal while negotiating a sharp bend. The Rajapuram police identified the dead as Mohanan, 40, Babu, 45, Vengapu, 47, and Narayanan, all residents of Kundupally, Rajapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-killed-as-truck-overturns/article38025221.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tearful farewell to P.T. Thomas||A flickering traditional lamp with one long flame was the only ritualistic accompaniment for the funeral of P.T. Thomas at the Ravipuram public crematorium on Thursday evening. The family members bid good bye to Thomas by offering kisses on his cheeks and forehead. State honours Gun shots were fired in air thrice, and bugles were played by policemen as the State government offered him State honours. Someone draped the body of the departed legislator with two Kasavu draping before it was taken into the combustion chamber of the crematorium. His two sons and a few others carried him on a stretcher to the chamber of the crematorium, completing his sojourn. The funeral was a simple non-religious affair sans any rituals as desired by the legislator. It was around 7 p.m. that the body of Thomas was consigned to flames. Friends, followers, and supporters of PT, as he was fondly known, were heard rendering the popular film song, which the Congress leader wanted to be played during his final hours on Earth as the funeral pyre was being prepared. A section of party workers tried to overcome the grief by shouting the slogan that Thomas will remain immortal in their hearts. Kochi had evolved as the political turf for Thomas in his second innings in State politics after he had to leave Idukki during the peak of protests against the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel report. Thomas had invited the wrath of a section of the Church and political parties for his stand that the report should be implemented. Party workers and the public queued up at various places along city roads to offer their last respects.  Kochi had evolved as the political turf for Thomas in his second innings in State politics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tearful-farewell-to-pt-thomas/article38025230.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Avoid overcrowding during festival season: Health dept.||The Health department has warned against overcrowding at public places and lack of compliance with the COVID-19 protocol, especially during Christmas and New Year celebrations. People should not drop vigil against the spread of the disease. Steps should be taken against overcrowding at malls, markets, and other public places. The public should comply with the SMS (sanitise, mask wearing, and social distancing) protocol, said officials. Even though COVID-19 cases are hovering below the 600-mark in Ernakulam, care should be taken not to violate government guidelines. Extra vigil should be maintained, as 12 Omicron cases have been confirmed in the district, they added. Surveillance at airport The authorities have stepped up surveillance at the Cochin International Airport at Nedumbassery after six more Omicron cases were confirmed on Wednesday. International travellers who came from ‘at-risk’ nations have been shifted to the COVID treatment facility at Bharat Petroleum Corporation at Ambalamugal. They have to undergo the mandatory self-quarantine for 14 days. Mandatory testing The Health department continues to face the challenge of rising number of international travellers arriving at the airport. While all travellers coming from at-risk nations have to undergo the mandatory testing at the airport, random tests are done for travellers from countries not figuring in the list of at-risk nations. An estimated 2% of travellers undergo random tests. With even those coming from countries not in the at-risk category getting infected by the Omicron variant, chances of international travellers from these nations not undergoing tests and getting infected later remain high, according to the Health department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/avoid-overcrowding-during-festival-season-health-dept/article38025237.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Social media collective reaches out to farmers in distress||When the pandemic forced the closure of local agri markets last year, a group of people along the border areas straddling Ernakulam and Kottayam districts took to social media to help the badly hit farming community. A WhatsApp group by the name Karshakakudumbam was formed as an online mediating platform to bring together farmers and potential buyers. To cut a long story short, the initiative proved a runaway hit, and the number of WhatsApp groups has since then proliferated to 15, accounting for over 3,000 members. “With local markets remaining closed, there was no way to link up farmers and buyers. Our initiative bridged that gap by serving as advertisement boards of sorts for diverse agri crops. We made sure that information on products up for sale and demand for various products were relayed to all groups,” said Robert Thottupuram, a banking consultant and one of the admins of the groups. Gradually, agri awareness classes, farming tips, information on farm subsidies, and even job offers were broadcast through the groups. In between, a couple of farmers in distress hit by crop loss were financially helped to the tune of Rs. 25,000 each thanks to small donations by group members. “When residents of coastal areas in Ernakulam were hit by sea erosion, we similarly pooled together small contributions to help them out. We bought crops like jackfruit and tapioca produced in large scale in our areas using those funds and distributed them in truckloads thrice at Chellanam and Vypeen,” said Mr. Thottupuram. These initiatives in due course led to the registration of a charitable society by the name Snehathanal. Shortly thereafter, a request was placed for helping out an impoverished family of four, including two teenaged girls, living in a rundown house. “We decided to build them a new house by mobilising funds. The foundation stone for the 560 sq.ft. house was laid on November 1, and it is likely to be completed in a fortnight. When completed, it will have cost around Rs. 6 lakh,” said Mr. Thottupuram. Snehathanal is now processing the request for funding artificial limb for a man who lost his leg in an accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-media-collective-reaches-out-to-farmers-in-distress/article38025243.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Varsity suspends faculty member||The authorities at the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, on Thursday suspended an Assistant Professor for allegedly behaving in a vulgar manner with a student. Ashraf M., faculty member of the Department of Sanskrit (General) at the varsity’s regional centre at Koyilandy, was suspended for 15 days. The student had lodged a complaint before the internal complaints committee (ICC), alleging that Ashraf had allegedly behaved in an indecent manner and made obscene gestures to her. The committee had suggested that the faculty member submit an apology for the alleged act. ICC recommendations The ICC had also recommended that the person not be given responsibilities in bodies like the National Service Society and National Service Scheme. He should not be appointed as advisor to the students’ union and class-in-charge for one year. The faculty member should not be permitted to be a research guide for one year, it had said. Barred from campus Meanwhile, the Koyilandy Regional Centre Director has to implement the recommendations of the ICC. The person should not enter the campus during the period of suspension. The complainant had staged a protest in front of the office of the Vice Chancellor alleging delay on the part of the authorities in taking action against the faculty member. The delay was attributed to the absence of a permanent Vice Chancellor. Prof. M.K. Jayaraj, Vice Chancellor of Calicut University, is currently holding additional charge of the Sanskrit varsity.  Complainant staged a protest alleging delay in taking action against the faculty member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanskrit-varsity-suspends-faculty-member-for-improper-behaviour/article38025241.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One more arrested in ganja case||A special investigation squad of the Ernakulam Rural police made one more arrest in connection with the seizure of 225 kg of ganja at Karukutty near Angamaly last month. Abu Thahir aka Savala, 31, of Perumbavoor is accused of having distributed ganja smuggled in from Andhra Pradesh with key accused Anas across the State. He had allegedly done that several times in the past. So far, five persons have been arrested in the case by the special team formed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. A joint team of the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force and the Angamaly police had seized the contraband smuggled in from Paderu in Andhra Pradesh in two cars on November 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-arrested-in-ganja-case/article38025233.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rural police beef up patrol on social media||The seemingly tit-for-tat double murders with overt communal overtones in the neighbouring Alappuzha district seems to have put the Ernakulam Rural police on high alert. As a precautionary measure against any potential communal discord, the police have beefed up patrol in the virtual world too. As many as 13 cases have been registered for inflammatory posts and comments on social media handles and groups in the last two days. Separate cases were registered at the cyber station in Ernakulam Rural and North Paravur, Kothamangalam, Muvattupuzha, Chottanikkara, Kalloorkkad, Aluva, Alangad, Binanipuram, Edathala, Angamaly, Chengamanad, Nedumbassery and Perumbavoor police stations. “The cyber station has been asked to devote fully to detect social media rankling with potential to incite communal hatred and create communal discord. All police stations have been asked to keep an eye on social media and register cases where cognizable offences are detected,” said District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-beef-up-patrol-on-social-media/article38025234.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fast against Synod’s decision on Mass||The Athiroopatha Samrakshana Samiti will observe a fast at the Major Archbishop’s House here on December 25 demanding the reinstatement of the right to hold the Holy Mass facing the congregation. Father Sebastian Thaliyan, convener of the Samiti, said in a communication that the protest was part of its strong position against the decision of the Synod of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese to implement the uniform mode of the Holy Mass. “We will continue our struggle until our right to conduct the Mass facing the congregation is legitimised,” he said. The Samiti representatives alleged that Cardinal George Alencherry was trying to scuttle the exemption given by metropolitan vicar Mar Antony Kariyil, who had issued a circular granting exemption to churches and parishes from the decision of the Synod. A major decision like changing the conduct of the Mass facing the people cannot be taken by a few and without consultations involving those concerned, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fast-against-synods-decision-on-mass/article38025246.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||SilverLine will worsen future flood scenarios, says geoscientist||Kerala’s semi-high-speed SilverLine rail project will have a huge negative impact on the coastal environment that is already under tremendous stress, C.P. Rajendran, geoscientist and Adjunct Professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, has said. “The rail track costing a whopping Rs. 120 crore a km, at the current estimate, cuts through many of the State’s fragile ecosystems, including wetlands, backwater regions, and paddy fields of the coastal Kerala. Such linear infrastructure projects are not suitable for the State, with its high density of population and least availability of land. It will impose additional pressure on the system’s carrying capacity,” he told The Hindu on Wednesday. Stating that the soil would have to be compacted and excavated to erect embankments during construction, Prof. Rajendran said the sediment eroded from rail embankments will clog the waterways and affect the vegetation. “The railway will have to be raised over many long stretches of low-lying land requiring numerous underpasses to be constructed, leading to the erosion and siltation of water sources. As the lower reaches of the rivers will be blocked or restricted, the future flood scenarios will be much worse. Further, this project will generate huge demand of stone and sand from the traditional sources in the Western Ghats and rivers, which is likely to spill over to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka,” he said. On Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s view that those who are against the project are also against the State’s development, Prof. Rajendran said that such arguments would not hold good for Kerala, considering its social and geographical setting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralas-silverline-project-will-worsen-future-flood-scenarios-says-geoscientist/article38025228.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CM’s pilot vehicle meets with accident||A police vehicle piloting the convoy of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan met with an accident at Kalamassery on Thursday, leaving five police personnel with minor injuries on Thursday evening. The accident occurred when the Chief Minister was returning from Thrikkakara after paying homage to the deceased P.T. Thomas, MLA. Inspector Santhosh, sub inspector Pradeep M.K., assistant sub inspector Pradeep K.S., civil police officers Abhilash and Vinu Francis were among the injured. They were rushed to the hospital where the condition of all was said to be stable though the Inspector sustained minor fractures on his left arm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-pilot-vehicle-meets-with-accident/article38025238.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused in theft cases arrested||The Palarivattom police on Thursday arrested an accused in several theft cases registered across the State. Faisal aka Erattupetta Faisal, 42, was arrested in connection with the alleged theft of 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a house at Ponnurunni. The alleged theft took place while the family members were away for work on December 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-theft-cases-arrested/article38025240.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Indian ship in Iran as part of ‘Bridges of Friendship’||INS Sudarshini, a sail training ship of the Indian Navy, called at Port Sahid Bahonar at Bandar Abbas in Iran on Wednesday on a three-day visit. The ship is on the culmination phase of deployment to Gulf region as part of Indian Navy’s efforts towards familiarising friendly foreign navies on various facets of operations and training on board sail training platforms and extending “Bridges of Friendship”. The ship was escorted to the port by IRIS Zereh and was accorded a warm welcome by the Naval band of IRI Navy at the jetty. A delegation of the IRI Navy 1st Naval Region and Naval Attaché Indian embassy received the ship. The reception was followed by an on-board visit by Gaddam Dharmendra, Ambassador of India to Iran. He, along with his team, were provided a guided tour of the ship. The ship’s staff were hosted at a banquet lunch on invitation by the Ambassador. Personnel from IRI Navy were also invited to the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/indian-ship-in-iran-as-part-of-bridges-of-friendship/article38025231.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||GH gets NQAS certification again||General Hospital (GH), Ernakulam, and Community Health Centre, Pandappilli, have again received the National Quality Assurance Standard (NQAS) certification. The GH won 91.4 score, while the Community Health Centre won 91.94 score. The assessment was done online in August owing to the pandemic. Both the institutions will continue to receive the NQAS incentive at the rate of Rs. 10,000 per bed, according to an official communication. Sajith John, District Programme Manager, National Health Mission, said efforts were on to bring more institutions under the ambit of NQAS certification. The shortcomings are being identified, and corrective measures are being taken to improve services and facilities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gh-gets-nqas-certification-again/article38025232.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Five arrested with premium drugs||In a joint operation by the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) and the Thrikkakara police, five persons were arrested with premium synthetic drugs, including 24.78 grams of MDMA and 4.67 grams of ecstasy on Thursday. Muhammed Faheem, 25, and Shabeer, 39, of Sreekantapuram in Kannur, Navas, 31, of Thaliparambu in Kannur, Alan, 24, of Vadavathur in Kottayam, and Irshad, 22, of Cherukunnu in Kannur were nabbed with the contraband from Thrikkakara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-arrested-with-premium-drugs/article38025239.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Plaint on tax evasion by MLA will be probed’||The Income Tax (I-T) department has informed a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court that a complaint regarding tax evasion by P.V. Anwar, Nilambur MLA, has been taken up for investigation and it will be done in due course on a priority basis. The submission was made by the counsel for the Income Tax department when a writ petition filed by Shaji K.V. of Malappuram came up for hearing. In a statement, the department said that the complaint had been forwarded to the Principal Director of Income Tax, Kochi. The petitioner alleged that there was inaction on his complaints about the unaccounted wealth of Mr. Anwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plaint-on-tax-evasion-by-mla-will-be-probed/article38025255.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders CBI probe into fund diversion||The Kerala High Court on Thursday ordered a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged misappropriation of money involving crores of rupees from the Kerala Advocates Welfare Fund under the Bar Council of Kerala. Justice Sunil Thomas issued the order on a writ petition filed by C.G. Arun and four other lawyers. According to the petitioners, the investigation by the Vigilance into the case was going at a snail’s pace. In fact, every effort was being made to put the entire burden on the accountant. The court pointed out that the investigation team had not reached its logical conclusion. Several matters needed to be further investigated. The materials were spread over two different States. The involvement of other persons in facilitating the crime could not be completely ruled out even now. Considering the experience and the availability of investigative skills, the investigation by a better-equipped agency that could conduct a thorough investigation in two different States was required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-fund-diversion/article38025256.ece
24 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||K-Rail: HC restraint on placing poles||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the State government to refrain from placing huge concrete poles with the marking ‘K-Rail’ while conducting survey of properties for the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi-high-speed SilverLine project. However, the court made it clear that revenue and survey officials could conduct the survey under the Kerala Survey and Boundaries Act and concrete poles of the size as prescribed by the Kerala Survey and Boundaries Rule need be placed. The court issued the order on a petition filed by Muralikrishnan and others from Kottayam. They challenged the government’s action to take possession of their properties and place concrete poles with the marking K-Rail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-rail-hc-restraint-on-placing-poles/article38025248.ece
24 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Improved attractions at adventure park||Rope cycling, ladder walk, jummering and archery — a wide range of adventure sports introduced by the District Tourism Promotion Council, will take the Kollam Adventure Park to an all-new level. A popular destination in the district, the park will now offer a series of activities starting with the commando net climb. New options “From there the participant can walk on the balancing beam and later return to the base through the zipline. Visitors can also choose from some new options like archery and rifle shooting,” says DTPC secretary Remya R. Kumar. Since the park is located on the banks of Ashtamudi Lake, the authorities have also introduced angling as a sporting activity. A live grill counter has been opened where guests can grill their catch. Adding to the attractions, local artisans from the Golden Craft Village will be teaching visitors how to make handicrafts out of eco-friendly material such as bamboo and screw pine. “The adventure park is one of the few places in southern India which offers flyboarding. There are also a series of other water sport activities that include jet ski, parasailing, banana boat rides, and kayaking,” adds Ms.Kumar. Burma bridge, bumper boat, basic ski and speed boat are also among the new options. Visitors can also take a trip to the nearby Sambranikodi and the 45-minute ride willl cost Rs. 3,540. While flyboarding is charged Rs. 3,540, land activities start at Rs. 117.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/improved-attractions-at-adventure-park/article38025278.ece
24 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Notices served in food safety drive in Kollam||The Food Safety department has served notices on 13 establishments in connection with a special Christmas-New Year drive. While a total fine of Rs. 31,000 was slapped on four establishments, one outlet was asked to stop functioning temporarily. A total of 70 food business operators, which included manufacturing facilities, bakeries, hotels and home baking units, were inspected as part of the drive. The department will intensify inspections in the coming days and three squads have been formed for the purpose. “Strict action will be taken against persons who violate food safety norms,” said S.Aji, Assistant Commissioner of Food Safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/notices-served-in-food-safety-drive-in-kollam/article38025281.ece
24 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Special Christmas sale at Kairali showroom||The State Handicrafts Development Corporation’s Kairali showroom at Varinjam Tower, Chinnakkada, has started a special Christmas and New Year sale. A discount of 10% is offered for all items and the sale ends on December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-christmas-sale-at-kairali-showroom/article38025279.ece
24 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||SRC Community College, under the State Resource Centre, has invited applications for its martial arts certificate programme starting in January 2022. Those who have passed Class 10 can apply and the curriculum of the six-month course includes Kalarippayattu and Kung Fu. Theory and practical classes will be conducted with the help of an accredited study centre. Last date for accepting applications is January 15. For details, visit the websitesrcc.inor call 9447683169, 04712325101, 2325102.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article38025280.ece
24 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Photography exhibition||Artist Bose Krishnamachari will inaugurate ‘Two Lives- Ecology, People and Culture’, an exhibition of photographs by A.J. Joji on December 24. Former Minister M.A Baby, P.C. Vishnunath, MLA, poet Anvar Ali and P.K. Gopan will be present. The exhibition at 8 Point Art Café will conclude on January 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/photography-exhibition/article38025282.ece
24 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Preparations on for Malankara association meet||With two months for the scheduled election of seven new metropolitans, the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church has kick-started preparations for organising a crucial meeting of the Malankara Syrian Christian Association at Kolencherry on February 25. Addressing mediapersons here on Thursday, Baselios Marthoma Mathews III, Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan, said the nominations for the election would be scrutinised by a screening committee headed by Yakoob Mar Irenaios Metropolitan. Based on the review of nominations, the committee would prepare a list of 14 names and submit it for consideration of the church managing committee. 11 names From this, as many as 11 names would be forwarded for the consideration of the Malankara association, which, in turn, would elect the seven metropolitans. The election would be held at a meeting of the Malankara association at St.Peters and St.Paul’s Orthodox Syrian Church at Kolencherry. Monitoring To ensure legal sanctity and transparency of the election process, a monitoring committee headed by Gabriel Mar Gregorios Metropolitan and a tribunal headed by Yuhanon Mar Chrisostomos Metropolitan too had been set up. The Malankara Syrian Christian Association, formed in 1876 at the Mulanthuruthi Synod, is the largest governing body of the Malankara Orthodox Church. The body elects the president, superiors, clergy-laity trustees, and members on the managing committee of the church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparations-on-for-malankara-association-meet/article38025249.ece
24 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU to host women’s basketball championship||The Southern Region Inter-University Women’s Basketball Championship 2021-22 will be held under the aegis of Mahatma Gandhi University from December 27 to 31 at Changanassery. The games will be held at the Mar Charles Lavigne Indoor Stadium at SB College and the Assumption College indoor stadium. Teams from 65 universities will participate in the championship. The first four teams will be eligible to participate in the All-India Inter-University Women’s Basketball Championship at Sonipat, Deenbandhu Chotturam University, in January 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-to-host-womens-basketball-championship/article38025283.ece
24 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Road race, lane traffic violations turn city road into danger zone||The Kozhikode-Elathur stretch of the National Highway-66 is turning out to be the most dangerous stretch in the city limits with poor measures in place to check rash driving and violation of the lane traffic discipline. Despite the 24x7 monitoring by patrol squads from the Nadakkavu and Elathur police stations, there is no let-up in the number of daily accidents, mostly involving private buses and motorbikes. Though the Pavangad-Elathur stretch of this risky route is claimed to be the first “safe zone” identified by the Kerala Road Safety Authority in the district with a lot of accident prevention projects, the measures to intercept rash drivers are still not effective. Illegal parking on either side of this widened road, obstructing the visibility at many locations, creates a number of new black spots. “There are a number of colleges and schools on either side of the Kozhikode-Elathur stretch which really doubles the risk. Private buses and other rash drivers are hardly bothered of the safety hazards in their road race,” says P.N. Mohanan, an office-bearer of the Parents Teachers Association from Elathur. He said that the illegal entry of large trailer trucks and other unpermitted categories of heavy vehicles during the day also contributed to making the road hazardous. Poor arrangements to regulate traffic in some of the risky junctions also add to the woes of passengers and pedestrians. Leaders of various residents’ forums said that the police or the road safety officials were yet to fortify the road safety measures at the riskiest junctions such as Nadakkavu, West-Hill Chungam, Puthiyangadi, and Pavangad. Survival of the fittest seemed to be the rule of the road here where pedestrians were always overlooked by speeding vehicles, they complained. Many of such risky junctions now have faded zebra lines, prompting the pedestrians to walk helter-skelter. The full time presence of Home Guards is claimed to be the most practical option in some locations which are located closer to educational institutions. However, the Home Guards said that they were helpless to act instantly against road rule violators. Police officials from Elathur and Nadakkavu stations said the violation of lane traffic discipline or reckless overtaking could not be controlled through only enforcement or camera surveillance. According to them, the safest roads emerge as the riskiest ones only because of the reckless driving habits of a few. The zigzag riding by youngsters who want to flaunt their luxury vehicles and stunt skills on busy roads posed a threat to all, they said. Youth dies in accident A 19-year old two-wheeler rider was killed in a road accident involving a private bus at West Hill on Thursday. The victim was identified as Manikandan, son of Shaji, hailing from Paloramala. Nidhin Sudheesh, who was riding pillion, sustained grave injuries in the incident which took place at 9 a.m. He was admitted to a private hospital in the city. According to police sources, the motorbike was fully crushed under the wheels of the private bus which was on its way to Kannur. Manikandan succumbed to injuries on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-race-lane-traffic-violations-turn-city-road-into-danger-zone/article38025225.ece
24 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Govt. approves tunnel road project||The State Government has given the green signal for the Rs. 658-crore four-lane tunnel road project on Anakkampoyil-Kalladi-Meppadi route, an alternative to the busy Thamarassery Ghat Road that connects Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. The District Collectors of Wayanad and Kozhikode have been asked to acquire land for the proposed road aimed at decongesting the ghat road. The proposal is to acquire land to construct a 6.8-km tunnel road. About 7.65 hectares of land in Thiruvambadi and Kodenchery villages in which the proposed tunnel starts at Anakkampoyil would be acquired. Likewise, 4.82 hectares of land in Kottappadi and Meppadi villages in which the tunnel ends at Meenakshi bridge would be acquired. Officials said that the land would be acquired under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Four-lane road The acquired land would be utilised for the construction of the four-lane road that connects the proposed tunnel and the bridge across the Iruvazhanjippuzha in Maripuzha village. The proposal is to construct a dumping yard in about 2.5 hectares of land in Thiruvambadi and Kottappadi villages. The project is expected to be beneficial to the hill regions of not only Kozhikode and Wayanad districts but also the districts of Kannur and Malappuram. The distance from Kozhikode to Wayanad will be reduced to 54 km from the existing 85 km if the project turns into a reality. The State government has already entrusted the task of preparing the project to Konkan Railway Corporation Limited, that is known for its expertise in building railway tunnels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-approves-tunnel-road-project/article38025223.ece
24 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||e-auto drivers allege harassment by motor workers’ union leaders||The drivers of nearly 150 electric autorickshaws in the city on Thursday approached the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) authorities with a call to initiate legal action against a section of motor workers’ union leaders who allegedly called for disrupting the service of e-rickshaws, citing the lack of city service permit. Electric autorickshaw drivers approached the MVD after submitting their written petition to the Nadakkavu police in connection with a recent incident in which one of them was forced to stop the service midway. Along with the auto-rickshaw driver, a passenger who was insulted during the protest, also filed a separate petition. “Some of the conventional autorickshaw drivers’ argument is that we should also secure city service permits for operations. There is no such provision for electric autorickshaws,” said E. Sreeraj, president of the Kozhikode District Electric Autorickshaw Drivers’ Committee. A member of the electric auto drivers’ committee said there were even moves to foil his team members’ meeting with the District Collector to discuss the issues. Some committee members also sent their grievances to the Transport Commissioner for immediate action. According to MVD sources, the city service permit and licence of traditional drivers engaged in attacking e-rickshaws would be recommended for immediate suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-auto-drivers-allege-harassment-by-motor-workers-union-leaders/article38025220.ece
24 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Arson accused shifted to mental health centre||Satheesh Narayanan, 37, who was arrested in connection with the Vadakara taluk office arson case on December 19, was admitted to Kuthiravattom Government Mental Health Centre on Thursday after he showed suspected symptoms of mental illness at the Vadakara sub jail. He was referred to the mental health centre after the medical check-up by a panel of doctors from the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. Judicial custody The man had been remanded in judicial custody following the incident. Sources said the special investigation team would leave for Andhra Pradesh to verify his address and other personal details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arson-accused-shifted-to-mental-health-centre/article38025219.ece
24 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||718 job seekers given placements at mega job fair||As many as 718 job seekers were given placements and 1,972 shortlisted at a mega employment fair organised by the District Employment Exchange at Madin Polytechnic College here. The employment mela titled Niyukti pulled in 7,239 job seekers to try a hand at the 3,800-odd vacancies offered by 73 companies from IT, textile, jewellery, automobile, administration, marketing, hospitality and healthcare sectors. The organisers said that the response was immense and the turnout the largest so far in the State. There were opportunities for people with qualifications as low as seventh standard and as high as postgraduate. A special Indian Army stall helped the youngsters get better awareness about the army job possibilities. District Panchayat President M.K. Rafeekha inaugurated the job fair. District Collector V.R. Premkumar presided over the function. Ms. Rafeekha said that the job fair had breathed a new life to the employment market badly affected by COVID-19. Until COVID-19, the Niyukti job fair was held in three zones across the State. However, the pandemic prompted the government to conduct the job fairs in all districts. Malappuram Municipal Chairman Mujeeb Kaderi, councillors K.P. Shareef and A.P. Shihab, Regional Employment Deputy Director C. Rama, Sub Regional Employment Officer M. Radhakrishnan, District Employment Officer M. Sunita, and Madin Polytechnic College Principal C.P. Abdul Hameed spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/718-job-seekers-given-placements-at-mega-job-fair/article38025226.ece
24 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tribute to Rafi, in letter and spirit||After paying memorable homage to legendary footballer Diego Maradona and India’s first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Palakkad’s leaf artist has come up with an indelible tribute to another legend — Mohammed Rafi. Rajendran Vadakkepadath has paid his artistic tribute to the legendary singer on his 97th birth anniversary that falls on December 24. Rajendran used Rafi’s name nearly 4,000 times to sketch the singer’s smiling face on an A-3 sheet of paper. Rajendran chose Rafi for the tribute as “he remains the singer of the millennium.” “Rafi saab is matchless in both singing and as a human being. God endowed him with a divine voice and the beauty of his songs is immeasurable,” said Rajendran. It took dozens of painstaking hours for Rajendran to sketch Rafi with a black gel pen. “Letter art is something that requires painstaking attention. As it is done with a gel pen, a single mistake can often ruin the entire art work,” said Rajendran. He is more than halfway through in a letter-art mega work of Chittur Kavu. He is also planning one on O.V. Vijayan’s Khasakkinte Ithihasam .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribute-to-rafi-in-letter-and-spirit/article38025259.ece
24 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala tribal school goes for gender-neutral uniforms||As debates continue over the unisex uniform policy in schools, a tribal school inside the Sabarimala forests is the latest to break the gendered story of girls in skirts and boys in trousers. When the Government Tribal Lower Primary School at Attathodu reopens after the Christmas-New Year vacation, all 40 pupils in the institution, including 24 girls, will wear a 3/4th shorts and shirt. With this, it is set to become the first tribal school in the State, if not in the country, to embrace gender-neutral uniforms. Convenience factor For Biju Thomas, headmaster of the school, introducing a gender-neutral school uniform policy at his school was just common sense. “More than getting rid of gender stereotypes, the decision is more about utility. Even the shortest access to the school from the forest comprises a flight of 105 steps. So it is important for the children, especially the girls,” he said. The concept, which takes a cue from a similar initiative at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Balussery, is being implemented with the support of District Collector Divya S. Iyer. The uniforms, made using cloth stocks allotted to the school over the last couple of years, have been designed and stitched with financial assistance from a Ranni-based agency. At a function to be held on the school premises on Friday, the Collector will inaugurate the distribution of the uniforms. P.S. Mohanan, president of the Perunad panchayat, will preside. Other concerns On the reaction of the students and their parents, Mr. Thomas said “it was not a big deal to them.” “As members of tribal families, their immediate concerns are about nutritional food and basic education,” he added. Of the 40 students, most belong to the Malampandaram and Ulladan tribes, who live in the Sabarimala forests and face great difficulty in accessing the school. Bus service Majority of the students are dependent on a bus service run by the school, which picks up students from as far as Plappally and Chalakkayam. The school authorities are also providing free protein-rich meals including non-vegetarian dishes to the students. These welfare measures, however, are facing the risk of abrupt discontinuation in the absence of adequate funds. The panchayat authorities said immediate steps would be taken to address the concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-school-goes-for-gender-neutral-uniforms/article38025289.ece
24 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panels to stabilise veggie price||With the sharp fluctuation in vegetable prices playing havoc with household budgets, the Agriculture department has given shape to two separate panels to coordinate price stabilisation measures and emergency vegetable procurement from other States. The Secretary, Agriculture department, will chair the panel entrusted with launching measures to keep prices stable in the market. The director, Agriculture, is the convener of this committee, which has as its members Additional Secretary, Agriculture; Special Officer of the WTO Cell; additional directors of Agriculture (planning and marketing); the managing director of the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp); and the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council, Keralam (VFPCK). The Director, Agriculture Department, chairs a permanent panel that will coordinate the efforts to source vegetables from other States during times of shortage and set the price. The Additional Director (Marketing), Agriculture department, is the convenor of the panel. Members include Additional Director (Planning), Horticorp MD, VFPCK CEO, and the joint directors of the World Market. When the need arises, members of this committee will take steps to procure vegetables from recognised agencies, including wholesale markets, vegetable clusters, and farmer producer organisations (FPO) in other States. The Director, Agriculture department, is also required to keep money in reserve from the allocation for market intervention for funding emergency purchases. The decision to form the panels was taken at a meeting convened by Minister for Agriculture P. Prasad to discuss measures to curb price rise. Emergency procurement After vegetable prices began soaring in November, the department had launched emergency procurements from Mysuru and Tirunelveli. As part of this market intervention, Horticorp has now signed an agreement with a consortium of FPOs in Tenkasi for making direct purchases.  The Agriculture department is required to keep money in reserve from the allocation for market intervention||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panels-to-stabilise-veggie-price/article38025245.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Norms on registration of shops||Steps should be taken to get all commercial establishments in the State registered with the Labour department, Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking at a meeting of department officials ranging from assistant labour officer grade II to the Additional Labour Commissioner. The Minister directed the officials to prioritise protection of workers’ interests. As per the Kerala Shops and Commercial Establishments Act, all shops and commercial establishments should register with the Labour department. Those who register should also renew their registration every year. However, according to the registration/renewal figures for 2021, only 88.57% of the registered establishments had renewed the registration, he said. The Minister said steps should be intensified for the collection of building cess. Cess adalats were being organised with this objective. Maximum cess should be collected through the adalats for implementing the activities of the construction board. Schemes should be drawn up at the Labour Commissioner-level to collect the arrears.  Gratuity cases Mr. Sivankutty said hundreds of gratuity cases were pending in the State. Time-bound measures should be taken in these cases. As per the Minimum Wages Act, steps should also be taken on claim petitions for arrears. A high-level meeting should be convened to address this problem. The Labour Commissionerate, he said, should take the lead for creating a healthy environment in the labour sector. When implementing labour codes in the State, structural changes in the Labour department were a possibility. The Labour Commissioner had been directed to submit a proposal in connection with reorganisation of the department. He called for action on complaints related to nokkukooli. The Minister directed that a mobile app be created for urgent intervention.  V. Sivankutty directs officials to prioritise protection of workers’ interests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-on-registration-of-shops/article38025404.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) sees bid to polarise State||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [(CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) conspiracy to polarise the State on communal lines for electoral gain had manifested as the recent targetted political killings in Alappuzha. After the CPI(M) secretariat meeting here on Thursday, Mr. Balakrishnan said the 2021 Assembly elections had severely diminished the BJP. It was desperate to claw its way back to political relevance in the State. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) executed the old trick of fanning communal passions to aid the BJP. The RSS assassinated an SDPI worker. There was no immediate motive for the crime. It was a premeditated murder. In retaliation, the SDPI killed a BJP leader. Both parties had hoped to stoke Hindu-Muslim enmity to shore up their base. Symbiotic ties The SDPI and RSS were symbiotic and strange bedfellows. One justified the existence of the other. The SDPI had incited its workers to Taliban-model violence. It glorified the violent death of the SDPI worker as martyrdom and urged other activists to follow suit. Caught unawares There was no simmering SDPI-BJP conflict in Alappuzha. The police were caught unawares because the RSS prearranged the SDPI leader’s murder for a brazenly political reason. The BJP leader’s killing at the hands of the SDPI came as a response. The RSS and the SDPI were at daggers drawn at several sensitive regions in the State. “The cynical aim of creating inter-religious mistrust for political gain bound both the parties,” he said. Secularism On January 4, the CPI(M) would muster the masses to condemn the BJP and SDPI’s machinations publicly and bolster secularism. It was the date of the martyrdom of CPI(M) worker U.K. Kunjuraman who died while trying to guard a mosque against an RSS attack during the Thalassery communal riots in 1971. The BJP and the Congress were opposing K-Rail (SilverLine) for political reasons. The Centre had encouraged similar semi-high-speed railway in eight States. But, the BJP and the Congress were in cahoots to ensure that no development occurred in the State under the LDF. Mr. Balakrishnan hinted that an unbridled COVID-19 Omicron variant spread might prompt the government to impose some restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-sees-bid-to-polarise-state/article38025260.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A celebration of tubers by tribal women||Moolika, a food festival hosted by women from tribal communities in Vazhachal, Thrissur, from December 24 to December 26 at Vazhachal waterfalls view point, will celebrate native tubers such as diascorea and colocasia. “The effort is to popularise tubers that were once an integral part of our diet and also help the forest communities economically. Now, tapioca has overtaken all the other tubers in the State. At Moolika, tribal women will serve the tubers harvested in the upstream villages and cooked by them,” says Lekshmi R., divisional forest officer (DFO), Vazhachal. Ms. Lekshmi points that our diet is mostly rice-based and tubers remain under-valued. However, among forest-dwelling tribal communities, tubers such as foraged wild yam are part of their staple diet. Earlier this week, a team of two Kadar elders went on a long trek in the forests of Vazhachal in search of forgotten tubers called kanjil, nootta and theyvan. It was part of the documentation work of the People for Nature Fund (PNF)Fellow Reshmitha Raman, belonging to the Kadar tribe. Since these tubers are rare to find and laborious to harvest, it was decided to have some of them as sample display and serve cultivated yams. For the fete, cooked kaachil, chena and chembu will be served with curry made with the catch of the day by the women of Vazhachal. There will also be beef dishes. Sustainable farming Ms. Lekshmi says that from the second day of the festival, they are planning to add puzhukku made of assorted tubers cooked in coconut gravy. She hopes that consumers understand the nutritive value of tubers. “Winter tubers are abundantly available in the tropics. The message we wish to convey is that a tuber-based diet is not only healthy but also represents a sustainable farming system. We will also be serving sarsaparilla (naruneendi) juice, which is also an aromatic root,” says the fete’s co-organiser Manju Vasudevan, founder of Forest Post.in, a newly created brand under Dharaa Livelihood Initiative. In addition, hibiscus juice and millet payasam will also be part of the fete. Another counter will have curry leaves cookies and moringa cookies made from whole wheat and palm sugar. Bamboo baskets from the Edamalayar valley will be up for sale. Ms. Lekshmi adds that is an experiment they are trying for the first time. Prior to the pandemic, the women were given awareness classes on the importance of tuber crops and how to cultivate them. The festival is being co-organised by the Forest Development Agency (FDA), Vazhachal, and Dharaa Livelihood Initiative.  Tubers such as foraged wild yam are part of the staple diet of forest-dwelling tribals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-celebration-of-tubers-by-tribal-women/article38025227.ece
24 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||POCSO case: police officer remanded||The POCSO Court, Thiruvananthapuram, has remanded a 39-year-old civil police officer accused of attempted abuse of a minor girl to judicial custody. The police officer was identified as Anoop of Kallipara, Palode, attached to the Vithura police station. The accused had reportedly become acquainted with the mother of the girl and later became a frequent visitor to their residence. After he reportedly tried to abuse the girl, she complained to her mother, but the latter allegedly sided with the man. The mother has been named second accused in the case. Anoop, who is the first accused, had applied for anticipatory bail, but the POCSO Court had rejected his plea. He then moved the High Court, which asked him to appear before the investigating officer. Subsequently, the Vithura police registered the arrest and produced him before POCSO Court Judge R.V. Rajaneesh who rejected his bail application and remanded him for 14 days. Special Public Prosecutor Kattayikonam J. K. Ajith Prasad appeared for the prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocso-case-police-officer-remanded/article38025395.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sugathakumari’s poems dealt with social issues: CM||Sugathakumari enriched Malayalam language with poetry of humaneness and love. Her memories, though, cannot be limited to her literary works. Her work for rehabilitation of the destitute, women’s causes and environment conservation completed her, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. In a recorded message played at a function organised by Abhaya on the first death anniversary of the poet and social activist on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan said Sugathakumari believed that the country could not survive by marginalising anyone. Her memory is a reply to those trying to throw out people from the country in the name of religion. Her instinctive awareness and national consciousness were reflected in her poetry. Her works were full of humaneness and empathy, said the Chief Minister. While her poems had a spiritual approach, they were not simply paeans to gods. Instead, the spirituality in them was human-centric. The ideals of Sree Narayana Guru and Vagbhatananda influenced those poems. The influence of those who used spiritual activities for promoting human values is also seen in her poems, he said. Her poems also had an answer to those using misusing religion for propaganda. They contained inspiration for struggles against caste and religion, the Chief Minister said. Her poem Kaliya Mardanam described people who were oppressed but were raring to rise again. Many such social problems were presented in her poetry. There was quite a lot that one could follow in our lives to remember her, said Mr. Vijayan. Social activism Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty who offered prayers at a portrait of the poet painted by artist B.D. Dethan, said Sugathakumari’s fight against injustice turned her into a social activist. She began with working for the cause of the mentally ill and it was unparalleled. She became synonymous with environmental conservation, he said.  A memorial for Sugathakumari would be dedicated by the State government.   Pinarayi says the poet believed that the country could not survive by marginalising anyone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sugathakumaris-poems-dealt-with-social-problems-cm/article38025287.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medisep evokes mixed response||Medisep, the comprehensive medical insurance scheme for government employees and pensioners that was approved by the State Cabinet on Wednesday, has evoked mixed reactions from service organisations. Pointing out that the government had no financial involvement in the scheme, the Federation of Employees and Teachers Organisations (FETO) termed it a hoax. Enhanced coverage Inaugurating a dharna organised by the federation in front of the Secretariat, State general secretary S.K. Jayakumar said the government had announced the scheme without taking service organisations into confidence. The FETO urged the government to contribute its share to the scheme and enhance the insurance cover to Rs. 5 lakh a year. The Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff union, however, hailed the government for implementing the scheme. General secretary P. Suresh said 45 lakh persons, including contingent workers and part-time teachers, were expected to benefit from the scheme offering cashless treatment. He said the beneficiaries could avail themselves of emergency treatment at hospitals that were not empanelled. Employees affiliated to the KMCSU held demonstrations at various municipal offices to laud the government on the implementation of Medisep.  FETO urges the State government to contribute its share to the medical insurance scheme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medisep-evokes-mixed-response/article38025253.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State epitomises India’s harmony: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind has said that Kerala embodies India’s cultural and harmonious best. Speaking after unveiling the statue of library movement founder P.N. Panicker here on Thursday, Mr. Kovind said the ‘Sakshara Keralam’ movement became popular and effective due to the foundations laid by Panicker. Kerala became the first State to have 100% literacy. The high literacy and education levels in the State had a multiplier effect. The State leads others on several indices of human development, including aspects of sustainable development. Successive governments have kept the sustained focus on the agenda of growth and development. Therefore, the State has maintained its leadership position on several markers of excellence. The President paid rich tribute to Kerala doctors and nurses who were at the forefront of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic at the global level. “When the pandemic affected the entire world, nurses and doctors from Kerala were among the most visible warriors in India, the Middle East and so many other regions on the globe. The people of Kerala enhance the pride of India,” he said. Collective progress The President said eradicating illiteracy had paved the way for Kerala’s development. Panicker spearheaded the reformation via his library movement. “An area of illiteracy can remain an area of darkness. The light of literacy can brighten the path to individual and collective progress,” he said. What started as a small reading room in Kuttanad became the vehicle of progress in the State. “Panicker spread a very simple and most potent message — Vayichu Valaruka — which means read and grow,” he said. The credit for libraries having a central place in the culture of Kerala goes to Panicker, who connected common people to libraries. Through this large network of libraries, the common people could get to know the thoughts and ideas of Sree Narayana Guru, Ayyankali, V.T. Bhattathiripad and other masters. The cosmopolitan outlook of an average person from Kerala can be traced to the library and literacy movement of Panicker. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has directed the foundation to reach 30 crore underprivileged people in the country through the National Reading Mission by 2022. Mr. Kovind said Kerala would benefit immensely from the leadership of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Governor Arif Mohammed Khan. “Both are among the most experienced and sagacious personalities in the area of public service.” Mr. Vijayan said that reading should empower people to stymie efforts by revanchist forces to bring back medieval superstitions, social evils and unlawful practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-epitomises-indias-harmony-kovind/article38025262.ece
24 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water scheme for Nedumangad||The government has given administrative sanction for a Rs. 9.5 crore scheme for addressing the acute drinking water shortage experienced in the high-line areas of Nedumangad municipality and Vembayam grama panchayat, said Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine here on Thursday. Under the scheme, new water connections will also be issued. The scheme involves modernisation of a 11 mld water treatment plant that supplies water to the region, said an official of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). The high-line regions of Nedumangad often experience acute water shortage as summer approaches. In many areas, households are forced to depend on other sources of water, he said. The water supply scheme is designed to offer a lasting solution to this problem, said Mr. Augustine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-scheme-for-nedumangad/article38025406.ece
24 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||458 new COVID-19 cases||The capital district logged 458 new COVID-19 cases and 841 recoveries on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 5.6% on the day. The number of active cases stood at 4,838, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/458-new-covid-19-cases/article38025394.ece
24 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farmers’ Day celebrated||The ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (ICAR-CTCRI) at Sreekaryam celebrated the Kissan Diwas (National Farmers’ Day) on Thursday. Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, inaugurated the event. This year, Farmers’ Day is being celebrated when farmers have been recognised as a great force, which cannot be ignored by anyone, he said. Mr. Surendran also inaugurated the ‘insect-proof net house.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-day-celebrated/article38025400.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A family affair at PhD open defence||A father-daugher duo has made quite a name for themselves by appearing for their PhD open defence the same day at the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. The duo from Perumbavoor in Ernakulam — Nirmal S. and her father Sivarajan K. N. — successfully defended their doctoral thesis at the Thrissur Government Engineering College where they were pursuing their doctoral degree. Interestingly, both had chosen same discipline and were supervised by the same research guide. Ms. Nirmal, now working as a guest lecturer at NSS Engineering College, Palakkad, said working on her PhD alongside her father was a fantastic experience. “As our discipline was power systems, we could complement each other in the research,” she said. Sivarajan, a former KSEB chief engineer, had worked in two engineering colleges before enrolling for a full-time PhD programme at the university in 2016. “My only issue was with the computer, which I was able to resolve with the help of my daughter. Now I am an expert in that field as well,” he says. Source of pride Dr. Jasmin E.A., Associate Professor who guided the two, said it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for her to mentor both a father and a daughter. “They both were earnest in their research. It is also a source of pride for me that they have both reached the end of their PhD programmes.” The open defence session is a requirement for receiving a PhD and is the final step in the doctoral degree process. Both Mr. Sivarajan and Ms. Nirmal will be awarded PhDs after the Board of Governors of the university ratifies the doctorate report submitted by the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/father-daughter-appear-for-phd-open-defence-on-same-day/article38025252.ece
24 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Drop semi-high-speed rail, greens urge CM||On the first death anniversary of poet and activist Sugathakumari, a large group of environmentalists, social activists, scientists, writers, and journalists have called upon Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to abandon the SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project. Had she been alive today, Sugathakumari would have opposed the proposed 529.45-km rail corridor linking Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, they said in a petition emailed to the Chief Minister’s Office on Thursday. ‘Pragmatic projects’ The petition urged Mr. Vijayan to ditch mega projects such as SilverLine in favour of pragmatic, people-friendly development models. Veteran journalist B.R.P. Bhaskar, activist Civic Chandran, environmental scientist Radha Gopalan, academic and author J. Devika, and representatives of organisations including the Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samiti, Paristhithi Aikya Vedi, Kerala Jaivakarshaka Samiti, and Save Our Rice Network have affixed their names to the petition. The demand that the government drop this venture, which would split the State into two and push it into a debt trap in addition to inviting an ecological disaster, was resonating throughout Kerala, they said. ‘Single-line reply’ “Can we ignore the videos of local people resisting officials who arrived to lay the stone for the SilverLine project in places such as Alappuzha, Nooranad, Padanilam, Karingali, and Puncha? Will the single-line reply ‘This project is essential for Kerala’ suffice to answer all the doubts raised by the people’s resistance to this project? Sir, we too wish to join the protesters to say openly that what Kerala needs is not SilverLine,'' the petitioners noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-silverline-greens-urge-cm/article38025284.ece
24 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Xmas fete||The Trivandrum Don Bosco Veedu Society organised Shantidoodh 2021, ‘an inter-religious and people’s Christmas celebration’ on Wednesday at Gandhi Park in the city. Transport Minister Antony Raju presided over the event. Bishop of the Latin Archdiocese Rev. Christudas inaugurated it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/xmas-fete/article38025401.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Children’s park opened at Ponmudi||A children’s park was inaugurated at Ponmudi by D.K. Murali, MLA, on Thursday. The park has been built near the Government Guest House at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. It has come up as part of beautification of Ponmudi Lower Sanitorium initiated during the previous government, said Mr. Murali. A watchtower that offers a panoramic view has been put up. An eatery run by a Kudumbashree collective too has been set up, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/childrens-park-opened-at-ponmudi/article38025405.ece
24 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man, daughter attacked at Pothencode||Pothencode, which was in the news recently following the gruesome murder of a 35-year-old man, witnessed more violence on Wednesday night after a man and his 17-year-old daughter were assaulted by four men on a road. Sheikh Mohammed of Venjaramoodu and his daughter were on their way home after dropping off his wife who was on night duty at her place of work when the duo fell victim to reported road rage near Kattaikonam. The men were apparently enraged after Mr. Mohammed was slow in moving his vehicle out of the way of their car. They started attacking the two. The police arrived after the girl raised an alarm on the emergency number. By then, the men had fled the scene. However, surveillance cameras captured visuals of the assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-daughter-attacked-at-pothencode/article38025407.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 2,514 new cases||The State on Thursday logged 2,514 new cases of COVID-19 infection with Thiruvananthapuram recording the highest (458), followed by Ernakulam (369) and Kozhikode (305). As many as 55,631 samples were tested in 24 hours. The death toll due to COVID-19 has gone up to 45,861 with 54 deaths registered on Thursday, along with 269 mortalities accounted for as per the Supreme Court guidelines. The authorities clamped down with strict containment measures in six local body wards where the Weekly Infection Population Ratio was above 10. Of the 1,31,345 persons under surveillance, 1,27,397 are under home/ institutional quarantine and 3,948 in hospitals. Only 8.8% of the active caseload of 26,605 has been admitted to hospitals/ field hospitals, according to the Health department. Of the fresh cases, 18 had arrived from other States. As many as 3,427 persons recovered from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-2514-new-cases/article38025264.ece
24 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Realty mafia behind SilverLine: Bhushan||The Kerala government is being influenced by the real estate mafia to push for the K-Rail project, social activist Prasanth Bhushan has alleged. He was addressing a people’s convention organised by the Save Kerala Samithi against the semi-high-speed SilverLine project at the Kerala Sahitya Akademi hall, here, on Thursday. All the stations of the newly proposed K-Rail are away from towns. The real estate prices around these stations have already started escalating, he said. “Since the K-Rail has been envisaged as a standard gauge railway, it will be a stand-alone project, which needs special bogies, special engines and special tracks. Thus it involves lots of contracts for various companies and lots of kickbacks. This can be another attraction for the project,” said Mr. Bhushan. First of all, a project worth more than Rs. I lakh crore was definitely not viable for the State, which was already in a huge financial crisis. A high-speed rail line through forests, agricultural lands, and hilly terrains of environmentally fragile States like Kerala, would destabilise its ecological balance. Thirdly, a large number of families would have to be displaced for the project in the densely populated State, he said. “Upgrading the existing rail lines will make Railways much more efficient for the common man. It will take only one tenth of the proposed cost of SilverLine.” ‘Absurd numbers’ No scientific study had been done on the feasibility of the project. The projections for the number of passengers for the SilverLine was absurd. Experts in the field such as Alok Verma, former chief engineer of Railways, and E. Sreedharan, former principal advisor of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, too had termed it non-feasible, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/realty-mafia-behind-silverline-bhushan/article38025356.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Superhero shoulders ‘local’ burdens, flies high||Jaison, alias ‘Minnal’ Murali, has American dreams just like many other youngsters of his age in the early 1990s, but he hardly ever steps out of his native Kurukkanmoola village. It is almost a self-contained world and despite his dreams of making it big abroad, his concerns are mostly related to the land that he belongs to. Unlike the American superheroes, who have on their shoulders the burden to save the entire country or even the planet, Minnal Murali’s responsibilities are much smaller, but no less important. In an early scene, Jaison (Tovino Thomas)’s nephew Josemon (Vasisht Umesh) gives a crash course on superheroes to his uncle, who is unaware of them. ‘It seems America survives because of them,’ Josemon says, in a jibe at some of the oft-repeated superhero storylines that also reveals the line of thinking of the makers here. Yet, director Basil Joseph is not averse to drawing inspiration from some usual tropes from these superhero films, even as he firmly places Minnal Murali in the local context. The leap of ambition that Basil takes in his third film is certainly much more than that was required of him in his first two films. Thus came the power Writers Arun Anirudhan and Justin Mathew give Murali a solid backstory. Jaison, a tailor who dreams of a better life in the U.S., is down and out when the seminal event that changes the course of his life as well as that of the village happens. The bolt of lightning that strikes the village gives superpowers to not just Minnal Murali. As in other superhero movies, there is bound to be an adversary with equally crazy powers to challenge him, but here the adversary also gets an empathetic treatment, until the time he goes fully unhinged and destructive. Even when he gets these powers, Murali takes time to get used to it, experimenting with the extent of his powers, from playing around secretly with all the vessels stolen from the kitchen to attempting to fly from a tree. The best of the superhero sequences are these initial ones and the one where he lets go at some policemen, successfully imbibing the spirit and appearance of the good old Malayalam comics. The climactic sequences appear slightly underwhelming, despite its aspirations and scale. The early 90s setting also lends itself to nostalgia-inducing references from that era, be it the fashion of those times or the introduction of the real-life actor Sudheesh, fresh from his success in Manichithrathazhu , in a key sequence. Basil, who has proved his capability to handle humour both in front of and behind the camera, treats a good part of the movie in a fairly lighter mood. Jaison’s chemistry with his nephew is a highlight in these sequences. Biji (Femina George), who runs a karate institute and a travel agency, proves to be an important sidekick for Murali, with the script thankfully staying away from exploring the romantic angle further. Any assessment of Minnal Murali or comparison with Hollywood superheroes has to be done keeping in mind the budgetary limitations of the regional industry. Despite banking on the familiar superhero tropes at times, the film has a character of its own. It remains to be seen where Basil Joseph would go with this, if he has a franchise in his mind. The film is streaming on Netflix. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-local-superhero-is-flying-high/article38025218.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spirit of the season||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spirit-of-the-season/article38025236.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sprucing up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sprucing-up/article38025398.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Special guest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-guest/article38025403.ece
24 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three oil units under ‘One District One Product’ set for launch in Anantapur||Three entrepreneurs in the district will operationalise groundnut oil extraction units in the cold press method on January 4, which will help the local growers get a better price for their produce. Kurnool district has been allocated onion processing units and Chittoor tomato processing under a scheme of the Food Processing Ministry. Under the One District One Product Scheme, every district in Andhra Pradesh that has the highest sowing of horticulture or agriculture crop has been allocated financial support for a food processing unit funded by the Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PMFME) Scheme. Anantapur has become the first district in the State to ground the project sanctioned for it. Horticulture assistant director G. Satish told The Hindu that his office had received 80 applications and of them 25 units were approved and bank finance linkage also provided under the PMFME scheme, that entitles the entrepreneur to 35% subsidy from the Food Processing Ministry, 55% bank loan, and he/she needs to invest 10% of the project cost. The maximum subsidy for a single unit has been, however, capped at Rs. 10 lakh. The three entrepreneurs, at Akuthotapalli, Pamidi, and Gooty, have already procured the machinery, erected them, and are in the process of testing oil extraction. Entrepreneurs could set up chikki, peanut butter, roasted/masala peanuts making units as part of this scheme, said Mr. Satish. At Akuthotapalli, J.N. Swamy Organic Agri Products has got a loan of Rs. 12.46 lakh for the screw type cold press oil extraction unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-oil-units-under-one-district-one-product-set-for-launch-in-anantapur/article38024916.ece
24 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinemas raided, three cases booked||Legal Metrology officials on Thursday raided three cinema theatres in Anantapur and checked the quantity and weight of the eatables being sold by the canteens there and booked three cases. Legal Metrology inspector Mohammed Ghouse said that Gowri, Gayatri and Gothami theatre owners and canteen contractors were selling cold drinks in loose form by pouring a Rs. 90 per bottle drink into six glasses and charging Rs. 50 per glass, but were not mentioning the quantity in ML/Litre per glass, which was a deviation from the law and two cases were registered in that regard. Another case was registered against the canteen contractors for not displaying the State Legal Metrology Complaints Toll Free No. 18004254202.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cinemas-raided-three-cases-booked/article38024919.ece
24 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed as tractor overturns in Anantapur||A tractor driver, Yellugallu Sambasiva,19, died on the spot when the cement bags-laden tractor-trailer overturned on the outskirts of Madugupalle in Putluru mandal of the district on Thursday. According to the police, Sambasiva of Madugupalle was ferrying cement bags to a construction site, when he lost control of the vehilce at a gradient and the tractor overturned and fell on him leading to his instantaneous death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-killed-as-tractor-overturns-in-anantapur/article38024917.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grotto idol vandalised in Karnataka||Miscreants vandalised the idol of St. Anthony at a grotto of St. Anthony’s church at Soosaipalya in Chickballapur in Karnataka on Thursday. This is the 11th incident of attack on churches across Karnataka since September this year, said Kantha Raju, spokesperson for the archdiocese. The Chickballapur police formed three special teams to track down those responsible. Superintendent of Police Mithun Kumar G.K. directed the police to intensify patrolling in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grotto-idol-vandalised-in-karnataka/article38025341.ece
24 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grotto idol vandalised in Karnataka||Miscreants vandalised an idol of St. Anthony at the grotto of St. Anthony’s church at Soosaipalya in Chickballapur in Karnataka on Thursday. The incident came to light when some people visited the church in the morning. They informed the priest who called the police and filed a complaint. This is the 11th incident of attack on churches in the State since September this year, said Kantha Raju, spokesperson for the archdiocese. The Chickballapur police formed three special teams to track down those responsible. Superintendent of Police Mithun Kumar G.K. directed the police to intensify patrolling and provide security to other religious places and idols/statues in and around the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grotto-idol-vandalised-in-karnataka/article38024904.ece
24 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM attends wedding||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy attended the marriage of the son of Guntur West MLA Maddali Girdhar at Mangalagiri here on Thursday. The Chief Minister blessed the new couple Maddali Krishna Vinuth and Chalamacharla Lakshmi Sudeepa. MLAs, MLCs, Collector Vivek Yadav and SP, K. Arif Hafeez were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-attends-wedding/article38024920.ece
24 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Gen Rawat and other officers||Glowing tributes were paid to former Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat at a special event held at Pedanandipadu Arts and Science Colllege. Judge, Supreme Court of India, Lavu Nageswara Rao said that the entire country stood with the General and other officers who lost their lives in a helicopter crash near Coonoor. Later, Justice Nageswara Rao paid floral tributes to the officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-gen-rawat-and-other-officers/article38025425.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extreme metal band from Hyderabad tops charts||It is not always that one visits the dark but fascinating recesses of extreme music. The vaults here contain some of the most intriguing pieces of songwriting written, and explore lyrical themes which are diametrically opposite the commonplace love-and-heartbreak affair. Here, the grotesque machinations of war, politics, and the horrors that ensue are narrated. All this, against the backdrop of a sonic tidal wave. And Godless, an extreme metal band with roots in Hyderabad, executes this well. ‘States of Chaos’ is the metal quartet’s third record which was released last month. Wrenched from these very vaults, the nine-song full length album, according to vocalist Kausal L S, deals with the macabre and as the song Netherworld explains, tech-dystopian wastelands. “The lyrics mostly explore topics based on psychological horror, and the manner in which human beings manifest trepidation precipitated by the macabre,” he says. Soon after its release,‘States of Chaos’ climbed up to # 1 on the thrash metal charts, and # 2 on the death metal charts on Bandcamp, a music portal where listeners can directly support bands by buying their music or mechandise. “We never expected that this would happen. I was on the Bandcamp page and saw that we had made it to the top of the death and thrash metal charts. For a band from Hyderabad, being on those charts meant a lot,” says Godless founder member and bassist Syed Abbas Razvi. Godless, which comprises Abbas, Kaushal, drummer Vishnu Reddy and guitarist Moiz, recently returned from a tour with performances in six cities – Guwahati, Delhi, Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad and Mumbai. Another India tour is planned next year But the pandemic has taken its toll on the ‘metal scene’. With no record label to back them, the post-COVID world has been more demanding of independent artistes. Such bands have to be more resilient, self-motivated and fastidious. “The entertainment industry is the first to close down and the last to open up during the pandemic. To put things into context, death metal is a niche genre. So it took a while to get back. While our first album Centuries of Decadence were released by means of a record label, the second album Swarm and the latest States of Chaos were independently released,” says founder member and bassist Syed Abbas Razvi. “It is more of a DIY for independent bands. It is like a 24x7 job. We have to work harder. But in our case, we have a certain aesthetic and we have full creative control.” It was in 2018 that the band play at Wacken Open Air in Germany, the world’s biggest metal festival. But far from being content, the Godless say that expectations have only risen, and that the job is to surpass these expectations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extreme-metal-band-from-hyderabad-tops-charts/article38024677.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana writes to KRMB, seeks clubbing of 2 SLBC components||Telangana government has brought to the notice of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) the injustice done to the area in combined Andhra Pradesh in water allocation to Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) and requested it to modify Schedules 1 and 2 of the gazette notification issued on the board’s purview by clubbing two components of the project. Pointing out that the SLBC project was shown as two components in the two Schedules of the notification, Engineer-in-Chief (General-Irrigation) of Telangana C. Muralidhar wrote to the Chairman of KRMB that the components of intake, tunnel and other structures and an additional 10 tmc ft intake were one and the same project. In fact, the erstwhile AP had enhanced the ayacut from 3 lakh acres to 4 lakh acres without enhancing the utilisation from 30 tmc ft. The Telangana government had increased the quantum of water from 30 tmc ft to 40 tmc ft to meet the need of the ayacut increased already and there was only one intake and not two as mentioned in the Schedules. The matter was taken to the river board’s notice earlier too, in June last year, he explained. During the peak of 1969 Telangana movement, the then Andhra Pradesh government had proposed SLBC before KWDT-I with 150 tmc ft utilisation through gravity with a tunnel to draw water from Srisailam reservoir at 825 feet level to irrigate 8 lakh acres. However, by 1973 the project was relegated to surplus waters as the then government had given priority to projects service outside basin areas in Andhra. The Srisailam Right Bank Canal taken up to serve outside the basin areas was given CWC clearance in 1981 as the then government had neglected SLBC in the matter of getting available dependable water allocated to SLBC against the Polavaram diversion share of 45 tmc ft by giving priority to SRBC, Mr. Muralidhar explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-writes-to-krmb-seeks-clubbing-of-2-slbc-components/article38025340.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restrict gatherings, says Telangana HC||Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the State government to issue orders restricting huge congregations during Christmas, New Year and Sankranthi celebrations, in the backdrop of Omicron variant of COVID spreading in the country. Hearing a batch of petitions on matters related to Coronavirus, a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji said the government should issue guidelines within three days as the new variant was spreading fast. Already, Maharashtra and Delhi have passed orders restricting large gatherings during the festival season. The bench also instructed the government to install counters at the borders with neighbouring States to ascertain whether persons coming from those States were infected. This was similar to the screening facilities at airports to ensure persons testing positive for the virus were not allowed to travel to check further spread of the virus The government should also comply with the directives connected to controlling the new variant explained in a letter issued to all States on November 11 by Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. One of the counsels for the petitioners requested the bench to direct the government to inform the court about the status of vaccination in the State as it stood third in Omicron cases. The bench posted all petitions to January 4 for hearing, stating that it would monitor enforcement of the directives related to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restrict-gatherings-says-telangana-hc/article38024664.ece
24 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||183 gm of cocaine seized, three held||Making it the largest seizure of cocaine in Telangana so far, the Cyberabad police recovered 183 gm of contraband on Thursdayfrom drug abusers. New Year celebration A peddler and two end-users, who brought the consignment to the city ahead of the New Year celebration, and two end-usersto the city, were apprehended by the Cyberabad police. Special Operations Team of Madhapur zone, Commissioner of Police M.Stephen Raveendra said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/183-g-of-cocaine-seized-three-held-in-hyderabad/article38024665.ece
24 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One lakh acres of plantation to make Gopavaram green||A whopping one lakh acres of plantation will be taken up at Gopavaram in Kadapa district and the adoption of sustainable development practices is set to transform the region, as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy laid the foundation stone for CenturyPly’s largest integrated wood panel manufacturing unit in the district on Thursday. The region is earmarked as a potential agro industry hub. Mr. Jagan said his government was committed to attracting industries and investment to the State, which he said was evident from its ranking in Ease of doing Business. “The company will invest Rs. 800 crore in the first phase, of which Rs. 600 crore goes to MDF and Rs. 200 crore for laminates. Local farmers will be the largest beneficiaries of this investment,” said CenturyPly chairman Sajjan Bhajanka. The company will invest Rs. 1,600 crore towards the facility, which is claimed to provide direct and indirect jobs to 2,000 and 4,000 people respectively. The plant is expected to be commissioned in December 2024. At a public meeting held in Proddatur later, he recalled the fond affection showered on him by the people of Kadapa district after the demise of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. “As the son of the soil, I vow to transform Kadapa into one of the best districts in the country,” he said in response to the thunderous cheers from the crowd. Mr. Jagan laid foundation stones for developmental projects worth Rs. 515 crore, including renovation of drinking water line and construction of surface reservoirs, modernisation of underground drainage, new market complex and a high-level bridge on Penna river, all in Proddatur. At Kopparthi, he inaugurated a new Electronics Manufacturing Cluster (EMC) and laid stone for the YSR Jagananna mega industrial park spread across 6,914 acres. He also unveiled the plaque of 18 MSME industrial units. Member of Parliament (Kadapa) Y.S. Avinash Reddy, Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha, district in-charge Minister A. Suresh, Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy, Proddatur MLA Rachamallu Sivaprasad Reddy and Collector V.Vijayarama Raju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-lakh-acres-of-plantation-to-make-gopavaram-green/article38024673.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police non-responsive to requests in Monson case: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has informed the Kerala High Court that the Superintendent of the Crime Branch (CB) has not responded to its request for certain information and documents related to the cases registered against fake antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal. The submission was made by the ED when a writ petition filed by the former driver of Monson alleging police harassment came up for hearing. However, the Director-General of Prosecution refuted the submission and told the court that it was not correct and the Crime Branch had responded and would again respond to all the requests of the ED. The court made it clear that it wanted to make sure that there was no cover-up and the investigation against Monson was going on smoothly. Hence, the court asked for a report on the investigation. The judge asked the DGP: “Why are you worried? I am just getting information. If I understand that the Crime Branch is conducting investigations fairly, I have no problem at all. You have already chargesheeted in three cases. I am trying to ensure that probes by both agencies (ED and Crime Branch) have coalesced.” In a statement filed through Jaishankar V. Nair, Central government counsel, the ED submitted that statements of some of the complainants were recorded and summons were being issued to the remaining complainants in the cases and other connected persons to record their statements under Section 50 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has informed the Kerala High Court that the Superintendent of the Crime Branch has not responded to its request for certain information and documents related to the cases registered against fake antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal. The submission was made by the ED when a writ petition filed by the former driver of Monson alleging police harassment came up for hearing. However, the Director-General of Prosecution told the court that the Crime Branch had responded to all the requests of the ED. The court said it wanted to make sure that there was no cover-up and the investigation against Monson was going on smoothly. Hence, the court sought a report on the investigation. The judge asked the DGP: “Why are you worried? I am just getting information. If I understand that the Crime Branch is conducting investigation fairly, I have no problem at all. I am trying to ensure that probes by both agencies (ED and Crime Branch) have coalesced.” In a statement filed through Jaishankar V. Nair, Central government counsel, the ED submitted that statements of some of the complainants were recorded and summons were being issued to the remaining complainants to record their statements under Section 50 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act. He said the Crime Branch had not responded to its requests for information on the probe. Besides, the letters were addressed to banks calling for information in respect of 53 accounts held by Monson and his associates, and some replies were awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-non-responsive-to-requests-in-monson-case-ed/article38024667.ece
24 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||P.T. Thomas consigned to flames without rituals||Hundreds of Congress workers and people from various walks of life bid a tearful adieu to Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president P.T. Thomas, MLA, here on Thursday. Mr. Thomas, who was undergoing treatment for cancer, passed away on Wednesday. His body was consigned to flames at the public crematorium at Ravipuram by 7 p.m. sans any rituals as desired earlier by the deceased legislator. As flames engulfed the body of one of the popular Congress leaders in the State, his friends and admirers rendered the popular film song, Chandra Kalabham Charthi Urangum Theeram, as per his wish. Barring two white bouquets kept on the temporary platform set up for placing the mobile freezer and the ones fixed on the background of the venue, no wreaths were placed on the body. Rahul pays tributes Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, who arrived in Kochi on Thursday, stayed back in his hotel room for almost three hours to offer his homage. Mr. Gandhi was supposed to offer his condolences to the bereaved family at Ernakulam Town Hall by 10 a.m. However, it was by 1 p.m. that he reached the venue as the hearse of the MLA reached Kochi hours behind the schedule. Mr. Gandhi sat with the family members for a few minutes at the patio of the Town Hall where the body was kept. He spoke to the two sons of Mr. Thomas for a few minutes and hugged them before leaving the venue. All India Congree Committee (AICC) general secretary K.C. Venugopal accompanied Mr. Gandhi. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan offered his condolences to the bereaved family at Thrikkakara Community Hall at Kakkanad in the evening. He also consoled the family members. Other leaders Senior Congress leaders, including KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala, Mullappally Ramachandran, V.M. Sudheeran, Benny Behannan, Hibi Eden, T.N. Prathapan, Rajmohan Unnithan and Kodikkunnil Suresh were present. Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, former Minister V.S. Sunilkumar, Bharatiya Janata Party leader A.N. Radhakrishnan, Indian Union Muslim League leaders E. T. Muhammed Basheer and P.K. Kunhalikutty were among those who paid their last respect to Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pt-thomas-consigned-to-flames-without-rituals/article38024668.ece
24 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Residents attacked with blades in Nellore||Tension gripped Nakka Gopalnagar area for some time on Thursday after some miscreants attacked residents with blades apparently to terrorise them and get them evicted from their dwellings. Scores of residents including Telugu Desam student wing leader Ashique, were injured in the attack and shifted to the government hospital here for treatment for bleeding injuries. ‘YSRCP leaders behind attack’ It was alleged that some local YSR Congress Party leaders were behind the attack. TDP leader and former Mayor Abdul Azeez called on the injured at the hospital and consoled them. Probe initiated Following complaints from both parties involved in the dispute, a probe had been initiated, said Deputy Superintendent of Police J. Srinivasulu Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/residents-attacked-with-blades-in-nellore/article38024922.ece
24 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers to seek statutory backing for MSP regime||Enthused by the Centre withdrawing the three farm laws, farmers on Thursday vowed to step up stir seeking statutory backing for the minimum support price regime and press for continuing various subsidies, including free power to farm sector. Celebrating the National Farmers’ Day after paying floral tributes to former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, on his 117th birth anniversary, Samyukta Kisan Morcha State convener Vadde Sobhanadreeswara Rao said the stir which culminated in the scrapping of the farm laws was only a beginning. There was still a long way to go to change the ‘anti-farmer’ policies. Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture founder convener Kuruganti Kavitha underscored the need for ensuring income security for farmers and a fair deal for women farm workers eking out a livelihood in farms. AP Rythu Sangham leader S. Jhansi said the Dam Safety Act enacted by Parliament would be opposed as the Centre allegedly intended to hand over the reservoirs to multinational corporations on the pretext of maintenance and impose commercial user charges on irrigation and drinking water. SKM Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao led farmer leaders in felicitating members of the media, who had voiced their protest against the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-to-press-for-statutory-backing-for-msp-regime/article38024921.ece
24 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Customers spoilt for choice at craft bazaar in Srikakulam||Former Union Minister Killi Kruparani on Thursday said that protection of arts would be possible only with the patronage of craft products made by artisans from across the country. Ms. Kruparani formally inaugurated the All India Craft Bazaar near Srikakulam Forest Department Office. Speaking as chief guest, she said that such exhibitions would benefit artisans as well as customers who can get to choose from a wide variety of items at affordable prices. YSRCP senior leader Dharmana Rammanohar Naidu who inaugurated a few stalls said that many artisans faced many financial difficulties due to the drop in sales during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. He hoped that artisans would do good business during the exhibition which would continue till January 31. Visakha Artisans Development Society president Mohammed Nasim and general secretary Mohammed Saleem said that all varieties of saris and textiles brought from New Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Gujarat, and Uttar Pradesh are displayed in the exhibition. “Carpets, shawls, sofa covers, and fancy items made by artisans are displayed in the exhibition. We are hopeful of doing decent business ahead of Christmas and Sankranti festival seasons,” said Mr. Nasim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/customers-spoilt-for-choice-at-craft-bazaar-in-srikakulam/article38025374.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala heightens surveillance amid rise in cases of Omicron||The Kerala government has advised caution in celebrating Christmas and New Year even as the number of Omicron cases in Kerala rose to 29 with the infection confirmed in five more persons on Thursday. Health Minister Veena George underlined the need for heightened surveillance in the light of the increasing number of infections in persons travelling to the State from low-risk countries. She said 17 of the 29 infected persons had arrived from high-risk countries, including the U.K., Tanzania, Ghana and Ireland, while 10 had travelled from low-risk nations such as Dubai, Congo, Tunisia, Nigeria, Kenya and Albania. Two persons had contracted the infection through contact. Highlighting the transmission potential of the Omicron variant, the Minister said the emerging situation called for avoiding mass gatherings and strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols, including wearing of masks and proper ventilation in closed spaces. Senior citizens, children and ailing persons have been advised to take more precautions and those placed under quarantine or self observation have been directed to remain indoors. The Minister also exhorted citizens to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. Of the five Omicron cases confirmed on Thursday, four had arrived at the Cochin airport from the U.K., Nigeria and Albania on December 15, 19 and 20 and the other was a Kozhikode native who had travelled to the State from the Bengaluru airport. Five family members of the person who had arrived from Nigeria are among the contacts. All the five infected persons have been admitted to hospital and efforts were on to trace their contacts, the Health department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-heightens-surveillance-amid-rise-in-cases-of-omicron/article38024675.ece
24 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 FIRs registered for hate speech in Kerala||The Kerala police have flagged the almost exponential increase in hate speech, false and divisive information, religious slurs and conspiracy theories on social media in the wake of the targetted political killings of a BJP and an SDPI worker in Alappuzha recently. A Cyberdome team led by Addl. DGP Manoj Abraham has singled out a set of incendiary messages that appear to deepen communal divisions. The Kerala police have registered a series of cases based on the Cyberdome report. So far, the police have arrested one person in Kollam and wrote 30 First Information Reports (FIRs) on the charge of promoting enmity between communities online. Ernakulam rural police district registered the most number of cases (13). The police said the storm of disinformation threatened to upset public peace. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan had highlighted the hate campaign run by specific vested interests on social media. Sleuths were monitoring WhatsApp groups run by right-wing groups. An official said they had identified several administrators who share hate messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-firs-registered-for-hate-speech-in-kerala/article38024663.ece
24 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahinda Rajapaksa arrives in Tirumala||Prime Minister of Sri Lanka Mahinda Rajapaksa arrived here on a two-day pilgrimage on Thursday. He was accompanied by his wife Shiranthi. On his arrival, Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa was accorded a warm reception by Andhra Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Narayanaswamy, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, District Collector M. Harinarayanan, Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti, and Superintendent of Police (Urban) V. Appala Naidu. After an overnight stay, Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa would offer prayers at the temple on Friday. Earlier, he arrived in Tirupati by a special aircraft from Colombo and motored up straight to Tirumala. The district administration made elaborate security arrangements for his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-lankan-pm-begins-two-day-visit-to-tirumala/article38024670.ece
24 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to release online tickets for Jan. today||The online quota of darshan tickets for the month of January 2022 will be released from 9 a.m. on Friday. While about 20,000 Special Entry Darshan (SED) tickets of Rs. 300 each will be made available to the devotees for January 1 and between January 13 to 23, about 12,000 tickets will be issued on the remaining days of the month. Similarly, the TTD is reportedly contemplating resuming the issuance of online ‘sarva darshan’ tickets (5,000 tickets per day) for the benefit of common devotees from Saturday. It is said that another 5,000 tickets will be made available in the offline mode in Tirupati on a day-to-day basis from December 31. Meanwhile, online booking of accommodation for the month will be enabled from December 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-release-online-tickets-for-jan-today/article38024671.ece
24 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||52 cinemas in Chittoor district served closure notice for violations||The district administration cracked the whip on 52 cinema theatres across Chittoor district for non-compliance of rules on Thursday. The charges include lack of sanitation on the premises, high charges for the snacks sold in the food courts attached to the theatre and non-renewal of licence fee for screening movies. Seven cinemas in Madanapalle, four each in Palamaner, Punganur, Piler and Kuppam towns, three in V. Kota, two each in Rompicherla, B. Kothakota and Kalikiri were among those served with notices. Joint Collector (Revenue) Raja Babu confirmed that closure notices had been served on the threatres that had failed to renew their licences and resorted to other forms of violations. Plea turned down N.V. Prasad, former president of Telugu Film Chamber (Andhra Pradesh and Telangana) and a leading exhibitor of Tirupati, led a delegation of theatre owners to the Joint Collector, with a plea to give two days’ time for renewal of licence, which was, however, turned down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/52-cinemas-in-chittoor-district-served-closure-notice-for-violations/article38024923.ece
24 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water supply to Chennai: KRMB constitutes technical committee||The Krishna River Management Board, at a virtual meeting organised on Thursday, decided to constitute a technical committee, comprising engineers from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, to sort out matters pertaining to supplying drinking water to Chennai. While Andhra Pradesh and Telangana had agreed to release 5 tmcft of water, Karnataka and Maharashtra were yet to give clarity on releasing their share of 10 tmcft. As per the Bachawat Award, Chennai is entitled to receive 15 tmcft of water. Of this, 10 tmcft has to be released by Maharashtra and Karnataka. As they have not been releasing their share, Chennai has been receiving only about three to four tmcft of water through the Telugu Ganga Project. In the meeting, the Telangana government reportedly complained that Andhra Pradesh had been diverting the water to its requirements in the name of supplying the same to Chennai, and sought that the neighbouring State be penalised for it. Responding to the allegation, representatives of Andhra Pradesh said there was no provision to levy penalty when the agreement had been entered into with Tamil Nadu by the combined Andhra Pradesh. “More so, Andhra Pradesh is ready to release water for 200 days in a year, or 8 tmcft, during July-October and another 4 tmcft during January-April. Andhra Pradesh has already released 5.5 tmcft till date. Last year, 8.5 tmcft was released,” the officials said. A suggestion to lay a pipeline to supply water to Chennai also came up for discussion. It was proposed to lay a pipeline either from Srisailam reservoir or Somasila reservoir or Kandaleru reservoir up to Tamil Nadu border. At present, water is being diverted through an open canal from the Kandaleru reservoir in Andhra Pradesh to Chennai’s reservoirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-supply-to-chennai-krmb-constitutes-technical-committee/article38025348.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 300 crore food processing cluster will come up in Nuzvid, says MLA||Nuzvid MLA Meka Venkata Pratap Apparao said that a Rs. 300-crore food processing cluster will be established in Nuzvid and the town will be made a horticulture hub. Speaking at an awareness meeting in the Mango Research Station in Nuzvid on Thursday, Mr. Apparao said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had approved a food processing cluster worth Rs. 300 crore and soon works would begin soon. He said the establishment of food processing units in Nuzvid would lead to the development of mango, guava and banana plantations and turn the region into a horticulture hub. He said the mango research centre would also be provided with additional funds for development works soon. Krishna district Zilla Parishad vice president G. Krishnam Raju, Nuzvid municipal chairperson R. Triveni Durga, Horticulture assistant director J. Jyothi, Agriculture assistant director L. Vidya Sagar, A.P. Micro Irrigation Project project director Ravikumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-300-crore-food-processing-cluster-will-come-up-in-nuzvid-says-mla/article38025426.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 claims three lives in State||The State reported three more deaths due to COVID-19 and 135 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,76,212 and 14,486 respectively. Active cases The number of active cases came down to 1,326, with 164 patients recovering in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate increased to 20,60,400 and 99.24% respectively. As many as 31,358 samples were tested in the past day and their test positivity rate was 0.43% while that of the total 3.109 crore samples tested so far remain at 6.68%. Guntur, Krishna and Srikakulam reported one death each in the past day. Chittoor, Krishna and Guntur together reported more than 75% of the total infections reported in the State during the past day and three districts reported no infection. While Chittoor reported 35, Krishna and Guntur reported 23 and 18 cases respectively. They were followed by West Godavari (15), Visakhapatnam (14), Nellore (9), Kadapa (8), East Godavari (6), Anantapur (4), Srikakulam (3). Kurnool, Prakasam and Vizinagaram reported no infection. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,95,037), Chittoor (2,48,629), West Godavari (1,79,977), Guntur (1,79,235), Visakhapatnam (1,58,795), Anantapur (1,58,210), Nellore (1,47,055), Prakasam (1,38,787), Kurnool (1,24,215), Srikakulam (1,23,662), Krishna (1,20,642), Kadapa (1,15,963) and Vizianagaram (83,110).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-claims-three-lives-in-state/article38025342.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||When State had to strain every nerve to contain pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic had dealt a heavy blow in the year 2021 too as its spread, though contained in the later part of the year, left the officials tasked with handling it on their tenterhooks. The worst phase the State had witnessed was in May when the pandemic curve reached its zenith. The month had reported over 100 fatalities and 24,000 infections per day. Over 50% of the infections and 40% of the deaths reported in the entire year had been registered in that month. As of December 22, the State had reported 11.9 lakh infections and 7,374 deaths against 8.8 lakh cases and 7,108 deaths during the corresponding period in 2020. The situation started improving from May when the pandemic showed signs of abatement. At present, the situation is similar to the one that prevailed in the initial months of the year. The number of infections reported in January, February, November and December was less than 10,000. The test positivity rate too was less than 1% during these months. The figures were on the higher side during the remaining months. In the first wave, COVID-19 had reached its peak in August 2020 when over 10,000 cases per day were reported. It, however, took 20 weeks for the curve to flatten in January when less than 100 infections a day were reported. In contrast, the curve, which had peaked during the second wave in May, took 31 weeks to flatten in December when the number of daily infections came down to less than 100. Ironically, the death rate in the State increased despite a drastic dip in the number of infections this year. When the State registered 5.91 lakh infections in May, the death rate was only 0.50%. In April and June, when nearly 2 lakh cases had been reported, death rate was 0.39% and 0.90% respectively. On the contrary, in the last three months, the death rate was more than 1% even as the number of cases reported was only 25,753. Omicron threat Even as the health sector has been stretching beyond its limits to contain the situation, the threat of the new variant, Omicron, has become a cause for worry. No wonder, the authorities have sounded a warning and asked people to get themselves vaccinated and adhere to all COVID-19 protocols. The State had already reported two cases of Omicron, one each in Vizianagaram and Tirupati. In both the cases, the patients had history of foreign travel. In the orders issued in its wake and ahead of the festival season, the government stressed the need for enforcing COVID Appropriate Behaviour (CAB). It allowed not more than 500 people at functions and weddings. While the State government had set a target of vaccinating all the eligible population by the end of this year, over 1.17 crore people were yet to get fully vaccinated. As per the CoWin portal, 3.88 crore people out of 3.95 crore eligible beneficiaries (18+) got at least one dose of the vaccine, while 2.78 crore people got fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/when-state-had-to-strain-every-nerve-to-contain-pandemic/article38025350.ece
24 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJI Ramana arriving today on a short trip||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana will visit Andhra Pradesh for a short stay. He will arrive at his native village Ponnavaram of Veerulapadu mandal in Krishna district at 11 a.m. on Friday. The local residents arranged a civic reception in the village. Later, he will arrive in Vijayawada and stay at Novotel hotel. He is scheduled to visit Kanaka Durga temple on Saturday at 8.30 a.m. Later, he will visit Tummalapalli Kshetrayya Kalakshetram to attend a High Tea being hosted by the State government at 5 p.m. A civic reception is being organised at Siddhartha Academy auditorium here. Rotary Club of Vijayawada will felicitate him and present him with the Lifetime Achievement Award. On Sunday, he will deliver the Lavu Venkateswarlu Memorial Lecture at Siddhartha Engineering College Auditorium at Kanuru near here. He will attend the Judicial Officers’ Conference at Acharya Nagarjuna University in Guntur district at 12.30 p.m. He would also attend an event organised by the High Court Bar Association and the State Bar Council on the High Court premises. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan is hosting a high tea at Raj Bhavan at 5 p.m. The Bezawada Bar Association will felicitate him at C&A Hall at Guntupalli near here at 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cji-ramana-arriving-today-on-a-short-trip/article38025430.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two persons ‘end life’ in Krishna district||Two persons allegedly committed suicide in separate incidents in Krishna district on Thursday. According to reports, Tirupathamma, 30, of Nuzvid allegedly ended her life by hanging. The reasons for the extreme act are yet to be known and police are investigating the case. In another case, a 22-year-old man B. Gopi of Kanchikacherla mandal allegedly ended life by hanging from a tree in Gottimukkala village reportedly due to family disputes. People in distress can dial 100 for counselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-persons-end-life-in-krishna-district/article38025427.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walk-in interviews for specialists under NRHM||District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini has invited applications for the posts of various specialists to be recruited under the National Rural Health Mission for the district on Thursday. In a release, Dr. Suhasini said he appointments would be contractual and walk-in interviews would be held from December 24 to December 31 at DMHO Office, Machilipatnam. Candidates have been asked to attend the interview with certificates between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. According to the release, there were two vacancies each for Specialist MO Paediatrician and MO Anaesthesia, six posts for Specialist MP Obstetrics and Gynaecologist, one vacancy each for Psychiatrist, Forensic specialist, cardiologist, audiometrician and consultant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walk-in-interviews-for-specialists-under-nrhm/article38025428.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-AP signs MoU with International Skill Development Corporation||The VIT-AP School of Business has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the International Skill Development Corporation (ISDC), United Kingdom, to impart global skills and enhance the capabilities of its students. University vice-chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy said the objective was to promote and deliver business analytics to students pursuing BBA course, which is endorsed by the Institute of Analytics (IoA), U.K., a professional body for Data Science and Analytics. He said at the end of the course, the students would secure a certificate in Diploma in Business Analytics by ISDC along with their BBA certificate from the VIT. He informed that the university also had collaborations with Alphabet, U.S., Digital Scholar and MasterMinds CA Academy. Head of the Strategic Relations, ISDC, Shone Babu, said as part of the partnership, students would be imparted specialised training in Statistics with R, Python Programming, SQL, SaS and Tableau, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, Social Media Analytics, Natural Language Processing and Big Data Analytics. The MoU would also pave the way for collaborative conduct of webinars, workshops, faculty development programmes, short-term training programmes, training-cum-internship programmes and career-building programmes, he said. “The thrust would be on making the students industry-ready by boosting their competency and employability skills,” he said. University registrar CLV Sivakumar, regional manager, business relations, ISDC, U.K., Akhil Agarwal, associate dean of VIT- AP School of Business Raghavendra, associate professor Vikas Mehra and faculty and staff of the university were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-signs-mou-with-international-skill-development-corporation/article38024925.ece
24 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Judicial officers’ conference on Sunday||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh will organise the Andhra Pradesh Judicial Officers’ Conference at Acharya Nagarjuna University near here on Sunday. About 466 judicial officers of the State would participate in the conference. Chief Justice of India Justice N. V. Ramana would inaugurate the conference. Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Court and other dignitaries would take part in the conference. Judges of the High Court will interact with the judicial officers of the subordinate courts. There would be technical sessions too. The emphasis would be on rendering speedy justice. The CJI would interact with district judicial officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/judicial-officers-conference-on-sunday/article38025345.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man jailed for abetting wife’s suicide||A man was convicted and sentenced to three-year jail term for domestic violence and abetment of suicide of his wife. According to information, the victim Kondaveeti Swarna Kumari married Devarapalli Nageswara Rao, 36, of Penamaluru 11 years ago and was allegedly subjected to domestic violence. On January 27, 2017, Nageswara Rao thrashed Swarna Kumari under the influence of alcohol and asked her to die. Unable to bear the harassment, Swarna Kumari set herself on fire and died a day later while undergoing treatment. Mahila Sessions Court sentenced Nageswara Rao to three-year jail term and imposed a fine of Rs. 500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-gets-3-year-jail-term/article38024914.ece
24 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Agriculture in crisis due to lack of govt. support’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged the State government to purchase agricultural produce by offering remunerative prices and rescue the farmers from losses and debts. In a tweet on Thursday, Mr. Naidu said that Andhra Pradesh, which was once known as ‘Annapoorna’ (food producer), turned into a State where the farmers were struggling to make ends meet. Agriculture slipped into crisis because of lack of any assistance from the government and absence of support price, he said. “More than 93% of farmers in the State are burdened with debts. The YSRCP government has earned the dubious distinction of taking the State to the first place in the country in terms of farmers’ debt,” he said. “Also, Andhra Pradesh stands second in the country when it comes to suicide by tenant farmers. It occupies the third place in the country in terms of farmers’ suicide,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agriculture-in-crisis-due-to-lack-of-govt-support/article38025346.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People cautioned on fake ayurvedic medicine||The AYUSH department has cautioned people against falling prey to fake claims being made by certain people on supply of Ayurveda medicine for prevention of Omicron virus affliction. A statement issued by the office of the AYUSH Commissioner on Thursday said it had come to the notice of the department that some people had been propagating that they had medicine to prevent Omicron virus. The govt. had so far not given permission for either free distribution or sale of any Ayurvedic medicine People should not believe any such claims, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-cautioned-on-fake-ayurvedic-medicine/article38024924.ece
24 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Film exhibitors discuss surprise checks||Film distributors and exhibitors held a meeting in the city on Thursday in the wake of the surprise checks and seizure orders issued by the government against cinema halls violating the norms. Several distributors and exhibitors from Krishna and other districts took part in the meeting. Another round of discussion is likely to take place on Friday before a final decision is taken. . The district administration has ordered the closure of 11 theatres in rural areas on Wednesday for violation of ticket prices and other norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/film-exhibitors-discuss-surprise-checks/article38025429.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Technology helping police keep a lid on crime||The City Police are aiming to curb crimes by keeping an eye out on suspicious elements and identifying them quickly with the help of high-tech gadgets at their disposal. The police are using Mobile Security Device Check (MSDC) equipment run on Papillon software. The equipment comprises a fingerprint scanner connected to a mobile phone. During route watches, police teams scan the fingerprints of suspicious elements and if they happen to have a criminal history or are known offenders, they can be immediately detained for questioning, according to the police. “A few months ago, there was a theft at the Polamamba temple near Waltair, and we arrested the accused. Now, after the arrest, we recorded the fingerprints and other biometric details of the accused. If the accused is out on bail and returns to the city and is caught during our routine patrolling, any policeman can identify him or her simply by scanning their fingerprints, as they are already fed into the database. Immediately, the previous offence committed by the accused and other relevant details would pop up and this gives us the leverage to question the accused regarding their movements and we can then keep track of them,” explained Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha. Sub-Inspector of the Finger Print Bureau (FPB), Ms Vijaya said that once the data is extracted, it is then verified by the Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), the database which is maintained by the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Police. If there is a fingerprint match, the police personnel on the ground would be alerted. For further details, the police officer on duty can call us and we would provide more information regarding the suspect. “The database might have the details of around 6 lakh people arrested in various cases in A.P and Telangana. If any person from Telangana is found moving here suspiciously after committing a crime, he can be also detected,” the SI said. Good results Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes -I/c) Sravan Kumar said that there were several instances in the past where a few criminals were caught once we scanned their fingerprints. Two years ago, the Dwaraka Police arrested a person who had allegedly committed a theft at a medical shop. “Once scanned, the data can be extracted within seconds and the history of the accused is shown on the mobile phone on the spot. This is a precautionary measure to prevent offences in the city. The night beat police teams have been using them effectively,” Mr. Sravan said. As of now, 68 MSCD-equipped phones have been given to both Crime and Law & Order (L&O) teams. Most of them are being used by the Crime wing to keep a check on property offences, it is learnt. According to a senior police officer from the city, the AFIS database is being used. But steps are being taken to utilise the National Automated Fingerprint Identification System (NAIFS), maintained by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Once, the police start utilising the NAIFS database, an offender from any part of the country can be detected on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/technology-helping-police-keep-a-lid-on-crime/article38025379.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VUPPC condemns Steel Minister’s statement on VSP||Union Steel Minister Ram Chandra Prasad Singh on Thursday came in for sharp criticism for saying in the Lok Sabha that the “Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) will either be sold or closed”, with the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Port Committee (VUPPC) saying the Union Minister’s statement undermines the struggle of the steel workers. VUPPC chairman Ch. Narasinga Rao said on Thursday that the agitation for protection of VSP has gained the support of all sections of people, and described the statement of the Steel Minister as a ‘cheap trick to break the unity of the workers’. “The agitation, demanding that VSP be retained in the public sector, completed 313 days with a wide variety of protest programmes like relay hunger strikes, 10-km walks, open meetings, seminars, worker-peasant united actions and other innovative protests. The Union Government had tried several ways to make the workers give up their agitation, such as floating rumours that the Tata Group was evincing interest in acquiring the plant, and issuing statements on the strategic sale of VSP from time to time since the last budget,” Mr. Narasinga Rao said. He noted that these statements were intended to demoralise the workers. He alleged that the same tactics were used by the Centre during the farmers’ struggle. The government had not extended any help to VSP and it has grown to a 7.3 million tonne capacity due to the hard work of the employees. Mr. Narasinga Rao said that the government is looking to privatise 30 public sector companies ever since retaining power in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The government could only appoint legal and transaction advisers to push the deal in the case of VSP. These committees have to submit the valuation report within two to three years. The VUPPC has resolved that they would not allow the committee to set foot in VSP, he said. He said the solution to make VSP profitable was to allot captive mines. While all other steel plants, both public sector and private sector, have been given their own captive mines, VSP is the only plant operating without a captive mine, he alleged. The VUPPC chairman added that the agitation would be continued till the Centre repealed its decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vuppc-condemns-steel-ministers-statement-on-vsp/article38025375.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day property expo by CREDAI-Vizag begins today||The annual three-day property expo, being organised by CREDAI-Visakhapatnam, will be held at Gadiraju Palace and Convention Centre at MVP Colony from Friday. This is the 7th property expo of CREDAI in the city. A large number of builders and developers would participate in the expo. A wide range of flats, plots, villas and luxury apartments in gated communities would be on display for customers. There would be special stalls displaying building materials for the benefit of potential home buyers. Banks, both private and public, including SBI, would participate and provide information on bank finance and various loan options open to them for the benefit of potential buyers. “Entry to the expo is free. Lucky dip would be organised on all three days and winners would be given prizes, which includes a gold coin,” according to CREDAI-Visakhapatnam honorary secretary E. Ashok Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-property-expo-by-credai-vizag-begins-today/article38025433.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector holds review meet on maternal mortality rate||Collector A. Mallikarjuna has directed officials concerned to reduce the maternal mortality rate in the district. At a review meeting with medical and health officials on Thursday, the Collector discussed maternal deaths which had occurred between March and November this year in the Agency, rural and urban areas of the district. He directed them to make two-wheeler ambulances available in the interior tribal areas, where normal ambulances could not reach due to lack of roads. Mr. Mallikarjuna said that high-risk pregnant women should be shifted to the nearby PHCs and Area Hospitals, much ahead of their delivery date and their condition should be monitored continuously. The ASHA workers, ANMs and community health workers should visit them at their homes from time to time and keep a watch on their health, he said. ‘Counselling important’ Pregnant women should be counselled on the importance of hospital deliveries. They should be advised against taking self-medication and avoid quacks. He directed the DM&HO to organise more blood donation camps to keep sufficient reserves in view of the shortage of blood at blood banks in view of the COVID-19 threat, and the unwillingness of donors to come forward to donate blood. The Collector said that those who undergo delivery in hospital should be registered under the Aarogyasri scheme, and be paid a cash incentive. They should also be given Rs. 5,000 in three instalments under the Pradhan Mantri Matrutva Vanadana Yojana, he said. Joint Collector P. Arun Babu, District Medical & Health Officer (DM&HO) Tirupathi Rao, DCHS Lakshmana Rao and Medical Officers of King George Hospital (KGH) and Gosha Hospital (VGH) participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-holds-review-meet-on-maternal-mortality-rate/article38025376.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM vowed to ban liquor but is now eyeing more sales’||Members of the Telugu Desam Party’(TDP) Mahila Wing staged a protest near a State government-run liquor outlet at Prakashraopeta, protesting the government’s decision to reduce taxes on prices of liquor, on Thursday. As part of the protest, TDP members broke several liquor bottles outside the shop. Raising slogans against the YSR Congress Party, the women’s wing leaders alleged that the State government has failed in implementing liquor prohibition as promised in its manifesto and is now encouraging people to consume more liquor by reducing prices. TDP Mahila wing leader S. Anantha Lakshmi alleged that the government was selling cheap and harmful liquor, which is affecting the health of people who are consuming it. She also alleged large-scale corruption in the sale of liquor and questioned why the government has not facilitated online payment facility at the wine shops. “Mr. Jagan had promised women ahead of elections that he would impose total prohibition in Andhra Pradesh if voted to power. However, after becoming Chief Minister, he is reducing the prices of liquor to increase sales,” she said. The leaders warned that women voters would ‘teach Mr. Jagan a lesson in the next elections’. “Why are women leaders of the YSRCP silent when the government is trying to increase liquor sales?” Ms. Anantha Lakshmi said, demanding immediate closure of liquor shops in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-vowed-to-ban-liquor-but-is-now-eyeing-more-sales/article38025438.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strong export opportunities in pharma sector, say experts||The Union Government has adopted a facilitative approach under Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for the pharmaceutical sector and this should be utilised by the players in the sector, said N. Yuvaraj, joint secretary of the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Government of India Mr. Yuvaraj was delivering the inaugural address at the conference on Pharma Mart-2021, organised by Confederation of Indian Industry, in Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The theme of the conference was ‘Pharma Manufacturing Industry: Challenges and Opportunities’. Speaking on the opportunities, Mr. Yuvaraj said that medical devices and bulk drugs would have greater opportunities for growth in the days ahead. M. Madan Mohan Reddy, director of Aurobindo Pharma Ltd, said that there was a strong potential for growth in exports in the Indian pharma industry given the size of the pharmaceutical sector across the globe. “Biosimilars and vaccines have a greater advantage for industry in India. India leads the ways with the highest number of approved biosimilars. Fermentation products will also have great demand in the coming days,” Mr. Madan Mohan Reddy said. According to him, there has been an increasing trend of contract manufacturing. Several multinational companies are choosing the contract manufacturing way to establish their base and to take the cost advantage in India. He also pointed out that continuous collaboration between industry and academia was essential for developing new products. K.VV. Raju, conference chairman and CEO of Ajinomoto Bio-Pharma Services India Pvt. Ltd. said that the conference provides a forum for the pharma fraternity to deliberate on the roadmap for accelerating growth. D. Tirupathi Raju, chairman of CII Andhra Pradesh and executive chairman Vijay Nagar Biotech Pvt Ltd, said that the strength of the A.P. pharma industry lies in its strong base with established pharmaceutical organisations and strong research and development centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strong-export-opportunities-in-pharma-sector-say-experts/article38025440.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Skill-Lync, AMTZ to offer course in medical technology||Skill-Lync, a company that bridges the gap between college learning and corporate industry requirements, joined hands with Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) to launch a masters coursework in medical technology. Krishna Bandaru, an executive on the leadership team of Skill-Lync, said that the partnership addresses the skill gap in the medical device industry that is having a shortage of design engineers and researchers. The Executive Masters in Medical Technology programme by Skill-Lync will span 12 months including nine fundamental courses and a specialisation. Students will receive on-the-job training by interning with a medical device manufacturing company on AMTZ campus where they will have access to experiential learning at the scientific facilities of AMTZ. The coursework is a blended learning programme where students will get an opportunity to learn via both offline and online models. It introduces students to the fundamentals of medical devices with the option to specialise in multiple areas such as radiology, imaging and optics, electronics and implants. Students will take a certification examination and get skill-certified by IBSC, approved by NSDA. “Given the recent health crisis, medical technology is a sector where India needs to be self- reliant and talent is a key enabler for this sector. This course enables graduates from all disciplines to pursue multiple specialisations thus benefiting the medical equipment industry,” Mr. Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/course-in-medical-technology-launched/article38025383.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Rayagada-Koraput line inspected by DRM||Divisional Railway Manager of Waltair Anup Satpathy inspected Visakhapatnam-Rayagada-Koraput section on Thursday. He took stock of amenities and facilities provided at the stations and the ongoing developmental activities in that section. He inspected the catering units, waiting halls and other amenities. The DRM also inspected the railway offices at important stations in the section like Bobbili, Parvatipuram Town, Rayagada, Tikiri, Kakiriguma and Koraput. The DRM interacted with passengers at the waiting halls and on the platforms and took their feedback on the facilities. He interacted with service providers and representatives of various associations. He heard their suggestions and grievances, and assured to look into the issues and communicate them to the officials concerned. He was accompanied by Senior Divisional Engineer (Coordination) Pradeep Yadav, Senior Divisional Operations Manager G. Suneel Kumar, and Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A. K. Tripathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-rayagada-koraput-section-inspected-by-drm/article38025377.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Physicians’ Day celebrated||Physicians’ Day was celebrated under the auspices of Dr. S.N.R. Naveen at the Medicine Department of Andhra Medical College/King George Hospital (KGH) here on Thursday. Dr. S. Sreenivas, Head of Department, Dr. Y. Gyan Sundar Raju, professor of medicine, Dr. D. Radhakrishnan, professor and Dr. K. Santosh Kumar, associate professor, were felicitated for their outstanding services during the COVID-19 pandemic in the last two years. Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, principal, AMC, and Dr. P. Mythili, Superintendent, were also felicitated for their services during the pandemic. Addressing the gathering, Dr. Naveen, Assistant Professor of Medicine, AMC, said that Association of Physicians of India (API) has been observing Physicians Day for the past seven decades on December 23. This year’s slogan was “Clean air for all”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/physicians-day-celebrated/article38025435.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newborn death due to negligence: Ayyanna||Former Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu alleged that negligence of a government doctor at NTR Hospital, Narsipatnam, led to the death of a newborn in Visakhapatnam district. He also expressed his shock over the lack of any reaction from the Collector or the District Medical & Health Officer (DMHO) over the alleged incident. In a video message posted on social media on Thursday, Mr Ayyanna Patrudu said that on December 20, a tribal woman from Nadimpalem village of Koyyuru mandal went to NTR Hospital in Narsipatnam for admission as she was in the last stages of her pregnancy. The TDP leader alleged that a doctor posted at the government hospital began the surgery but again stopped it. She then referred the case to King George Hospital allegedly due to some complications. “Instead of going to KGH, the ambulance driver took them to a private hospital in the town itself, which belongs to the same doctor who had pursued the case at the government hospital. The doctor then conducted a Caesarean section, after which the baby reportedly died,” Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said in the message, seeking a probe into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/newborn-death-due-to-negligence-ayyanna/article38025381.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag district reports 14 new COVID-19 cases||The district has recorded 14 new COVID-19 infections, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,303. Twenty persons who were infected by the virus have recovered in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries increased to 1,58,055. The death toll stands at 1,107 as no COVID-19 death was reported in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stands at 141.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-reports-14-new-covid-19-cases/article38025382.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fill potholes soon, GVMC staff told||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha has instructed officials from the Engineering Department to repair the roads which have developed potholes during recent rains in Visakhapatnam. He said motorists have been facing a lot of inconvenience due to the pothole-ridden roads and asked officials to start the works soon and fill the potholes. Along with Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, Mr. Lakshmisha conducted a review meeting with the officials and enquired about the ongoing works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fill-potholes-soon-gvmc-staff-told/article38025439.ece
24 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSNL, LB College ink pact||Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Dr. Lankapalli Bullayya College of Engineering as part of a skill development programme on Thursday. M. Satya Prasad, Assistant General Manager, BSNL, and D. Deepak Chowdary, principal of L. Bullayya College, signed the MoU. N. Kranti Kumar, SDE (Trainings), Training Coordinator, BSNL, G. Madhu Kumar, secretary and correspondent, S.M. Rahman, vice principal, and Solomon Gotham, HoD-ECE of the college, were present. Mr. Satya Prasad explained the training details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bsnl-lb-college-ink-pact/article38025434.ece
24 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMDA 3-day dance fest from today||A three-day ‘Festival of Dance’ is being organised by Visakha Music and Dance Academy (VMDA) at Kalabharathi from Friday. Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC, will participate as chief guest in the inaugural function at 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmda-3-day-dance-fest-from-today/article38025436.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pending wages paid to Vidya Volunteers||Deputy Director of Tribal Welfare Department G. Vijay Kumar said that the State government is trying its best to resolve issues being faced by Vidya Volunteers. The ITDA has released three months’ wages of all the volunteers. Out of the 696 volunteers, it is learnt that the bank details of 27 volunteers are not in order. The ITDA is trying to provide their salaries via other sources, he added. Mr. Vijaya Kumar said that the ITDA has written to the Tribal Welfare Department for renewing the contracts of the volunteers. He said that the State government is committed to the welfare of tribals and would resolve their issues at the earliest. The volunteers had launched an agitation outside the ITDA office in Paderu demanding that their unpaid wages be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pending-wages-paid-to-vidya-volunteers/article38025380.ece
24 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired staff of dockyard take part in golden jubilee fete||As part of the ongoing golden jubilee celebrations of Naval Dockyard, a Veterans’ Day was held at the dockyard on Wednesday. Over 200 retired employees of the yard attended the event along with 12 previous admiral superintendents. Defence civilian veterans of the yard paid a visit to their erstwhile workshops and departments. The visit was followed by an interaction between the veterans and the current generation over lunch. The veterans appreciated NDV’s progress and its contribution to nation-building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retired-staff-of-dockyard-take-part-in-golden-jubilee-fete/article38025441.ece
24 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free cleft surgeries done on 65 children||Cleft lip and cleft palate surgeries were done free of cost for 65 children at a ‘Smile Please’ medical camp organised at Tirumala Hospital in Vizianagaram. The children, who had difficulty eating and speaking due to cleft problems, were operated upon by eminent doctors who visited the city for the medical camp. Out of 95 registered patients, operations were conducted for 65 patients with the joint initiative of ‘Mission Smile’, Muthoot Fincorp and Tirumala Hospitals. According to organisers, each operation costs around Rs. 1 lakh but it could be done free of cost as eminent doctors who came from different parts of the country performed operations without charging a fee from the patients. The operations were conducted between December 20 and 23 at the hospital. The treatment for the remaining patients would continue when they are physically fit for operations. During a valedictory function held on Thursday, Vizianagaram Zilla Parishad chairperson Majji Srinivasa Rao lauded Tirumala Hospital’s managing director K. Tirumala Prasad for extending support to poor patients while roping in top surgeons of the country. “My one-year-old son Satvik could not drink or eat properly due to cleft palate problems. I was worried about his health. But the free medical camp has been a blessing for us as he was successfully operated upon,” for me with the successful operation,” said K. Madhu, a woman from China Vootagadda village of Makkuva mandal in Vizianagaram district. Another woman named U. Saraswati who came from Visakhapatnam said that her son Sai Vivek (9) who was operated upon at a previous camp was able to speak properly with the continuous medical advice from doctors of the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-cleft-surgeries-done-on-65-children/article38025372.ece
24 December 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||I did not disrupt proceedings at Ramateertham: Ashok||Hereditary trustee of the Kodandarama temple at Ramateertham and senior TDP leader Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju has said police cases will not deter him from protecting the tradition and culture of the temples. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, while referring to the row he was involved in at the stone-laying ceremony for reconstruction of temple on Wednesday, made it clear that he had not disrupted the proceedings marking the occasion. I had insisted on following the tradition and culture during the construction of the temple and installation of the idols. My opinions had been distorted by the YSRCP leaders, he alleged. “I have come to know that the government is now contemplating filing cases against me. It is a new trend and tradition. Anyhow, our advocates will handle them,” said Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. Stating that he had highest respect for the administrative set-up and the Ministers, Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju reiterated that he had not disrupted the religious proceedings on the temple premises. “The government is not supposed to install any plaque since the exchequer is not spending money for the construction of the temple. The Endowments Department is spending the amount given by the devotees for the reconstruction of the temple. That is the reason why I had objected to the installation of the plaque,” Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-did-not-disrupt-proceedings-at-ramateertham-ashok/article38025344.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vying for top honours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vying-for-top-honours/article38025386.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christmas hue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christmas-hue/article38025352.ece
24 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Heritage high, hype and hyperbole||It was a bumper year for Telangana heritage as the 800-year-old Ramappa Temple made it to the elite group of world heritage sites listed by UNESCO. Matching that development was the tag of best world tourism village for Pochampally on the outskirts of Hyderabad. There was some movement on documentation of Hyderabad’s Qutb Shahi heritage to make a case at UNESCO for the heritage city tag. But beyond these marquee developments, it’s been a year of lows for Hyderabad’s 500-year-old heritage. The questions that dogged heritage watchers were more mundane: Will the Osmania General Hospital be demolished? Will the Nampally Serai be demolished? Will the Mahbub Mansion be razed? These were some of the questions raised by citizens of Hyderabad in 2021 as heritage became relegated to the margins of political thinking. The discourse was set in motion by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, who stepped into OGH, sat down, and said, “Lives are more important than heritage”, alluding to demolition of Hyderabad’s oldest hospital building that has now been abandoned citing fears about its stability. It forced civic groups to step in and prove the structural stability of the building as well as the scope for constructing a new hospital just on the land behind the heritage site. Ray of hope Amidst the gloom, there was a ray of hope as a few ‘baolis’ (stepwells) in the city got a new lease of life, thanks to the intervention of the Municipal Administration and Urban Development ministry in the State. While place names like Doodhbowli, Badibowli, and Rethibowli have been part of the city’s topography, they have all but disappeared. This effort by Hyderabad Design Forum gave an element of hope. If the stepwell at Bansilalpet is in the process of being cleaned up before restoration, the stepwell at Bapughat has been restored and looks spanking new. Another well that has been cleaned and restored is at Gachibowli. Inside the inner core of the city, the Kali Kaman arch is being restored by the civic body by clearing it of encroachments. “We have a plan to restore the three other arches if we can clear the encroachments. One of the arches has a kitchen and a puja room inside,” said an official, who is part of the restoration effort. “Any conservation/restoration or development on or near an HMDA listed heritage site should have a clearance from the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC). But, we still don’t have HCC with the mandated qualification for the members,” says historian Sajjad Shahid dismissing the notion of scientific conservation effort on the arches. Another scare It was a year of another scare as the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC) threatened to withdraw from its conservation effort at the Qutb Shahi Tombs Complex due to a series of litigations to stop the interpretation centre that enhances the experience at heritage sites. But, thanks to the intervention of government officials, the AKTC is continuing its effort at the site and the city even hosted a jazz concert and a Sufi event at the location. Another ray of hope has been the Telangana High Court, which tried to monitor the Ramappa Temple to ensure it conforms to the norms set up by the UN body for a comprehensive conservation management plan. It has been the judiciary that has been responsible for providing a semblance of protection to city heritage from the never-ending need for real estate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heritage-high-hype-and-hyperbole/article38025196.ece
24 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||3 held, 183 grams cocaine seized||Making it the largest seizure of cocaine in the State so far, the Cyberabad police recovered 183 grams of contraband from drug abusers. A peddler, who brought the consignment to the city ahead of the New Year celebration, and two end-users, were apprehended by the Special Operations Team of Madhapur zone, Commissioner of Police M.Stephen Raveendra said on Thursday. They also seized 44 MD Ecstasy tablets and three mobile phones, all worth Rs. 26.28 lakh in the grey market. “This is the biggest haul of cocaine to date in the State,” the Commissioner said. While the main peddler, Jude alias Chris from Goa and a native of Nigeria is at large, the apprehended persons are local peddler Mohammed Ashraf Baig (37), an Arabic tutor from Tolichowki, from whom 181 grams of cocaine was seized, and two consumers, Rameshwara Sravan Kumar (24) from Nizampet and Gorentla Charan Teja (27) of Kondapur. One gram each was seized from their possession. Acting on a tip-off, the sleuths of SOT, apprehended Sravan Kumar and Charan Teja from their flat at Ramky Towers, Gachibowli, on December 22. Later, based on the information shared by them, Baig was apprehended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-held-183-grams-cocaine-seized/article38025198.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wild dogs released into zoo||Four Indian wild dogs, two male and two female, also called ‘Dhole’ and ‘Whistling hunters’, received from Pilikula Biological Park at Mangalore as part of an animal exchange programme were released into a special enclosure at the Nehru Zoological Park on Thursday. The wild dogs were quarantined at the zoo for four weeks before being released by Forest Minister Indrakaran Reddy. Indian wild dogs hunt in packs of 20 to 30. The species is protected under Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. The Minister also inaugurated an aviary complex and a surveillance monitoring system. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Sobha and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wild-dogs-released-into-zoo/article38025187.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rajasthan woos TS investors||A Rajasthan government delegation comprising three ministers and senior officials from departments focused on industrial development wooed Telangana investors on Thursday, highlighting the emerging industrial scenario and investment friendly policy framework of their State. Participating in a roadshow here for the Invest Rajasthan 2022 summit, which is to be held on January 24-25 in Jaipur, Industries and Commerce Minister of Rajasthan Shakuntala Rawat said under Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s leadership, the State has created a policy framework to promote growth across all industrial sectors. In an interaction, on the sidelines of the roadshow, Ms. Rawat said the response to the roadshows held in major cities was good with the event in Mumbai alone receiving investment commitment of around Rs. 2 lakh crore. Going beyond the MoUs, many companies have acquired land and started work on the projects. Invest Rajasthan 2022 will be a platform to showcase the investments and expected to emerge as a milestone in transformation of State’s industrial landscape Among the measures of the State government to attract investments, improve the ease of doing business and consequently create more employment opportunities is the ‘One Stop Shop’ initiative of bringing all departments on a single platform to facilitate investments. She also highlighted fiscal incentives offered to certain category of investors, the Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme-2019 and the emphasis on skill training for youth. At the Hyderabad roadshow, Axis Energy, Semaliya Energy, Akshat Greentech and Crochet Industries signed MoUs and LoIs, with the Rajasthan government, for a total investment of Rs. 40,510 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rajasthan-woos-ts-investors/article38025188.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hope for Sickle Cell Anaemia patients||A committee of experts constituted by the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Thursday critically evaluated a proposal of the ‘CSIR-Sickle Cell Anaemia (CSIR-SCA) Mission’ and approved the marketing of ‘hydroxyurea’ for SCA treatment, subject to post-marketing surveillance. Sickle Cell Anaemia (SCA) is a common genetic disorder among Indians affecting the red blood cells. It is transmitted by parents carrying a defective ‘beta globin’ gene. Close to 0.4% of the population suffer from this disease while 10% are carriers who lead to birth of new SCA patients. The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) with the help of pharma major ‘Cipla’, one of the manufacturers of hydroxyurea, and with active support of the Indian Institute Of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), has approached the Drugs Controller General of India for hydroxyurea approval for SCA treatment, said a release. The approval currently legalises the drug to be used at standard doses for treatment of SCA. It also sets up the stage for designing various formulations of smaller doses that promise higher compliance rates among children and may even lead to syrup-based formulations. The disease is well-known in tribal populations as well as prevalent in general populations in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. It starts early in life, and the affected children have persistent pain, low amount of haemoglobin (anaemia), low energy, reduced growth plus other abnormalities and multiple episodes of frequent severe pain better known as vaso-occlusive crisis. Like most genetic disorders, SCA has no cure but has symptomatic treatments for pain, anaemia and vaso-occlusive crisis. Hydroxyurea, largely used as an anti-cancer agent, is also used in SCA treatment without any formal approval. Commercially available formulations are made with its anti-cancer role in mind, and hence, are of big quantity size (minimum 500 mg). SCA children are typically of low weight, and consequently, their dosage size needs to be much smaller. So it becomes difficult to give the precise doses to such patients. This has led to low compliance and at times unpredictable response. Under SCA Mission, about six CSIR labs and three government hospitals in Chhattisgarh, MP and Maharashtra joined scientists trying to identify patients through population-based screening to help families with proper treatment and prevent the disease in next generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hope-for-sickle-cell-anaemia-patients/article38025190.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor suggests book room in houses||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan suggested the real estate industry to consider having an exclusive room for books while designing houses, just like they advertise for two or three bedroom houses. “House is not just something built with bricks and pillars. It is a dream of the common man and builders are the constructors of those dreams. I wish the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) - Telangana takes up this initiative and plan the construction of houses in innovative ways,” she said on Thursday. The Governor was addressing the first conclave of CREDAI TS, where builders were made aware of the Standard Operating Procedures and checklists to ensure adherence to the mandated norms. A  book on the theme was also released by special chief secretary Arvind Kumar .  “CREDAI TS did the work of the government by bringing out its own SoP booklet to follow certain guidelines in construction field. In terms of growth, TS especially Hyderabad is achieving new heights. Since 2015, the growth rate is exceptionally good due to a stable political set up and government initiatives,” said Mr. Kumar. “The government had given approvals for 18,000 industries and Rs. 1 lakh crore worth of real estate projects by TS Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). With the construction of the link road project, the government is enhancing development activities till ORR and Traffic Impact Assessment (TIS) is being done. Area Development Project (ADP) is also taking shape,” he added. CREDAI TS chairman Ch. Ramchandra Reddy pointed out that the State has been in the forefront of real estate reforms with initiatives such as TS-bPASS, single-window approval, and ‘Dharani’, which has increased the demand for real estate projects. President D. Muralikrishna Reddy, president elect E. Premsagar Reddy and secretary K. Indrasena Reddy said that the conclave will help equip developers to leverage opportunities arising out of the high growth trajectory of TS. IT and Industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan released a report on Telangana – A State on the move by ‘Anarock’, a leading real estate consulting firm. It was followed by a panel discussion on innovation and technological advancement in construction technology, and a session organised by leading banks to discuss the nuances of project finance and home loans. MyHome Group chairman Jupally Rameswar Rao was presented with a lifetime achievement award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-suggests-exclusive-book-room-in-houses/article38025192.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana adds 177 more COVID cases||Telangana recorded 177 COVID cases on Thursday, with six of these reported from samples taken at the Hyderabad International Airport. As many as 4,470 report results are yet to come. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao, in his daily health bulletin, informed that there was one death, taking the overall toll to 4,018. There are about 3,596 active cases across the State and most from the capital region — GHMC 93, up from 84 a week ago, Ranga Reddy 16, up from 13 and Medchal-Malkajgiri 9. About 190 people recovered, taking the total recoveries to 6.73 lakh and those infected rose to 6.81 lakh. The number of samples tested are 38,219 and about 648 passengers arrived in Hyderabad on Thursday, taking the cumulative number to 10,029 and 70 have tested positive so far. Six of them from ‘at risk’ countries have tested positive for Omicron and 31 were others on random sampling from other countries. Altogether 10 samples were being tested for the emerging variant, including the six on Thursday. Adilabad, Jagityal, Jangoan, Jayashankar- Bhupalapally, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad, Medak, Mulugu, Nagarkurnool, Narayanpet, Nirmal and Suryapet reported zero cases. Close to 3.68 lakh vaccines were administered on Thursday, taking the total number to 4.49 crore. Nineteen districts have claimed cent per cent first dose vaccination including RR, Hyderabad, Medak, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Nirmal, Siddipet, Mancherial, Hanmakonda, Mahabubnagar, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mahabubabad, Jangaon, Karimnagar, Narayanpet, Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, Peddapalli, and Sangareddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-adds-177-more-covid-cases/article38025193.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ERC rejects ARRs for 3 years||The Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has declined to entertain petitions filed by the two power distribution companies (Discoms) in the State for determination of Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) for the years 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22 stating that the time period for which they were sought is already lapsed. All the three petitions were filed before the Commission last year with a plea to condone the delay in filing the ARRs and to grant them an opportunity to submit the tariff proposals at a later date. The petitions came up for hearing before the Commission on Monday and the order was pronounced on Tuesday. When contacted, senior officials of the power utilities stated that hearing the petitions on determination of ARRs, particularly for 2019-20 and 2020-21, has become redundant since the annual accounts of the two Discoms have already been audited and finalised by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) and only three months time is left for completion of the 2021-22 fiscal. Even the accounts for 2021-22 would go for CAG audit anytime after April 1 next. Asked about the impact of rejection of the ARRs for three years on the Discoms, the officials explained that the action would translate into some financial loss to the utilities as they would not be in a position to recover charges such as true-up and surcharge at a future date since the ERC has considered the ARRs and the retail supply tariffs (RST) were not filed. “The ERC might not entertain any plea from the Discoms on the three ARRs since the ARRs were not considered by it and the RSTs were not filed at all,” the senior executive said unwilling to be quoted. Even the ARR for 2021-22 would also serve no purpose from the point of view of determination now since the ERC would have to finalise both the ARR and RST in 120 days, while hardly 100 days time is left in the current fiscal. Waiting for nod On the RST for 2022-23, ARR for which has been filed three weeks back, the official stated that they have completed their home work and prepared tariffs proposing “some increase to bring down the gap between actual cost of supply and aggregate revenue realisation in spite of sizeable subsidy allocation by the government” and awaiting clearance at the Chief Minister’s level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/erc-rejects-arrs-for-3-years/article38025393.ece
24 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teen held for harassing girls on Instagram||A teenager was arrested by the Hyderabad cyber crime police on charges of blackmailing women, including minor girls, on Instagram. The accused, Palakurthi Ajay (19) from Dilsukhnagar, who hailed from Parkal in Hanumakonda district, created fake Instagram accounts on different names and targeted innocent girls including minors by sending friend requests. Further, he blackmailed them threatening to upload their private pictures on social media platforms ‘unless they heed to his desires’, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. He said that on November 29, they received a complaint from a minor girl who stated that for the past few days she was being harassed and blackmailed by Ajay using her private pictures on Instagram. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and Ajay was arrested. Murder attempt Suspecting his wife’s fidelity, a driver attempted to kill her at Indira Nagar under Banjara Hills police station limits on Thursday. Around 1 p.m. the suspect Shiva Yadav (40) went home in an inebriated condition, picked up an argument with Rajitha, and later attacked her with a kitchen knife. Rajitha was rushed to OGH and her condition is stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teen-held-for-harassing-girls-on-instagram/article38025199.ece
24 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||ED attaches properties of Rebba Satyanarayana||The Enforcement Directorate has provisionally attached movable and immovable assets worth Rs. 100 crore belonging to businessman Rebba Satyanarayana and his family members under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He took new loans to repay old ones and is being probed for money laundering linked to alleged fraud against an IDBI branch in Andhra Pradesh by taking fraudulent fish tank KCC loans. The attached assets are in the form of Agricultural lands, Fish Ponds, Commercial sites, plots and Flats in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana; and Bank Balance. The ED initiated the money-laundering probe on the basis of FIR registered by ACB/CBI, Visakhapatnam, under relevant Sections of IPC against Satyanarayana and others for fraudulently availing KCC fish tank loans in the names of 143 benami borrowers from IDBI Bank, Rajahmundry branch to the tune of Rs. 112.41 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ed-attaches-properties-of-rebba-satyanarayana/article38025201.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chilly nights continue, Medak records 8 degrees||There has been a slight rise in night temperatures which are yet chilly, with Ginnedaru in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district recording 7 degree C and in the capital, the Rajendranagar area recorded 9.1 degree C, Medak was another chilly place with 8 degree C and Ramagundam 10.8 degree on Friday. There is no likelihood of any big change in temperatures either in maximum or minimum and to be in the range of 14-16 degree C and 28-30 degree C. It was 12.2 degree C in the night for the twin cities, which is about 3 degrees below normal temperature and 30.2 degree C during the day. The forecast for Friday is 14 degree during the night and 30 degree C during the day with mist. Minimum temperatures are likely to be below normal by 2-3°C at places across TS, according to bulletins by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chilly-nights-continue/article38025194.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telugu businessmen from US mentor entrepreneurs||The America Telugu Association (ATA), a premier national association established to promote Telugu community in the United States, on Thursday organised Business Seminar 2021 in Hyderabad. This is an initiative to encourage business ideas, mentor young entrepreneurs, and provide a platform for venture capitalists and start-ups. Nearly 100 mentors, venture capitalists, entrepreneurs and technology experts based in the US and India shared their views and suggested measures on promoting business in tier-II cities of Telangana at the seminar, the focus being to encourage Telugu entrepreneurs with mentorship and funding. Business committee chair for ATA Kashi Kotha said that the agenda was multifold, to increase networking and interaction between US-based Telugu entrepreneurs and business owners based in Telangana, mentor and invest in start-up companies in India, especially those based in Telangana, and attract more companies to come to second tier cities such as Khammam, Warangal, Nalgonda, Karimnagar, and Nizamabad. Conference advisory committee chair Jayanth Challa observed that Telugu entrepreneurs were gaining prominence across the US and around the world and this was an effort to share the best practices here. The seminar was also an effort to promote US-India partnerships and encourage entrepreneurs to invest in various districts across Telangana. ATA has been conducting such seminars in Hyderabad once every two years since 2014, and through these seminars, over Rs. 150 crore were invested in Indian start-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telugu-businessmen-from-us-mentor-entrepreneurs/article38025179.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CJI deplores attempts to scuttle Covaxin’s popularity||Chief Justice of India Justice N.V. Ramana on Thursday deplored attempts made by major pharma companies, including Pfizer, to see to it that Bharat Biotech manufactured Covaxin did not become popular. At a time when Covaxin was found to be most effective in combating COVID and its new variants, many leaders of the pharma industry criticised the vaccine and even complained to the World Health Organisationto see that it did not get recognition, Justice Ramana said at an awards presentation function of Ramineni Foundation. Bharat Biotech chairman and MD Krishna Ella, joint MD Suchitra Ella, a nature cure specialist Mastan Yadav, comedian Brahmanandam, TV anchor Suma and physician Durga Padmaja received awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cji-deplores-attempts-to-scuttle-covaxins-popularity/article38025185.ece
24 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ex-Naxalite’s torso exhumed on city outskirts||The torso of an ex-Naxalite, who was killed and buried by his friends, including a transwoman on November 12, was exhumed by Adibhatla police of Rachakonda on Thursday. Police said that the victim Nama Srinivas (38) from Vadipatla in Nalgonda, who was a realtor, had financial disputes with the accused Chary, a gold smith from the same district. On November 12, Srinivas along with Chary, Naresh and transwoman Rajamma, were going towards Bongulur from BN Reddy Nagar in the former’s car. “When they reached Bongulur, the trio strangled Srinivas to death with a clutch wire while he sitting in the driver’s seat and buried the body in Mangalpalli Reserve Forest, before beheading and disposing it at some other place,” police said. The offence came to light only after Chary surrendered before Saroornagar police in connection with a gold pledging case registered against him on December 9. During the police custody, he confessed to killing Srinivas with the help of Naresh and Rajamma, who are at large. “While the torso is exhumed, we are yet to trace the decapitated head,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-naxalites-torso-exhumed-on-city-outskirts/article38025200.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Mathematics in India has a rich history’||Mathematics in India has a rich history going back to over thousands of years and thrived for centuries before similar advances were made in the rest of the world, said chief executive of Shri Veda Bharathi and former deputy director (computers) NIMS R.V.S.S. Avadhanulu. He was delivering a lecture on the foundations of mathematics in ancient India on ‘ National Mathematics Day 2021’ at GITAM in Hyderabad on Thursday. This was part of the event organised by the Department of Mathematics, School of Science, to commemorate the birth anniversary of legendary Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan. “Ancient and medieval Indian mathematical works were all composed in Sanskrit. It usually consisted of a section of sutras in which a set of rules or problems were stated,” he said, and recounted the classical period of Indian mathematics and the contributions made by scholars such as Aryabhatta, Varaha Mihira, Bhaskara I & II, Vishnugupta, Siddhasena, Manitha, Srijidhwaja, Kalyanavarma, Simhatilakasuri, Kalakacharya, Mahaviracharya, Bhatotpala, Devaswami, Jiva Sharma, Satyacharya and Prithuyasas. Dr. Avadhanulu highlighted five of India’s great inventions — zero, decimal number system, binary numbers, progression and infinity by quoting Sanskrit slokas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mathematics-in-india-has-a-rich-history/article38025189.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Rythu Bandhu’ to be credited from Dec. 28||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao said that farming should not be seen as a business as it is feeding the nation and providing employment for crores of people. Participating in the seventh foundation day celebrations of Sri Konda Laxman Telangana State Horticulture University at Mulugu in Siddipet district on Thursday, Mr. Rao said that Konda Laxman Bapuji was the first generation leader who fought for the formation of Telangana and naming the university after him is paying rich tributes to him. Stating that about Rs. 7,500 crore Rythu Bandhu for the summer would be extended to farmers from December 28, he said that so far as much as Rs. 50,000 crore was given to farmers under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rythu-bandhu-to-be-credited-from-dec-28/article38025178.ece
24 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nominated||Dr. Pradyut Waghray, a pulmonologist from Hyderabad, has been nominated into Asia’s top 50 academicians by EET CRS, a research and branding company. He was earlier elected as a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, London. He is a professor and head of the department of pulmonary medicine at SVS Medical College, Mahbubnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nominated/article38025184.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||New addition to zoo||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-addition-to-zoo/article38025392.ece
24 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat reports 111 fresh COVID-19 cases||Gujarat is witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases as it recorded 111 new cases including seven cases of the new variant Omicron on Thursday, its largest single day caseload in nearly six months. Also, two deaths were reported on Thursday. So far, as many as 30 cases of Omicron variant have been reported from the State out of which five have been discharged after recovery while remaining are active cases. With 111 new cases, the number of active cases in the State have gone up to 668 out of which 12 patients are on ventilator as per the health bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Meanwhile, Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel held a high-level meeting to review the situation of rising COVID-19 cases after the Omicron cases have been reported from Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Anand, Rajkot and Surat. As per the State Government release, the authorities have put in place arrangements for testing and contact-tracing of tourists arriving in Gujarat from foreign countries. So far, 85 % of the State’s eligible population is fully vaccinated with both doses of vaccine.  The number of active cases in the State have gone up to 668 out of which 12 patients are on ventilator Health bulletin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gujarat-reports-111-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38025275.ece
24 December 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. clears Bill on damage recovery||The Madhya Pradesh Assembly on Thursday passed a Bill that provides for recovery of losses from people and organisations responsible for damaging public and private properties during protests. The Assembly passed the Madhya Pradesh Damage to Public and Private Property Recovery Bill, 2021, without any debate and amid a walkout staged by members of the Opposition Congress, who complained that their leader Kamal Nath did not get a chance to speak on the resolution related to the OBC reservation that was passed in the House earlier. If the Governor gives assent to the Bill, Madhya Pradesh will become the third BJP-ruled State in the country after Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to have this kind of law. M.P. Legislative Affairs Minister Narottam Mishra presented the Bill in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-clears-bill-on-recovery-of-losses/article38025082.ece
24 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Two more test positive for Omicron in Odisha||Two minor girls tested positive for the Omicron variant of COVID-19, taking the total new variant infected persons to four in Odisha on Thursday. The two minor girls aged 13and 11 had returned from Nigeria along with their parents. “Although two children were found infected by Omicron, their parents tested negative. We had carried out contact-tracing of the rest of the family members. All of them tested negative,” said Niranjan Mishra, Director of Public Health. “Condition of the two girls was stable. They have been isolated in hospital. They landed here on December 13 and were quarantined immediately. We took them for testing on the eighth day. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing after their results came positive,” said Mr. Mishra. Earlier, two persons who had returned from Qatar and Nigeria had tested positive for Omicron. With Omicron fear looming large, the State government decided to increase the per day testing to 70,000 and accordingly the district targets were fixed. District Collector and Superintendents of Police were directed to strictly enforce the COVID-19 norms with regard to large gatherings such as marriage, cremation and other rituals. Collectors and SPCs were also asked to intensify COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in market places, industrial centres and other public places. Besides, COVID-19 testing teams were asked to undertake random testing at public places. As far as vaccination is concerned, 88.2% of the population above 18 years have been vaccinated with first dose and around 86% of them have taken their second dose. Around 99.8% of the healthcare workers and front-line workers have taken jab. Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra, who chaired a high-level meeting, directed agencies to prepare village wise vaccination chart and inform the villagers in advance through the panchayat, ward members, anganwadi workers and health workers so that the people in 18 and above age group could make arrangements for vaccination accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-more-test-positive-for-omicron-in-odisha/article38025271.ece
24 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab government to waive farmers’ loans up to Rs. 2 lakh||The Punjab government on Thursday announced that it will release funds amounting to Rs. 1,200 crore to clear loans up to Rs. 2 lakh under the existing debt waiver scheme of about 1.09 lakh small and marginal farmers, having land up to 5 acres. An official statement said that the State government has already waived loans of 5.63 lakh such farmers to the tune of Rs. 4,610 crore. Out of these, 1.34 lakh small farmers got relief of Rs. 980 crore while 4.29 lakh marginal farmers were benefited of loan waiver of Rs. 3,630 crore, it added. Memorial planned The statement added that Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has announced plans to construct a state-of-the-art memorial, exclusively dedicated to farmers’ agitation and their sacrifices would be instrumental in showcasing the relentless battle of farmers in getting farm laws repealed from the Centre. He sought wholehearted support and cooperation from the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to create this memorial as a state-of-the-art monument to demonstrate the indomitable spirit of farmers and their peaceful agitation. Mr. Channi also announced to bring small and marginal farmers who have taken loans up to Rs. 2 lakh with land holding up to 5 acres from the Punjab State Cooperative Agriculture Development Bank (PSCADB) previously known as Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank, within the ambit of debt waiver scheme. Acceding to another major demand of SKM, Mr. Channi also announced to cancel all the FIRs registered by the Punjab Police against farmers who had been protesting against the farm laws within the State by December 31, 2021.  The State Government has already waived off loans of 5.63 lakh such farmers to the tune of Rs. 4,610 crore Official statement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-govt-to-waive-farmers-loans-up-to-rs-2l/article38025084.ece
24 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||RTI query on Haryana govt.’s anti-graft cell draws a blank||More than two years after Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal announced to set up an anti-corruption cell in the State at an event to mark International Anti-Corruption Day, the Chief Minister Secretariat-II, in a reply to an RTI application, said the office did not have the record of any such announcement ever made. The reply was furnished in response to the RTI application filed by Panipat resident P.P. Kapoor on November 24, seeking an attested copy of the status report on the announcement made by Manohar Lal at a grand function on December 9, 2019, in Panchkula. Shocking reply Mr. Kapoor said he was shocked by the reply to his RTI application since the Haryana government had spent lavishly on this event and the Information, Public Relations and Languages Department of the State had put out huge advertisements in leading Hindi and English dailies at the expense of taxpayers with the CM’s picture to publicise the announcements. As per the advertisements that had appeared in various newspapers, Mr. Lal had announced to set up an anti-corruption cell to “immediately investigate every complaint of corruption substantiated by an audio and video recording”. He had also said that the complainants would be rewarded if their complaints were found to be true. Mr. Kapoor said the reply to his RTI application had made it clear that the Haryana government was not serious about eradicating corruption and this was the reason for the widespread corruption in recruitments for government jobs as well as all-round corruption. He said that in reply to a similar RTI application filed by him on December 12, 2019, Dinesh Sharma, SPIO-cum-Under Secretary Vigilance, had said that the decision to set up the cell was under the consideration of the authorities, but two years later, the government has refused to acknowledge that any such announcement was ever made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rti-query-on-haryana-govts-anti-graft-cell-draws-a-blank/article38025080.ece
24 December 2021||Guwahati,||Assam amends Act on cattle preservation||The Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 2021, was amended in the Assembly on Thursday, empowering the police to inspect an accused’s house and seize properties acquired in the last six years with income from illegal cattle trade. The amended Act omitted a provision wherein the State government was authorised to exempt certain places of worship or occasions for slaughter of cattle other than calf, heifer and cow for religious purposes. “There is no restriction on buffalo sacrifice in the temples and it can go on anytime without any permission from the competent authority. However, there will be no sacrifice of cows in the temples or any slaughter,” the Chief Minister said. It also allowed transport of cattle from one district to another within the State by issuing permits to agencies and farms registered under the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department. However, transport of cattle to any district within Assam that has an international boundary is prohibited under the amended Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assam-amends-act-on-cattle-preservation/article38025086.ece
24 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra House clears Shakti Criminal Laws Bill unanimously||The Maharashtra Assembly on Thursday unanimously cleared the Shakti Criminal Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020. on crimes against women and children. The legislation recommends capital punishment in rape cases, a time limit of 30 days to complete the probe from the day of registering the complaint, and places the onus on social media platforms and Internet data providing companies to share data for the police investigation. While putting the Bill to vote, State Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil said that the Government does not believe the Act is foolproof. “We always believe that there is scope for improvement. If need be, there will be amendments brought to the Act in future,” he said. Comment on Mayor Earlier in the day, the Assembly discussed a “calling attention motion” brought by Shiv Sena MLAs regarding an objectionable comment made by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Ashish Shelar against Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar. Sena MLA Suneel Prabhu asked why a charge-sheet had not been filed against Mr. Shelar, despite an FIR having been registered at the Marine Drive police station under Sections related to outraging modesty. Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly Devendra Fadnavis claimed that since Mr. Shelar had approached the Bombay High Court, a discussion should not be held on the topic. Maharashtra Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab said that no MLA could be stopped from describing the incident inside the House. Replying to the discussion, Mr. Walse-Patil said that the probe was under way and further action against Mr. Shelar would be taken soon.  We always believe that there is scope for improvement. If need be, there will be amendments brought to the Act in future Dilip Walse-Patil Maharashtra Home Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-clears-shakti-bill/article38025078.ece
24 December 2021||Mumbai,||Bill reforming appointment of V-Cs tabled in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Thursday tabled a Bill reforming the appointment process of Vice-Chancellors of universities, to which the Opposition BJP has already objected as it is likely to cut down on Governor’s i.e. Chancellor’s authority in selecting V-Cs. The Bill is likely to set afire another round of altercations between the Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government as it severely cuts down the powers of the Governor in shortlisting V-C candidates. Both are already at loggerheads on various issues, including appointment of 12 MLCs on State council, which despite clearance from State Cabinet is being kept on hold by Mr. Koshyari. The Maharashtra Public University (Third Amendment) Bill, 2021 has proposed formation of a three-member committee which shall recommend a panel of five suitable persons for the consideration of Chancellor for being appointed as the Vice-Chancellor. The committee shall have a member nominated by the Chancellor, who shall be the retired judge of the Supreme Court or retired Chief Justice of a High Court or an eminent scholar of national repute or a recipient of Padma award in the field of education. The second member will be the Principal Secretary of Higher and Technical Education Department or any officer not below the rank of Principal Secretary nominated by the State goverment and third member will be the Director or Head of an institute or organisation of national repute established by an act of Parliament, nominated by management council and the academic council. The members nominated on the committee shall be persons who are not connected with the university or any college connected with the university. In case the Chancellor does not approve any of the names as V-C, he/she may call for fresh panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bill-reforming-appointment-of-v-cs-tabled-in-maharashtra/article38025268.ece
24 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘27% quota for OBCs in local civic bodies’||The Maharashtra Assembly on Thursday passed two Bills to provide 27% reservation for OBCs in local civic bodies in the State amid heated exchange of allegations between ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party. The State government’s Rural Development Department had issued an ordinance on September 23 providing 27% reservation to OBCs in zilla parishad and panchayat samitis while not crossing the 50% limit set by the Supreme Court. On Officer 1, Urban Development Department issued an ordinance to same effect for municipal corporations, municipal council, nagar panchayat etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/27-quota-for-obcs-in-local-civic-bodies/article38025269.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeks HC order to relax curbs on Christmas services in churches||A petition has been filed in the Delhi High Court seeking to relax the curbs imposed on all religious gatherings by the Delhi Government across the Capital in view of the pandemic and to permit services in churches for Christmas and New Year subject to adherence to COVID-19 protocol. The petition filed by Kamlesh Jacob, a senior citizen and an educationist, said she was aggrieved by the orders of the Delhi Government which completely prohibited religious gatherings in the city on the eve of Christmas “all of a sudden without any prior notice”. Bars, theatres allowed The plea, filed through advocates Manoj V. George, Shilpa Liza George, Akriti Seth, Amit Kumar and Palak Arora, argued that the Delhi Government, while permitting bars, restaurants, auditoriums, etc. to function with 50% capacity and theatres to run with 100% capacity, has completely barred religious gatherings. This, Ms. Jacob argued was violative of Article 14 of the Constitution along with the right to freedom of religion to profess and practice, as envisaged and guaranteed under the Constitution. “All ardent devotees of Christianity who have been undergoing lent season for the last 25 days have been prohibited in Delhi from attending chapel masses on the eve of Christmas but the citizens are allowed to have gala dinners and commercial activities and shopping etc. in Christmas,” the petition said. It said the selective exclusion of religious places of worship is in violation of constitutional principles. DDMA circular The petition said that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on December 15 issued a circular prohibiting religious gatherings completely, in view of COVID-19, but permitted religious worship places to function as per COVID-19 protocol. Later, the Delhi Government on December 22 issued a circular directing all District Magistrates to strictly ensure compliance with COVID-19 protocol, prohibiting all gatherings or congregations for celebrating Christmas and New Year, the plea said. The Delhi Government’s circular extended the curbs to gatherings for celebrating Christmas or New Year in Delhi “thus bringing carol services and other Christmas-related worship under its umbrella”. “It is needless to point out that Christmas being the only festival celebrated by Christians across all States in the country, ought to be permitted in the National Capital Territory, subject to compliance with COVID-19 protocol enumerated for restaurants, bars, auditoriums, theatres, etc.,” the plea said. The plea emphasised that Christians across the city have been served with Christmas invites and arrangements from their respective churches after two years, and that curbing their right to attend the Christmas masses on the pretext of a Christmas gathering would be violative of Article 25 and 26 of the Constitution. It said that the city churches for the last few months have been adopting various measures to contain COVID-19 spread. These include “no mask, no entry” policy for all the participants in church service; social distancing of seating and attendance, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-seeks-hc-order-to-relax-curbs-on-christmas-services-in-churches/article38025068.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality remains ‘severe’ for third day||The air quality in the city continued to be in the “severe” category for the third consecutive day on Thursday. It is likely to deteriorate further on Friday and improve from Saturday, the authorities said. “The AQI (air quality index) is in the ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ category today due to low ventilation and pollutant entrapped below 900 mbar with relative humidity up to 50%. Similar condition will further increase the AQI tomorrow. Increase ventilation, mixing and moist condition will reduce the AQI December 25 onwards,” Government-run monitoring agency SAFARsaid. The main reason for the high pollution is a decrease in the mixing depth, which is the height up to which pollutants can be dispersed in the atmosphere. The AQI was 423 on Thursday, up from 407 on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. 96% complaints resolved Environment Minister Gopal Rai said about 96% of the pollution-related complaints received through the Delhi Government’s Green Delhi app have been resolved. “The app is the most important part in our fight against pollution, as it directly connects the two-crore people of Delhi. It is a joint platform for 27 Government Departments. Of the 34,411 complaints received so far, 32,897 have been resolved,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/citys-air-quality-remains-severe-for-third-day/article38025077.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Religious places to be open, says Govt.||The Delhi Government on Thursday clarified in an official order that all religious places are already allowed to be open for visitors and celebrations, within such places, subject to strict adherence to COVID-19 measures and existing rules. No separate permission is needed for this during Christmas and New Year’s eve, as per the order issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) Sanjeev Khirwar. On Wednesday, the Delhi Government had said that gatherings continued to be banned in the city, including the ones related to Christmas and New Year. A total of 118 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 14,42,633, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government. A total of 63,313 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.19%. There was one COVID-19-related death in the last 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,103. Of the total cases, 14,16,846 people have recovered and there are 684 active cases. Sixty-four cases of Omicron variant have been reported in the city till now, as per official figures, and 23 of them have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/religious-places-to-be-open-says-govt/article38025071.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Suited and booted: man who stole bags near ISBT, railway stations arrested||A 54-year-old man who used to steal luggage of senior citizens on the pretext of helping them has been arrested at the Kashmere Gate ISBT, the police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said the accused, Suraj Prakash, is a resident of Shalimar Garden in Ghaziabad. Mr. Prakash used to run a medical store on rent and after he incurred losses around two years ago, he resorted to crimes. The police said a 56-year-old woman from Hisar in Haryana had on October 18 lodged a complaint at the Kashmere Gate police station. She said that after she arrived at the ISBT, the accused offered to help her and then disappeared with her bag containing clothes, a mobile phone, jewellery and documents. The police checked CCTV footage and spotted one individual following the complainant. Mr. Prakash was arrested on Tuesday when he was roaming around the ISBT. As many as 51 bags and 26 mobile phones were seized from his house, the DCP said. The accused is a BSc graduate from Meerut University. “He confessed to have committed around 150 thefts near the ISBT and railway stations. He claimed that he had never been arrested earlier. The facts are being verified,” Mr. Kalsi said. Mr. Kalsi said as he was suited and booted and due to his old age, people trusted him and handed over their trolley or carry bags to get some help. With his arrest, the police said, nine cases of theft registered at the Kashmere Gate police station have been solved. The accused said he had told his family that he worked in a ticket booking centre and the bags he used to bring home belonged to customers and those would be returned, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/suited-and-booted-man-who-stole-bags-near-isbt-railway-stations-arrested/article38025076.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Over 18K DDA flats for sale in special housing scheme||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has put up 18,335 flats for sale across four categories — economically weaker section (EWS)/ Janta flats, lower income group (LIG), middle income group (MIG) and higher income group (HIG) — in the city’s Dwarka, Rohini, Narela and Jasola and other areas under a special housing scheme that was announced on Thursday. Of the 18,335 flats for sale, 11,452 one-bedroom flats fall under the LIG category, while 5,702 fall in the EWS and Janta flats category. In Narela’s Sector A1 to A4, 5,033 EWS flats ranging between a plinth area of 46.71 square metre and 54.08 square metre have been priced at a tentative disposal cost from Rs. 10.75 lakh to Rs. 12.42 lakh. A total of 182 HIG 3-BHK flats in Jasola have been tentatively priced at Rs. 1.9 crore to Rs. 2.1 crore. In Dwarka’s Sector 19 B, a total of 301 MIG 2-BHK flats, ranging between 119.66 square metre and 129.98 square metre have been priced at Rs. 1.1 crore to Rs. 1.2 crore. ‘Previously unsold’ A senior DDA official said that close to “700 flats” were “new constructions” in Jasola and Dwarka which “were placed close to six months ago”. He added that most of the flats under the scheme were flats that remained “previously unsold’’ and that none of the flats “are older than five years”. “We have not increased the cost of the flats, keeping the economic situation in mind. They are being sold at their previous rates. The EWS flats are open to those who fall under the income criteria. A 40% relaxation in EWS flats has been given in some pockets of Narela and a 10% relaxation in construction costs. This was given in consonance with the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana to provide relief to the weaker sections of society,” the official said. The individual income of EWS applicants, including co-applicants, should not exceed “Rs. 3 lakh” per annum. People can apply for the scheme online till February 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-18k-dda-flats-for-sale-in-special-housing-scheme/article38025073.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Chargesheet reveals Tillu’s foolproof plan to kill Gogi||The 122-page chargesheet filed in connection with the shoot-out inside a Rohini courtroom in September, resulting in the death of gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi, reveals how the accused carefully coordinated, planned , executed, and disposed of any evidence that might have linked them to the murder. According to the final report, which names seven persons as accused, the main conspirator in the case, Sunil Baliyan alias Tillu Tajpuriya, roped in co-accused and cousins Umang Yadav and Vinay Yadav to execute the killing of his rival Gogi. Quoting Umang’s disclosure statement, the police have said that Tillu, currently lodged in Mandoli jail, got in touch through video calls with Umang months ago through a local criminal called Umesh Kala who was a friend of the latter. He told Umang about his plan to kill Gogi in court when he would be produced in the next hearing on September 24. “Around two-and-a-half months ago, accused Tillu had discussed with him that Gogi had caused him a lot of damage and had got several of his accomplices killed,” the chargesheet read. Tillu had allegedly sent two shooters, Rahul Tyagi and Jaideep alias Jagga, in order to execute the plan and told Umang to provide them shelter in his house. “Tillu had also said that he would send another shooter from Rohtak to assist in the plan,” the police said. Both the assailants came to Umang’s house in Delhi’s Haiderpur village. “Tillu told him [Umang] that Gogi used to be produced in court under heavy police protection and that he could be killed inside the courtroom only. Umang disclosed that he had been a student of LLB and knew about the working of courts,” the chargesheet said. Umang was directed to arrange lawyers’ attire in order to breach the court security. Umang along with Jaideep had visited Panipat court to assess the security deployment of Gogi, the police said. Elaborating on Vinay Yadav’s statement, the chargesheet said that he was called by Umang to help out in the murder. After the shoot-out, when Umang got to know that Gogi was killed and the two assailants had been shot dead by the police, “he removed the DVR of CCTV cameras fitted inside his house. He disclosed that he had hidden the DVR inside the “chimney” in his kitchen,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chargesheet-reveals-tillus-foolproof-plan-to-kill-gogi/article38025069.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Man lands in EOW net for duping people of Rs. 2 crore||The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested a 47-year-old man for allegedly duping 39 women to the tune of Rs. 2 crore in the name of a multilevel marketing scheme, officials said on Thursday. A case was registered after several women complained that the accused, Manish Singh, and his associate persuaded them to invest in the scheme promising a higher rate of interest every month. “The accused stopped paying the interest after some time and even refused to return the invested amount,” the police said. JCP (EOW) Chhaya Sharma said the accused collected money mainly from housewives in Rohini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-lands-in-eow-net-for-duping-people-of-rs-2-crore/article38025074.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Man dies after being beaten up for money||A 24-year-old man died and his friend suffered injuries after a group of people allegedly beat them up and robbed them in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, the police said on Thursday. The police have arrested one Ramjan Ali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-dies-after-being-beaten-up-for-money/article38025075.ece
24 December 2021||Pune,||Omicron: Maharashtra reports 23 new cases||Maharashtra reported 23 new cases of the Omicron COVID-19 variant on Thursday with 13 of these being reported from Pune district alone, taking the total number of Omicron infections in the State to 88, said health authorities. Seventeen among the new cases were ‘asymptomatic’ while the other six were ‘mild’, said health officials, adding that four of the 23 infected were minors while two were senior citizens. Of the total 88 Omicron cases, as many as 42 have already been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, said the State Health Department. Twenty two of the new cases were reported by city-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) while one by the National Chemical Laboratory. Besides the 13 cases from Pune district, five of the fresh infections were from Mumbai city, two from Osmanabad district and one each from Mira-Bhayander, Thane and Nagpur. Except one unvaccinated case, 18 of the 23 new cases have been fully vaccinated, while the four minors below 18 years of age were not eligible for vaccination. Sixteen persons among the new infections had a travel history while the other seven were their high-risk contacts. Of these 16, six had recently travelled to the Middle East, four to Europe, two each from Ghana and South Africa, and one patient each to Singapore and Tanzania. Thus far, Pune district has reported the maximum Omicron cases in the State with 35 infections of whom 19 are from Pimpri-Chinchwad, six from Pune city and the remaining ten from Pune rural region. Twenty six cases are from Mumbai city, with a further nine from other districts and States being detected at the Mumbai Airport. Meanwhile, the State’s active cases witnessed a sharp rise with 1,179 new COVID-19 cases being reported on Thursday as against just 615 new recoveries. Seventeen fatalities pushed the total death toll to 1,41,392. Maharashtra’s active case tally has risen significantly to 7,897 with a recovery rate dipping incrementally to 97.7%, said Health Department authorities. The case positivity rate stands at 9.77% while the total recoveries is currently at 65,00,375. Mumbai city reported the maximum new cases in the State (577) followed by Pune district at 184 new ones.  Of the total 88 Omicron cases, as many as 42 have already been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test Health Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/omicron-maharashtra-reports-23-new-cases/article38025276.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||All in a day’s work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/all-in-a-days-work/article38025274.ece
24 December 2021||HONG KONG,||Hong Kong loses a symbol of its freedom||Late into the night on Wednesday, a construction crew quietly worked to dismantle one of Hong Kong’s most distinctive statues and works of art. The timing of the statue’s removal — as well as the scaffoldings carefully put in place to obscure any views of the process — underlined the sensitivity of the decision by Hong Kong University (HKU) to remove what was a popular fixture on its campus for close to 25 years. The Pillar of Shame , a haunting eight-metre tall sculpture showing intertwined bodies with hollowed eyes and open mouths — an anguished mass of humanity — was created by Danish artist Jens Galschiot as a tribute to the victims of China’s crackdown in Tiananmen Square in June 1989. It has been at HKU since 1997, installed shortly after one of Hong Kong’s annual June vigils at Victoria Park, where thousands gathered every year to mark the anniversary. The vigil itself had been symbolic of Hong Kong’s special status under the “one country, two systems” model that granted it freedoms that are denied on the mainland, where commemorations of June 4 are banned. The vigil did not take place in June this year for the first time, with the police cordoning off the park. If the end of the vigil was seen as a significant symbol of one of Hong Kong’s distinct freedoms slipping away, the removal of the statue has now been added to the list. Sweeping law Hong Kong’s changes, including the shutting down of newspapers and an overhaul of the curriculum in schools and colleges, have come thick and fast in recent months after Beijing, in June 2020, passed a new national security law that lists stiff penalties for subversion and secession. The passing of the law followed months of pro-democracy protests in 2019 calling for direct elections, including for the top post of Chief Executive, who is now nominated. Beijing has also overhauled the electoral system, reducing the share of directly elected representatives in Hong Kong’s Legislative Council (LegCo), down from 50% to 22%. The new rules also introduced a review committee to decide on the eligibility of candidates to ensure only “patriots” could run for office. The first “patriots only” polls were held on Sunday, with most of the pro-democracy candidates not taking part, either because they had been charged over their involvement in the 2019 protests or because they had given up politics entirely. The elections were swept by pro-Beijing candidates, while the turnout among voters was the lowest on record. ‘Legal risks’ On Monday, Beijing published a lengthy white paper hailing Hong Kong’s democracy and freedoms. Three days later, HKU’s Council announced that it would take down the statue citing a “risk assessment” and “legal advice” that “the continued display of the statue would pose legal risks”. By Thursday morning, the statue was gone. It will be kept in storage and likely returned to its creator. In a statement, the sculptor, Mr. Galschiot, said he would claim compensation for any damages. The university’s statement explaining the decision, the South China Morning Post reported, mentioned a “Crimes Ordinance enacted under the Hong Kong colonial government” that was in charge until the 1997 handover. Why it took 25 years to come to that conclusion was left unsaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-loses-a-symbol-of-its-freedom/article38024617.ece
24 December 2021||London,||Omicron less likely to put you in hospital: U.K. data||Preliminary data suggest that people with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus are between 50% and 70% less likely to need hospitalisation than those with the Delta strain, Britain’s public health agency said on Thursday. The U.K. Health Security Agency findings add to emerging evidence that Omicron produces milder illness than other variants — but also spreads faster and better evades vaccines. The agency said that based on cases in the U.K., an individual with Omicron is estimated to be between 31% and 45% less likely to attend a hospital compared with one with delta, “and 50 to 70% less likely to be admitted to hospital”. It cautioned that the analysis is “preliminary and highly uncertain” because of the small number of Omicron patients in hospitals and the fact that most were in younger age groups. As of December 20, 132 people had been admitted to U.K. hospitals with confirmed Omicron, of whom 14 — aged between 52 and 96 — died. Scientists caution that any reductions in severity need to be weighed against the fact that Omicron spreads much faster than Delta and is more able to evade vaccines. The agency’s research said the protection a booster shot of vaccine gives against symptomatic Omicron infection appears to wane after about 10 weeks, though protection against hospitalisation and severe disease is likely to hold up for longer. UKHSA chief executive Jenny Harries said the analysis “shows an encouraging early signal” but added that “cases are currently very high in the U.K., and even a relatively low proportion requiring hospitalisation could result in a significant number of people becoming seriously ill.” The analysis follows two studies, from Imperial College London and Scottish researchers, that found patients with Omicron were between 20% and 68% less likely to require hospital treatment than those with Delta. The Imperial College study included all cases confirmed by PCR tests in England in the first half of December in which the variant could be identified: 56,000 cases of Omicron and 2,69,000 cases of Delta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/omicron-less-likely-to-put-you-in-hospital-uk-studies/article38024608.ece
24 December 2021||Moscow,||It is not us who threaten anyone, says Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin urged the West on Thursday to “immediately” meet Russia’s demand for security guarantees precluding NATO’s expansion to Ukraine and the deployment of the military alliance’s weapons there. Speaking during a marathon annual news conference, the Russian leader welcomed talks with the U.S. that are set to start in Geneva next month, but sternly warned that Moscow expects the discussion to produce quick results. “We have clearly and precisely let them know that any further NATO expansion eastward is unacceptable,” Mr. Putin said. Last week, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that NATO deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back the alliance’s military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe. A key principle of the NATO alliance is that membership is open to any qualifying country. “Is it us who are putting missiles near the U.S. borders?” Mr. Putin said. “No, it’s the U.S. who came to our home with their missiles. They are already on the threshold of our home. Is it some excessive demand not to place any offensive systems near our home?” Moscow presented its demand amid soaring tensions over a Russian troop buildup near Ukraine that has stoked fears of a possible invasion. U.S. President Joe Biden warned Mr. Putin in a conference call earlier this month that Russia will face “severe consequences” if it attacks Ukraine. Mr. Putin previously denied having plans to launch an attack but has described a NATO expansion and weapons deployment in Ukraine as a “red line.” Asked Thursday if he could provide a guarantee that Russia will not invade Ukraine, Mr. Putin snapped in response: “It’s you who must give us guarantees and give them immediately, now, and not have idle talk about it for decades.” “How the Americans would respond if we put our missiles on the U.S. borders with Canada or Mexico?” he exclaimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/it-is-not-us-who-threaten-anyone-says-putin/article38024614.ece
24 December 2021||Washington,||Biden says a Trump rematch will spur him for second run||Though he isn’t even a year into his first term, U.S. President Joe Biden says one factor could help convince him to run again in 2024: a rematch against 2020 rival Donald Trump. “That would increase the prospect of running,” Mr. Biden told ABC News on Wednesday. When asked about whether he would stand for re-election, the 79-year-old Democrat responded that he would. “But look,” he said. “I’m a great respecter of fate. Fate has intervened in my life many, many times. If I’m in the health I’m in now, if I’m in good health, then in fact I would run again.” And if that means facing off once more against 75-year-old former president Trump, who launched a no-holds-barred campaign against Biden last year? “You’re trying to tempt me now,” Biden said with a smile. “Sure, why would I not run against Donald Trump if he were the nominee?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-says-a-trump-rematch-will-spur-him-for-second-run/article38024609.ece
24 December 2021||London,||Booster effective: AstraZeneca||British pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca said on Thursday that a third, or “booster”, dose of its COVID-19 vaccine Vaxzevria “significantly” lifted antibody levels against the Omicron strain in a laboratory study. The vaccine is available in India under the brand name ‘Covishield’ AstraZeneca also revealed that its monoclonal antibody treatment, Evusheld, “retains neutra- lisation activity” against Omicron.  “The third dose booster vaccination neutralised the Omicron variant to levels that were broadly similar to those observed... after the second dose against Delta,” AstraZeneca said in a statement. The study was conducted by investigators from Oxford University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/booster-effective-astrazeneca/article38024607.ece
24 December 2021||Kathmandu,||Petition in Nepal SC seeks release of serial killer Charles Sobhraj||Nepal’s Supreme Court has issued a show-cause notice to the government seeking clarification why notorious serial killer Charles Sobhraj, who is serving life imprisonment here in a murder case, should not be released from jail after spending 18 years in prison. A single Bench of the top court headed by Anil Kumar Sinha issued the show-cause notice in response to an appeal submitted by his lawyers to release Sobhraj, 77, on the grounds of old age. The court asked the government to submit a written reply within three days.  Sobhraj, a Frenchman of Indian and Vietnamese parentage, was charged with using a fake passport to enter Nepal and killing two backpackers in 1975, U.S. citizen Connie Jo Boronzich, 29, and his girlfriend Canadian Laurent Carrière, 26. He was spotted outside a casino in Nepal on September 1, 2003 after a newspaper published his photograph. After his arrest, the police filed two separate murder cases against him on charges of murdering the couple in 1975 in Kathmandu and Bhaktapur. He has been serving 21-year imprisonment in Kathmandu’s Central Jail, 20 year for murdering the U.S. citizen and one year and a fine of Rs. 2,000 for using a fake passport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/petition-in-nepal-sc-seeks-release-of-serial-killer-charles-sobhraj/article38024618.ece
24 December 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar landslip toll rises to four||The death toll from a landslip at an illegal jade mine in Myanmar rose to four on Thursday, rescuers said, warning that the dozens still missing are likely dead. Rescuers pulled three bodies from the nearby lake in Hpakant township near the Chinese border on Thursday, adding to the one found the previous day. Authorities initially said at least 70 people were feared missing after the torrent of rocks and earth swept into the lake on Wednesday, but later said that they were still trying to confirm that figure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-landslip-toll-rises-to-4-dozens-missing-inside-mine/article38024610.ece
24 December 2021||New York,||Joan Didion, U.S. literary icon, dead||Joan Didion, a U.S. literary icon credited with ushering in New Journalism with her essays on Los Angeles life in the tumultuous 1960s, died on Thursday. She was 87. Known for her piercing insights and understated glamour, Didion died at her home in Manhattan of Parkinson’s disease, the New York Times said, citing her publisher. Didion’s early work included her seminal 1968 essay collection Slouching Towards Bethlehem — which delighted critics and made her a bona fide star — as well as The White Album , another essay collection focusing on LA, and Play It as It Lays , a novel about Hollywood lives. Decades after her heyday as a Hollywood socialite, screenwriter, essayist and novelist, Didion found herself again in the spotlight for her searingly honest writing on bereavement following a harrowing double tragedy. Didion was 69 when her husband and screenwriting partner John Gregory Dunne suffered a fatal heart attack and, less than two years later, the couple’s daughter Quintana Roo was killed at age 39 by acute pancreatitis. “This was never supposed to happen to her, I remember thinking — outraged, as if she and I had been promised a special exemption,” Didion wrote in her 2011 memoir Blue Nights . “When we talk about mortality, we are talking about our children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/joan-didion-us-literary-icon-dead/article38024894.ece
24 December 2021||Washington,||US regulator authorizes Merck's Covid pill||The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Thursday authorised Merck’s COVID-19 pill for high risk adults, a day after giving the green light to a similar pill by Pfizer. The pill by Merck is to be taken within five days of symptom onset and has been shown to reduce hospitalizations and deaths by 30%.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-regulator-authorizes-mercks-covid-pill/article38024612.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Do Indians need insurance for bank deposits?||At an event last week to mark the payment of over Rs. 1,300 crore to depositors in troubled cooperative banks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi flaunted his government’s revamped deposit insurance scheme. The scheme, which was upgraded through the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Amendment Bill, 2021, guarantees to compensate depositors up to a limit of Rs. 5 lakh within a period of 90 days from when a bank fails. At the same event, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das warned depositors to be careful and avoid investing in risky banks just because they offer higher returns. In a conversation moderated by Prashanth Perumal J. , Amiyatosh Purnanandam and Amol Agrawal discuss whether we need insurance for bank deposits. Edited excerpts: What is the need to raise the value of the deposits that will be insured from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh? Amiyatosh Purnanandam:There are two parts to this answer. One is that if you look within India, the Rs. 1 lakh limit was set many decades ago. Now, if you do a simple calculation based on the inflation rate, the Rs. 1 lakh limit that was set in the 1990s has become extremely inadequate when adjusted for inflation. And two, if you look at international standards and compare the insurance limit, ours is still much lower than those of several comparable economies. For example, think about South Korea and Brazil. We are also way below the level that we see in the U.K. and the U.S. Of course, you cannot compare figures across countries in isolation given differences in purchasing power and all those things, but broadly speaking, we still have a lower amount of deposit insurance than other countries. So, by raising the limit to Rs. 5 lakh, we are going in the right direction. We need deposit insurance because we want to give confidence to depositors that if a bank does go down, they don’t need to run to the bank. They can keep their money in the bank, and the bank can continue operating without any financial trouble. So, it’s a combination of these things. Amol Agrawal:It is a step to try and infuse more confidence in the banking system. From a historical perspective, this whole discussion on deposit insurance began in India after we saw a number of bank failures that led to attempts to try and stabilise the banking system. In the 1930s, the U.S. set up deposit insurance. India set up deposit insurance in the 1960s to deal with bank failures. So, in several ways, there are history lessons here, too, that each time your banks fail in large numbers, the central bank does something about deposit insurance. How does the deposit insurance system in India compare with those in other countries? AP:I don’t think anyone has ever lost money in any scheduled commercial bank in India. So, what that means is that in India, de facto, there is 100% insurance. So, depositors do not lose money. It is just that the guarantee is not provided explicitly. And that leads to its own distortions. It’s a little bit of a nuanced answer. If you ask, hey, how does deposit insurance in India compare with other economies, the answer is that this limit of Rs. 5 lakh is much lower than in other countries — in the range of six to 10 times lower than what is the case in comparable economies. But in India, depositors don’t lose money. There may be a delay, and that can be pretty costly. So, there could be a lot of liquidity risk but no credit risk because the government always comes in and rescues banks. If nobody loses their money, doesn’t it make depositors complacent? They have no incentive to do any due diligence before making a deposit. How do you address that problem? AA:This whole thing of due diligence and trying to find out which bank is riskier... if you look at other financial products, you as an investor have to figure out ways to protect yourself. So, what is it about bank deposits that they need to be insured? Now, I understand that the stability of the banking system is important, but so is the stability of debt markets, equity markets and all sort of financial markets. And here we have an implicit insurance of 100% of deposits, so people are not really doing their due diligence and hence there is nothing disciplining investors. Even the premiums the banks pay to deposit insurance agencies is a flat premium. So, it basically means that whether you are a risky or a less risky bank, both pay the same premium. That doesn’t make sense. We need to move to a more risk-adjusted premium model. The sooner we get there, the better it is, because then somehow the information about risk will reach depositors sooner and they will be more wary of investing money. AP:Absolutely. We need risk-based deposit insurance premiums, which is simply absent in India. When you don’t have that, then it’s too much to ask of a retail depositor to be prudent about which bank they invest in. If a bank offers a higher interest rate and there is a reasonable expectation that the government will effectively come in and bail them out, then investors will be tempted to go to that bank. So, I do not think that under the current policy, investors will be discerning enough to figure out the good banks. Investors, in fact, will eventually migrate towards banks offering higher interest rates knowing that at the end of the day, the government will bail them out in case of trouble. The way to address the distortion is to go with risk-based pricing. And second, there has to be some sort of restriction on risk-taking by banks itself. Otherwise, this is going to be a huge cost to the taxpayers. Anyway, I think it is too much to ask of depositors to be prudent when it comes to where they deposit their money. I don’t think that will work. What needs to be done is better monitoring. How likely are private insurers to insure bank deposits? Will private insurance companies actually be willing to assume such a risk? Or would they be more discerning? AP:Look, here’s the thing: who will insure the insurer? That is the whole idea behind deposit insurance. It comes into play when panic sets in, like in 2008, when everybody was panicking about the financial sector and wanted their money back, fueling a self-fulfilling crisis. Now, in that scenario, private insurance might not work because people might think that the private insurer will become bankrupt. This is where the might of the government comes in because the government has the ability to be the lender of last resort. So, unlike other insurance, like car insurance or health insurance, deposit insurance is about panic in the entire market. And when it’s about panic in the entire market, the thought that some other market participant will be able to assume the risk I think is too optimistic. In the U.S., you have some small pockets of private insurance but these are not at the scale we need. AA:It’s too much to imagine that private insurance can provide confidence during a crisis. In times of panic, usually it’s the state which has to come in to bail people out. We saw in the 2008 crisis that the U.S., which is generally seen as a more market-driven financial system, had to be eventually bailed out by the government. And obviously, there is a fair bit of difference around this kind of thinking between the free-market Austrian school of economics and the more interventionist Keynesian school which thinks that the government can and should do the job. In India specifically, the RBI has done a done a decent job of regulating the system. AP:I’m a firm believer in free-market economics, but I believe that when it comes to managing panic, it should be the government that should do it. But at the same time, the deposit insurance should be properly priced, and the risk should be properly monitored. See what happened with AIG in the 2008 financial crisis. It was insuring a bunch of financial products that were underwritten by Goldman Sachs and other private banks. In the end, AIG’s survival itself became very doubtful in 2008. Ultimately, the U.S. government had to come in and rescue them. So, if you look at the evidence, it always goes back to ‘who will insure the insurer?’ and we’ll always run that risk of the insurance company itself going bust. What happens then? I think it should be government’s job to manage this issue. What exactly do you see as the role of the RBI in regulating banks given depositor complacency? AA:The DICGC is basically owned by the RBI. So, there are quite a few RBI officials working in the DICGC, and there is a lot of discussion and thinking at the DICGC. But when it comes to bank failures, it is the RBI and not the DICGC that is playing a major role, so it is the RBI that comes under criticism when there’s trouble at a bank. In the U.S., in contrast, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also plays a role in the resolution of troubled banks, with the Federal Reserve not playing an active role in the resolution process other than lending to the troubled institution. I think the RBI is running campaigns about financial literacy and all these things. I think it needs to also begin to drive home the point that not all banks are the same and people should be careful. But then, financial literacy campaigns are useful but only in a few pockets. AP:What needs to be done, and where I think the RBI can do a lot more and can add a lot more value, is that it could stay a little bit ahead of the problem. So, when these bank failures happen, whether it is a cooperative bank or any other bank, there are a lot of signs of the failure that build up leading to the crisis. Often those warning signs are missed by the regulators. As I often like to say: regulators are always a few steps behind the banks. Banks innovate and they’re always ahead of the game creating new financial products. But regulators are still always playing the catch-up game in terms of figuring out the true level of risk that banks have taken. So, where I’m going with that is that the RBI and other regulatory agencies have to be really on top of the precise risk model, the disclosure of that information and quick action before a bank fails. This is hard because you need to have a good model to figure out which bank is under stress. So, depositors’ discipline has to go hand in hand with improvement in risk management system across the board.  It’s too much to imagine that private insurance can provide confidence during a crisis. In times of panic, usually it’s the state which has to come in to bail people out. Amol Agrawal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/do-indians-need-insurance-for-bank-deposits/article38024606.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Needed, a public health data architecture for India||In a country perennially thirsty for reliable health data, the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) is like an oasis. It has a large volume of data that is openly accessible. The report of the fifth round of the NFHS was recently released (covering phase 2 States where data collection was delayed due to the novel coronavirus pandemic). Since then, we have had a spate of articles by journalists and scientists covering different aspects (malnutrition, fertility, domestic violence to name a few). It is the go-to source for many researchers and policy makers and is frequently used for various rankings by NITI Aayog. Range and scope For the uninitiated, the NFHS is a large survey conducted in a representative sample of households throughout India which started in 1992-93 and is repeated at an interval of about four to five years. It is the Indian version of the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), as it is known in other countries. Currently, the survey provides district-level information on fertility, child mortality, contraceptive practices, reproductive and child health (RCH), nutrition, and utilisation and quality of selected health services. The respondents are largely women in the reproductive age group (15-49 years) with husbands included. The fifth round covered 6,36,699 households, 7,24,115 women, and 1,01,839 men across the country. Each survey costs upwards of Rs. 250 crore and the funding for different rounds of NFHS has been provided by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Department for International Development (DFID), the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), UNICEF, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. Over the years its scope has been expanded to include HIV, non-communicable diseases, or NCDs (tobacco and alcohol use, hypertension, blood sugar, etc.), Vitamin D3. It has now become an omnibus train where anyone and everyone is free to climb into for a ride. It offers something for everyone. While there is a level of efficiency in adding some questions to an existing survey, this has been lost a long time ago in the NFHS. In NFHS-4, the household questionnaire had 74 questions, the women’s questionnaire was 93 pages long with 1,139 questions and the men’s questionnaire was 38 pages long with 843 questions. The NFHS-5 questionnaire was even longer. The size of the survey has obvious implications for data quality. Other surveys and goals The NFHS is coordinated by the International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS Mumbai) and the actual survey is outsourced. There is an entrenched set of agencies which survive on this survey. Issues have been raised on the quality of these agencies and their workers. The NFHS is not the only survey that the Health Ministry conducts. In the last five years, it has conducted the National NCD Monitoring Survey (NNMS), the National Mental Health Survey (NMHS), the Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS), the alcohol survey, the Comprehensive National. Nutrition Survey (CNNS) and many others. Many of these have been implemented by premier academic institutions at costs below Rs. 25 crore, though none of these generated district-level estimates. Some of these surveys are done to meet the global commitments on targets (NCDs, tobacco, etc.). However, the requirements for the monitoring of NCD targets are not met by the NFHS, as it covers an age group different than that needed for the global set of indicators. Yet, efforts to get the NNMS sanctioned met with stiff resistance as decision-makers felt that the NFHS was enough to answer those questions. As already said, for tobacco we have another vertical survey. Then why do we have questions on these in the NFHS? It is because we are confusing research with programme monitoring and surveillance needs. Questions on domestic violence and blood collection for vitamin D3 levels are good examples of this lopsided thinking. Alignment is difficult There have been previous attempts to align these surveys but they have failed as different advocates have different “demands” and push for inclusion of their set of questions. While the Department of Planning, Statistics and Programme Monitoring is supposed to take a final call, it lacks the technical capacity and the heft to do so and ends up using a “please-all” approach of accepting all requests with some effort at alignment. Everyone is happy, except perhaps the stakeholder with no power of negotiation — the household which is selected for the survey. Another reason why these questions are not dropped altogether is that the NFHS is the only major survey that India has a record of doing regularly. One does not know if and when the other surveys will be repeated. For example, we do not have any surety that the second round of the NNMS will be conducted, though it is due. So, the general thinking is that “do whatever is possible, as something is better than nothing”. Multiple surveys also raise the problem of differing estimates, as is likely, due to sampling differences in the surveys. We noted this for example in tobacco, where differences in tobacco use estimates of the Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS) and the NNMS needed a lot of effort at reconciliation and explanation. Another example is the issue of wide divergence in sex ratio at birth reported by the NFHS and the Sample Registration System (SRS). The SRS is a better system for it as it continuously enumerates the population unlike the NFHS which is a cross-sectional survey well known for recall biases. There must be purpose It is time we questioned this rationale and end the over-dependence on one omnibus survey to provide all public health data for India. The experience of the NFHS and other surveys has conclusively demonstrated our capacity to conduct large-scale surveys with computer-assisted interviews and reasonable quick turnaround and cost. Can we now show that we have the capacity to plan the public health data needs for the country and ensure that these data are collected in an orderly and regular manner with appropriate budgetary allocation? This requires clarity of purpose and a hard-nosed approach to the issue. Some tough calls will have to be taken including questioning the need for vertical surveys, irrespective of national or international funding. We have to identify a set of national-level indicators and surveys that will be done using national government funds at regular intervals. I propose just three national surveys — an abridged NFHS focusing on Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) issues, a Behavioral Surveillance Survey (focusing on HIV, NCD, water sanitation and hygiene (WASH)-related and other behaviours) and one nutrition-biological survey (entails collection of data on blood pressure, anthropometry, blood sugar, serology, etc.) done every three to five years in a staggered manner. We need to look at alternate models and choose what suits us best. This does not include data sources on mortality and the health system. A road map I also propose, as was done for the NNMS, that we take a national-level sample for such surveys and ask States to invest in conducting focused State-level surveys. States have to become active partners including providing financial contributions to these surveys. For a detailed understanding on some issues, each round of survey can focus on a specific area of interest. Other important public health questions can be answered by specific studies (which may or may not need a national-level study), conducted by academic institutions on a research mode based on availability of funding. It is also very important to ensure that the data arising from these surveys are in the public domain. This enables different analyses and viewpoints to be presented on the same set of data enriching the discussion and unlocks the full potential of the survey. Are we ready to establish a public health data architecture that a country of our complexity needs? We have the technical capacity to do so. All it requires now is the political will. Dr. Anand Krishnan is Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. He has been involved in many of these surveys in an advisory capacity. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needed-a-public-health-data-architecture-for-india/article38024600.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||This clean cooking fuel plan needs more firing up||In the middle of November 2021, I met Leenu Biswal, who is in her early twenties, in Dandasingha gram panchayat of Deogarh district in Odisha. She lives with her in-laws and is pregnant with her second child. Her husband works in another district and visits home once in a few months. They have an Ujjwala connection but it has not been refilled for a long time. The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) is ‘a flagship scheme of 2016, with an objective to make clean cooking fuel such as LPG available to the rural and deprived households which were otherwise using traditional cooking fuels such as firewood, coal, cow-dung cakes’. Health and clean energy When I ask her whether she likes cooking with gas, she nods with an emphatic yes. She also says that she wants a refill. I ask her if she has the sum of about Rs. 950 to pay for the refill of the large cylinder. It’s a yes, again. We go through her LPG customer book and call the LPG distributor to make a refill booking. The cylinder is delivered to her in two days. There is a lesson in this. Kirk Smith, the eminent professor from Berkeley who passed away in 2020, was an expert who worked on indoor air pollution in India for over three decades, who talked about the high returns in terms of health gains by targeting pregnant women to have LPG access. There is also Dr. Gargi who runs a rural health clinic in Udaipur with a non-governmental organisation, who recommends cooking with gas to tuberculosis patients who consult her. According to the recently released National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5, there was a higher prevalence of TB in households that were using solid fuels when compared to those using clean cooking fuels in most States. With the number of LPG distributors going up in the five years of Ujjwala, from 17,916 to 25,116, the number of administrative blocks which do not have an LPG distributor has come down drastically. There are hundreds if not thousands of villages where there was not a single LPG connection before the days of Ujjwala; hence the delivery of cylinders at the village level was unheard of. Use of fuel stacking In villages, I often see kitchens using multiple types of cooking stoves – LPG, fuelwood, induction or electric heater and even kerosene. An open firewood chulha is often used for bath water, cooking large quantities of parboiled rice and cattle feed. Some of these may not shift to LPG anytime soon. This fuel stacking is similar to the practice of the poor — of having a basket of livelihood options instead of being reliant on a single source of income. This takes into account factors such as uneven cash flow, seasonal availability of biomass, and ambient heating requirement during winters. During extreme weather events, LPG cylinders come to the rescue. Data on LPG use Over the five years, the average per capita consumption among Ujjwala customers has hovered around three cylinders per year (of 14.2 kg), rising to 4.2 (2020-21) when the full impact of free refills under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana was seen. A paper in Nature (Kar et al. ) showed that only 45% of non-Ujjwala rural consumers use five or more cylinders per year, while data from oil marketing companies show that from October 2020 to September 2021, 32% of Ujjwala households were using five cylinders or more in a year. Therefore, relatively poorer Ujjwala consumers are reaching the LPG consumption levels of relatively well-off non-Ujjwala rural consumers. LPG has earned its place in the cooking energy basket of the poor. It is also not a greenhouse gas (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), assigned with a global warming potential (GWP) factor of zero. Solar, electric heater, improved biomass chulha and biogas also qualify to be a part of this energy basket. Factors that helped After completing the target of enlisting eight crore Ujjwala customers in late 2019, the three oil marketing companies which handle the distribution of LPG through their network of distributors have shifted their focus to reach out to low refill consumers. A quick recap of what has made it possible for someone like Leenu to have an option to use LPG, is in order. It was the successful implementation of the Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG (DBTL) or PAHAL (Pratyaksh Hanstantrit Labh) scheme of 2014 which freed up the financial resources needed to dream of a large-scale programme for deposit-free LPG connections. Once Ujjwala was conceptualised and launched, enhanced availability of LPG was ensured. The next was to enhance various capacities such as of the ports for handling imports, of tanks for storage of LPG, of pipelines and trucks for transportation of gas, and of bottling plants for filling in more cylinders. Production of cylinders, pressure regulators, hose and affordable LPG stoves was also enhanced. New distributors/dealers were appointed to reach remote pockets. In addition, then Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan also sustained enthusiasm for Ujjwala, creating avenues for local MPs and other elected representatives to support Ujjwala and its implementation. A challenging phase The novel coronavirus pandemic has resulted in LPG prices having gone up and governmental support focusing on other challenges. This development could derail the gains made by Ujjwala customers in terms of LPG adoption. It is time to get creative about how to sustain LPG adoption in these challenging times. Ujjwala also has the potential to deliver benefits on many fronts. Overall, the push has to be such that every household moves toward adopting a more sustainable cooking energy basket. Improvements in regular and on-demand supplies of LPG, options for refill financing, alternative remunerative uses for cow dung and bio mass — possibly on the pattern of procurement of cow dung as is being done in Chhattisgarh — and a massive boost to women’s incomes through the National Rural Livelihoods Mission all have great potential to nudge women to choosing a more sustainable cooking mix. Nidhi Prabha Tewari works as a senior social sector specialist on Ujjwala with the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/this-clean-cooking-fuel-plan-needs-more-firing-up/article38024594.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The perils of security reporting||Covering internal security issues is like walking on razor’s edge. It is always hard to figure out what information someone is trying to plant and what is important. Sometimes reporters falter, but sometimes due to experience and instincts, they manage to do the right thing. I recall a news report that I filed for this newspaper in 2016 about three Pakistani terrorists who were said to have been killed in Gujarat. The information about their infiltration into India was shared by Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Nasser Khan Janjua with his Indian counterpart, Ajit Doval. This was a couple of months after the attack on the Pathankot airbase by Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists, which had led to the killing of seven security personnel. This incident was followed by a rare bonhomie between the two countries when the National Investigation Agency (NIA) was tasked with giving a guided tour to the Pakistani investigators, to collect evidence about the JeM terrorists who were killed at the airbase after a fierce gun battle on January 2. It was against this backdrop that the information about terrorist infiltration was passed on to Indian agencies. One March evening, a top bureaucrat in the Home Ministry told me and a reporter from a TV news channel that three terrorists had been killed. The cynic in me wondered why the official was sharing such sensitive information with us. When information comes that easily, it is hard to believe. Nevertheless, we decided to do due diligence. The Hindu ’s Gujarat correspondent, Mahesh Langa, spoke to the State Director General of Police (DGP) P.C. Thakur, who termed it a rumour. I checked with multiple officials but no one could confirm anything. Since the information had come from one of the highest offices in North Block, I saw no reason to discard it. We went ahead with the story and included the DGP’s statement as well as the statements of other officials. Till date, I am yet to get a second confirmation. I don’t know if it was a patently wrong story or a highly successful covert operation. Bodies were never found, nor were witnesses. The police or members of the public, who may have known about the encounter, never came forward. I don’t know what prompted the officer to offer this information, but these are the perils of security reporting. On most occasions, it falls in a grey zone and there is always the cloak of anonymity. Bureaucrats and police officers never come on record. On-record statements help fix accountability, but there is fear of reprisal. An officer can face serious disciplinary proceedings for speaking to the press. Reporters have to manoeuvre their way through the maze of information and disinformation. Reporters write for readers and cannot cheat them. Loyalty to readers aside, the credibility of the byline also suffers if uncorroborated, planted information is published in the reporter’s name. There can be legal repercussions, too. News-hungry reporters are often tempted to publish uncorroborated “classified” information. Unfortunately, many newsrooms often confuse access with good journalism. Access is required; it’s a must. It is our responsibility and right as reporters to ask questions to those in power. How we apply our mind and process the information given to use is where the difficulty lies. I was once told by a security establishment officer that a particular news report on a TV channel, which I was also chasing, was not worth my byline. The officer was candid enough to tell me that agencies had planted the news in that particular channel to set a narrative among the domestic audience against a neighbouring country. But I did not want to miss the story either. After checking with multiple officials, I was convinced that there was little news value to it and I dropped the story. Since 2014, a new practice has emerged. Government officials send unsigned notes on WhatsApp. Reporters are expected to file news reports attributing the information to “sources.” Whether or not the paper chooses to print the information is an editorial call. All such information should be scrutinised and verified before it is published. vijaita.singh@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-perils-of-security-reporting/article38024602.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Drawing a line||The proposed remapping of Assembly constituencies in the Union Territory (UT) by the J&K Delimitation Commission has got the entire spectrum of regional parties in the Kashmir Valley up in arms. At the core of their protest is the fear of a shift of political power to the Jammu region. The Commission has suggested six additional Assembly segments in Jammu, from 37 to 43, and one in the Valley, from 46 to 47. The political map is being redrawn not entirely on considerations of the population spread. Additional constituencies are being proposed, based also on factors of “inadequate communication” and “lack of public conveniences due to their excessive remoteness or inhospitable conditions on the international border”. Such considerations may have been applied in earlier instances too, but what makes the present situation unique is the shift of political power from the Muslim region to the Hindu region, and the fact that it comes after the reorganisation of the erstwhile J&K State into two UTs and the controversial elimination of its special constitutional status in 2019. The commission was constituted on March 6, 2020, by virtue of the Parliament Act under the provisions of Part V of the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. It was mandated to redraw and delineate seven additional Assembly segments to the 83-member Legislative Assembly of the UT. The commission has also suggested reserving seven seats for Scheduled Castes (Hindus) that mainly populate the Samba-Kathua-Jammu-Udhampur belt and, for the first time ever, earmarking nine seats for Scheduled Tribes, which is likely to benefit the Rajouri-Poonch belt with the highest concentration of STs, mainly non-Kashmiri speaking Muslims. The commission is yet to reveal the names of the districts where these seats have been carved out, and the ST/SC reservations earmarked and methodology. If population is the sole criterion, then the seat share for the Valley, with a population of 68.8 lakh (2011 Census) would stand at 51 and the Jammu region with 53.5 lakh population at 39. The allocation seems to enhance the electoral prospects of the Jammu-based parties at the cost of the Kashmir-based ones. Valley parties have opposed the draft as “unacceptable” and “divisive” and question its legality. There is a national freeze on delimitation, and the constitutional challenge to the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019, is still pending before the Supreme Court. The situation in Ladakh, which was carved out in 2019 as a UT without a legislature, is also comparable. Political groups are demanding statehood and special constitutional guarantees on land, jobs, demography and culture. Continuing arbitrariness and heavy-handed measures to repurpose the politics of J&K may appear successful momentarily, but that may not be the sustainable route. A democratic path will necessarily involve more conversations and accommodative measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/drawing-a-line/article38024595.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Change in Chile||The sweeping victory of Gabriel Boric, the 35-year-old left-wing leader, in Sunday’s presidential run-off election, is a testimony to how Chile has changed. One of the bastions of free market orthodoxy in Latin America, Chile has been rocked by anti-inequality protests for more than two years. Mr. Boric, one of the protest leaders who promised to “bury neoliberalism” during his campaign, built an alliance of social democrats and communists that took on the Republican Party’s José Antonio Kast. While Mr. Boric promised to build a more equitable society in one of the most unequal countries, Mr. Kast, a defender of the military regime, positioned himself as a candidate of the economic status quo and blamed migrants, terrorists and narco-traffickers for Chile’s agonies. The pollsters had predicted a narrow lead for Mr. Boric, but his 12-point triumph over Mr. Kast by securing about 56% of the votes marks the strongest political comeback of the Chilean left, which had undergone systemic persecution during the U.S.-backed military dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet. Gen. Pinochet, who toppled the socialist President, Salvador Allende, in 1973, laid the foundations of Chile’s neoliberal state. His regime fell in 1990, but the state apparatus he built survived, including the Constitution. Now, when an elected Constituent Assembly is writing a new Constitution for Chile, bringing an end to Pinochet’s influence, the country will have the most left-wing President since Allende. Mr. Boric has promised to fight the “privilege of the few” and tackle poverty and inequality. He has opposed big-ticket mining projects as part of his climate protection plan. He wants to raise taxes by 8% of GDP, abolish the unpopular private pension funds, shorten the working week to 40 hours, raise the minimum wage and create a universal health-care system. These promises were the crux of the progressive electoral platform he built. Mr. Boric, who would be sworn in on March 11, 2022, faces the daunting challenge of walking the talk. His legislation agenda would be met with strong opposition in Parliament: the Senate is evenly split between the right and the left, and in the 155-member Chamber of Deputies, his coalition has only 37 MPs. Sagging growth and high inflation would limit the new government’s spending agenda. If he goes ahead with the plan to raise taxes on the corporations, abolish private pensions and waive off student debt, the private capital and the old political establishment would revolt, like what happened in the other left-ruled states in Latin America. Mr. Boric’s victory has put wind in the sails of Chile’s left-wing politics, but he should be ready for a storm as he seeks to take on the Pinochet consensus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/change-in-chile/article38024596.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Trial for genocide, says Bangla Desh||Dacca, Dec 23: The Bangla Desh Acting President, Syed Nazrul Islam, said here to-day that his Government would demand from India that the army officials, responsible for the genocide in Bangla Desh, should be handed over to it for trial as war criminals. Talking to a group of foreign journalists at the President’s House, he said these people should be tried according to international law in a duly-constituted court. Asked about the treatment proposed to be meted out to the Razakars and members of the Al Badar Party which had killed many Bengali intellectuals, the Acting President said: “We are certainly going to try the Al Badar leaders.” He said the Razakars would be rounded up, but hastened to add that there would be no witch-hunting in the process. “If anyone is found not guilty, he will be spared.” Asked about the fate of non-Bengalis he said: “We have nothing against anyone. They can continue to live in Bangla Desh as freely as the Bengalis.” Addressing Government employees here to-day, Mr. Ahmed said though Bangla Desh was a reality to-day, the Father of the Nation, who dedicated himself to the cause of freedom was in the custody of the Pakistan Government in Islamabad. He demanded immediate release of the Sheikh. Mr. Ahmed said Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had played a vital role in helping Bangla Desh people achieve independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/trial-for-genocide-says-bangla-desh/article38024601.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||IOC, Adani Total JV top bids for city gas licences||State-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and a joint venture of billionaire Gautam Adani’s gas arm and Total of France — Adani Total Gas Ltd. — have bid for the maximum number of licenses to retail CNG to automobiles and piped cooking gas to households in the latest city gas bidding round. IOC bid for 53 out of 61 geographical areas or GAs that saw bids in the 11th city gas licensing round that closed on December 15, according to bid details made public by the sector regulator — Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB). Adani Total Gas Ltd. bid for 52 GAs. Adani group had originally ventured into city gas business in a joint venture with IOC but it later tied up with France’s Total. Adani and IOC did not put in any combined bid in the latest bidding round. The PNGRB had last week stated that as much as Rs. 80,000 crore investment is envisaged in setting up city gas infrastructure in the 61 GAs. The 65 GAs are spread over 215 districts in 19 States and one Union territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ioc-adani-total-jv-top-bids-for-city-gas-licences/article38024893.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron worries may impact PV supply: FADA||Automobile dealers’ body FADA said passenger vehicle (PV) supplies may get affected further, if chip-making countries go under lockdown due to the spread of the Omicron variant. FADA, however, noted on Thursday that it expects the semiconductor shortage situation to normalise by the second half of next year. “We see year 2022 as a neutral year as the rise of Omicron has once again created fear globally,” Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) President Vinkesh Gulati said. “This may further impact the supply in passenger vehicles if chip-making countries go under lockdown or prioritise chip making for electronics used for work from home.” FADA anticipates that the second half of 2022 may see supply as well as demand slowly coming back to normalcy, he added. “Auto industry may fully recover only by 2023 and come back to its pre-COVID levels if COVID becomes a history,” Mr. Gulati said. He, however, noted that the two-wheeler segment, which continues to face demand headwinds, may further go into a slump if a third wave occurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/omicron-worries-may-impact-pv-supply-fada/article38024571.ece
24 December 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI defers tokenisation deadline by six months||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has decided to defer the implementation of tokenisation of debit and credit cards for online transactions by a further six months following representations from stakeholders. “The timeline for storing of CoF data [actual card data] is extended by six months till June 30, 2022; post this, such data shall be purged,” the central bank said on Thursday. “In addition to tokenisation, industry stakeholders may devise alternate mechanism(s) to handle any use case (including recurring e-mandates, EMI option) or post-transaction activity (including chargeback handling, dispute resolution, reward/loyalty programme) that currently involves/requires storage of CoF data by entities other than card issuers and card networks,” the RBI said in a circular to Payment System Providers and system participants. Earlier, the RBI had via a circular on “Guidelines on Regulation of Payment Aggregators and Payment Gateways” dated March 17, 2020, barred the authorised non-bank payment aggregators and merchants onboarded by them from storing card data (CoF) with effect from June 30, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-defers-tokenisation-deadline-by-six-months/article38024575.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CAIT opposes Amazon’s plan to buy Prione||Domestic traders body CAIT on Thursday claimed that Amazon’s plan to acquire Prione Business Services — the e-commerce major’s joint venture with Catamaran — would be a violation of India’s foreign direct investment policy. Amazon has said it would acquire Prione. In August, Amazon and N. R. Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran had announced that they would not continue their Prione joint venture beyond May 2022. If the approval from CCI is given to Amazon, “it will be a gross violation of the FDI policy,” the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cait-opposes-amazons-plan-to-buy-prione/article38024569.ece
24 December 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI fines One Mobikwik, Spice Money||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said it had imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 crore each on payment system operators One Mobikwik Systems Private Ltd. and Spice Money Ltd. for deficiencies in regulatory compliance. Giving details, the central bank said it observed that the two entities had not complied with the directions issued by the Reserve Bank on net-worth requirement for Bharat Bill Payment Operating Units (BBPOUs). As these were offences of the nature referred to in a Section of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007, notices were issued to the entities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-fines-one-mobikwik-spice-money/article38024572.ece
24 December 2021||MUMBAI,||HSBC to buy L&T’s MF arm for $425 mn||HSBC Asset Management (India) Private Ltd. said it has entered into an agreement with L&T Finance Holdings Ltd. (LTFH) to fully acquire L&T Investment Management Ltd. (LTIM) for $425 million.   “This transaction enhances the strength of our business in India and reinforces our status as one of Asia’s leading wealth managers,” Noel Quinn, HSBC’s Group CEO, said “Combining LTIM with our existing Indian asset management business gives us the scale, reach and capabilities to capture some of the 15-20% annual asset management market growth expected in India over the next five years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hsbc-to-buy-lts-mf-arm-for-425-mn/article38024574.ece
24 December 2021||MUMBAI,||VW, Hero MotoCorp to raise prices||Volkswagen Passenger Cars India and Hero MotoCorp said they would be increasing product prices to offset rising input costs. Volkswagen said it would raise the prices of Polo, Vento and Taigun from January 1 owing to the rising input and operational costs. “The price revision will be ranging from 2% - 5% depending on the car line and the variant. The price hike will not be applicable to the new Tiguan, launched in India recently,” the company said. Similarly, two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp said it would raise prices of its entire model range by up to Rs. 2,000 from January 4 to offset the impact of higher input costs.   (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vw-hero-motocorp-to-raise-prices/article38024576.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||TVS Motor launches Apache RTR 165 RP at Rs 1.45 lakh||TVS Motor Company unveiled Apache RTR 165 RP, tagged at Rs. 1.45 lakh (ex-showroom), as the first product under its Race Performance (RP) series.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-launches-apache-rtr-165-rp-at-rs-145-lakh/article38024573.ece
24 December 2021||TENHIPALAM,||Servan throws down two meet marks||On the final day of the State junior athletics meet, when six more new records were set, Kasaragod’s K.C. Servan stood out. He accounted two of those records, in the Under-16 boys’ shot put and discus throw at the University Stadium here on Thursday. He erased his own record in discus with a throw of 59.25m, which also bettered the National record of 53.96 (set by Sahil Silwal in 2016). Palakkad emerged as the overall champion with 491 points. Ernakulam (421.5) finished second and Kozhikode (375.5) third.  The results (winners only):   Boys: Under-20: 200m: Abhjith Simon (Alp) 22.42s. 400m hurdles: K. Arjun (Ekm) 53.25s. 3000m steeple chase: Akash Paul Biju (Tsr) 10:01.37.   Triple jump: V.S. Sebastian (Ekm) 14.73m.   Shot put: A. Ananthu (Tvm) 14.76m. Decathlon: Abdulla Abdul Majeed (Tvm) 5678 pts. 4x400m relay: Palakkad 3:19.23.   Under-18: 200m: Muhammed Shan (Mlp) 22.28s. 400m hurdles: Agnal Bernard (Tvm) 54.55s.   2000m steeple chase: V. Vinayak (Kkd) 6:38.90. 10,000m race walking: Bilin George Anto (Kkd) 53:42.68. Shot put: Annjose K. Thomas (Tsr) 14.08m.   Discus: Mahesh (Alp) 38.22m. Decathlon: Dhanush K. Sasidharan (Kkd) 5337 pts.   Under-16: High jump: B. Binoy (Pkd) 1.78m.   Shot put: K.C. Servan (Kgd) 17.65m: NMR; OR: 14.54m, V.P. Alphin (Tvm), 2008.   Discus: K.C. Servan (Kgd) 59.25m: NMR; OR: 51.07m, K.C. Servan (Kgd), 2020. Javelin: C. Aswin (Mlp) 42.63m.   Under-14: Triathlon: P. Amal (Kkd) 1682 pts.   Girls: Under-20: 200m: V.S. Bhavika (Ekm) 25.73s. 400m hurdles: N.S. Noufi (Ekm) 1:06.53.   Steeple chase: Aagnus Merin Shaji (Ktm) 12:17.51. Triple jump: Meera Shibu (Ekm) 12.90m: NMR; OR: 12.70m, Jenimol Joy (Tvm), 2014. Javelin: P. Ashika (Ekm) 35.45m. Heptathlon: Betty Benny (Ekm) 3803 pts.   4x400m relay: Kottayam 4:12.15. 4x400m mixed relay: Palakkad 3:36.90.   Under-18: 200m: Saniya Treesa Tomy (Kkd) 25.64s.   400m hurdles: K.V. Lakshmi Priya (Kkd) 1:06.43. 2000m steeple chase: Janeetta Joseph (Mlp) 9:07.86. High jump: A. Anupriya (Pkd) 1.61m.   Triple jump: Lakshmi S. Reji (Ekm) 11.25m. Shot put: Akila Raju (Kgd) 13.20m: NMR; OR: 13.16m, Megha Mariyam Mathew (Tvm), 2016. Javelin: Aiswarya Suresh (Mlp) 40.34m. Heptathlon: K.A. Anamika (Pkd) 3851 pts.   Under-16: 3000m race walking: Nandana Das (Ktm) 17:24.76. High jump: Carolina Mathew (Kkd) 1.64m: NMR; OR: 1.63m, Dibi Sebastian (Ktm) 1.63m, 2013.   Shot put: V.S. Anupriya (Kgd) 12.60m. Hexathlon: Mubassina Mohammed (Kkd) 3696 pts.: NMR; OR: 2539 pts., Ann Terins Joseph (Kkd), 2021.   Under-14: Triathlon: K.S. Aagnitha (Ekm) 1392 pts .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/servan-throws-down-two-meet-marks/article38025210.ece
24 December 2021||Centurion,||‘Indian batters good enough to tackle SA pacers’||India batter Cheteshwar Pujara says the current India line-up is experienced enough to tackle lateral movement on pace-friendly tracks in South Africa and he has no doubt the team led by Virat Kohli will deliver in the Rainbow nation. Pujara said the recent overseas success has made India a confident unit and that will reflect in the three-Test series, beginning on Sunday. Big challenge “When you are a visiting team, you know that there is pace and bounce and there is lateral movement and to face the fast bowlers is always a big challenge when you go out of India,” Pujara said in a video posted by BCCI on its Twitter handle. “This team has learnt that and this is a much more balanced batting line-up and I think we will be able to tackle that and with our preparation I am very confident we will put up a good show,” he said. Experience will help Pujara also felt the experience of having played in South Africa will also stand them in good stead. “...most of the players have played in South Africa, it is an experienced side and in terms of preparation, we know what is expected of us. They have one of the best bowling line-ups and facing one of the best fast bowlers has always been challenging,” he said. “Having done well in England and Australia will make a big difference in this squad’s confidence and self belief that we can win overseas, we can win in any conditions,” Pujara said. On his own form — his last century came in January 2019 in Australia and in the last 10 innings he has scored two fifties — he said he had better clarity now about how to go about things. “When I came here in 2011, Dale Steyn and Morne Morkel were at their peak, I visited again in 2013 and 2017, so I know what to expect, how to prepare, what kind of shots to play and what to avoid,” he said. Best bubble The Indian team is staying in a resort here with lot of open spaces inside the bio-bubble. “This is the best bubble I have been a part of, you can move around, get fresh air, there is lot of space to move around, that helps when it comes to mental preparation, so you are much more relaxed, being close to nature,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-batters-good-enough-to-tackle-sa-pacers/article38024696.ece
24 December 2021||PUNE,||Reyngold surprises Berberovic||Ekaterina Reyngold of Russia knocked out the top seed Nefisa Berberovic of Bosnia and Herzegovina 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the NECC $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Thursday. In the semifinals, Reyngold will play fourth seed Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia. Fifth seed Nigina Abduraimova of Uzbekistan beat the second seed Anna Danilina of Kazakhstan in three sets. She will play unseeded Moyuka Uchijima of Japan who outplayed third seed Chihiro Muramatsu for the loss of two games. The Indian challenge was sustained in the doubles by Rutuja Bhosale as she and Hiroko Kuwata made the semifinals by cruising past Diana Marcinkevica and Sowjanya Bavisetti for the loss of a solitary game.  The results (quarterfinals):   Singles: Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) bt Nefisa Berberovic (BIH) 6-4, 2-6, 6-4; Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) 7-5, 7-6(2); Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) bt Chihiro Muramatsu (Jpn) 6-2, 6-0; Nigina Abduraimova (Uzb) bt Anna Danilina (Kaz) 6-1, 2-6, 6-4.   Doubles: Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Sathwika Sama & Saumya Vig 6-4, 6-3; Hiroko Kuwata (Jpn) & Rutuja Bhosale bt Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) & Sowjanya Bavisetti 6-0, 6-1; Funa Kozaki & Misaki Matsuda (Jpn) bt Akiko Omae & Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) 1-6, 6-4, [10-5]; Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) & Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) bt Jennifer Luikham & Mihika Yadav 6-1, 4-6, [10-6] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reyngold-surprises-berberovic/article38024935.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ramkumar delivers for Supersmashers||Ramkumar Ramanathan won his singles and doubles matches to put Pro Veri Supersmashers into the semifinals of the Centena Pro Tennis League at the RK Khanna Stadium here on Thursday.  Supersmashers finished second in the group and qualified despite a negative game difference of 1. Indian Aviators topped the group, enhancing its game difference from eight overnight to 11 on Thursday, thanks to a strong performance against Sankara. For Aviators, Sriram Balaji turned the contest on its head, after it was 1-4 down, as he survived a match point to beat Arjun Kadhe. He then partnered Siddhant Banthia to beat Arjun and Parikshit Somani in the tie-break. Earlier, Ajay Malik and Diva Bhatia had won their match. Saketh Myneni, Suraj Prabodh, Parv Nage, Prerna Bhambri and Arjun Uppal were unbeaten as Team Radiant turned its fortunes around and qualified for the semifinals from the other group. Bangalore Challengers made the grade with an overwhelming game difference of 24. In the semifinals, Radiant meets Aviators and Challengers takes on Supersmashers.  The results (league): Team Radiant bt Stag Babolat Yoddhas 30-20 (Parv Nage bt Nishant Dabas 5-3; Parv & Prerna Bhambri bt Nishant & Vanshika Chaudhary 5-3; Saketh Myneni bt Vijay Sundar Prashanth 5-4(5); Saketh & Suraj Prabodh bt Vijay Sundar & Ishaque Eqbal 5-4 (6); Suraj bt Ishaque 5-3; Arjun Uppal & Prerna bt Nishant Goel & Vanshika 5-3).   Bangalore Challengers bt DMG Crusaders 26-16 (Aman Dahiya lost to Bushan Haobam 1-5; Aman & Sai Samhitha bt Bushan & Kashish Bhatia 5-2; Niki Poonacha bt Vishnu Vardhan 5-3; Niki & Paras Dahiya bt Vishnu & Karan Singh 5-3; Paras bt Karan Singh 5-1; Dilip Mohanty & Sai bt Rishi Kapur & Kashish 5-2).   Indian Aviators bt Sankara 27-24 (Ajay Malik bt Shivank Bhatnagar 5-3; Ajay & Diva Bhatia bt Shivank & Niyati Kukreti 5-4(3); Sriram Balaji bt Arjun Kadhe 5-4(4); Balaji & Siddhant Banthia bt Arjun & Parikshit Somani 5-4(4); Banthia bt Parikshit 5-4(3); Swarandeep Singh & Diva lost to Ashish Khanna & Niyati 2-5).   Pro Veri Supersmashers bt Sapphire Superstars 27-21 (Aditya Nandal lost to Chirag Duhan 4-5(7); Aditya & Mahika Khanna lost to Chirag & Riya Sachdeva 4-5(4); Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan 5-3; Ramkumar & Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Jeevan & Prithvi Sekhar 5-2; Nitin Kumar bt Prithvi 5-1; Mohit Phogat & Mahika lost to Aditya Khanna & Riya 4-5 (5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-delivers-for-supersmashers/article38024587.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||East Bengal holds Hyderabad||East Bengal came out of the shell of its limitations to hold a resurgent Hyderabad FC to a 1-1 draw in an ISL fixture at Bambolim on Thursday. East Bengal went ahead early in the first half through a goal from Amir Dervisevic before Bartholomew Ogbeche produced the equaliser sometime from the break. Confident start East Bengal made a confident start and dominated the midfield, and East Bengal took the lead in the 20th minute. Earning a free-kick just outside the box, midfielder Amir Dervisevic unleashed a rasping left-footer that had the defender in the Hyderabad wall ducking under. Hyderabad goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani got a hand on the ball but was undone by the power of the shot. East Bengal could not hold on to the lead long as Hyderabad found the equaliser. The East Bengal citadel fell in the 35th minute when Ogbeche nodded home a nice cross from Aniket Jadhav. It didn’t help that East Bengal defender Raju Gaikwad mistimed his jump and failed to clear the cross, allowing Ogbeche a free header. East Bengal could have wrested the lead back in the 40th minute when Mohammad Rafique charged on a loose ball, but his powerful attempt came off the framework. Hyderabad’s usual rhythm in the attack was missing for a great part of the action as East Bengal successfully spun a web of defence and blocked the access of wingers like Akash Mishra and Jadhav. On the other hand, East Bengal created a few good opportunities on the break but could not utilise them, chiefly because of the waywardness of its lone striker Nigerian Chima Chukwu.  The result: Hyderabad FC 1 (Ogbeche 35) drew with SC East Bengal 1 (Dervisevic 20).   Today’s match: Odisha FC vs Goa FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-holds-hyderabad/article38024692.ece
24 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Lakshya lives up to his promise||Lakshya Sen was always marked out for big success. But to have a world championship podium finish as your breakthrough performance is the stuff of dreams. Following a career-defining week in Huelva (Spain), where he secured a historic bronze at the BWF World Championships and rose to a career-best singles ranking of 17, the 20-year-old is brimming with confidence. “To end the season with a worlds bronze feels great,” Lakshya said, here on Thursday. “It was really tough in the last two tournaments. But they were the biggest, the World Championship and the World Tour Finals. I was motivated to go all out.” In a way, Lakshya is blessed to have mentors and coaches in legends Prakash Padukone and Morten Frost and the astute U. Vimal Kumar. Frost’s inputs have especially been crucial in prepping him up for elite-level badminton. The great Dane was brought in as a consultant coach at the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy, where Lakshya trains, in early 2019, with Frost himself expressing hope that he can “help some of the players there be world-beaters one day.” “In 2019, we went to Denmark for three months,” Lakshya recollected. “When I started working with him, I was around 110 in the rankings and after that I moved into the top-30. He changed my game style a bit. He helped me construct points and rally better and when I entered the senior circuit, it really helped me improve my overall game.”  “When I was in juniors, I was a lot more attacking. I am still a naturally attacking player, but when you are playing at the higher levels, you cannot win a point in just three or four shots. Someone like [Kento] Momota is very solid in his defence. So you have to move him around, mix it up with drop shots, half-smashes etc.” Training with Olympic gold medallist Viktor Axelsen in Dubai in September had its perks too, so did the four competitive matches Lakshya played against the Dane and Japanese star Momota in the last month alone. “They were tough draws but those matches gave me confidence. I got into the rhythm of playing continuously. Game-wise, I was sharper after training with Axelsen. Just before the tournaments I feel that was needed because I hadn’t played that many competitions.” It is perhaps natural now that Lakshya is aiming big. “I feel confident that I can play on the big stage and get a win,” he says. “Next year, there is the Asian Games, All-England and Commonwealth Games next year. I will be playing other tournaments as well, but these will be my targets. I will be expecting a lot more but I will still have to be patient and work hard.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-lives-up-to-his-promise/article38024694.ece
24 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Harmeet and Sreeja emerge winners||For nearly two weeks in mid-December, Harmeet Desai did not touch his racquet, busy as he was with his wedding preparations. The mini-break has done him a lot of good as the 28-year-old from Gujarat tamed his younger State-mate Manush Shah 11-9, 12-10, 6-11, 13-11, 11-7 to bag the men’s singles title in the UTT-National-ranking South Zone table tennis tournament here on Thursday. Earlier, Sreeja Akula bided her time, slowed down the pace of the game and forced an attacking player such as Swastika Ghosh play to her style. The 23-year-old made a comeback from 1-3 down to win in seven games, 5-11, 11-7, 7-11, 17-19, 11-4, 11-6, 12-10 to bag her first title of the season. Delhi’s Payas Jain and Yashaswini Ghorphade of Karnataka bagged the youth under-19 boys’ and girls’ titles. “I never thought I would win this — my first this season — because I haven’t practised much. I made fewer errors. Manush was high on confidence. So I changed the pace and trajectory and introduced more spin,” Harmeet told The Hindu . Sreeja said, after employing the services of a psychologist recently her mind has become calmer. “Gayathri madam of Lakshya Sports helped me relax. After losing early — pre-quarters in North Zone (Panchkula) and quarters in Dehradun — this victory has given me confidence,” she said.  The results (All finals):   Men: Harmeet Desai (Guj) bt Manush Shah (Guj) 11-9, 12-10, 6-11, 13-11, 11-7.   Women: Sreeja Akula (RBI) bt Swastika Ghosh (AAI) 5-11, 11-7, 7-11, 17-19, 11-4, 11-6, 12-10.   Youth Boys u-19: Payas Jain (Del) bt Yashansh Malik (Del) 12-10, 11-7, 11-7, 11-5. Youth Girls u-19: Yashaswini Ghorphade (Kar) bt Pritha Vartikar (Mah) 10-12, 11-9, 13-11, 12-10, 11-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harmeet-and-sreeja-emerge-winners/article38024698.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,||CCFC ventures into NFT trade||I-League club Chennai City FC (CCFC) on Thursday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Belfrics BT, a blockchain platform, and KPR info solutions seeking to boost India’s multi-million-dollar sports industry through the trade of NFTs (non-fungible tokens) affiliated with the club. NFTs are collectible digital assets that bear a value in the same way that physical assets do. CCFC CEO Rohit Ramesh intends to increase the popularity of football in the country by converting players into NFTs, which will allow stakeholders to invest in them while also becoming part-owners of the club. He said, “In addition to playing on the field, we are focusing on entering the digital world. “We also have plenty of time to shift the focus back to the club’s comeback. This partnership will also help the club to expand on a completely new playing field, increase the valuation of our club, and act as a roadmap to achieving our goal.” The former I-League champion was not allowed to participate in this year’s edition due to licensing regulations complications. In the upcoming season, starting December 26, CCFC will be replaced by the I-League qualifying runner-up Kenkre FC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ccfc-ventures-into-nft-trade/article38024578.ece
24 December 2021||BILBAO,||Real beats Bilbao, finishes year on a high||Karim Benzema scored both goals in Real Madrid’s 2-1 win at Athletic Bilbao on Wednesday, sending Carlo Ancelotti’s side into the winter break eight points clear atop LaLiga. As Real ended the year with a bang, city rival and defending champion Atletico Madrid suffered its fourth straight defeat, a 1-2 reverse at Granada leaving it fifth a yawning 17 points behind. Benzema ultimately put the fixture out of reach of Real’s Basque host in a matter of minutes, Oihan Sancet pulling one back with his speedy 10th minute reply which hit the woodwork before evading Thibaut Cortois. Benzema’s 14th and 15th goals of the season consolidated his position at the top of the goalscoring chart. Earlier, Atletico’s shaky defence of its LaLiga crown took another big hit with the injured duo of Antoine Griezmann and Stefan Savic absent.  The results: LaLiga: Granada 2 (Machis 17, Molina 61) bt Atletico Madrid 1 (Felix 2); Athletic Bilbao 1 (Sancet 10) lost to Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 4 & 7).   Ligue 1: Lorient 1 (Monconduit 40) drew with Paris Saint-Germain 1 (Icardi 90+1) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-beats-bilbao-finishes-year-on-a-high/article38024581.ece
24 December 2021||Jaipur,||It’s TN firepower vs Saurashtra bowling attack||In what promises to be an intriguing contest, Tamil Nadu and Saurashtra — two of the stronger teams among the last four — will face off in the semifinals of the Vijay Hazare Trophy here on Friday. Only unbeaten side Saurashtra is the only unbeaten side so far, having won all its five group matches easily and comprehensively defeating Vidarbha in the quarterfinals on Wednesday. Led by Jaydev Unadkat, the team has dismissed the opposition cheaply and chased down modest targets comfortably in five of the six matches. Friday’s clash will test Saurashtra’s bowling against the batting firepower of TN’s Dinesh Karthik, M. Shahrukh Khan, Washington Sundar and N. Jagadeesan. In Unadkat and fellow left-arm seamer Chetan Sakariya, Saurashtra has solid new-ball bowlers backed up by medium-pacer Chirag Jani. Left-arm spinner Dharmendrasinh Jadeja and leg-spinner Yuvraj Chudasama too have left their mark and are second and third behind Jani in the wickets tally for the side. The batting department, though, has been dependent on all-rounder Prerak Mankad and opener Harvik Desai, who have scored centuries and would want the likes of Sheldon Jackson and Arpit Vasavada to step up. Unadkat told The Hindu , “we are relaxed and confident. Our bowling has been our strength and we know they are a strong batting unit. We feel we can pose a strong threat, but batting is an area we feel we can improve.” Tamil Nadu in contrast has had more success putting runs on the board and getting its spinners to scuttle the chase. Washington leads the TN bowlers with 15 wickets and left-arm spinners M. Siddharth and R. Sai Kishore have been equally effective. Though teams prefer to bowl first to make use of the early morning cool conditions, TN would feel it has the batters to tackle the tough phase as it did against Karnataka. Ready, either way TN coach M. Venkatramana said, “our batters are good enough to tackle their strong bowling unit. Also, if we bowl first, we hope to put their batting unit under pressure.”  Semifinal fixtures: Tamil Nadu vs Saurashtra; Himachal vs Services .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-tn-firepower-vs-saurashtra-bowling-attack/article38024686.ece
24 December 2021||Mumbai:,||Golden Guest wins feature event||Trainer Dallas Todywalla’s Golden Guest, ridden by A. Sandesh, won the Royal Calcutta Turf Club Cup, the feature event of Thursday’s races here. The winner is owned by Mr. Mukul Sonawla, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. S.R. Sanas & Jehan J. Sataravala.  FREE RADICAL PLATE (1,200m) Maiden, 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 46: SAN SALVATORE (Zervan) 1, Fidato (A. Imran Khan) 2, Cherished (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Caprifla (Dashrath) 4. 1-3/4, 1-3/4 and 1/2. 1m 11. 05s. Rs. 304 (w), 58, 26 and 24 (p). SHP: 80, FP: 14, 617, Q: 3,160, Tanala: 12,873 and 11,034. Favourite: Multiencrpyted. Owners: M/s. Gaurav Sethi, Abhimanyu J. Thackersey, Ms. Kannika D. Kocchar & Mr. Vishal Kamal Doctor rep. Deciding Factor LLP. Trainer: Altamash A. Ahmed.  WELCOME CUP (1,200m), Maiden (Terms), 2-y-o only: COEUR DE LION (Dashrath) 1, Hooves Of Thunder (Sandesh) 2, Jerusalem (Yash Narredu) 3 and Pegaso (Mosin) 4. 8-1/4, 3-3/4 and 3-1/2. 1m 11. 81s. Rs. 24 (w), 13 and 17 (p). SHP: 26, FP: 61, Q: 20, Tanala: 71 and 65. Favourite: Hooves Of Thunder. Owners: M/s. Hooshang K. Pashootan & Ramesh Chandra Mehta. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.  ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (1,200m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: GOLDEN GUEST (Sandesh) 1, Gazino (Peter) 2, Augustus Caesar (Neeraj) 3 and Silver Flames (A. Imran Khan) 4. Hd, 1 and 1. 1m 10. 17s. Rs. 20 (w), 14 and 35 (p). SHP: 64, FP: 123, Q: 60, Tanala: 458 and 201. Favourite: Golden Guest. Owners: Mr. Mukul Sonawala, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. S.R. Sanas & Jehan J. Sataravala. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  GODSPEED PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: PRIDE’S ANGEL (Sandesh) 1, Northern Lights (P.S. Chouhan) 2, The Awakening (Neeraj) 3 and Majestic Warrior (Aniket) 4. 1/2, 2-1/2 and Lnk. 1m 23. 84s. Rs. 63 (w), 26 and 17 (p). SHP: 32, FP: 144, Q: 48, Tanala: 213 and 130. Favourite: Northern Lights. Owners: M/s. Sudhendu Shah, K.M. Shah, Mrs. Preeti C. Shah, Mr. Tanmay V. Mathurawala & Mrs. Pooja S. Shah. Trainer: Imtiaz Sait.  QUEST FOR CASH PLATE (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: DILBAR (S. Amit) 1, Kinnara (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Slam Dunk (Zeeshan) 3 and Magic In The Wind (Parmar) 4. 2-3/4, 2-1/2 and Hd. 58. 56s. Rs. 74 (w), 20, 11 and 163 (p). SHP: 42, FP: 180, Q: 32, Tanala: 3,506 and 12,019. Favourite: Kinnara. Owners: Mr. R. Rashid, Ms. Roohi Oomerbhoy Jaikishan & Mr. Nikhil Nayar. Trainer: H.J. Antia. RUNNING STAR PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: FLAMING FIRE (Yash Narredu) 1, Midas Touch (Bhawani) 2, Raffaello (A. Imran Khan) 3 and Ciplad (C.S. Jodha) 4. 1-1/2, 3/4 and 3/4. 1m 24. 97s. Rs. 23 (w), 14, 29 and 20 (p). SHP: 97, FP: 201, Q: 160, Tanala: 591 and 157. Favourite: Flaming Fire. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd, Mrs. B.E. Saldhana & Mr. Mark Saldhana. Trainer: M. Narredu.  SECRET HALO PLATE (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: BLOOMSBURY (Aniket) 1, Demetrius (Zervan) 2, Noble Lord (A. Imran Khan) 3 and Waverunner (P. Vinod) 4. Not run: Hellbent. Nk, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 1m 11. 94s. Rs. 21 (w), 15, 54 and 14 (p). SHP: 199, FP: 507, Q: 428, Tanala: 2,098 and 428. Favourite: Bloomsbury. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Altaf Hussain. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 5,111 (67 tkts.), 30%: 1,041 (141 tkts.). Treble: 1,607 (15 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: 11,421 (3 tkts.), 30%: 2,937 (5 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/golden-guest-wins-feature-event/article38025323.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI:,||Empress Eternal may repeat||Empress Eternal, who maintains form, may repeat in the As Good As Gold Handicap (1,200m), the main event of the races to be held here on Friday (Dec. 24).  ALEXUS HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 20 to 45 (no whip), 2.30 p.m.: 1. Protea (7) Mubs Kareem 60, 2. Olympicduel (12) P. Vikram 59, 3. Pappa Rich (6) Koshi Kumar 59, 4. Henrietta (1) Santosh G 58, 5. Glorious Victory (9) C. Brisson 56.5, 6. Illustrious Ruler (11) Farid Ansari 56.5, 7. Big Treasure (10) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 8. Sonic Dash (2) S. Kamble 54, 9. Daiyamondo (5) M.S. Deora 53.5, 10. Diva Princess (8) Ramandeep 53.5, 11. Glorious Symphony (4) C. Umesh 53.5 and 12. Feni (3) B. Dharshan 52.  1. GLORIOUS SYMPHONY, 2. ILLUSTRIOUS RULER, 3. SONIC DASH   TRIUNFO HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Bring It On (4) Shahar Babu 60, 2. Inkonito (2) P. Vikram 60, 3. Welcome Winner (3) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 4. Majestic Wind (5) Farhan Alam 56, 5. Royal Pearl (7) Mubs Kareem 56, 6. Supreme Excelsior (6) Nakhat Singh 56, 7. Sea Script (8) Nikhil Naidu 53, 8. Come Calling (10) R. Manish 52.5, 9. Walking Brave (1) Yash Narredu 52.5, 10. Masterpiece (9) Akshay Kumar 51.5 and 11. Swiss Agatta (11) M.S. Deora 50.5.  1. INKONITO, 2. WALKING BRAVE, 3. MASTERPIECE   STAR OF DESTINY HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 3-30: 1. Sentosa (3) Sai Vamsi 60, 2. Texas Rose (8) C. Brisson 57, 3. Qui Sauvage (1) Santosh G 56, 4. Manzoni (6) C. Umesh 55.5, 5. Star Ranking (5) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 6. Esteva (9) Nikhil Naidu 55, 7. Winraise (4) Ramandeep 54.5, 8. Shadow Of Love (2) Yash Narredu 54 and 9. Wonder Blaze (7) S. Kamble 54.  1. OUI SAUVAGE, 2. MANZONI, 3. STAR RANKING   AS GOOD AS GOLD HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4-00: 1. Beethovan (3) Nikhil Naidu 60, 2. Knight In Armour (10) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 3. Knight Envied (7) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 4. Sir Baffert (6) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 5. Empress Eternal (5) Nakhat Singh 54, 6. Fun Storm (4) C. Umesh 53.5, 7. Pacific (2) Manikandan 52.5, 8. Branka (8) A. Ayaz Khan 52, 9. Katahdin (9) Shahar Babu 52 and 10. Super Girl (1) Yash Narredu 52.  1. EMPRESS ETERNAL, 2. KNIGHT ENVIED, 3. SIR BAFFERT   STAR OF DESTINY HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 4-30: 1. Butterfly (4) M.S. Deora 60, 2. That's My Class (8) C. Brisson 60, 3. Star Waves (1) S. Kabdhar 58.5, 4. Magnetism (3) Kuldeep Singh 57, 5. Queen Of Venice (5) Inayat 57, 6. Sasakwa (2) Nakhat Singh 57, 7. Renegade (9) Nikhil Naidu 56.5, 8. Magical Wish (7) C. Umesh 54 and 9. My Kingdom (6) P. Sai Kumar 54.  1. SASAKWA, 2. MAGICAL WISH, 3. RENEGADE   SU CHALIYO HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-00: 1. Cartel (1) Kuldeep Singh 60, 2. Charliez Angel (11) Santosh G 59.5, 3. Air Marshall (10) C. Umesh 59, 4. Cineraria (6) Manikandan 56.5, 5. Palsy Walsy (3) S. Kamble 56, 6. Succession (9) Yash Narredu 56, 7. Golden Strike (2) N. Jodha 55, 8. Turf Exemplar (4) Nakhat Singh 55, 9. Majestic Charmer (8) Shahar Babu 54.5, 10. Mystical Magician (5) Nikhil Naidu 54.5 and 11. Welcome Chakkaram (7) R. Manish 51.5.  1. SUCCESSION, 2. MYSTICAL MAGICIAN, 3. CARTEL  Jkt.: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6; Mini Jkt.: 3, 4, 5 & 6; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/empress-eternal-may-repeat/article38024984.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Srikanth could face Loh in semis||A repeat clash of the recent World championship final is in the offing after the top seed K. Srikanth and World champion Loh Kean Yew found themselves in the same half of the men’s singles draw in the $400,000 India Open badminton beginning here on Jan. 11. The two are slated to meet in the semifinals should Srikanth get past sixth seed Sameer Verma and the fifth-seeded Singaporean upstages fourth seed Thai Kantaphone Wagcharoen. The men’s draw is also likely to see a clash between World championship bronze-medallist Lakshya Sen and quarterfinalist H.S. Prannoy, seeded third and eighth, in the quarterfinals. Second seed B. Sai Praneeth could play Ajay Jayaram on the way, while P. Kashyap will have to beat back the challenge of seventh seed Tommy Sugiarto for a quarterfinal berth. In the women’s singles, P.V. Sindhu should have no serious challenge on her way to the final. Fifth seed Evegeniya Kosetskaya is in the same quarter as Sindhu. From the bottom half of the draw, fourth seed Saina Nehwal could face Malvika Bansod in the second round, and Iris Wang (USA) in the quarterfinals. In men’s doubles, second seed Chirag Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy appear to have an easy route to the final against three-time World champion Mohammad Ahsan and Hendra Setiawan (Indonesia). The women’s doubles, where only eight out of 32 pairs are non-Indians, second seed Ashwini Ponnappa and Sikki Reddy only have Russian third seeds Anastasiia Akchurina and Olga Morozova to worry about on their way to the prospective title-clash against top seed Jongkolphan Kititharakul and Rawinda Prajongjai (Thailand).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikanth-yew-could-face-in-semis/article38024683.ece
24 December 2021||Melbourne,||Hurting England determined to fight back: Malan||England is “hurting” but determined to rise to the challenge and claw its way back into the Ashes series against Australia, batsman Dawid Malan said on Thursday. After slumping by nine wickets in Brisbane and then by 275 runs in Adelaide, the visitors will enter the Melbourne Cricket Ground for the third Test on Sunday needing to win. Do or die! If it doesn’t, the five-Test series is over with Australia retaining the urn as the holder. Malan said there had been frank discussions after Adelaide, where a first-innings batting collapse coupled with poor bowling and fielding cost England the match. “The boys are hurting after our performances in the last two games. They realise we haven’t been good enough across all facets of the game,” he told journalists. The odds are against England — the only instance of a team coming from 2-0 down to win the Ashes was Donald Bradman’s Australia way back in 1936-37. Malan and captain Joe Root have been the only two English batsmen to excel, both hitting half-centuries in Brisbane and Adelaide, but unable to go on and make a big score. He suggested that England’s travails against a high-quality attack was also down to a lack of Test experience on Australian pitches, with he and Root among the few to have played an away Ashes series before. British media has suggested changes could be afoot for the Boxing Day Test with Zak Crawley tipped to replace either Rory Burns or Haseeb Hameed, who have both struggled for runs at the top. Ollie Pope has also been disappointing at No. 6, with the experienced Jonny Bairstow a potential replacement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hurting-england-determined-to-fight-back-malan/article38024928.ece
24 December 2021||Lausanne,||Indian men will end 2021 in third spot, women to finish ninth||The Indian men's hockey team will end the year in third spot, its highest-ever, as per the International Hockey Federation (FIH) rankings released on Thursday. The Manpreet Singh-led Indian team won bronze in the Tokyo Games earlier this year to end a 41-year medal wait for the country. Aussies top the chart India, which finished third in the just-concluded Asian Champions Trophy in Dhaka, will end the year with 2296.038 points, behind Olympic champion Belgium and topper Australia. Australia has leapfrogged Belgium in the latest chart following the Red Lions' recent FIH Hockey Pro League draw and defeat at the hands of the Netherlands. Australia will close the year with 2642.25 points, just 10 points ahead of FIH Hockey Pro League and Olympic champion Belgium, which has 2632.12. The Netherlands (2234.33) and Germany (2038.71) are in fourth and fifth positions respectively. The top 10 is completed by England (6th, 1990.62), Argentina (7th, 1826.11), New Zealand (8th, 1598.24), Spain (9th, 1532.33) and Malaysia (10th, 1427.18). Drops a rung Among women, India has dropped a rung to ninth spot from the last update. The women's team, which finished a historic fourth in the Tokyo Olympics, will end the year with 1810.32 points. The Netherlands women will finish the year at the top of the FIH world rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-men-will-end-2021-in-third-spot-women-to-finish-ninth/article38025061.ece
24 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Shankar leads young brigade at auction||Rising shuttler Shankar Muthusamy from Chennai, along with a clutch of promising teenagers, got the top billing in the Season 2 auction of the Tamil Nadu Badminton Super League (TNBSL) held recently. The second season of TNBSL, organised by the Tamil Nadu Badminton Association (TNBA), will be held from February 12 to February 22, 2022, at the Fireball Indoor Stadium. It will be telecast live on Star Sports 1 (Tamil). The 18-year-old Shankar was the youngest among the Icon players picked by the eight franchises at the auction. He was picked by last season’s runners-up Trichy Blasters while 19-year-olds Siddhanth Gupta, Rithvik Sanjeevi and A. Hariharan were the Icon picks of Kovai Kombans, Madurai Eagles and Tirupur Warriors. All the Icon players were valued at Rs. 2,00,000. Every franchise will play seven matches in the league phase and every match will be played over five categories — men’s singles, men’s doubles, senior mixed doubles, junior mixed doubles and junior boys’ singles. The league phase will be followed by the playoffs involving the top four finishers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shankar-leads-young-brigade-at-auction/article38024988.ece
24 December 2021||SURAT:,||Aaditya spins Tamil Nadu to innings victory||Left-arm spinner B. Aaditya (five for 104) bowled Tamil Nadu to an innings and 101-run win against Himachal Pradesh on the fourth and final day of a fourth round Elite C contest of the Cooch Behar Trophy on Thursday. Himachal was bowled out for 309 in its second innings. Tamil Nadu takes on Chhattisgarh in its fifth and final league match from Dec. 27. Kangayan hits century At Visakhapatnam, Neyan Kangayan hit a century (129, 241b, 18x4) for Puducherry in the drawn Elite Group E match.  The scores:   At Surat: Himachal Pradesh 170 & 309 in 79.5 overs (Raghav Angra 64, Vaibhav S. Kalta 65, Daksh N. Narayan 40, Atul A. Jaiswal 37 n.o., B. Aaditya 5/104) lost to Tamil Nadu 580/2 decl. Points: TN 7(15), HP 0(8) .   At Visakhapatnam: Puducherry 330 in 142.5 overs & 273 in 113.1 overs (Neyan Kangayan 129, D. Naveeen 48, Deep H Patel 4/87, Bhavishya Patel 4/37) drew with Baroda 264 in 84.1 overs & 3/0 in 3 overs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aaditya-spins-tn-to-innings-victory/article38024987.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Lara, Steyn boost for SRH||Sunrisers Hyderabad on Thursday named West Indies batting legend Brian Lara and South African pace great Dale Steyn as part of the team’s revamped support staff ahead of the 2022 IPL. Lara has been named strategic advisor and batting coach. Steyn has been appointed the pace bowling coach. He had announced his retirement earlier this year. Sri Lankan great Muttiah Muralitharan remains the spin bowling coach. Moody returns as head coach after fellow-Australian Trevor Bayliss quit following the 2021 season. Moody was Sunrisers’ director of cricket last season. Former India batter Hemang Badani has been named fielding coach, while Simon Katich, who has been the head coach of RCB, has been appointed assistant coach. Meanwhile, the BCCI confirmed that the player auction for the 2022 edition will be held on Feb. 12 and 13, not on Feb. 7 and 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lara-steyn-boost-for-srh/article38024691.ece
24 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Top stars for Lakshya Cup||Some of the top air rifle shooters in the country will vie for honours in the 12th edition of the RR Lakshya Cup, a unique mixed-gender tournament, in Panvel, Navi Mumbai on Friday and Saturday. Leading the field will be Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar, who was a member of the Indian contingent in Tokyo and is the reigning junior world champion. He will be hoping to take home the senior winner’s cheque worth Rs. 1 lakh. The tournament, being revived after the pandemic-forced cancellation of last year’s event, is the brainchild of Suma Shirur, the Olympian shooter-turned-coach. According to Shirur, the event will offer all shooters the rare chance to showcase skills without the pressure of having to vie for National selection. “Ever since the pandemic set in, domestic shooters have been competing only in selection trials or National championships,” Shirur said at a media interaction on Thursday. “So, I am glad we are hosting the event wherein shooters can perform in the best of conditions to gain an upper hand against some of their competitors.” The Lakshya Shooting Club, Shirur’s academy, invites the top 20 shooters among juniors and seniors for the tournament. Shirur feels the mixed-gender event adds a special touch to the event, which has been a regular feature at the year-end for a decade now. “Usually the girls are more keen to outshine the boys, so that’s always something to look forward to,” Shirur said. “Sensing that gender parity would be pushed down the line, I thought of initiating the open event when we started the Lakshya Cup,” Shirur said. “I am glad that not only do the top shooters look forward to the event but the tournament has also established itself as an exposure event for promising shooters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-stars-for-lakshya-cup/article38025302.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||18 Indian referees in FIFA’s list||As many as 18 Indian referees have been selected in the FIFA Refereeing International list for 2022, the All India Football Federation announced on Thursday. The extensive list includes officials who are qualified to be referees and assistant referees, the All India Football Federation said in a statement on their website. Members of the list are eligible to officiate at the international level and are also entitled to wear a FIFA badge on their uniform for the year they are enlisted. The selection for the annual list is made through the nominations sent by FIFA member countries and the officials are required to clear a fitness test. Out of the selected 18 Indians, four are women (two referees and two assistant referees), and 14 men (six referees and eight assistant referees).  The list: Men referees: Tejas Nagvenkar, Srikrishna Coimbatore Ramaswamy, Rowan Arumughan, Crystal John, Pranjal Banerjee and Venkatesh Ramachandran.   Men assistant referees: Sumanta Dutta, Antony Abraham, Tony Joseph Louis, Vairamuthu Parasuraman, Samar Pal, Kennedy Sapam, Arun Sasidharan Pillai and Asit Kumar Sarkar.   Women referees: Ranjita Devi Tekcham, Kanika Barman.   Women assistant referees: Uvena Fernandes, Riiohlang Dhar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/18-indian-referees-in-fifas-list/article38024585.ece
24 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NTHA enters semifinals||Naval Tata Hockey Academy, Jamshedpur registered a convincing 3-1 win against Government Model Higher Secondary School, Chandigarh in its final B1 quarterfinal league match to place second in the group and qualify for the semifinals of the 38th Nehru sub-junior boys’ hockey tournament on Thursday. It will now take on the boys from Government Boys SSS, Delhi for a spot in the final. Also making it to the final four was Ritu Rani Hockey Academy, Patiala despite managing only a 1-1 draw against Municipal High School, Panposh in its final league game. It will face Directorate General NCC in the semifinals to be played on Friday at the Shivaji Stadium.  The results:   NTHA, Jamshedpur 3 (Bikram Soreng, Tushar Parmar, Rohit Tirkey) bt GMHSS, Chandigarh 1 (Pankaj Sharma).   Municipal HS, Panposh 1 (Samir Barwa) drew with RRHA 1 (Sunil).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ntha-enters-semifinals/article38025060.ece
24 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Naresh hits century||G. Naresh cracked a century (139) to help West Zone record a 70-run win over North Zone in the TCA inter-zonal under-19 one-day cricket championship on Thursday.  The scores: West Zone 349 in 49.2 overs (G. Naresh 139, D. Sudeep 62, M. Ashok Kumar Yadav 35, Bilal 3/26) bt North Zone 279 in 41.1 overs (Syed Aqdaam Ahmed 93, Vamshi Nayak 34, P. Kranthi 4/44, U. Rakesh3/58).  New facilities at ASA Academia Sports Village will soon have a new football ground and a tennis academy on its premises here. Chevella MLA K. Yadaiah and former Rajya Sabha MP V. Hanumantha Rao laid the foundation stones for the two complexes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naresh-hits-century/article38025175.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Marauder||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/comeback-king/article38024681.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||WADA restores NDTL accreditation||Sports Minister Anurag Thakur on Thursday said that the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has restored the accreditation of the National Dope Testing Laboratory (NDTL), which was suspended in 2019 because of its failure to comply with global standards. The NDTL is based in the national capital and can resume testing with immediate effect. The suspension of the NDTL had prohibited it from carrying out any anti-doping activities. The WADA first suspended NDTL in August 2019 for a period of six months and extended the de-recognition period after its inspections showed that non-conformities existed. Because of the suspension, NDTL could not carry out any testing before Tokyo Olympics in this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wada-restores-ndtl-accreditation/article38024684.ece
24 December 2021||Dubai,||India thrashes UAE in opener||Harnoor Singh struck a fine hundred before the Indian bowlers ran through the opposition to complete a 154-run rout of UAE in their opening U-19 Asia Cup match here on Thursday. Put in to bat, India put up 282 for five, courtesy Harnoor’s 120 off 130 balls and skipper Yash Dhull’s 63 off 68 balls. The home team’s batters flopped against the Indian attack, folding up for 128. India plays Pakistan on Saturday.   The scores: India U-19 282/5 in 50 overs (Harnoor Singh 120, Yash dhull 83, Rajvardhan Hangargekar 48 n.o.) bt UAE U-19 128 in 34.3 overs (Hangargekar 3/24) .   India next plays arch-rival Pakistan on Saturday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-thrashes-uae-in-opener/article38024687.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||Akhtar and Jayasuriya for Asia Lions||The Legends Cricket League, a professional cricket league for retired international cricketers, on Thursday announced that Shoaib Akhtar and Sanath Jayasuriya would play for Asia Lions in the inaugural edition next month. The league — featuring Asia Lions, India and Rest of the World — will be played at the Al Amerat Cricket Stadium in Oman. Besides, Asia Lions also includes Shahid Afridi, Muttiah Muralitharan, Chaminda Vaas, Romesh Kaluwitharana, Tillakaratne Dilshan, Azhar Mahmood, Upul Tharanga, Misbah-ul-Haq, Mohammed Hafeez, Shoaib Malik, Mohammed Yousuf, Umar Gul, Younis Khan and Asghar Afghan. Former India head coach Ravi Shastri, who is the commissioner of the league, said: “This is top quality exciting cricket on offer. The Lions of Asia from Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh & Afghanistan coming together in one team will definitely give the other two teams a run for their money.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akhtar-and-jayasuriya-for-asia-lions/article38025299.ece
24 December 2021||New Delhi,||14-member squad for Bangladesh series||The Cricket Association for the Blind in India (CABI) has selected a 14-member squad for the three-match One-Day International and Twenty20 series against Bangladesh starting on Friday at Bhopal. The captain of both squads is Sunil Ramesh from Karnataka while Deepak Malik from Haryana will be his deputy. The series will start with T20 matches to be played on December 24, 25 and 26 followed by three ODIs on December 27, 28 and 29, CABI president Dr. Mahantesh G. Kivadasannavar said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/14-member-squad-for-bangladesh-series/article38024933.ece
24 December 2021||DOHA,||Mukund in last eight; Javia loses||Sasikumar Mukund beat compatriot Rishab Agarwal 6-4, 6-4 to move into the quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament on Thursday. Dev Javia lost to seventh seed Martin Krumich after recovering from the brink of defeat to get past qualifier Nico Hornitschek of Germany 1-6, 7-6(6), 6-2 in the first round.  The results:   $15,000 ITF men, Doha, Qatar: Second round: Sasikumar Mukund bt Rishab Agarwal 6-4, 6-4; Martin Krumich (Cze) bt Dev Javia 6-1, 6-1.   First round: Dev bt Nico Hornitschek (Ger) 1-6, 7-6(6), 6-2; Mukund bt Maxence Broville (Fra) 5-7, 6-2, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukund-in-last-eight-javia-loses/article38024588.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Loyola, MOP Vaishnav emerge champions||Loyola and MOP Vaishnav bagged the men’s and women’s team championships titles in the AL Mudaliar athletics meet here on Thursday. S. Gowri, Vice-Chancellor, University of Madras, gave away the prizes.  The results (winners only):   Men: 110mH: G. Nishanth Raja (DG Vaishnav) 14.4s; 200m: Nalubothu Shanmuga Srinivas (MCC) 21.1s; 1500m: B. Gaurav Yadav (MCC) 4.05:0s; Half marathon: Pragatheswaran (Loy) 1:12:48.0s (NMR); 4x100m relay: MCC (41.6s); 4x400m relay: Loyola.   Long jump: J. Jeswin Aldrin (MCC) 7.60m; High jump: D. Deva Karthik (Loy) 2.10m; Discus: Alex P. Thankachan (MCC) 51.12m; Decathlon: Lokesh Kumar (Loy) 5577 points.   Women: 200m: K. Roshini (MOP) 24.9; 1500m: R. Punitha (MOP) 5:12.7; 4x100m relay: MOP Vaishnav; 4x400m relay: MOP Vaishnav (4:11.4); Half marathon: J. Jagadeewari (CTTE) 1:52:20.6.   Long jump: A. Sherin (MOP) 6.39m (NMR); Heptathlon: S. Deepika (MOP) 4619 points.   Team championships: Men: 1. Loyola, 2. MCC; Women: 1. MOP Vaishnav, 2. SDNB Vaishnav.   Individual championships: Men: S. Braveman Heart (MCC) 1067 points; Women: A. Sherin (MOP Vaishnav) 1071 points .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/loyola-mop-vaishnav-emerge-champions/article38024983.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||BoB, RBI set up title clash||Sumit Gohil’s 51-ball 79 and Zeeshan Ali’s three wickets helped Bank of Baroda defeat Airports Authority of India by 81 runs to enter the final of the All India Public Sector tournament. The other match of the day saw Reserve Bank of India beat Air India by nine wickets to reach the title round.  The scores: BoB 174/5 in 20 overs (Sumit Gohil 79, Chetan Bisht 39) bt AAI 93 in 16 overs (Zeeshan Ali 3/21, Varun Sood 2/17, Akshay 2/13).   Air India 150/4 in 20 overs (Himanshu Sabharwal 59) lost to RBI 151/1 in 15 overs (Sumit Ghadigavkar 80, Kulpdee Hooda 49).      Ashish Nehra Academy (ANA) edged past Noida Wonders by one wicket with one ball to spare and enter the final of the Skillz youth u-14 tournament.  The scores: Noida Wonders 180 in 39.5 overs (Arjun Dagar 32, Pawan 3/33) lost to ANA 185/9 in 39.5 overs (Tanish Arora 57, Kshitij Negi 49, Ekta Bhadana 4/20) .    Unique Sports Club registered a comprehensive 100-run win against Sporting Club in the Ratan Lal Saini u-19 tournament.  The scores: USC 165 in 37 overs (Raju Barmunda 37, Pradeep Sangwan 3/21) bt Sporting Club 65 in 24 overs (Dikshant 3/8) .    Ajay Negi picked up four wickets in M10 Cricket Academy’s 13-run win against St. Angel CA in the first D.R. Sharma Memorial tournament.  The scores: M10 Academy 153 in 33.1 overs (Gaurav Vaishnav 59, Devansh Gupta 4/31, Aryan Dabas (3/25) bt St. Angel 140 in 37.5 overs (Rhythm Gupta 49, Kashish Jain 34, Ajay Negi 4/29) .    Rathore Spiders defeated West Delhi Panthers by five wickets in a low-scoring match in the Turf u-11 Junior Cricket League.  The scores: WDP 90/8 in 20 overs (Anurag Yadav 38, Kundan Yadav 2/8) lost to Rathore Spiders 93/5 in 16.1 overs (Veer Singh 34) .    Nidhish Gaur and Kunal Kaushik scored quick-fire half-centuries as Ravinder Phagna CA won by 192 runs against Bhagwati CA in the second Kanta Devi Memorial tournament.  The scores: RPCA 268/5 in 30 overs (Kunal Kaushik 85, Nidhish Gaur 66) bt BCA 76 in 26.5 overs (Mohammed Shanib 3/16) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bob-rbi-set-up-title-clash/article38025062.ece
24 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM:,||Chinmay scores century||N.A. Chinmay slammed a century (110 n.o., 226b, 17x4) for Karnataka in the drawn match against Mumbai in the Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match at Dr. PVG Raju ACA Sports Complex here on Thursday. Resuming at the overnight score of 93 for three in the second innings after taking a first innings lead of 28 runs, Karnataka finished the final day at 248 for six thanks to Chinmay’s century.  The scores:   Karnataka 325 in 98.3 overs & 248/6 in 91 overs (Thippa Reddy 57, N.A. Chinmay 110 n.o., P. Raghuveer 39, Prince Badiani 3/43) drew with Mumbai 297 in 135.4 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chinmay-scores-century/article38025300.ece
24 December 2021||Gobichettipalayam:,||Tamilselvan gives Kongu ASC the trophy||Tamilselvan’s four for 14 helped Kongu Arts and Science College defeat host Gobi Arts by 28 runs and emerge the champion of the Bharathiar University inter-collegiate D-Zone cricket tournament here on Thursday. Arun Akash’s 165 set up Erode Arts’ 113-run win over Sri Vasavi in the match for third place.  The scores:   Final: Kongu ASC 112 in 18.2 overs (Gokul 34, Mani 33, Manikandan 3/18) bt Gobi ASC 84 in 19.2 overs (Tamilselvan 4/14).   Third place: Erode ASC 214 for no loss in 20 overs (Arun Akash 165) lost to Sri Vasavi ASC 101/9 in 20 overs (Bharanidharan 35, Tamilarasan 3/12) .    Divis registered a comfortable six-wicket win over New Star in the NDCA first division league for the Kumbhat Rolling Trophy here on Thursday.  The scores:   New Star 193 in 29.4 overs (R. Saravanan 40, A. Jose 39, Devi Prasad 39, R. Ravi Kumar 3/16, A. Surya 3/27) lost to Divis 194/4 in 25 overs (K. Manigandan 67 n.o., J. Sathish Kumar 44).      Host Bharathidasan eased past Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences (UHS) 44-4 in the South Zone inter-university kabaddi tournament for men here on Thursday. M. Selvam, Vice-Chancellor, Bharathidasan University, inaugurated the tournament.  Other results (knockout): Kuvempu bt Dravidian 52-9; Tumkur bt JNTU (Hyd) 57-47; Alagappa bt Bengaluru City 33-28; Thiruvalluvar bt Rayalaseema 72-33; Yogi Vemana bt JNAFAU 48-12; Vinayaka Mission’s RF bt Christ 52-13; KLEF bt Sri Ramachandra IHER 42-12; Yenepoya bt Tamil Univ. 42-20; Kalasalingam ARE bt Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Univ. (Srikakulam) 41-17; REVA bt Sri Krishnadevaraya 48-46; TNPESU bt MG (Kottayam) 27-19; JNTU (Kakinada) bt Noorul Islam CHE 39-14; GRI bt KSRDPRU 23-7; Bharath IHER bt Telangana 40-9; Mandya bt Krishna 32-20; Bharathiar bt Bengaluru North 50-29; Vel Tech bt APJ Abdul Kalam TU 32-9; Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda ERI bt Saveetha IMTS 47-46; Calicut bt Gulbarga 51-23; Palamuru bt VTU 56-23; Periyar Maniammai IST bt Chettinad ARE 39-22; Kerala bt Bangalore 41-34; Sathyabama bt Periyar 36-26; Vikrama Simhapuri bt GITAM 54-32; Madras bt KLE AHER 44-7; Acharya Nagarjuna bt Satavahana 63-21; Karpagam AHE bt Kakatiya 49-23; Anna bt JNTU (Anantapur) 39-7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamilselvan-gives-kongu-asc-the-trophy/article38025089.ece
24 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Race date advanced||The Stewards of the Bangalore Turf Club have decided to advance the fifteenth day of the races, Friday (Dec. 31) to Thursday (Dec 30), 2021, due to administrative reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/race-date-advanced/article38024582.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Making of a jnani||All beings are subject to the effects of past karma and in every birth this shapes our inherent tendencies and habitual notions. The Gita shows that despite all differences in individuals, all are eligible to attain moksha since realisation is ultimately in one’s approach and attitude to the world, pointed out Swamini Satyavratananda Saraswathi in a discourse. Though much importance is given to scriptural study in spiritual learning, it is said that even when learning under a guru, which is the ideal way, one gains only one fourth of the learning. One has to be selective and avoid unnecessary crowding of information. Another one fourth happens when the disciples discuss what has been learnt among themselves. This gives a chance to seek clarity over doubts that are always present. One fourth happens through one’s innate capacity to assimilate and reflect on all issues in life. The rest is gained in course of time, ‘kala kramena.’ Krishna refers to the realised soul as a jnani who reaches this goal and understands that “Vasudeva is all” after many births of arduous striving. Jnana is the agni in which all karmas such as the sanchita, agama, etc, get burnt, and the jnani does not have to take any further birth. Through dhyana or meditation, some are able to experience the atma clearly in their inner selves. Some practise jnana yoga or karma yoga or bhakti yoga to reach the goal. Among these, bhakti yoga is easy to practise. In this path, there is no need for intense sastra jnana or conscious striving for viveka. Many may not have the exposure to the Srutis or Smriti grantas; but they may be familiar with texts in vernacular languages, such as the Thirupughazh, Tiruvachagam, etc. They too gain spiritual insight and imbibe the truth in the Purusha Prakriti relationship and gain moksha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/making-of-a-jnani/article38024644.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 07:28 IST,||Sudoku — December 24, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-24-2021/article38025486.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Mangrove campaigner Murukesan T P||Rows of plants with glossy leaves occupy the front yard of Murukesan T P’s house in Malippuram in Vypeen, Kochi. These are mangrove plants, which have been nurtured by Murukesan. The mangrove nursery he has created in his eight-cent property can hold 15,000 to 20,000 plants at a time. The saplings are used for the various mangrove plantation drives in and around the coastal belt of Kochi. In a small, yet significant way Murukesan has been campaigning for mangrove conservation in Kochi. Since 2014, he has been working with the Kerala Forest Department, and has planted over 40,000 mangrove plants in Vypeen, Chellanam, Vallarpadam, Cherai, Mulavukad and Kadamakkudy. These small islands that form part of Kochi are home to 13 species of mangroves and they have been recording a steady decline in number. In Kerala, Kochi has the second largest mangrove cover (3.96 sqkm); Kannur has the largest area under mangrove cover (7.55 sqkm). Over a span of seven years, Murukesan, has been able to create awareness and mobilise support from local communities to start planting mangroves. He will be going on a seed collection drive by February-March. “That is the best season to collect seeds. The Forest Department is planning to rope in rural women’s collectives for the plantation drive next year.” Murukesan has been helping the Forest Department carry out mangrove surveys. “Only by making the public aware of the importance of mangroves can we get the message across,” he says. He has also been growing and planting casuarina trees since 2018, which also serve in protecting shorelines. He has planted over 20,000 saplings in the Elamkunnapuzha panchayat in Vypeen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mangrove-campaigner-murukesan-t-p/article38024882.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cut the flab||“Did you know that every fourth woman in Coimbatore is prone to diabetes?” asks Dr Adityan Guhan, a diabetologist in the city, quoting the National Health Survey report 2021 (fifth edition). “It’s a worrying trend,” he adds. As for the nutritional status of women in the age group of 15 to 49, the findings further indicate that about 50% of them are overweight or obese with a BMI exceeding 25. Sedentary lifestyle “Every second women is obese. And, their blood sugar levels are on the higher side. Women, especially homemakers in urban areas, have erratic food habits. Most homes have domestic help and cooks, and meal times are often an elaborate affair. A sedentary lifestyle makes it worse,” explains Dr Guhan, director of AGs Healthcare. He reveals that diabetes has skipped one generation. “A few decades ago, women above 50 were turning diabetic. Now, it is those in their 30s and 40s. This leads to polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), weight gain and irregularities in menstrual cycle.” Dr Praveen Raj, head of the department of bariartic surgery, Gem Hospital, says according to statistics, women are more obese than men, not just in India, but around the world. “It stems from a lack of awareness on weight gain during pregnancy and post-pregnancy. By the time they realise it they have gained weight, the body is already metabolically adapted to it,” he explains. Fitness goals Dr Praveen says though cities like Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Madurai and Erode fall in the same spectrum, people in Coimbatore seem more keen to lose weight. “Of every 10 patients I see every day, eight are women who fall in the age group of 25 to 45. Weight loss cannot be one’s short-term goal. There is no magic diet that fits all. Be it the GM, Meditteranean, keto or paleo, or intermittent fasting, diet routines keep evolving. Eat right every day and stick to a sustainable diet plan,” he advises. A meal plan where you replace rice (simple carbs) with fibre-rich millets (complex carbs) is a good way to begin, recommends fitness expert L Reshma, centre head of Pink Fitness. “We ask people to moderate portions of rice and increase protein intake. Restrict calorie intake to under 1800, and follow a weight loss plan recommended by dieticians. A balanced, nutritious diet rich in micro and macro nutrients, staying hydrated since water is essential for skin and hair care and muscle flexibility, being physically active, and reducing sugar and salt are vital.” Stay motivated Fitness is a step-by-step journey, says fitness coach Ratheesh Kumar R who made it to the International Book of World Records for doing the maximum push ups (with one leg raised and balancing weight on his back) in 30 seconds. “First, become an early riser, then progress to a brisk walk, run and jog. Self-motivation is the key.” Ajit Shetty of Score gyms in Chennai says that people have a strong interest in fitness. “A simple blood test helped one of my clients identify her Vitamin D deficiency that prevented her from losing weight. A master health check up is a prerequisite. Eat whenever your body demands.” A vicious cycle  While obesity and insulin resistance is a vicious cycle, Dr Adityan admits that making the switch to a healthy lifestyle helps. “But before that, a master health check up is recommended. Of the the 600 people (on home quarantine) whom we treated for COVID-19 we found that 30% (in the 35 to 45 years category) were diabetic and not even aware of it. Anyone above 30 should go in for a master health check up to take stock of their health. This way, we are saving a family.” An exclusive websitewww.kovaidiabetis.comlaunched by AGs Healthcare for diabetics in the city packs educative material in English and Tamil (in the form of sideshow as well as voice mode) and gives updates on latest studies on diabetes from across the world. An SOS button connected to a mobile number helps patients reach out for help immediately. A rescue team reaches home to give first aid. To know more, call 9943665556.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cut-the-flab/article38024873.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||March of the Santa Clauses Buon Natale, Thrissur||In 2013, two days after Christmas, Thrissur witnessed the spectacle of thousands of people dressed as Santa Claus marching along the main road. The procession also had sprightly carol singers, tableaux of the nativity scenes, children dressed as angels, folk art forms and brass bands. “It was a carnival, with caparisoned elephants, colourful parasols and heaving crowds,” says Joy KD, a resident of Thrissur, who went to see the Buon Natale that year. Since 2013, the Thrissur Archdiocese along with the Thrissur Pauravali (a citizen’s group) has been organising the colourful procession, which starts from St Thomas College Grounds and culminates at the Sakthan Thampuran Ground and lasts two to three hours. The highlight is thepeople dancing in red velveteen costumes with faux white fur and Santa masks. Buon Natale has become a part of Thrissur’s own Christmas experience. Much like the pooram and the pulikkali , it reflects the town’s identity. “We hope it will be held this year, adhering to protocol,” says Joy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/march-of-the-santa-clauses-buon-natale-thrissur/article38024887.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahul Sankrityan: ‘Byomkesh Bakshi’ to Guru Dutt, the references for Nani and Sai Pallavi’s ‘Shyam Singha Roy’||Yesteryear actor Uttam Kumar’s hairstyle, director Guru Dutt’s thin moustache, gelled curly locks and sparkling gaze, Satyajit Ray’s body language, and Kamal Haasan’s cuffs in Nayakan were among the several reference points for creating actor Nani’s look for the titular character in Telugu film Shyam Singha Roy . Director Rahul Sankrityan has been fascinated by the arts, cinema and culture of Bengal and when a story that takes place substantially in Bengal was pitched to him by writer Satyadev Janga, he perked up. “I loved the initial story and we built on it,” says Rahul. The film, releasing tomorrow, has a story that unfolds in two timelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rahul-sankrityan-byomkesh-bakshi-to-guru-dutt-the-references-for-nani-and-sai-pallavis-shyam-singha-roy/article38024864.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Away in a manger||It is almost 9pm and the December air pricks our skin. But R Shakthivel sits unperturbed by the roadside, slicing bamboo. He uses a sickle to make slivers that are around one inch wide. They will soon be shaped into tiny huts with a straw roof, inside which a manger will be placed for a baby boy. They will be done up with fairy lights, adding to the festivities on Christmas. Shakthivel is the go-to man for families in the city that follow the tradition of displaying the nativity scene at home. He has been making bamboo huts of various sizes that will hold the Christmas crib, for six years now. Shakthivel, his wife S Kavitha and daughter S Gomathi, work behind the St Antony’s shrine on Red Fields Road. “Bamboo craft is our family business,” says Shakthivel, adding that they make blinds, baskets, mats, bird cages, racks, among other artefacts, through the year. “For a month close to Christmas, we have our hands full with the kudil, ” says the 53-year-old. The Christmas huts are priced from Rs. 150 onwards and can go up to Rs. 650, depending on the size. “The smallest measures 10x10 inches,” says Gomathi. Just then, a customer stops by with her daughter. Kavitha sits down to nail three squares of bamboo her husband has fashioned, to form the structure of a hut. “We also supply to shops at Town Hall and Podanur,” explains Shakthivel, extracting a bamboo pole from a stack. The family arrives on the spot at 6 am in December, their peak season. “We work till 10 am, for now is when orders pour in through the day. We are trying hard to keep up,” says Shakthivel. “There is dinner to be made once we go back home,” sighs his wife, adding, “I also pack lunch for us every day.” Today, their lunch consisted of soya bean curry, rasam, and rice. Working with bamboo comes with challenges. Among them being splinters. “Oh, my fingers are full of them,” says Gomathy, showing us her right palm. “It is all part of the job.” The family works with prayerful sincerity. Says Shakthivel: “People use our huts to house Jesus, it is something precious. This thought runs in my mind as I work.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/away-in-a-manger/article38024868.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Straw, sheep, and a baby boy||The Christmas mass aside, there is one other thing that will keep the residents of St Antony’s Street in Puliakulam up until midnight. They will carry a baby Jesus statue, made of clay or porcelain, to the crib displayed at home and place it at the centre. “This happens at the stroke of midnight on December 24,” says Rosalyn Mary, a resident. St Antony’s Street, with lanes interlocked like braids, is made of close-knit houses right behind St Antony’s Church. Every year on Christmas, these lanes come alive with the nativity scene, lit up and displayed on tables in front of houses, by windows, at street corners… a massive set, complete with Santa, reindeer, and snow, is set up at the centre where the street branches out from behind the church. Rosalyn adds: “We wrap up the display after the ‘Three Kings Day’ in January, by cooking sweet pongal.” J Johnson has been displaying the set at home for 30 years now. “My brother did it, and now, I follow suit,” says the 40-year-old. Boys at St Antony’s Street pool in to buy ornate sets made of wood and polystyrene. College students M Sunsuman, M Selvast and gang are working on a crib. “We get together to create something beautiful, that everyone can stop by to admire,” says Sunsuman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/straw-sheep-and-a-baby-boy/article38024870.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Poached feta and a dash of natti pesto||Poached feta, roasted red peppers, and pickled olives served with focaccio, pita pockets make up the cold mezze platter that will be served as part of the seven-course festival menu at Cafe Diem, a vegetarian cafe in Coonoor. The platter also has a variety of dips including spinach artichoke dip, and sun-dried tomato pesto made with locally available natti tomatoes, and cous cous salad with mint tabbouleh and more. “We tweaked our existing menu with creative ideas to offer something exotic,” says Radhika Sastry, who owns Cafe Diem. While ingredients like asparagus and water chestnuts have been sourced from Bengaluru, others like artichokes, spinach, and beans like mocha kottai that are grown locally have also been used generously. “For the warm platter, we made falafels with three native varieties of beans. Our tarts are popular, so we added caramelised onion and artichoke tarts to the menu. There is spinach fatayer and cheddar stuffed mushrooms too. We also paid attention to bring in the greens and reds associated with Christmas.” Among soups, along with all-time favourite pumpkin coconut soup, there is velvety mushroom soup, and asparagus and mint veloute to choose from. “We have also added two salads in greens and reds. Roasted cheese balls made from goat cheese go into the Mediterranean salad with Sumac and olive oil dressing. The orange, water chestnut salad is served with orange juice and mustard dressing.” For the main course, diners can pick pizzas (that come with toppings like sun-dried tomato pesto, Parmesan, yellow cheddar and mascarpone) or pastas like goat-cheese stuffed ravioli in saffron sauce. “We roll our pastas in-house and avoid using ingredients out of a bottle. While we are constantly innovating, some of the classic ones like pomegranate cheese cake stay.”  The cafe is open from 11am to 6pm. On weekends, for dinner from 7pm. The festival menu is available from December 24 to January 2. Entry only on reservation. For details, call 9663849639/ 9845001111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/poached-feta-and-a-dash-of-natti-pesto/article38024877.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A feel-good skin routine||“Every single step—cleanse, extract, and hydrate —is patented and will be executed like clock-work,” assures Dr Janani Adityan, a certified dermatologist and founder of The Thol dermatological care. I have just agreed to try out the basic hydra facial as it promises to tackle hydration, discolouration, acne, and uneven skin texture “It’s a medically designed facial that is done by a doctor,” she adds and begins deep cleansing on my face with a vacuum-like hydro peel tip that cleanses the pores as well as hydrates the skin with botanical serums. It basically acts like a mini vacuum on my skin. “It’s called vortex-fusion technology. The vortex effect breaks apart and removes blackheads, whiteheads and sebum, allowing for quick and painless extractions. It releases a mild glycolic/salicylic acid blend that helps clear up acne spots,” explains Janani. The various steps of the facial is made possible by a machine that connects to a wand that the dermatologist glides over my face leaving my skin replenished. During the last step of the process, she uses a clear tip on the wand to apply collagen and an antioxidant serum into the skin to make it supple. Janani customises the suction power, toning it down a bit for the delicate areas of my face, like under the eyes to help boost circulation. The a 30-minute non-invasive treatment is in principle a regular facial but is fast, painless, and I walk away with an instant glow. There are offers for the festival season. For appointments, call : 8401455556.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-feel-good-skin-routine/article38024862.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Dhanush wants to play Rajinikanth||Koffee with Karan is back! Well, not quite. But a version of it, with a special Koffee Shots With Karan episode featuring Atrangi Re stars Dhanush and Sara Ali Khan, and of course, host Karan Johar. Karan begins the show by praising Dhanush for his National Award-winning performance in Asuran , and then the conversation moves on to the making of Atrangi Re , director Aanand L Rai, and even what Sara feels about the age gap between her and her male co-stars Dhanush and Akshay Kumar. In the rapid fire session that followed, Dhanush revealed that he would like to play his father-in-law Rajinikanth in the Superstar’s biopic, and also star in that of music legend Ilaiyaraaja’s! He also revealed he would like to remake his 2007 Tamil hit film Polladhavan , directed by Vetrimaaran, in Hindi, if given the chance. Dhanush’s Atrangi Re is scheduled for a premiere on Disney+ Hotstar on December 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dhanush-wants-to-play-rajinikanth/article38024863.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The right step||Regina Cassandra will be playing the role of dancer Mrinalini Sarabhai in SonyLIV’s show Rocket Boys . This will be her first Hindi OTT release. In a statement, she says, “Dancers have a certain body language, and it was a challenge to get it right. Mrinalini ji was a very dignified lady who was not prone to any dramatics, no matter what storm she was facing in her private life.” Rocket Boys, which also features Jim Sarbh and Ishwak Singh in lead roles, has been directed by Abhay Pannu and produced by Siddharth Roy Kapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-right-step/article38024865.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Gather around the casuarina tree||Beyond the clink of wine glasses, aroma of fruit cake, and the bauble-heavy trees sitting pretty in living room corners, Christmas in most Indian cities has a distinctive regional character from shared community meals to carols steeped in folklore. These smaller celebrations, which are far from the urban experience, capture the spirit of the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/gather-around-the-casuarina-tree/article38025266.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Mirroring worlds||Choi Ji Young’s translucent canvases of people walking up an alleyway and waiting for the subway leads this vast display. Click, zoom and scroll through adjacent walls to find surrounding works spanning mediums: from Korean rice paper to fabric and thread on canvas, there is a lot to see. In a virtual, pristine white, cursor-enabled “navigable” box, stand 22 such works — 11 from India, and 11 from Korea — by young, emerging artists. After a pandemic-induced break last year, this collaborative art show by InKo Centre in association with the Indian Art Museum in Seoul, titled Emerging Canvas is back for its seventh edition. Curated by Cupid Lee from Seoul and Vaishnavi Ramanathan from Chennai, the show had over 50 artists send in their portfolios. From this, 11 each were selected for the final display. The show that focusses on artists working with two-dimensional media (painting, drawing, printmaking and so on), attempts to identify talent that is yet to find a formal platform in the art world. There is no definitive running theme that ties the works together. But the spotlight was trained on “hopeful works” that look back on daily life lost because of the pandemic, or the dream of a bright future in an uneasy reality, says Cupid who curated the Korean section of the display. Vaishnavi, who curated the Indian section of the exhibit, adds, “Both of us focussed on young emerging talent while taking into consideration the larger social, political and artistic backdrop against which they work.” The possibility of refreshing ideas is what Cupid was specifically looking for: “Art is always craving a fresh start,” she adds. The collection is a mix of abstract, realist and surreal works. Gimesoo’s Forgotten World 1 catches attention with its dark blue and green tones, depicting a beautiful street view veiled in the night. A few canvases away is V Saranraj’s Oppari Singers’ Portraits — realistic etchings on the musical instrument,parai. Whereas Sagar Naik Mule’s Mind Of My Father is an unusual portrait that uses river mud, red soil, fish scales, dry mushrooms and pen on paper as mediums. “Saranraj from Tamil Nadu captured my attention for the way he engages with the people he portrays in his work. I was also impressed by the way he uses materials and techniques that organically emerge from the life of the people he portrays, to convey a broader vision of humanity,” says Vaishnavi. Vishwanath Kuttum on the other hand connects present day incidents, both from everyday life and larger socio-political events, with his childhood in the Andaman Islands in his work. And, Bang Gyu Tae, an artist who overcame developmental disorders as a child, paints his world with simple yet bright colours on canvas. How did a completely virtual display affect the show’s curation? Cupid says that high definition photos are used for the show — “So you can check the details of works that cannot be seen with the naked eye. The virtual art museum lets you appreciate works without being restricted by time and region.” In a physical show one has to be mindful of whether the works can be transported easily or accommodated within the given space. “In an online show, there is considerable freedom with regard to these aspects,” Vaishnavi adds.  On display till January 7, at www.inkocentre.org/Virtual_Connect_   Infotainment.html   The spotlight was trained on ‘hopeful works’ that look back on daily life lost because of the pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mirroring-worlds/article38025335.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A rugged hero and his scar return||Jack Reacher enters a town in the middle of nowhere. A woman is looking for her twin brother and there is a dirty bomb to diffuse. Better Off Dead (published by Penguin Random House) is the latest book in a series of thrillers detailing the adventures of an ex-military policeman who solves problems and gets rid of bad guys. Reacher, who was 36 in the first book, Killing Floor (1997), would be getting on in years now. “Early on in the series, I was scrupulous about making him a year older,” says author Lee Child (67) on a video call from Colorado, US. “There are 26 books now so technically, Reacher probably should have a walking stick by now. We do not mention the age anymore, and it seems to work well.” Lee’s brother, Andrew (53), who has been co-authoring the books since last year’s The Sentinel , chimes in from Wyoming, “We have to decide what kind of stories we want to tell based on what we think people want to read. They do not want to read about a geriatric guy staggering about with a walking stick”. (laughs)  Reacher is two things in one, Lee says. “He is an individual and a symbol, of the mysterious stranger, or the knight errant. We have got to make him up to date at the same time reminding people that this is a mythic figure that goes back thousands of years.” The collaboration the second time around has been easier, Lee says. “  I wanted to take advantage of Andrew coming on board, to make Reacher a little more modern in terms of technology. I am old fashioned and therefore so was Reacher. He only just discovered texting a few books ago. I said to Andrew, we have got to push Reacher forward a little bit in terms of technology. That gave us a narrower field to work in. We did not have any restrictions on Better Off Dead . That freedom made it an absolute blast.”  Better Off Dead begins with a James Bond kind of pre-credit sequence which ends with Reacher on a slab in the morgue. “When we started the book, most of our discussions were about the tone of the book. I had the idea for what ended up being the second scene, with a single tree, amongst these hundreds of miles of barren landscape and a crashed Jeep.” Andrew then thought there is a better way to do it. “I thought the only thing to do is to put it down on paper, and send it to Lee.” Big brother loved the idea and called it a killer opening.  In Better Off Dead , like all other Reacher books, the antagonist, Dendoncker, is particularly nasty. “There is a temptation to make the villain worse and worse,” says Lee. “What we try and do is the opposite of that. We worked hard to make the villain human and plausible, certainly nasty, but an identifiable type of person.” The key word is personal, says Andrew. “ In order to connect with the reader, you have to have that personal sense of repulsion, something that is going to engage you on an individual level.” Scar tissue The blast in Beirut that gave Reacher his scar makes an appearance in the book. “It is to remind people of his long and troubled history,” says Lee. “The scar was first mentioned in the second book, Die Trying , which is now 24 books ago.” Andrew says it works on two levels. “If it is the first Reacher book you pick up, you would find out about the scar and that is all you need to know. If you are a long-term Reacher fan, then it is like a reward, an Easter egg. It was personal to Reacher because he was injured and carries the scar. People around him were killed. It is not something that you could possibly walk away from.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-rugged-hero-and-his-scar-return/article38025334.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Jingle all the way||Feel free to call me: Santa Claus, St. Nick, Father Christmas, or just Santa.  Come, visit me: North Pole isn’t that far away!  I live with: Mrs. Claus, elves, and reindeer.  My vehicle is: The sleigh, and it’s the fastest vehicle in the world (it has to move at around 1,800 miles per second, to deliver gifts to the world’s 2.5 billion-odd kids).  My nine reindeer are: Dasher, Dancer, Prancer, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, Donner, Blitzen, and Rudolph  The German connect: Germany-born American illustrator, Thomas Nast, helped create my modern version that you all know and love — chubby, jolly, chubby, and wearing mostly red.  License to fly: In 1927, the U.S. government officially issued me a pilot’s license.  Canadian welcome: In 2013, Mrs. Claus and I were issued our own Canadian e-passports from Canadian Immigration Minister Chris Alexander.  When I am happy and I know it: I go ‘ho ho ho’ (not ha ha ha, in case people think I am laughing at them).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/jingle-all-the-way/article38025446.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Glitter and glow||Crowning glory:Tree toppers Let’s begin at the very top. The most common are stars and angels. The star is said to be a reference to the one that guided the wise men to the birthplace of Jesus Christ. Angels are an integral part of the very first Christmas. It is also believed that angels ward off evil spirits. Striped surprises:Candy canes Come Christmas season, and candy canes are everywhere. There are many theories about how this ornament (and treat) came about. For instance, it is said that the cane is “J” shaped, for Jesus. It is also said that the candy sticks were bent to look like a shepherd’s staff. Along the way, they became a popular tree ornament and a symbol of Christmas. Stuffed with goodness:Stockings For many, hanging up stockings is a favourite Christmas tradition. It certainly is a wonderful feeling to wake up knowing that it is filled with exciting goodies. Legend traces this custom to Saint Nicholas helping a poor family by dropping gold down their chimney. The three daughters woke up to find that the stockings they had hung to dry by the fireplace were filled with gold. A festive tradition was thus born. Sparkle and shine:Tinsel This shiny decoration originated in the 1600s in Germany, when people used strands of real silver to decorate their trees and reflect the candlelight. Silver, however, was expensive and lost its sparkly appearance quickly. Soon, people began experimenting copper, tin, aluminium, and lead, before ultimately adopting the light shiny material that we use today. Figures of strength: Nutcracker dolls Did you know that these soldier-like dolls originally had nothing to do with Christmas? The nutcracker doll originated in Germany where they were believed to bring good luck and protect homes. They gradually became popular outside Europe after World War II when soldiers returned home with souvenirs. The association with the Christmas season took off after the popular ballet “The Nutcracker” was performed on Christmas Eve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/glitter-and-glow/article38025456.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The lost lamb||One minute the lamb was there and the next it was not. “I saw it a moment ago,” said Tara to her brother, who was helping her arrange the figures in the replica of the manger. “Where on earth could it have gone?” Tarun, who was busy finding a suitable spot for a pair of pigeons on the rafters of the thatched roof, laid them aside. The two of them looked below stools and chairs and all over the folds of the cushioned sofa. They even sifted through the glittering ornaments that would soon adorn the Christmas tree. “Are you sure it was put away with all our other stuff last year?” said Tarun, after they had searched everywhere. “Did it get left behind after the festive season? If I remember right, I took down the bells, baubles, lights and tinsel while you were in charge of everything not on the tree.” Reminiscence Tara nodded. “I checked one by one to make sure that every piece went safely into the box. You know how attached we are to them. They may not be expensive but we’ve had them for years, and they are still so bright and beautiful.” “Of course, we’ve had to hide the broken ear of one of the wise men by positioning him behind the others,” smiled Tarun. “Then there’s Bessie, our cute but tailless cow.” He spoke lightly but was as upset as Tara that they could not locate the lamb. A casual observer might not have understood the siblings’ feelings. Apart from Mary and Joseph, the wise men and shepherds, there were sheep and cows and three stately camels. The lamb was among the smaller pieces, even tinier than the infant Jesus, who was at the heart of the stable setting. Everything seemed complete, even if the lamb was missing. But Tara and Tarun were not satisfied. “You remind me of the story in the Bible,” said their mother, who had been listening to the children from the kitchen. “Jesus said that a shepherd left his flock of 99 sheep to search for the one that was lost. He meant that every one of us is precious. If you look closely, you’ll see that your baby is curled up with the Baby in the manger. Appropriately enough, the lost lamb is seated beside the Lamb of God.”  The lamb was among the smaller pieces, even tinier than the infant Jesus...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-lost-lamb/article38025469.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Snowy w onders||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/snowy-w-onders/article38025472.ece
24 December 2021||A,||Who will pull my sleigh? And the winner is...||Story so far: The male reindeer realised that they had never pulled Santa’s sleigh during his Christmas rounds. They petition Santa and he organises a competition. The two teams are tied after the first round.  fter lunch, everyone was back for the magic show. Vixen and Magus, both renowned magicians, were called to the ring. Vixen performed tricks like Magnetic Pencil, Spoon Bending, Disappearing Coin, Appearing Coin and Is This Your Card? Though the crowd enjoyed them, the applause was weak. Magus came on stage dressed as a magician. He swept off his hat and bowed to the crowd. “My first trick for this evening is called Vanishing. For that, I need Mrs. Santa here beside me.” Magus asked her to sit on a chair and covered her with a sheet. He cast his magic and snatched off the sheet. The audience gasped. The chair was empty. “Where’s my wife?” shouted Santa, indignant. Magus shrugged. The crowd went wild. “Bring her back!” “Bring her back” they shouted. Santa felt a tap on his shoulders. He turned around. Imagine his surprise when he saw Mrs. Santa there, smiling at him. Of course, the winner of this round was Magus. It was now 2 – 1. The next contest was to see who could entertain kids best. Comet and Prince were known to be good with kids and so they were chosen. Prince was first. Confidently, he began his routine.  What did Santa say when he stepped into a big puddle? It must have reindeer.   What do Santa’s elves learn in school? The elf-abet . And more in the same vein. Initially, he had the audience laughing. But, as he went on, he drew fewer laughs until finally there was just a snigger. Comet had come prepared with a song and dance and finished off with a joke. Everyone enjoyed her show. Mrs. Santa announced that Comet was the winner. The competition was heating up. Both teams were even now. Events galore The next event was Kite Flying. Cupid and Swashbuckler were the participants. Santa explained that this would to test endurance and patience, stimulate the eyes. While Cupid and Swashbuckler were flying kites, Santa set a crossword for Blitzen and Klug, and a yoga competition for Olive and Bernard. Everyone watched in wonder as Olive and Bernard performed impossible feats, bending their bodies this way and that. The judges decided both were to be awarded the prize. Klug and Blitzen finished their crossword at the same time. It was another tie. Night had fallen and it was time for Bright Light. Rudolph and Lumiere, the ones with glowing noses, were the competitors. The winner, of course, was Rudolph. In the meantime, Cupid was getting tired of having to hold her kite and tied it to a bush. She lay down and had barely closed her eyes when she heard Swashbuckler shouting. Her kite was flying up into the sky. Swashbuckler was the undisputed winner. The teams were now equal. The final contest for the day was singing. Boomer was first. He stole everyone’s hearts with his rendition of The Christmas Song in his deep bass. It took a while for the applause to die down. Donner was nervous. Everything depended on her now. Her choice was O Holy Night . In the still of the early evening, her voice rang out. When she finished, there was pin-drop silence. Then, one by one, everyone began to clap until it rose to a crescendo and she got a standing ovation. Santa hummed and hawed and said, “How can I choose? Both of them sang so well. I am sorry, but once again it is a tie.” Tech Elf, always the one with doubts, asked, “So who will ride your sleigh?” Santa scratched his beard and looked around. “That is a problem!” To the rescue Meanwhile, the kitchen elves brought out hot steaming soup in a large tureen. As the elves lifted it onto the trellis table, the legs collapsed. The soup bowls, the tureen and the elves came down in a tumbling heap. The elves screamed as they were sprinkled with hot soup. Everyone gasped, stunned by the disaster. Dasher, Prancer, Dancer, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, Donner, Blitzen, Rudolph and Olive ran over, picked up the elves, applied first aid on their wounds, mopped up the fallen soup, put back the table and, in no time set, everything to rights again. Fresh soup was brought and everyone sat around enjoying it and talking. When they finished, Santa went on stage. “I am now ready to announce the winners.” Santa rubbed his palms together. He looked at Team A and Team B ... each of them willing him to call out their names. “The competitions proved that both teams were equally smart and talented. And then, we were faced with a calamity. Team A came to the rescue. They acted on instinct. They worked as a team. They showed care and concern. That’s what I need in my team of reindeer.” The audience burst into a loud cheer. Team B went up to Team A and congratulated them. Team A had tears in their eyes as they realised how close they had come to losing their cherished place in Santa’s Christmas circuit.  The End   Santa felt a tap on his shoulders. He turned around. Imagine his surprise when he saw ...   When she finished, there was pin-drop silence. Then, one by one, everyone began to clap...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/who-will-pull-my-sleigh-and-the-winner-is/article38025450.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Merry Christmas!||Across  1 “____ Bells!” — Christmas song (6) 4 Yule___: another name for Christmas (4) 6 This is decorated at Christmas (4) 9 A grand festival meal (5) 12 “Feliz _____!” — Say it in Spanish! (7) 14 ___nog: Christmas beverage (3) 15 Dickens character who hated Christmas (7) 17 Are you on Santa’s “___” or “naughty” list? 20 Where Jesus was born (6) 21 Gold, Frankincense, ___: Gifts from the Magi (5)  Down  1 “___ to the World” - Christmas carol (3) 2 We ____ and receive presents on Christmas (4) 3 December 24th is Christmas ___ (3) 4 A melody (4) 5 “12 ____ of Christmas” — Christmas song (4) 7 What bells do (4) 8 Santa’s helpers (5) 9 A temporary craze (3) 10 ____ wise men visited baby Jesus (5) 11 Red and ____: Christmas colours (5) 13 “Rockin’ ____ the Christmas tree” — Christmas song (6) 16 Happiness (4) 18 “The Holly and the ___” — Christmas carol (3) 19 ___muffs keep you warm in the winter (3) Solution on page 15||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/merry-christmas/article38025453.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Eat, drink and be merry||Ingredients  Eggs4 Sugar1/2 cup Milk2 cups Vanilla extract1tsp Grated nutmeg a pinch  Method  lBreak the eggs into a large saucepan and add the sugar and one cup of milk. Whisk till it combines well. lNow place the saucepan over medium heat and cook. Don’t let it boil; keep stirring till it thickens. lRemove from heat and pour into another bowl. Add the other cup of milk and vanilla and stir well to mix. lAllow this mixture to cool. Once the heat is gone, refrigerate for at least 3-4 hours. lServe in individual glasses. Note:You can add flavourings like powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg or toppings like whipped cream or a spoonful of chocolate sauce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/eat-drink-and-be-merry/article38025464.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Demystifying IB||How does the International Baccalaureate (IB) curriculum help students succeed both professionally and personally? This was the subject of Demystifying IB, a webinar held recently in association with The Hindu In School. Educators pointed out that, though the decision to follow an international curriculum can be quite daunting for a school, the IB’s Diploma Programme (DP) and Career-related Programme (CP) map closely to the National Education Policy of India (NEP 2020) and are a progressive approach to education. Both programmes are recognised by local and global universities. The panel of experts, which included Girdhar Kumari, Principal of Sanskar School in Jaipur, pointed out that both programmes could be adapted to the local context and there are many opportunities within each to celebrate local culture as well as the personal experiences and perspectives of both students and educators. The alumni, who spoke during the session, also shared how studying the IB curriculum provided a foundation for critical thinking, problem solving and service learning that they apply in their current careers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/demystifying-ib/article38025477.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article38025479.ece
24 December 2021||A,||Who will pull my sleigh? And the winner is...||Story so far: The male reindeer realised that they had never pulled Santa’s sleigh during his Christmas rounds. They petition Santa and he organises a competition. The two teams are tied after the first round.  fter lunch, everyone was back for the magic show. Vixen and Magus, both renowned magicians, were called to the ring. Vixen performed tricks like Magnetic Pencil, Spoon Bending, Disappearing Coin, Appearing Coin and Is This Your Card? Though the crowd enjoyed them, the applause was weak. Magus came on stage dressed as a magician. He swept off his hat and bowed to the crowd. “My first trick for this evening is called Vanishing. For that, I need Mrs. Santa here beside me.” Magus asked her to sit on a chair and covered her with a sheet. He cast his magic and snatched off the sheet. The audience gasped. The chair was empty. “Where’s my wife?” shouted Santa, indignant. Magus shrugged. The crowd went wild. “Bring her back!” “Bring her back” they shouted. Santa felt a tap on his shoulders. He turned around. Imagine his surprise when he saw Mrs. Santa there, smiling at him. Of course, the winner of this round was Magus. It was now 2 – 1. The next contest was to see who could entertain kids best. Comet and Prince were known to be good with kids and so they were chosen. Prince was first. Confidently, he began his routine.  What did Santa say when he stepped into a big puddle? It must have reindeer.   What do Santa’s elves learn in school? The elf-abet . And more in the same vein. Initially, he had the audience laughing. But, as he went on, he drew fewer laughs until finally there was just a snigger. Comet had come prepared with a song and dance and finished off with a joke. Everyone enjoyed her show. Mrs. Santa announced that Comet was the winner. The competition was heating up. Both teams were even now. Events galore The next event was Kite Flying. Cupid and Swashbuckler were the participants. Santa explained that this would to test endurance and patience, stimulate the eyes. While Cupid and Swashbuckler were flying kites, Santa set a crossword for Blitzen and Klug, and a yoga competition for Olive and Bernard. Everyone watched in wonder as Olive and Bernard performed impossible feats, bending their bodies this way and that. The judges decided both were to be awarded the prize. Klug and Blitzen finished their crossword at the same time. It was another tie. Night had fallen and it was time for Bright Light. Rudolph and Lumiere, the ones with glowing noses, were the competitors. The winner, of course, was Rudolph. In the meantime, Cupid was getting tired of having to hold her kite and tied it to a bush. She lay down and had barely closed her eyes when she heard Swashbuckler shouting. Her kite was flying up into the sky. Swashbuckler was the undisputed winner. The teams were now equal. The final contest for the day was singing. Boomer was first. He stole everyone’s hearts with his rendition of The Christmas Song in his deep bass. It took a while for the applause to die down. Donner was nervous. Everything depended on her now. Her choice was O Holy Night . In the still of the early evening, her voice rang out. When she finished, there was pin-drop silence. Then, one by one, everyone began to clap until it rose to a crescendo and she got a standing ovation. Santa hummed and hawed and said, “How can I choose? Both of them sang so well. I am sorry, but once again it is a tie.” Tech Elf, always the one with doubts, asked, “So who will ride your sleigh?” Santa scratched his beard and looked around. “That is a problem!” To the rescue Meanwhile, the kitchen elves brought out hot steaming soup in a large tureen. As the elves lifted it onto the trellis table, the legs collapsed. The soup bowls, the tureen and the elves came down in a tumbling heap. The elves screamed as they were sprinkled with hot soup. Everyone gasped, stunned by the disaster. Dasher, Prancer, Dancer, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, Donner, Blitzen, Rudolph and Olive ran over, picked up the elves, applied first aid on their wounds, mopped up the fallen soup, put back the table and, in no time set, everything to rights again. Fresh soup was brought and everyone sat around enjoying it and talking. When they finished, Santa went on stage. “I am now ready to announce the winners.” Santa rubbed his palms together. He looked at Team A and Team B ... each of them willing him to call out their names. “The competitions proved that both teams were equally smart and talented. And then, we were faced with a calamity. Team A came to the rescue. They acted on instinct. They worked as a team. They showed care and concern. That’s what I need in my team of reindeer.” The audience burst into a loud cheer. Team B went up to Team A and congratulated them. Team A had tears in their eyes as they realised how close they had come to losing their cherished place in Santa’s Christmas circuit.  The End   Santa felt a tap on his shoulders. He turned around. Imagine his surprise when he saw ...   When she finished, there was pin-drop silence. Then, one by one, everyone began to clap...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/who-will-pull-my-sleigh-and-the-winner-is/article38025483.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||DKJ and his distinct style||D.K. Jayaraman (DKJ) was a singer whose simple, chaste and all-encompassing music enthralled rasikas. His concert format was traditional, yet his rich repertoire and bhakti-laden presentation brought in an element of emotion that audiences connected with. In a series of lec-dems and concerts on musical doyens, organised by Rasika Ranjani Sabha, Dr. S. Sunder, vocalist and disciple of D.K. Jayaraman, took the listeners on a guided tour into DKJ’s music. Sunder spoke about the definitive sangatis that DKJ conceived for each line in the kritis, the virtuosity of the laya aspects that merged seamlessly with the sahitya, and his endearing qualities as a musician. Minute aspects highlighted Dr. Sunder, accompanied by his disciples J.B. Keerthana on vocals and J.B. Shruthisagar on the flute, illustrated even minute aspects, such as the subtle modulations in voice that DKJ used to suit the mood of the compositions and his unchanging patanthara. K. Arunprakash on the mridangam joined in to demonstrate DKJ’s grip on laya and the 1/4 and 3/4 edams that he blended perfectly with the conventional swara phrases. Dr. Sunder sang Muthuswami Dikshitar’s ‘Guni janadinuta guruguhodaye’ in Gurjari raga, using the line ‘Rajakumaram’ of the Abheri kriti ‘Bhajare re manasa’ to bring out the variation in DKJ’s voice output, followed by a recording of DKJ’s kalpanaswaras in ‘Birana varalichi’ (Kalyani) to exhibit the precise rhythm shift from the samam (on the beat). He recalled seeing Lalgudi Jayaraman wipe tears off his face during a concert in Coimbatore with DKJ, when the latter rendered Thanjavur Sankara Iyer’s ‘Manadirkugandhathu’ in Sindhubhairavi. When the lec-dem ended with Dr. Sunder singing DKJ’s timeless ‘Nambi kettavar evarayya’ in Hindolam, the maestro’s music seem to reverberate in the hall. Later that evening, N. Vijay Siva, DKJ’s star disciple, presented a concert in memory of his guru. The singer provided an elevating experience, showcasing his own abundant creativity while upholding the patanthara. The first song was ‘Guruleka etuvanti’ in Gowrimanohari, a homage to the guru. The concert was structured in a way that the first part consisted of classic kritis, then came one hallmark composition as the main piece, then short compositions immortalised by DKJ in the finale. If the rendition of Tyagaraja’s ‘Sripathe neepada’ in Nagaswarali with niraval and swarams at the charanam ‘Rajadi raja’ kicked off the line-up, Vijay Siva’s Asaveri alapana made listeners speculate on the kriti that would follow. Although Tyagaraja’s ‘Maapala velasi’, Annasami Sastri’s ‘Sri kanchi nayike’and ‘Kadaikkannal irangi’ from Arunachala Kavi’s Rama Nataka keertana are all DKJ insignia, Vijay surprised the gathering with ‘Sharanam sharanam raghurama’, another keerthana from Rama Natakam. A full-scale elaboration of Harikamboji followed. Vijay traversed the raga with a firm hold on its grammar and without a trace of repetition. Annamacharya’s ‘Itha dokkade’ with the beautiful niraval at ‘Kaliki yashodaku’ could easily be identified with his guru’s original version. Similarly, the grand Kalyani alapana filled with abundant creativity got huge applause. It was an easy guess here — Syama Sastri’s ‘Birana varalichi’ with the DKJ stamp. The swarams at ‘Shyama krishna sodari’ were deceptively simple, but astute, in the charming tisra gati in which the kriti is originally rendered. It showed the hold on laya handed over by the guru to his disciples. A sedate ‘Ramachandra raghunandana’ in Nilambari, composed by Mysore Sadasiva Rao, served as a prelude to a splendid Bhairavi and the signature composition ‘Raksha pettare’ from the DKP-DKJ treasure trove. Launching straight into kalpanaswaras without a niraval, Vijay unleashed his manodharma through absorbing segments in Adi tala with changes in nadais. L. Ramakrishnan on the violin keenly observed the singer’s style and responded with equal poise, especially in the Kalyani and Bhairavi alapanas, earning well-deserved appreciation. A breeze of phrases from Syama Sastri’s Swarajati in the kalpanaswara section of Bhairavi was refreshing. Vijay’s younger sibling Manoj Siva, who also learnt from DKJ for a brief period, was on the mridangam, providing evidence of his training during the Asaveri keerthana, and when he highlighted the ideas of the vocalist and the violinist in the Bhairavi kriti. B.S. Purushotham on the kanjira joined him in enhancing the experience, and played with excitement in the tani avartanam.  Focus on tukkadas Like DKJ, Vijay Siva also gives importance to tukkadas, and he sang Periyazhwar’s Thirumozhi ‘Vaanilavarasu vaikuntha kuttan’ in ragamalika with Shanmukhapriya and Mohanam; and when he anchored in Jhonpuri, it had to be Bharati’s ‘Asai mukham marandhu poche’ in the typical fast-paced DKJ style. The other uruppadis that Vijay Siva presented that evening included Dikshitar’s ‘Ehi annapurne’ in Punnagavarali in a contrasting slow speed, the Paras raga javali ‘Chelinenetlu sahintune’ by Pattabhiramaiah, and the Thiruppugazh verses ‘Nirai mathi mukhamenum’ in Hamsanandi. The Chennai-based writer reviews Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dkj-and-his-distinct-style/article38024851.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Thodi at its best||Art gets easily weathered by the times that it exists in. Technology rains into every art experience, with its allied features — speed, visual appeal, embellishment, skills display, and more. Do these impact only artistes of a certain dispensation? Not really, it is more or less democratic in the way it engulfs almost everyone, barring a few. Sikkil Gurucharan is among that few. The tone and texture of his music remains untouched by the current affectations, as he demonstrated at a recent Kartik Fine Arts concert. Bustle-free but rich in emotion, he opened the concert with the Sahana varnam ‘Karunimpa’. It was followed by the Dikshitar kriti ‘Harihara Putram’ in madhyama kala. Unlike the normal trend, Gurucharan didn’t race through the kriti but rendered it reflectively. Detailed yet crisp Simhendramadhyamam received a good exposition, detailed yet crisp. As a raga that lends itself to elaboration, it provides ample opportunities to the musician. The higher octave rishabam received due attention, there were cascading gamaka phrases, logical development, and ample pauses to help the connoisseur absorb the entire experience; followed by a competent development on the violin by V. Sanjeev. The highlight was certainly the Tamil composition, ‘Illam oru sthalam’. There are so many popular Tamil compositions in Simhendramadhyama (‘Ellam inbamayam’ by MLV), but what Gurucharan sang was by the almost forgotten composer Muthu Thandavar, regarded as one of the Tamil Trinity. He sang with feeling and his highly imaginative swaraprastara — even at third speed — never left the overall mood of the composition. He displayed musical prowess, but also held his place as a sensitive musician. Tyagaraja’s kriti in Umabharanam, ‘Nija marmamulanu’, came in breezily, giving a slight twist to the mood. However, Gurucharan is a musician who captures and holds on to emotions, so even when he sings a mood changer, the overall mood of the concert remains. Thodi was the centrepiece of the concert. A complex raga, with a majestic build, Thodi has a grand presence in the Carnatic music system. Gurucharan negotiated the raga with long, meditative phrases and short brigas, gradually moving towards the higher notes. ‘Thamadham en swami’ by Papanasam Sivan, another Tamil composition, has stunning renditions by the legendary GNB and his disciple MLV, and Gurucharan sang it ably. His niraval in the anupallavi, ‘bhoomi manavaalanam’, was rich with imagination, as he deployed emotion and intellect equally, without making a show of virtuosity as is often the case during niraval. Even his swaraprastara with its short, medium and long formations was engaging. The violinist’s able contribution in these portions must be noted. The expertise of the two percussionists — Chidambaram Balashankar and Trichy Murali — stood out during the tani avartanam. They worked in contrast, switching nadai and speed in their individual expositions, making it a good tapestry of imagination. ‘Momu jopura’ in Behag was evocative in the ragamalika portions before the main composition. It worked around the idea of interpretation in music, but the main piece itself was a bit dull. Sikkil Gurucharan is a musician who is steady and consistent in pursuits. Those who have heard his Madirakshi (2006), a contemporary classical music experiment with pianist Anil Srinivasan, know his endeavours as a serious musician. He has retained his seriousness, unsullied by contemporary pressures. Barring a few slips in sruti and some phrases that bordered on ‘light’, it was a good concert.  The Bengaluru-based writer   specialises in classical music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/thodi-at-its-best/article38024855.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting the essence right||To position Varali in the middle of a one-hour concert and be able to do justice to the raga’s reposeful character requires skill and not just talent. Trivandrum N.J. Nandini showed she had this on the inaugural day of The Music Academy’s festival. Well into the 22nd minute came the centrepiece. The alapana straightaway tapped the essence of the raga — an approach characteristic of Nandini’s gurus and allied to the late Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer’s style. A chunk of the phrases revelled in the conventional expressions around the raga’s zig-zag notes during ascension. The upper portion would have been more appealing had the musician been a little more open-throated. Sriram Sridhar on the violin responded well, though his alapana, which spanned half of Nandini’s seven minutes, ended rather abruptly. Perhaps a brief spell of shrillness from the bow at the upper register distracted him. Tyagaraja’s ‘Maragata manivarna’ was the main composition. The speed was a bit faster than what is customary, but Nandini justified it by arriving at the ideal tempo for the niraval. The charanam, ‘Prema rasamu’, brought out some of Varali’s time-tested shades, which spilled over to a neat swaraprastara. The end round of this solfa section wove a string of tricky patterns, leaving Sriram often struggling to reproduce it on the violin. Karthick Ganeshraman on the mridangam acted as a bridge between the vocalist and the violinist, eventually filling well his solo tani avartanam in Adi tala. Overall, it was a 37-minute package. A breezy start Nandini began with a brief alapana of Devamanohari, again getting to the core of the raga in the very first phrase. ‘Yarukkuthaan theriyum’ (Gopalakrishna Bharathi) ensured a breezy start. Accentuating it was a flurry of frills that displayed the vocalist’s capacity to suitably deviate from the weighty manners of her guru Parassala B. Ponnammal, who passed away six months ago. Sriram and Karthick were doubly attentive while playing down the compact swaraparastara. Begada was the sub-main. The raga’s classical grandeur found a glimpse in the nano alapana ahead of ‘Kadaikkan vaithennai’ by Ramaswamy Sivan of the late 19th century. The undulations innate to this Sankarabharanam-janya raga were showcased best in the swaraprastara that glittered in the Semmangudi style. Nandini’s adherence to it apparently traces to her guru Kumarakerala Varma, a frontline disciple of Semmangudi. A couple of off-key notes did not mar the session, yet a stronger application of voice could have made the negotiations bolder and helped the gamakas gain further clarity. After the tani avartanam came ‘Enthu njaniha cheyvu’. The unhurried Irayimman Thampi padam, tuned to Nilambari, found added charm in Nandini’s light voice that suited the mood of the nayika in the composition. Also evident in the rendition was the special affinity a musician from Kerala would have for a Malayalam composition.  The Kerala-based reviewer focuses on music and dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/getting-the-essence-right/article38024839.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Young, adventurous and vibrant||S. Srivathsan’s concert for Mudhra was a blend of melody and creativity. He was able to sustain a sense of involvement throughout the concert, and surprised the audience with a few compositions that are rarely heard these days. Apart from the Ragam Tanam Pallavi, Tyagaraja’s Husseini kriti ‘Rama ninne namminanu’ and ‘Ennaiyum varachonnaro’ from Arunachala Kavi’s Rama Nataka keerthanai set in Manirangu stood out. Srivathsan opened the concert with Tiruvottriyur Thyagayyar’s varnam ‘Karunimpa’ in Sahana. After presenting the Husseini composition, he moved on to a short alapana in Latangi raga and followed it up with Patnam Subramania Iyer’s ‘Aparadhamulanniyu’. Set in a pleasant tempo, the niraval at the charanam ‘Vega nannubrovu’ and the nifty kalpanaswaras added charm to the song. Following a leisurely ‘Ananda natana prakasam’ in Kedaram, one of Muthuswami Dikshitar’s Panchabhuta kritis with jatis embedded in the chittaswaram, Srivathsan went on to explore Bilahari and a fairy popular composition by Tyagaraja, ‘Dorakuna ituvanti seva’ with a niraval and some abundant swarakalpana at ‘thamasa guna rahita’. Impressive kalpanaswara Vaibhav Ramani’s essay of Bilahari as well as his janta prayogams in the kalpanaswara segment were impressive. Boldly venturing into Nagavalli for detailed delineation, not usually taken up for pallavi, the young singer charged it with tanam in Andolika and Madhyamavathi as a ragamalika. Vaibhav’s interpretation of these ragas was brilliant. Srivathsan took the lines ‘Marimari ninne moralida’ from one of Tyagaraja’s compositions as pallavi and sang it in Misra chapu. He moved from Nagavalli to Kamboji, the raga in which the kriti is originally set and then to Saramathi, the raga in which the kriti was rendered in the popular film Sindhu Bhairavi . The lyrics ‘Mari mari’ offered good scope for swaraksharam in different octaves. Though Srivathsan managed fairly well in the trikalam part, it was a rollercoaster ride in the kalpanaswaras, as he juggled the three ragas. T.R. Sundaresan on the mridangam and D.V. Venkatasubramaniam on the ghatam alternated between delicate and dynamic playing to suit the mood of the compositions. The duo presented a demonstrative tani avartanam during the Bilahari composition and another short robust one during the RTP. Periyazhwar’s Thirumozhi, ‘Aanirai meikka’ in Ananda Bhairavi, Kalyani, Sama and Sindhu Bhairavi was presented as prelude to Suddhananda Bharati’s ‘Andha naal ini varumo’. Srivathsan concluded the vibrant concert with the Tiruppugazh ‘Thullumada vetkai’ in Hamsanandi. The Chennai-based writer reviews Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/young-adventurous-and-vibrant/article38024841.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bringing alive the Andal imagery||Margazhi, the month of a cultural and religious flowering, is also when saint-poet Andal is celebrated. Her image is so deeply entrenched in the repertoires of classical dancers that they keep returning to the Thiruppavai verses to choreograph solo or group productions. Urmila Sathyanarayanan’s recent presentation ‘Godha’, staged as part of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s Natya Utsavam, combined verses from Thiruppavai and Nachiyar Thirumozhi. It is always a challenge for the dancer to interpret these familiar works in her own distinct way. Urmila’s choreography fell back on interesting group formations and tableaux, which are popular with audiences. ‘Soodi kodutha sudarkodiye’, the opening lines to which a group of young girls danced in joyous abandon, introduced us to Andal’s birth and her early years, and was a segment marked by graceful movements. Three dancers depicted Andal at different ages, which made for dramatic viewing. The transition from child to young girl to a mature woman (portrayed by Urmila) came through seamlessly in the movements and narrative. As the older Andal, Urmila impeccably conveyed the emotions of love laced with bhakti. Familiar sequences such as the young girls playing, going down to the river for Margazhi Neeradal, Andal stringing garlands for Krishna and then wearing it herself were all there. The incorporation of popular songs like ‘Oruthi maganai pirandhu’, ‘ Karpuram narumo’, and ‘Vaaranam aayiram’ into the narrative kept the momentum alive. A strong musical team for themes such as this inspires the dancers and the emotions are transmitted to the audience as well. Venugopal’s melodious and expressive voice breathed life into the verses. Sai Kripa Prasanna’s jathis were powerful and restrained, in tune with the requirements of the sequence. Guru Bharadwaj on the mridangam, Kalaiarasan on the violin, and Sruthisagar on the flute lent sheen. The success of a production depends on other factors as well, such as music, lighting, costume, and choreography. The lighting design by Murugan used a play of strong light and shade as well as an appropriate colour palette, which enhanced the visual impact of the production. A simple colour scheme of red and green for the costumes was both traditional and aesthetic. A little more intense abhinaya in the sequences that highlighted Andal’s emotions would have helped the production move beyond the realm of visual appeal and leave a lasting impact.  The Chennai-based reviewer writes on classical dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/bringing-alive-the-andal-imagery/article38024847.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A well-balanced concert||Shertalai Ranganatha Sharma’s concert was pleasing not just for his selection of ragas and compositions but also in how he balanced the concert between the various songs. Beginning his recital with G.N. Balasubramaniam’s Ranjani varnam ‘Amboruha padame’, he moved on to Dikshitar’s ‘Panchamathanga’ in raga Malahari. An essay in Abhogi with the kriti ‘Ni keppudu daya vachuno’ by Mysore Sadashiva Rao highlighted the raga’s charm. Ranganatha Sharma provided a poignant niraval at ‘Samayamu juchi delpu vaarevaro’, embellishing it with a few rounds of kalpanaswaras. An inspiring Begada Begada, yet another inspiring melody, was taken up for detailing. The singer rendered Subbaraya Sastri’s ‘Sankari neeve’, with its chittaswaram and sahityam, with a great deal of depth. Ranganatha Sharma and violinist B.U. Ganesh Prasad exchanged some inspiring swara sallies here on the line ‘Kanakadri sadana dina’. The concert’s highlight was raga Kalyani, which offers musicians immense scope to explore its nuances in individually distinct ways. Ranganatha Sharma offered a powerful alapana of Kalyani, with Tyagaraja’s ‘Endugo nee manasu’ as the composition. He laid a great foundation with the exhaustive niraval and kizhkala swaras, allowing him to go on to powerful melkala swaras centered on ‘nishadam’ with multiple combinations. It was a rich exercise in every aspect — from raga essay to kriti rendition and niraval to swaraprastara. Ganesh Prasad on the violin was equally sharp, and his responses to the vocalist’s projections were commendable. Thanjavur Murugaboopathy on the mridangam and S.V. Ramani on the ghatam are well-known percussionists, and they made their presence felt. Their tani avartanam was smartly framed with an eye on the clock. The concluding piece was Ambujam Krishna’s passionate piece ‘Enna solli azhaithal’ in Kanada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-well-balanced-concert/article38024853.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Songs of Shiva||Vocalist S. Saketharaman’s recent virtual concert for ‘Yours Truly Margazhi’, organised by the Federation of City Sabhas, stood out as a blueprint in the genre of thematic concerts. Saketharaman, who trained under veteran violinist Lalgudi Jayaraman, succeeded in structuring the theme of ‘Arudra Darisanam’ well. He began with Sundaramurthy Nayanar’s thevaram verse on the lord of Kalahasti, ‘Sendaadum vidaiyaay sivane’, in a lilting Pantuvarali set to Rupakam. Niraval was at the pallavi and the swaras were rhythmical. This was followed by Tyagaraja’s ‘Ee vasudha’, in raga Sahana. This piece on Kovur Sundareswara has a charming chittaswara. Unhurried presentation Next, Saketharaman presented a detailed and unhurried Yamunakalyani alapana, which gave him ample scope to showcase the raga’s bhakti bhava. On the violin, H.N. Bhaskar responded with a soft elucidation, full of life. Dikshitar’s Panchabhuta linga kshetra kriti, ‘Jambupathe’, on the deity at Tiruvanaikaaval was a lively rendition. Saketharaman then sang Kanakadasar’s ‘Siva Siva Siva enneero’, which he had set to tune in Charukesi. The piece de resistance of the concert was a ragamalika Ragam Tanam Pallavi in Revathi, Sama and the rare raga, Sivasakthi (created by GNB), set to khanda jathi Ata tala. The seamless transition between ragas in all three segments made the presentation interesting. Saketharaman evoked each raga with exceptional craftsmanship, bringing out their beauty. The pallavi, again thematic, was ‘Thakathim thakitathim enre thandavam, jhanuthim thajhanuthim enre lasyam, aadidum Sivasakthiyai panivom’, with the three phrases set in three ragas. After a comprehensive swaraprastara in all three ragas, Saketharaman rendered swaras in Nilambari and Atana, and the swaras in Kumudakriya concluded with the sahitya, ‘Ardhanareeswararai panivom’. Thereafter, he threw a surprise by singing back-to-back swaras and swara kuraippu in twin ragas like Thodi-Dhanyasi, Bhairavi-Mukhari, Kedaragowla-Surutti in durita kala. The concluding round of swaras in the original three ragas was spellbinding. It should be mentioned that H.N. Bhaskar effectively stood up to every challenge of the vocalist, with prompt swara statements. In alapana, tanam, niraval or swaraprastara, one musical phrase glided into another, thus revealing the singer’s adherence to classicism. The thani by N.C. Bharadwaj (mridangam) and G. Guruprasanna (kanjira) showcased their fine sense of laya. Both injected a lot of pep into the concert, interspersing rhythm particularly in the intricate Pallavi. Vaidyanathan played the tambura for the concert. Next came Swati Tirunal’s Hamsanandi composition, ‘Sankara srigiri natha prabho ke’, whose lyrics explore the magnificent dance of Shiva in the Chitra Sabha. It was followed by a virutham based on Pattinathar’s verse from Ekamba Maalai , ‘Nallaar inakkamum’ on Ekambranathar of Kanchipuram; and a Gnanasambandar thevaram, ‘Oorthirai velai ulaavum’ on the Thiruvathirai celebration at Kapaleeswarar temple. Saketharaman wound up the two-hour concert with Gopalakrishna Bharathi’s ‘Tha thai enru’ in Sindhubhairavi, on the Nataraja deity in Chidambaram. A lot of research and planning must have gone into this well-executed thematic concert.  The Chennai-based reviewer specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/songs-of-shiva/article38024835.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A margam based on Vasudevachar’s songs||The Dhananjayans’ Bharatakalanjali will premiere its new work, ‘Vasudeva Gana Sudha’, on December 26 (9.30 a.m.) at Kalakshetra. Hailing from the musical lineage of Tyagaraja, Mysore Vasudevachar was associated with Kalakshetra and composed music for the institution’s monumental Valmiki Ramayana series. The Dhananjayans have created a Bharatanatyam margam based on a few rare keerthanas from his more than 500 compositions, which are mainly in Sanskrit and Telugu. The natyacharyas, inspired by Vasudevachar’s singing and teaching at Kalakshetra, with Shanta learning directly from his disciple Prof. D. Pasupathy, have revived some compositions with the help of violin exponent T.K. Padmanabhan, who was also in Kalakshetra during Vasudevachar’s tenure. “We have chosen rare ragas, uncommon talas, and songs attributed to different deities,” say the couple. Bharatakalanjali alumni including G. Narendra, Sreelatha Vinod, Shobana Bala and Divya Siva have choreographed the solo pieces while the group performances by senior students have been choreographed by the Dhananjayans. A pada varnam dedicated to N.S. Jayalakshmi is the centrepiece. The orchestra will be led by Shanta Dhananjayan and Radha Badri.  ‘Vasudeva Gana Sudha’ will also be performed at Narada Gana Sabha on December 27 (6.30 p.m.) and at Vani Mahal on January 19, 2022 (6.30 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-margam-based-on-vasudevachars-songs/article38024843.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Steeped in tradition||Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s cultural festival closed with a vocal concert by Priya Sisters, Shanmukhapriya and Haripriya. The sisters maintained the ‘sowkhya bhavam’ they are known for through their traditional and lively presentation, choosing a few rare kritis and some popular ones. The very first Ata tala varnam, the rare ‘Manchi panadhiraa’ in Hindolam by Harikesanallur Muthaiah Bhagavatar, was a surprise inclusion. Tyagaraja’s Sanskrit composition, ‘Maara Vairi Ramani’, in Nasika Bhushani on Dharmasamvardhini of Thiruvaiyaru followed majestically. After a pleasing alapana in Yadhukulakamboji, the sisters sang ‘Adi kaadu bhajana’ (meaning ‘that is not bhajan’), another rare composition by Tyagaraja. The saint-composer is in a chastising mood and makes it clear to those who indulge in a pompous show of devotion that this is not the ‘real’ bhajan. Papanasam Sivan’s kriti ‘Kaana vendaamo’ in Sriranjani came up next, where the composer tells people to visit Chidambaram and worship the deity at least once in their lifetime. ‘Hiranmayeem lakshmeem’ in Lalitha by Muthuswami Dikshitar and ‘Valli nayaka neeve’ in Shanmukhapriya by Harikesanallur Muthaiah Bhagavatar were presented with a fairly elaborate raga alapana, niraval and swaraprastaras. If Lalitha was gentle, raga Shanmukhapriya was bright and cheerful. The niraval brought out the hidden layers of the raga swarupa while the swaraprastaras were sprightly and enjoyable. M.A. Krishnaswamy on violin, Patri Satish Kumar on mridangam, and Madippakkam Murali on ghatam added value to the concert with some wonderful support. Each one of them was at their best, showing both skill and restraint. There was also admirable camaraderie on display, as they appreciated each other’s performance. The haunting melody of ‘Podikanenadu podachuno’ by Annamayya and Bharati’s ‘Chinnanjiru kiliyae’ lingered long after.  The Mengaluru-based reviewer writes on Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/steeped-in-tradition/article38024837.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tamil play||Mylapore Arts Academy presents Stage Creations’ Tamil play, ‘Honeymoon Couple’, on December 25, 6.45 p.m. at Dakshinamurthy Auditorium, P.S. High School, Mylapore. Written by ‘Crazy’ Mohan, the play, will be staged as part of Isari Velan Endowment drama. Kathadi Ramamurthy plays an employee, who hates to work. And when his boss fires him he sets out on a trip to Ooty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tamil-play/article38024830.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Annual series||As part of its annual festival, Madhuradhwani features a series of music concerts and lecdems at Arkay Convention Center, from December 24 to 30, 6.30 p.m. The programmes can be watched live on the Center’s YouTube channel and Facebook page. The concerts by up-and-coming artistes will be featured from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and those of seniors, at 4.30 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. respectively. Veteran vocalist T.V. Sankaranarayanan’s concert will take place today at 6.30 p.m. Veteran dancer-scholar Padma Subrahmanyam presents her lecdem ‘Lalgudi’s compositions for dance music — My experience’ tomorrow at 6.30 p.m., and the debate ‘Isaiyum Naanum’ with musician Neyveli Santhanagopalan as the moderator will be held on December 30, 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/annual-series/article38024832.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Anniversary concert||Sri Mannargudi Sambasiva Bhagavathar Cultural Trust presents the 20th year anniversary programmes on December 25, 5.30 p.m., at Sri Thiagaraja Sangeetha Vidwath Samajam, Mylapore. K.N. Ramaswamy, director, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chennai, inaugurates and presents the ‘Gana Kala Siromani’ award to Prapancham S. Balachandran (flute), Kalakkad R. Thyagarajan and Namagiri Ramesh (vocal) and Vasantha Krishnamurthy (veena). Tiruvidaimarudur S. Radhakrishnan and K.R. Ganesh will receive the ‘Laya Kala Siromani’ award. The vocal concert by Kalakkad brothers will follow. For details call 2498 7432.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/anniversary-concert/article38024833.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Award for TVG||Chennai Fine Arts honours veteran musician T.V. Gopalakrishnan with the ‘Gotuvadyam Narayana Iyengar Award for Excellence’ and the ‘Digvijaya Nadavani’ title at the annual music festival to be held on December 30, 5.30 p.m. at Srinivasa Sastri Hall, Luz, Mylapore. The evening programme will also feature a special Chitravina concert by N. Ravikiran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/award-for-tvg/article38024859.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Four-day seminar||Kalakshetra Foundation presents ‘Kala Samprekshana’, the fourth national seminar on performing and visual arts, at Kalakshetra Foundation till December 26. A series of lecture demonstrations by senior dancers will be featured at the four-day seminar, which was inaugurated yesterday. Today’s session begins at 9 a.m. with Kalamandalam Rachitha Ravi’s lecture on Mohiniyattam - ‘Angika Abhinaya based on Balaramabharatham’. This will be followed by veteran guru and choreographer Kumudini Lakhia’s lecture ‘Evolution of vocabulary in Kathak’ at 10 a.m., Dr. Raghuraman’s ‘Sanga Ilakyangalil Natyam’ (10.55 a.m.) and Manasi K. Bhatkhande’s ‘Rasas in Malavikagnimitram’ (11.40 a.m.) Gayatri Kannan’s ‘Vritti and Pravritti as seen in the Natyasastra’ (9 a.m.), Dr. Radha Bhaskar’s ‘The Aesthetics of Carnatic Ragas’, (9.45 a.m.), K. Nirmala Nagarajan’s ‘Bhava Niyamanam’ (10.30 a.m.), and Prof. M. Meenakshi’s ‘An overview of Chithrakathi and Innerflow Paintings’, (11.05 a.m.) will take place tomorrow. For details contact 24521844 or log on to Kalakshetra’s website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/four-day-seminar/article38024844.ece
24 December 2021||December 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Sridevi Nrithyalaya’s five thematic productions||December Season is when dancers come up with new productions or revive their propular works. After a hiatus of more than a year, students of Sridevi Nrithyalaya, the dance school of guru Sheela Unnikrishnan, gear up to present a five-day dance festival, ‘Rangaanubhavam’, from December 28 to January 1, 6.30 p.m., at Vani Mahal, T. Nagar. A series of thematic productions will be featured at the festival and 85 students will participate. The curtains will go up with ‘Arunachala Kavi’s Rama Natakam’, by the senior students on December 28, 6.30 p.m. Songs from Arunachala Kavi’s magnum opus will be presented in the margam format. Apart from the traditional pieces, a few rare songs have also been included, which are set to tune by musicians Srikanth Gopalakrisnan and Guru Bharadwaj. Day two will feature ‘Saranya Margam’ with bhakthi compositions. Sridevi Nrithyalaya’s maiden dance production, ‘Bala Ramayanam’, will be staged again on December 30. It traces the life of Rama from his birth to his marriage with Sita. Lyrics are by Kaadhalmathi in Tamil, and music, by Balabharthy. The next day’s performance (Dec. 31) is themed on Krishna. ‘Sri Krishna Yogam’, to be performed by 35 students, will showcase interesting episodes that will highlight Krishna’s leelas and Krishna bhakthi. The five-day event concludes on January 1 (non-ticketed), at 7 p.m. with the thematic production, ‘Srinivasa Kalyanam’. The dance drama brings together events that lead to the grand wedding of Srinivasa and Padmavati. Padmadevan has penned the lyrics and violinist Embar Kannan has composed the music. ‘Rangaanubhavam’ is a ticketed show (except for January 1). Tickets are available at BookMyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/sridevi-nrithyalayas-five-thematic-productions/article38024857.ece
