25 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Gurdwara staffer held in Kapurthala lynching||The police on Friday arrested one person and booked him on murder charge in connection with a group of people beating a man to death in Kapurthala, dismissing the claim of possible sacrilege. The lynching took place on December 19 at Nijampur village, where the person was beaten to death over an alleged attempt to commit sacrilege of Nishan Sahib (Sikh flag) at a gurdwara. With no evidence of sacrilege, the police arrested gurdwara caretaker Amarjit Singh who said on the day of the incident that he had seen the deceased attempting to disrespect the Nishan Sahib . The man was later killed by a group of people. The post-mortem report said he had mostly 30 injuries, mostly cuts likely to have been inflicted by sharp-edged weapons. Inspector-General of Police, Jalandhar Range, Gurinder Singh Dhillon said Amarjit Singh had been arrested on murder charge. There was no evidence of sacrilege, and the police had now amended and added new offences to the FIR, which include Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The case has been registered against nearly 100 people. Earlier, the FIR was registered under Section 295 A (acts intended to outrage religious feelings) of the IPC. To ascertain the victim’s identity, his samples were being put to DNA testing, Mr. Dhillon said. In Chandigarh, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi stated that no sacrilege attempt had been found. “There’s no evidence that showed sacrilege,” he said at a press conference. Joint probe in court blast In the Ludhiana court complex blast case, in which one person was killed and six sustained injuries, the Central and State agencies have started a joint investigation. Union Minister for Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju visited the blast site and took a briefing on the incident from Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and other senior officers. He said the Union and the State governments were jointly investigating the case. “The Union government is taking the blast incident case very seriously as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has showed concern towards the incident. I personally spoke to Mr. Channi over the phone today and has assured him full support in the investigation. An in-depth and professional probe is under way and the perpetrators of this crime would be identified soon,” he added. He refrained from going into the technical details of the ongoing investigation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gurdwara-staffer-held-in-kapurthala-lynching/article38033199.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||UAPA not to be invoked in Haridwar hate speech case||A day after the Uttarakhand police registered a first information report (FIR) regarding a religious event in Haridwar where calls were made for violence against Muslims, State Director-General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said on Friday that the hate videos had been pulled down from Facebook. The FIR named Wasim Rizvi, alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, as an accused as it was based on a complaint filed by a local resident, who only mentioned “Wasim Rizvi and others”, he said. The programme was held between December 17 and 19. The police registered the case under Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), with a maximum punishment of five years. Mr. Kumar denied that the case was registered under milder sections. He told The Hindu that sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) were not invoked as the event did not lead to any killings. “We have invoked both Section (i) and (ii) of Section 153 A IPC in the FIR. We have to go by law, cannot invoke UAPA as the event did not lead to any violence or killing.” Asked about children brandishing swords and tridents, he said: “They are traditional things. They did not procure any weapon nor any weapon factory was found…. it is all part of investigation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-uapa-to-be-invoked-in-haridwar-hate-video-case/article38033207.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man’s private parts chopped off by ‘wife’s’ kin||Had the police sheltered Raman and his “wife” on the night of December 22, he would have been spared the horror and trauma he underwent soon after, his family said on Friday. The woman’s family members accosted the couple on the road, took them away from Rajouri Garden to Sagarpur and thrashed him mercilessly and chopped off his private parts. Neena, the 21-year-old’s mother, was inconsolable at her residence in a narrow lane of Transit Camp in Raghubir Nagar. “It’s as bad as dying,” she said of his plight. Run-up to attack Recalling the run-up to the attack, Ms. Neena said Raman had left the house on December 11 after which they didn’t hear from him. Reasoning that he must have gone away with his girlfriend, the family didn’t report him as missing, she said. On the night of December 22, Raman’s brother Aakash received a call stating that his brother has been beaten up and is lying near a drain in Sagarpur. Aakash reached the spot and found his brother semi-conscious and bleeding from several places. He brought him home to Tagore Garden where Raman showed that his private parts have also been chopped off. “We immediately took him to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. They referred him to AIIMS Trauma Centre where he is undergoing treatment,” Raman’s younger brother Mohit said. Raman told the family that he had gone to Rajasthan with the woman and the two got married in a court. On December 22 evening, the couple returned and went to Rajouri Garden police station seeking help. “They told the officials that their lives are under threat from by the woman’s family but the police told them not to worry and turned them away,” Ms. Neena said, adding that they have heard that the woman’s family was informed about the couple’s presence in the police station by the officers. After the couple left the police station, they were stopped by the woman’s family and forcibly taken to Sagarpur where Raman was thrashed and his private parts chopped “to teach him a lesson”. The family said the couple had met on Facebook and had eloped earlier in May this year also but were caught by Raman’s family before they left Delhi. “We handed the girl over to her parents, so the matter didn’t escalate,” the mother said. Ms. Neena believed the woman’s parents were against the alliance because “they are rich and we are poor”. Police have arrested two women, including the grandmother and aunt of Raman’s girlfriend, in connection with the case and are looking for the other family members who are absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mans-private-parts-chopped-off-by-wifes-kin/article38033390.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,||FinTech Governing Council holds first meet||The FinTech Governing Council, constituted by the State government, had its meeting on Friday under the chairmanship of Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu. Steps to be taken to make Tamil Nadu a leading State in the FinTech sector were discussed with the experts in the field, according to a release. The members held detailed discussions on the initiatives to be undertaken with specific focus on development of talent and skill development for fintech, and guiding fintech start-up ecosystem and encouraging user adoption in digital payments. Constitution of the sanctioning authority for incentives and endorsing applications for funding under fintech policy was discussed at the meeting. Council vice-chairman and Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Official Members of the Council, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries Department S. Krishnan, Principal Secretary to the Finance Department N. Muruganandam, MSME Secretary Arun Roy, MD and CEO of Guidance Pooja Kulkarni and City South Asia MD Balaji Nuthalapadi, Wall Street Investment Banking Corporation director Sundar Kannan, and former CMD of Cognizant Ramkumar Ramamoorthy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fintech-governing-council-holds-first-meet/article38033294.ece
25 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM/KAKINADA,||Two more Omicron cases in State||Two persons tested positive for Omicron in the State, with Visakhapatnam and East Godavari district reporting their first cases of the virus. Viskhapatnam district recorded its first case on Thursday. According to a communication from the Director Public Health on Friday, the infected person returned from the UAE on December 15. He was admitted to a private hospital with mild fever on the same day and tested COVID-19 positive on December16. The samples were sent to CCMB, Hyderabad, for genome sequencing and the result was declared as Omicron positive on December 23. Meanwhile, he recovered and was discharged on December 22. He is said to be stable and is in quarantine under close observation of the health department. A 39-year-old woman, who arrived in Vijayawada from Kuwait on December 19, tested positive for Omicron virus. She belongs to Inavalli mandal in the Konaseema region in East Godavari district. East Godavari District Medical and Health Officer K.V.S. Gowreeswara Rao said the health condition of the patient was stable and she was now under ‘home isolation’. The four family members of the woman, believed to be the primary contacts, have tested negative for Omicron, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-omicron-cases-in-state/article38033202.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC to review U.P. situation next week||A day after the Allahabad High Court requested the Election Commission to postpone Uttar Pradesh polls, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said on Friday the EC would visit the State next week for a review.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ec-to-review-up-situation-next-week/article38033241.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poll panel to review U.P. situation next week||A day after the Allahabad High Court requested the Election Commission to postpone Uttar Pradesh polls, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said on Friday the EC would visit the State next week for a review.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poll-panel-to-review-up-situation-next-week/article38033203.ece
25 December 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh: 40 dead as ferry catches fire||A crowded three-storey ferry carrying around 800 passengers caught fire on the Sugandha River in southern Bangladesh early on Friday, killing at least 40 people and injuring over 150 others. The fire broke out in the engine room of the ferry, police and fire service officials said, adding that scores of other passengers were missing. Officials said they were carrying out the autopsy of the 30 people at Jhalakathi’s main government hospital ahead of handing them over to relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bangladesh-40-dead-as-ferry-catches-fire/article38033234.ece
25 December 2021||Srinagar,||Hizbul militant killed in gunfight in J&K||A Hizbul Mujahideen militant, involved in the killing of an inspector and BJP workers among others, was killed in an encounter with security forces in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. Shahzad Ahmad Seh, a resident of Sehpora in Kulgam, was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of the shootout, a police spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hizbul-militant-killed-in-gunfight-in-jk/article38033235.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Most fatal road crashes in evening in Bengaluru’||The city’s infamous traffic-choked roads reported most fatal accidents in the evening; and two-wheelers, pedestrians, and bicyclists account for nearly 90% of the total fatal accidents, revealed a seven-year analysis. The fatality risk analysis of vulnerable road users in Bengaluru by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) indicated that the maximum number of road crashes occurred in the evening peak hours. For the study, first information reports for seven years from 2011 to 2017 were analysed. The report was prepared by Ashish Verma, convenor, IISc Sustainable Transportation Lab and his team. “The maximum fatalities occurred between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m., and the peak hour was 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. There is high traffic volume, and people are usually returning home after office hours,” the analysis said. The main reason could be fatigue and rash driving, thus increasing the risk, the analysis said. Males and females accounted for 84% and 15% of the fatalities. The age and gender-wise distribution showed high risk for the 21 to 29 age group, and more than 40 years for males. In the case of females, 40 to 59 age group was the most vulnerable. The ‘who-hit-whom matrix’ shows that two-wheelers, pedestrians, and bicyclists accounted for nearly 90% of the total fatal accidents. “Vulnerable road users (VRUs) share the same road space with other motorised modes, thus, raising the risk of fatality. The increasing motorisation levels pose a great threat to VRUs. Major threats to VRUs are two-wheelers, cars, buses and heavy goods vehicles as these motorised modes account for maximum crash fatalities,” the report said. Further, two-wheeler road users are also observed to have faced risk from right-of-way elements including median, kerb, electric posts, etc. Two-wheeler to two-wheeler interaction-based fatality is also considerably high. In case of pedestrian fatalities, the major threat is from two-wheelers, followed by cars and SUVs, states the report. The report has been prepared by Prof Ashish Verma Convenor of IISc Sustainable Transportation Lab and his team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/most-fatal-road-crashes-in-evening-in-bengaluru/article38033236.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Festive spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/festive-spirit/article38033478.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,||Security beefed up in city||The City police have beefed up security in view of Christmas and New Year celebrations with immediate effect. Police personnel have been deployed at all important junctions and near shopping malls. Plainclothesmen are also being deployed alongside uniformed personnel. Patrol has been strengthened within all police station limits. Night patrol has been intensified by deploying 23 control room vehicles and 22 station mobile units. Foot patrol units and traffic police have also been roped in. Offences like over-speeding, traffic violations, and illegal parking will be strictly dealt with. Steps have been taken to check the sale and distribution of prohibited items, while anti-socials will be kept on a tight leash. Police surveillance has been heightened to detect robbers from other States who roam around during festive seasons. Women and pink police have been deployed for preventing atrocities against women and children, said Aishwarya Dongre, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kochi City. Women in distress could contact the police either through the Nirbhaya App or the emergency number 112. Information on drug peddlers can be passed on through the Yodhav app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/security-beefed-up-in-city/article38033531.ece
25 December 2021||MANGALURU,||27-yr-old who tested positive now tests negative||A 27-year-old man from the city, who was found positive for COVID-19 Omicron variant after his return from Ghana, has been found negative for COVID-19 in the first RT-PCR test done on Friday. The result of the second RT-PCR test will be available on Saturday. The man, who returned to the city on December 16 via Dubai, underwent rapid test that showed him positive for COVID-19. He was asymptomatic and was kept in isolation at the Government Wenlock Hosptial. The genomic study of his sample showed on Thursday that he was infected by Omicron. As per the protocol for Omicron, an RT-PCR test each will be done on ninth and 10th day of isolation and released if both tests show patients negative for COVID-19. After being discharged from hospital, patients are advised to be under home quarantine for seven days, said District COVID Nodal Officer H. Ashok. Dr. Ashok said that 17 primary contacts of the 27-year-old man from Dakshina Kannada have tested negative for COVID-19 and are quarantined. Reports of RT-PCR test carried out on the eighth day of their quarantine on Thursday are awaited, he said. 33 new cases Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada on Friday reported 20 new COVID cases, which includes two students who are primary contacts of COVID-19 patients. With 14 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 166. Test positivity rate was put at 0.28%. In Udupi district, 13 new cases were reported of which 12 patients are from Udupi taluk and one from Kundapur taluk. While 12 patients are in home isolation, one patient is in the designated care centre. With four patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 37.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/27-yr-old-who-tested-positive-now-tests-negative/article38033607.ece
25 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||BJP State Executive in Hubballi||After a decade, Bharatiya Janata Party’s State Executive meeting will be held in Hubballi and is scheduled to take place on December 28 and 29. A preparatory meeting was held in the city on Friday. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi, State General Secretary of BJP Mahesh Tenginakai said that the State Executive meeting will deliberate on organisational issues and steps to be taken for further strengthening the party in the State. Various national level leaders of the BJP are scheduled to participate in the meeting. He said that because of the pandemic, State Executive meetings were not held of late. Mangaluru, Belagavi, Shivamogga and Davangere are the other cities that have hosted the State Executive meeting of the BJP so far. Nearly 600 delegates, including Ministers and legislators, are expected to participate in the State Executive meeting. Meanwhile, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi, the former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Handloom, Textiles and Sugar Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and others took part in a preparatory meeting pertaining to the State Executive meeting here on Friday. Mr. Shettar said 37 committees have been set up and responsibilities allocated to them to ensure that the meeting is held successfully and without any hassles. Mr. Joshi emphasised the need for cutting unnecessary expenditure and throwing focus on highlighting the good work done by the BJP Government. The programme should be conducted in such a way that it should be appreciated by the people of Hubballi-Dharwad. In the exhibition, projects pertaining to the region, including the bypass road and IIT, should be highlighted, he said. He said that because of the pandemic, State Executive meetings were not held of late. Mangaluru, Belagavi, Shivamogga and Davangere are the other cities that have hosted the State Executive meeting of the BJP so far. Nearly 600 delegates, including Ministers and legislators, are expected to participate in the State Executive meeting. Preparatory meeting Meanwhile, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi, the former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Handloom, Textiles and Sugar Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and others took part in a preparatory meeting pertaining to the State Executive meeting here on Friday. Addressing the volunteers, Mr. Shettar said that 37 committees have already been set up and responsibilities allocated to them to ensure that the meeting is held successfully and without any hassles. Mr. Joshi emphasised the need for cutting unnecessary expenditure and throwing focus on highlighting the good work done by the BJP Government. The programme should be conducted in such a way that it should be appreciated by the people of Hubballi-Dharwad. In the exhibition section, important projects pertaining to the region, including the bypass road and IIT, should be highlighted, he said. Mr. Joshi said that Union Minister Nitin Gadkari is expected to come to Hubblali on January 10 for inauguration of the bypass road and for initiating other works. MLA and president of Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagar Zilla Unit of the BJP Arvind Bellad presided over the meeting. Mahesh Tenginakai, Lingaraj Patil, Nagesh Kalburgi and other office-bearers of the BJP were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-state-executive-in-hubballi/article38033460.ece
25 December 2021||Mysuru,||Commotion at minority-run school||Activists belonging to Hindu outfits created commotion at a minority-run school in Pandavapura in Mandya district alleging conversion of students and disrupted the Christmas celebrations. The incident occurred on Thursday. Though the school authorities denied there was any conversion, activists insisted on that based on anecdotal evidence and statements purportedly made by primary school children. One of the activists belonging to the Hindu Jagarana Vedike cited the remarks of the parent of a student to reiterate his allegations and later said that a complaint would also be lodged with the Education Department and the local Block Education Officer. A video of the incident has gone viral on the social media and the activists are heard questioning why they do not have idols of Hindu deities. The incident comes close on the heels of the Legislative Assembly passing the anti-conversion Bill much to the chagrin of the Opposition. Incidentally, Mysuru Bishop K.A.William had expressed concern recently that the law was needless and could be used to target minorities and frame innocent people belonging to the minority communities, on charges of conversion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/commotion-at-minority-run-school-in-mandya-district/article38033268.ece
25 December 2021||MADURAI,||Madurai Bench to hear plea by ex-Minister’s sister||Acting Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Munishwar Nath Bhandari has clarified that the petition filed by K. Lakshmi, sister of former Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, could be heard by Justice G.R. Swaminathan as per the roster. Earlier, the State had contended that the matters related to sitting and former MLAs and MPs should be placed before the Special Bench in the Principal seat in Chennai. Hence, the matter was referred to the ACJ for clarification. The clarification note said an MP or an MLA was not a party to the petition. For the mere reference of relation to the political person, who might be an ex-Minister, the matter would not fall in the jurisdiction of the Special Court. Ms. Lakshmi sought a direction to Virudhunagar police not to harass their family members or relatives in the name of inquiry. Justice G.R. Swaminathan had directed Virudhunagar police not to summon the former Minister’s family members or relatives, who were not named in the FIR. The police had picked up the family members for inquiry, and later let them off. Virudhunagar police are on the lookout for the former Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/madurai-bench-to-hear-plea-by-ex-ministers-sister/article38033435.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Half of tested Omicron cases had 2 doses’||With India identifying nearly 358 cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19, an analysis of 183 of them by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) found that nearly half of those infected were fully vaccinated. A little over a quarter had no international travel history but had likely come into contact with those infected. None of those evaluated had severe disease symptoms, with close to 73% of them marked as ‘asymptomatic’. Of them, 60% were men. These numbers were disclosed at a press briefing by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. So far, the Omicron variant has been confirmed in 17 States. Maharashtra has reported 88 cases, followed by Delhi (67), Telangana (38) and Tamil Nadu (34). A third of those confirmed with the variant have been discharged. “What we’d like to emphasise is that the dominant one in India continues to be the Delta variant. Being infected with Omicron doesn’t necessarily mean severe disease and the treatment of those symptomatic continues to be the same as before,” said Dr. Balram Bhargava, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/half-of-tested-omicron-cases-had-2-doses-icmr/article38033233.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,||Conversion Bill held back from Council||The BJP government in Karnataka, which had kept everyone guessing on whether it would table the controversial Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, in the Legislative Council, decided against doing so in the Winter session that concluded on Friday. It is expected to be taken up in the next session by which time the BJP’s strength in the Upper House would have gone up. The saffron party currently lacks the numbers here to push through the legislation without hurdles. Following the recent elections to the Local Authoriteis’ Constituency, the BJP’s strength would go up to 37 from 32 post January 5 in the 75-member House. Congress’s strength would decline from 29 to 26 and JD(S) from 10 from 12. On Friday, speculation was intense since the House convened that the Government would table the Bill. As it was the last day of the session, a few members of both the ruling party and the Opposition had left early. The BJP had plans of tabling the Bill and have it passed if a large number were absent on the Opposition benches. While the Legislative Assembly was adjourned sine die before lunch, the Council was adjourned for lunch to meet at 3 p.m., suggesting that the Government would take up the Bill. Members of both the ruling party and the Opposition were seen making efforts to call back those who had already left. BJP called back Deputy Chairman M.K. Pranesh, among others, while the Congress too was making similar efforts. A few members, who had booked flight tickets, were asked to cancel and stay back. Even as both the parties were engaged in increasing their strength, Leader of the House Kota Srinivasa Poojary met Chairman Basavaraj Horatti in his chamber and sought some more time so that the party members could reach the House, prompting the Chairman to delay convening the House. As the House did not reassemble till 4 p.m., Congress members under the leadership of Leader of the Opposition S.R.Patil met the Chairman and accused the Government of “killing time” to ensure their members returned. However, when the House met, Mr. Poojary said he wished to convey his regards to all the members whose term would end on January 5. The Opposition benches termed Mr. Poojary’s move only a strategy to kill some more time. They demanded that the House be adjourned sine die, leading to another round of arguments. To resolve the issue, Mr. Horatti adjourned the House for five minutes and convened a meeting of floor leaders. In the meeting at the Chairman’s chamber it was decided that the Government would not table the Bill this time. Mr. Poojary conveyed the same when the House reassembled. It would be taken up for debate in the next session, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/conversion-bill-held-back-from-council/article38033201.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Half of Omicron cases vaccinated’||With India identifying nearly 358 cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19, an analysis of 183 of them by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) found that nearly half of those infected were fully vaccinated. A little over a quarter had no international travel history but had likely come in contact with those infected. None of those evaluated had severe disease symptoms, with close to 73% of them marked as ‘asymptomatic.’ Of them, 60% were men. These numbers were disclosed at a press briefing by the Union Health Ministry on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/half-of-omicron-cases-vaccinated/article38033197.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Constable caught running two-wheeler theft racket||A police constable had allegedly been running an organised two-wheeler theft racket using two minor boys whom he had sheltered in his house. Magadi Road police arrested Honnappa Duradappa Malagi, 28, from Ranebennur, Haveri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/constable-caught-running-two-wheeler-theft-racket/article38033238.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Fate of MDS admissions hangs in the balance now||The fate of many admissions to postgraduate dental courses in Karnataka hangs in the balance after the Dental Council of India (DCI) has said that there would be no extension of the cut-off date for admissions for the 2021-22 academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fate-of-mds-admissions-hangs-in-the-balance-now/article38033239.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||All eligible people given first vaccine dose: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Capital has taken a monumental step in the fight against COVID-19 by administering the first dose of vaccine to 100% of its eligible population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-eligible-people-given-first-vaccine-dose-cm/article38033388.ece
25 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Consumers should have knowledge of rights’||Emphasising the need for consumers to have knowledge of their rights, Assistant Commissioner of Dharwad Gopalkrishna B. has said that because of lack of knowledge, they are often cheated by some traders and service providers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/consumers-should-have-knowledge-of-rights/article38033462.ece
25 December 2021||Kolkata,||Binay Tamang joins Trinamool Congress||Two prominent leaders from the Darjeeling hills, among them former chairman of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) Binay Tamang, on Friday joined the Trinamool Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/binay-tamang-joins-trinamool-congress/article38033391.ece
25 December 2021||Mumbai,||Night curfew imposed in Maharashtra from today||Maharashtra has announced night curfew from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. beginning December 25 in view of rising number of COVID cases. This was announced in the State Assembly on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-imposed-in-maharashtra-from-today/article38033567.ece
25 December 2021||Mysuru,||MUDA reclaims land in early morning operation||Close on the heels of reclaiming vast swathe of land following a court instruction recently, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) on Friday took possession of 6.14 acres of land near Vijayanagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muda-reclaims-land-in-early-morning-operation/article38033618.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,||Sparks fly over NK, UKP on last day of session||The last day of the Legislature session saw Opposition accusing the Government of ignoring interests of north Karnataka, especially the Upper Krishna Project (UKP), and a dharna by the Congress seeking more time to discuss the subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sparks-fly-over-nk-ukp-on-last-day-of-session/article38033619.ece
25 December 2021||Mysuru,||Winter chill sets in, temperatures dip||The winter freeze with early morning chills is being experienced in Mysuru and other parts of south interior Karnataka since the last few days. Gloves and sweaters are back in vogue and the number of morning walkers has taken a dip while a few wait for the sun before venturing out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/winter-chill-sets-in-temperatures-dip/article38033621.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Call for PM to break silence on hate speech||The silence of the political leadership over hate speeches against Muslims and a call for genocide at a religious conclave in Haridwar is deafening, say rights groups, Muslim organisations and eminent citizens. “We condemn the government turning a blind eye to the open threat call against the Muslim community. They have posed a threat to the peace and communal harmony of the country. I demand strong action must be taken against the organisers and various speakers,” said Maulana Madani, president, Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind in a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, the National Human Rights Commission and the National Commission for Minorities. A Muslim women’s rights group, Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan, demanded that the Prime Minister break his silence on the issue. “The Prime Minister must urgently unequivocally condemn the speeches made at Haridwar and reassure the nation that all Indians would be protected from any threats of terror. The Prime Minister must direct the Home Ministry to take urgent action against the Haridwar culprits and put them behind bars,” the BMMA said in a statement. It added that the Prime Minister must ensure exemplary punishment and send a clear message that India is a lawful democracy. Former Chief Election Commissioner, S.Y. Quraishi said the incident has put the government on test. Direct call “The fringe elements are increasingly becoming mainstream and are able to get away with blatant hate and communal speech. The police, State and Central government are on test and we will see what action is taken against the organisers. There couldn't have been a hate speech worse than what we saw. This is a direct call for genocide,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-for-pm-to-break-silence-on-hate-speech/article38032907.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poll panel to visit U.P. next week||A day after the Allahabad High Court requested the Election Commission (EC) to postpone the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly election due to the threat of the Omicron variant, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said on Friday that the EC would visit the State next week to review the situation. Mr. Chandra was speaking at a press conference in Dehradun during a two-day visit to Uttarakhand to review the preparations for the Assembly election in the State, also scheduled for next year. The EC had visited Punjab and Goa recently for similar reviews and is set to visit U.P. next week. Asked about the Allahabad High Court’s request, Mr. Chandra said he had been informed that Uttarakhand had one case of Omicron so far. He reiterated the EC’s measures for making elections COVID-safe and said the commission would take action as per the Constitution and the Representation of the People Act, 1951. According to Section 153 of the RP Act, the EC can “for reasons which it considers sufficient” extend the time for completing any election by making the necessary amendments in its notification. That, however, is not applicable now as the elections for the five States where polls are due in early 2022 — Manipur, Goa, Uttarakhand, U.P. and Punjab — have not been announced yet. Article 324 of the Constitution vests powers of “superintendence, direction and control” of conduct of elections in the Election Commission. Bihar precedent The demand for postponing elections was raised by some political parties in 2020, ahead of the Bihar election, the first Assembly polls to be held during the pandemic. However, the EC had gone ahead with polls as the total lockdown in the country had been lifted, though COVID-19 guidelines were in place. However, byelections to 18 Rajya Sabha seats had been deferred in March 2020 as the country was under lockdown. Elections are supposed to conclude before the term of the legislature is scheduled to end, for which the EC starts preparations in advance. The Constitution provides for the option of extending the duration of a State legislature beyond the five-year term in case there is a Proclamation of Emergency for a period of one year at a time. In case the EC cannot hold elections, it would inform the Centre and the State could be placed under President’s Rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poll-panel-to-visit-up-next-week/article38032923.ece
25 December 2021||Srinagar,||Hizb militant killed in gunfight in J&K; live ammunition found||A Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) militant, alleged to be behind multiple attacks in south Kashmir, was killed in an encounter in the Bijbehara area of Anantnag on Saturday. A police spokesman said Shahzad Ahmad Seh from Sehpora in Kulgam was killed and the body retrieved from a site in the Mominhall Aarwani area. No surrender “During a search operation, he was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, he denied surrender opportunities and instead fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated, leading to an encounter,” the police said. The police said Seh was behind many terror strikes, including the killing of a police inspector, three BJP workers and a BJP sarpanch and his wife in south Kashmir this year. “The slain militant was also involved in attack on DDC candidate Anees ul Islam Ganie at Sagam Kokernag and behind the snatching of a weapon from a constable in Khudwani area, Kulgam. Moreover, he was involved in various grenade lobbing incidents and attacks on security establishments in Anantnag and Kulgam areas,” the police said. Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including one AK-47 rifle, two AK magazines, 40 AK rounds and a grenade were recovered from his possession upon search. Two held Two “terrorist associates” linked to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) were arrested in Chadoora, Budgam. “Incriminating material of terrorist outfit LeT, two hand grenades, two AK-47 magazines, and 30 live AK-47 rounds were recovered from their possession,” the police said. During a preliminary investigation, it surfaced that both the arrested terrorist associates have been in touch with LeT commanders and were involved in providing logistics support to terrorists, including providing shelter, transportation of arms and ammunition in the areas of Mochwa, Kralpora, Chattergam, Sathsoo, and other areas of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hizb-militant-killed-in-gunfight-in-jk-live-ammunition-found/article38032938.ece
25 December 2021||Kolkata,||Binay Tamang joins Trinamool||Two prominent leaders from the Darjeeling hills, among them former chairman of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) Binay Tamang, on Friday joined the Trinamool Congress. Mr. Tamang is one of the crucial leaders from the hills who resigned from the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) about six months ago. Along with Mr. Tamang, Rohit Sharma, a former GJM MLA who represented Kurseong from 2011 to 2021, also joined the State’s ruling party. The development assumes significance as Trinamool Congress did not have a strong presence in the Darjeeling hills, as it does in the rest of the State. The people of the hills have supported parties like the GJM and have been electing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to the Lok Sabha over the past three terms. The State’s Cabinet Ministers Moloy Ghatak and Bratya Basu, who welcomed the two hill leaders to the party, said that Trinamool Congress will be strengthened by them. The development comes ahead of elections to the GTA, a regional autonomous body in the Darjeeling hills that was set up in 2011. Gorkhaland debate After joining the Trinamool Congress, Mr. Tamang said that the BJP had been fooling the people of the hills by “dangling the lollipop of Gorkhaland”. The demand for Gorkhaland, a separate State carved out of the Darjeeling hills and certain areas in the foothills, has been at the centre of politics in the hills since the 1980s. “There is need for development in the hills, in health, education and tourism, and that can be achieved under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee,” Mr. Tamang said. The hill leader has been considered close to the Trinamool Congress since 2017, when he decided to join talks with the West Bengal government for the restoration of normalcy in the region. Leader of the Opposition and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari said that the departures from his party would not have any impact on politics in the hills and that the people of Darjeeling would support the BJP in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/binay-tamang-joins-trinamool/article38032913.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘SG’ code for accused in chopper deal||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) probe into the Rs. 3,700-crore AgustaWestland chopper deal case has established that the codename “SG” mentioned in several documents and emails exchanged between some suspects stands for accused Sushen Mohan Gupta, who was arrested by the agency in March 2019. Asked if “SG” mentioned at various places in the case related papers referred to Gupta, a senior agency official on Friday answered in the affirmative. The ED arrived at the conclusion after cross-checking the data retrieved from a pen drive submitted by accused-turned-approver Rajiv Saxena, who was deported from the United Arab Emirates in 2019, with the transaction records received from the Mauritius authorities in response to the letters rogatory (judicial requests seeking information). The ED came across multiple email exchanges pertaining to transfer of funds to various entities, which had reference of “SG”. Details of the transactions in question were also found in the pen drive, also confirming that it belonged to Gupta. The transfer of funds to the entities in question was also reflected in the transactions. Entries in the diaries and some sheets linked to the accused persons in the case were also verified from the bank statements received through the letters rogatory. According to the ED, more than 500 cross-referenced entries establish the genuineness of the data contained in the pen drive, which matched with those in the account statements of Mauritius-based Interstellar Technologies Ltd. As alleged, funds were routed via Interstellar Technologies linked to Gupta to bribe Indian officials, bureaucrats and politicians for swinging the VVIP chopper deal in favour of AgustaWestland. Quoting a news report on the issue, All India Congress Committee in charge of Telangana and MP B. Manickam Tagore on Friday tweeted: “‘SG’ Stands For Sushen Mohan Gupta, Not Sonia Gandhi In Docs. Will the section of Media apologise for spreading fake news in 2016 onwards?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sg-code-for-accused-in-chopper-deal/article38032919.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Let EC consult parties and take a call on polls: Cong.||Reactions from political parties to the Allahabad High Court’s appeal — to the Central government and the Election Commission of India to put a halt to poll rallies and consider postponing Assembly elections to five States — ranged from agreeing that the EC should weigh in on the matter to demanding action against the judge who made the remarks. Speaking to news agency ANI, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav said: “It is unfortunate that people sitting in important Constitutional positions are now giving such decisions. No one had demanded it and my demand is that the Supreme Court take suo motu notice and take proper action against the person giving such directions.” He apprehended that the Union government led by the BJP may take the judge’s remarks as a cue to postpone polls, stating that “in Uttar Pradesh, the public is against the BJP. The BJP is going to lose the elections.” The ruling BJP meanwhile stated the constitutional position when it came to organising elections. “When the Election Commission of India implements the model code of conduct, they have to decide when the elections will take place,” said Union Minister Anurag Thakur. The Congress said the Election Commission should weigh in on the danger posed by the spread of the Omicron strain of the novel coronavirus. “It is the duty of the Election Commission to weigh in on the situation, consult all political parties and build a consensus so that the situation remains under control,” Pranav Jha, secretary (communications) of the Congress, said. Mr Jha further said the party would support any step that would help in saving even one life. “The Congress and its leadership had warned the Modi government about the enormity of the second wave, which the government chose to ignore. Now, when we were supposed to have fully vaccinated our entire population, the government is way off the mark. Rest of the world has gone ahead vaccinating children and even administering booster shots. PM Modi neither has a plan nor looks concerned about the challenge,” Mr. Jha added.  It is the duty of the EC to weigh in... so that the [COVID] situation remains under control Pranav Jha AICC secretary, Communications||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-ec-consult-parties-and-take-a-call-on-polls-cong/article38032926.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will lead Cong. campaign in Uttarakhand: Rawat||After meeting former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday, former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat said he would lead the party in the coming State Assembly election as head of the party’s campaign committee. His remarks come just days after his outburst on Twitter, where he claimed that his own party had turned its back on him and “tied up his feet and hands at a time when I have to swim in the sea of elections where the governing forces have let loose crocodiles”. Mr. Rawat’s public comments were being interpreted as a sign of his unhappiness at not being named the party’s chief ministerial face in the polls.  “Kadam, kadam badhaye ja, Congress ke geet gaye ja. [Keep on marching forward, sing praises of the Congress]. I will be the face of the election campaign in Uttarakhand. I will lead as chairman of the campaign panel and everyone will support me in fulfilling that responsibility,” Mr. Rawat told reporters after emerging from the meeting with Mr. Gandhi. He, however, evaded a direct question on if he was declared the party’s chief ministerial face. “In Congress, after the election is completed, legislature party meets to decide their leader. They send their recommendation to the Congress president and then the president decides who will lead the legislature party. We will follow the same procedure on Uttarakhand too,” he stated. Congress Legislature Party leader Pritam Singh and Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ganesh Godiyal were also part of the meeting with Mr. Gandhi. “We will fight this election under the leadership of Harish Rawat, who is the chairman of the campaign committee,” Mr. Godiyal observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-lead-cong-campaign-in-uttarakhand-rawat/article38032929.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Eight integrated AYUSH hospitals opened in U.P.||Union Minister for AYUSH Sarbananda Sonowal, and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday inaugurated eight 50-bed integrated AYUSH hospitals in the State and laid the foundation stone for an Ayurveda institute at Ayodhya. Ahead of the Assembly election in U.P. early next year, the AYUSH Ministry also released Rs. 553.36 crore allocated to the State by the Centre under the National AYUSH Mission. AYUSH is the acronym for alternative systems of medicine — Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy — and a separate ministry of AYUSH was formed by the BJP government to promote these systems. The new AYUSH hospitals are located in Deoria, Kaushambi, Sonbhadra, Lucknow, Kanpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Lalitpur and were built with a collective cost of Rs. 72 crore, a statement from the Union ministry said. Mr. Adityanath and Mr. Sonowal also laid the foundation stone for a new AYUSH Educational Institute for Ayurveda in Ayodhya that will be built at a cost of Rs. 49.83 crore. “The steps taken by the AYUSH Ministry will tremendously help common people and sants of Ayodhya,” the U.P. Chief Minister said on the occasion. “We will continue to work towards the welfare of the people and towards building Ayodhya as the spiritual and cultural hub of the world,” Mr. Sonowal added. A total of 500 new AYUSH Health & Wellness Centres (HWCs) were also inaugurated in different parts of the State. Foundation stones were also laid for six 50-bed hospitals that will come up in Unnao, Shravasti, Hardoi, Gorakhpur, Sambhal and Mirzapur.  We will continue to work towards building Ayodhya as the spiritual and cultural hub of the world Sarbananda Sonowal Union Minister for AYUSH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-integrated-ayush-hospitals-opened-in-up/article38033146.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||100% of eligible population given first dose: Delhi CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Capital has taken a monumental step in the fight against COVID-19 by administering the first dose of vaccine to 100% of its eligible population. According to Mr. Kejriwal, 148.33 lakh citizens had been vaccinated with at least one dose so far and more than 1.035 crore people had taken the second dose. He saluted all the healthcare and front-line workers for their contribution to this cause. The Chief Minister said Delhi was largely safe from the virus and the government was prepared to deal with the Omicron variant at every level. Easy accessibility Apart from hospitals, vaccination services were made available in schools and mohalla clinics in addition to drive-through centres so that people could easily obtain the vaccine, the government stated. Mr. Kejriwal had held a high-level review meeting at the Delhi Secretariat on Thursday and issued crucial directives to the officers to deal with the Omicron variant. The directions pertained to adequate arrangements regarding hospitals, beds, medicines, oxygen and strengthening home isolation. It was also decided at the review meeting to increase the testing capacity. Following the meeting, the government said, Delhi will be able to conduct three lakh tests per day if necessary and the government is preparing for the possibility of even one lakh cases emerging per day. According to the government, it currently has a capacity of 1,100 household visits per day, which will be increased to one lakh in the near future, 15 tankers are being used to transport oxygen and will be available in Delhi within the next three weeks. Since antibodies were found in more than 95% of the population in the sero survey, the government averred the possibility of the Omicron variant outbreak being ‘minor’. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal chaired a significant meeting regarding the enforcement of COVID appropriate behaviour across the city. He advised Delhi Police Commissioner and Divisional Commissioner (Revenue) to strictly ensure compliance of COVID appropriate behaviour in line with the latest DDMA guidelines. All police officers and field functionaries have been directed to immediately ensure strict enforcement of DDMA order dated December 15 in letter and spirit, a source added. Meanwhile, the city continued its upward trend with 180 new COVID-19 cases being reported in the last 24 hours, the highest in more than six months. This takes the total number of cases to 14,42,813, as per a government bulletin. Sixty-seven cases of Omicron variant have been reported till now, as per official figures, and 23 of them have been discharged. A total of 62,697 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.29%, which is also the highest in almost six months. There was no new COVID-19-related death in the last 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,103. Of the total cases, 14,16,928 people have recovered and there are 782 active cases.  Delhi is largely safe from the virus and the government is prepared to deal with the Omicron variant at every level Arvind Kejriwal Delhi CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/100-of-eligible-population-given-first-dose-says-kejriwal/article38033402.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||27-year-old who tested positive now tests negative||He was asymptomatic and was kept in isolation at the Government Wenlock Hosptial. The genomic study of his sample showed on Thursday that he was infected by Omicron. As per the protocol for Omicron, an RT-PCR test each will be done on ninth and 10th day of isolation and released if both tests show patients negative for COVID-19. After being discharged from hospital, patients are advised to be under home quarantine for seven days, said District COVID Nodal Officer H. Ashok. Dr. Ashok said that 17 primary contacts of the 27-year-old man from Dakshina Kannada have tested negative for COVID-19 and are quarantined. Reports of RT-PCR test carried out on the eighth day of their quarantine on Thursday are awaited, he said. 33 new cases Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada on Friday reported 20 new COVID cases, which includes two students who are primary contacts of COVID-19 patients. With 14 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 166. Test positivity rate was put at 0.28%. In Udupi district, 13 new cases were reported of which 12 patients are from Udupi taluk and one from Kundapur taluk. While 12 patients are in home isolation, one patient is in the designated care centre. With four patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 37.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/27-year-old-who-tested-positive-now-tests-negative/article38033608.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks ‘uniform judicial code’ for High Courts||A petition was filed in the Supreme Court to implement a “uniform judicial code” for High Courts across the country to adopt a uniform set of procedure, especially for virtual courts. The public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay urged the apex court to take “appropriate steps” to adopt uniform procedure for case registration, use common judicial terms, phrases and abbreviations and make the court fee uniform. It has, alternatively, sought a direction to the Law Commission of India to prepare a report in consultation with the High Courts in this regard. “All the 25 High Courts have different usage of the phrases when it comes to identifying different cases.” the petition said. The PIL plea highlighted how different High Courts follow different procedures in matters pertaining to virtual courts, started during the pandemic.  The petitioner also highlighted the injury caused to citizens as court fees differed for the same type of cases in different States. “Judicial equality is a matter of constitutional right, its differentiation based on the jurisdiction of courts violates the right to equality,” Mr. Upadhyay pleaded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-seeks-uniform-judicial-code-for-high-courts/article38032908.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Act against those inciting violence’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday demanded strictest action against those who incited violence against different communities and asserted that the Haridwar event violated the Constitution and the law of the land. “Strictest action should be taken against those who incite hatred and violence of this kind. It is despicable that they should get away with making an open call to murder our respected ex-PM and unleash violence against people of different communities,” Ms. Vadra tweeted, referring to the hate speeches allegedly made at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar. The Dharma Sansad was held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar between December 17 and 20 and was organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of the Juna Akhada, who is already being investigated by the police for making hate speeches and inciting violence against Muslims. Several hate speeches that have now gone viral, were made to not only target Muslims but even former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Rahul’s response Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi also took to Twitter to argue that hatred and violence are what the Hindutvavadis spread. “The Hindutvavadis always spread hatred and violence. Hindus-Muslims-Sikhs-Christians pay its price. But not anymore!” Mr. Gandhi tweeted with hashtags ‘India Against Hindutva’ and ‘Haridwar Hate Assembly’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/act-against-those-inciting-violence/article38032910.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Uttarakhand Minister walks out of Cabinet meeting||Uttarakhand Forest Minister Harak Singh Rawat announced his resignation from the State’s Council of Ministers in a dramatic fashion by walking out of a Cabinet meeting on Friday. At the time of going to press, Mr. Rawat had not tendered his resignation in writing. However, he told presspersons that he was upset that despite his lobbying for years, the State government had dragged its feet on setting up a medical college in Kotdwar. He said he had been undermined and treated badly in the BJP. Mr. Rawat joined the BJP from the Congress in 2016, and is expected to return to his erstwhile party. Sources said Umesh Sharma Kau, another BJP MLA who had crossed over from the Congress with Mr. Rawat, is also set to leave the party. The BJP has changed three Chief Ministers in a year in the State, trying to address anti-incumbency issues related to the government. Sources in the Congress suggested that Mr. Harak Singh Rawat and Mr. Kau may join the Congress as they had been in touch with party leader Pritam Singh in the past few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-minister-walks-out-of-cabinet-meeting/article38033194.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Bail without giving cogent reason cannot be sustained’||Bail cannot be granted, especially to an accused in a heinous crime, as a “matter of course”. Courts should exercise their discretion in a “judicious manner”, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. Besides, bail without giving a cogent reason in a cryptic order cannot be sustained, a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, B.R. Gavai and B.V. Nagarathna underscored. The judgment was based on an appeal filed by the mother of a man who was shot dead by assailants. The accused have a history of crime and had absconded for seven months after the murder. If convicted, they would face life imprisonment or even death penalty. The Patna High Court, however, granted the accused bail after merely nine months in judicial custody. The bail order does not give any reasons for releasing the man on bail. The judgment emphasised that every bail order should indicate the reasons for prima facie concluding the need for grant of bail, “particularly where the accused is charged of having committed a serious offence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bail-without-giving-cogent-reason-cannot-be-sustained/article38032936.ece
25 December 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal CM may become Chancellor||West Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu on Friday said the government was considering a proposal to nominate Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as Chancellor of all State universities. He cited differences with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who is the Chancellor now, as the reason. “There is no cooperation and only hostility,” Mr. Basu said indicating that the government was studying the legal feasibility of constitutional amendments for the change. Kerala Governor’s move “If files are kept pending for an indefinite time and there is not even a little cooperation, we can think of what the Governor of Kerala has done, for an interim period, we can have the Chief Minister as the Chancellor,” the Minister stated. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had asked Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take over as the Chancellor of universities. ‘Shocking unionism’ Earlier in the day, Mr. Dhankhar tweeted that no Vice Chancellor or representatives of private universities had turned up for a meeting with him and described the development as “shocking unionism”. He had called a meeting of Vice Chancellors of private universities on Friday. He tweeted it being worrisome, tagging videos and photograph of empty chairs and Raj Bhavan. The developments on Friday mark a new low in the relations between Raj Bhavan and the government. While the Kerala Governor has voluntarily decided to give up the post of Chancellor, the West Bengal government is considering to strip the Governor of the responsibilities as Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-may-make-cm-chancellor-of-varsities/article38033155.ece
25 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Laws enacted without due debate: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday said laws were being enacted without comprehensive discussion. Addressing the 126-member Assam Assembly, he also rued the decline in debates by legislative bodies. “It is a matter of grave concern that legislative bodies are witnessing a continual decline in debates and discussions. Laws are also being enacted without comprehensive discussion,” he stated. Democracy affected “Democracy is based on debates and dialogues. But the continuous disruption of debates in the House and lack of decorum is a matter of serious concern. This is hurting the dignity and prestige of our democratic institutions,” he noted. It was essential in a democracy for the treasury and the Opposition benches to disagree or have a difference of opinion. “But dissent should not lead to an impasse. To obstruct the proceedings of the House is not right, ethically or constitutionally. Many a time, the disruptions are not organic but pre-planned. Such conduct in our democratic institutions is even more disturbing,” he observed. Call for talks Mr. Birla called for mutual discussions among political parties for enhancing the dignity and prestige of the House so that “we are able to fulfil the hopes and aspirations of the people who have elected us and reposed their faith in us.” “If people lose faith and trust in these institutions, it puts a question mark on our democratic procedures,” he pointed out. He asserted that the Indian democracy had become increasingly strong and resilient in 75 years since Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/laws-enacted-without-due-debate-om-birla/article38032922.ece
25 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Channi says Badals and Amarinder patronised kingpins in drugs trade||With the drugs issue taking centre stage in poll-bound Punjab, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday accused the Badal family and Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) of having patronised and sheltered kingpins in the illegal trade. “These elitist leaders patronised the drug mafia by sheltering the kingpin. Now the police have booked Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia under the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances Act for his misdeeds. Every person involved in the drug trade will be nailed,” the Chief Minister said in Pathankot. With regard to the Aam Aadmi Party, Mr. Channi asked its chief Arvind Kejriwal to first perform in Delhi before promising the moon to the people of Punjab. “Instead of rolling out bundles of lies before the Punjabis, Mr. Kejriwal should have courage to announce cheap power and petrol to residents of Delhi on the lines of what the Punjab government has done. The AAP leadership should understand one simple thing that the proud Punjabis will not allow any outsider to rule them,” he said. Mr. Channi said Mr. Kejriwal back-stabbed the Punjabis by supporting the drug mafia and tendering unconditional apology to Mr. Majithia. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister Capt. Singh cautioned Mr. Channi saying that instead of political propaganda, he must spare some time on governance. “If timely measures are not taken, he will be held responsible for the spread of the third wave of COVID in Punjab,” Capt. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channi-says-badals-and-amarinder-patronised-kingpins-in-drugs-trade/article38032932.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Most fatal road crashes in evening in Bengaluru’||The main reason could be fatigue and rash driving, thus increasing the risk, the analysis said. Males and females accounted for 84% and 15% of the fatalities. The age and gender-wise distribution showed high risk for the 21 to 29 age group, and more than 40 years for males. In the case of females, 40 to 59 age group was the most vulnerable. The ‘who-hit-whom matrix’ shows that two-wheelers, pedestrians, and bicyclists accounted for nearly 90% of the total fatal accidents. “Vulnerable road users (VRUs) share the same road space with other motorised modes, thus, raising the risk of fatality. The increasing motorisation levels pose a great threat to VRUs. Major threats to VRUs are two-wheelers, cars, buses and heavy goods vehicles as these motorised modes account for maximum crash fatalities,” the report said. Further, two-wheeler road users are also observed to have faced risk from right-of-way elements including median, kerb, electric posts, etc. Two-wheeler to two-wheeler interaction-based fatality is also considerably high. In case of pedestrian fatalities, the major threat is from two-wheelers, followed by cars and SUVs, states the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-fatal-road-crashes-in-evening-in-bengaluru/article38033242.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP State Executive meeting in Hubballi||He said that because of the pandemic, State Executive meetings were not held of late. Mangaluru, Belagavi, Shivamogga and Davangere are the other cities that have hosted the State Executive meeting of the BJP so far. Nearly 600 delegates, including Ministers and legislators, are expected to participate in the State Executive meeting. Preparatory meeting Meanwhile, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi, the former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Handloom, Textiles and Sugar Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and others took part in a preparatory meeting pertaining to the State Executive meeting here on Friday. Addressing the volunteers, Mr. Shettar said that 37 committees have already been set up and responsibilities allocated to them to ensure that the meeting is held successfully and without any hassles. Mr. Joshi emphasised the need for cutting unnecessary expenditure and throwing focus on highlighting the good work done by the BJP Government. The programme should be conducted in such a way that it should be appreciated by the people of Hubballi-Dharwad. In the exhibition section, important projects pertaining to the region, including the bypass road and IIT, should be highlighted, he said. Mr. Joshi said that Union Minister Nitin Gadkari is expected to come to Hubblali on January 10 for inauguration of the bypass road and for initiating other works. MLA and president of Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagar Zilla Unit of the BJP Arvind Bellad presided over the meeting. Mahesh Tenginakai, Lingaraj Patil, Nagesh Kalburgi and other office-bearers of the BJP were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-state-executive-meeting-in-hubballi/article38033629.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||All Inter 1st year students passed: Telangana govt.||Generally not more than 15,000 students apply for reverification or recounting. The Minister also asked the students not to be under the impression that they would be passed every time if they protest against the results. Students need to study to score better marks and this was the last time the government would be passing all the students. She defended the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE)’s functioning and said the results were evaluated and processed fairly. She said the exams were conducted after taking into account several factors, including the conduct of online classes and digital classes through television. It was unfair to target the Chief Minister every time over the Intermediate results, she said and charged the Opposition parties and parents with politicising the sensitive issue. She said that the government made serious efforts to reach out to students by telecasting lessons on TV and social media platforms apart from online classes. Exams were conducted in the interests of students and not to penalise them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-inter-1st-year-students-passed-telangana-govt/article38033683.ece
25 December 2021||Mumbai,||Revoke Maharashtra MLAs’ suspension: BJP||A day after 12 suspended MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wrote to the Deputy Speaker of the State Assembly seeking to lift their suspension, Leader of the Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis asked the State government to decide on the matter before the election of the Assembly Speaker scheduled for December 28. According to the letters sent by the MLAs, out of the total of one year of suspension, five months have already been served. The letters stated that an unconditional apology had already been furnished on behalf of the Opposition and continued suspension would deprive the respective constituencies of their deserved representation. Mr. Fadnavis, while speaking in the Assembly, said that the suspended MLAs had already approached the Supreme Court, which in its order had directed them to approach the House and consider the issue. The State Assembly presently has no Speaker as its previous Speaker, Nana Patole, resigned in February and went on to become the president of the State unit of the Congress party. Twelve MLAs of the BJP were suspended in the previous Budget session following heated altercations between the Members of the Opposition party and the Presiding Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revoke-maharashtra-mlas-suspension-bjp/article38032905.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Conversion Bill not tabled in Karnataka Council||It is expected to be taken up in the next session by which time the BJP’s strength in the Upper House will have gone up. The saffron party currently lacks the numbers to push through the legislation without hurdles. Following the recent elections to the Local Authorities’ Constituency, the BJP’s strength would go up to 37 from 32 post January 5 in the 75-member House. Congress’s strength would decline from 29 to 26 and JD(S) from 10 from 12. On Friday, speculation was intense since the House convened that the Government would table the Bill. As it was the last day of the session, a few members of both the ruling party and the Opposition had left early. The BJP had plans of tabling the Bill and have it passed banking on large-scale absenteeism in Opposition benches. While the Legislative Assembly was adjourned sine die before lunch, the Council was adjourned for lunch to meet at 3 p.m., suggesting that the Government would take up the Bill. Members of both the ruling party and the Opposition were seen making efforts to call back those who had left. The BJP called back Deputy Chairman M.K. Pranesh and others, while the Congress too made similar efforts. A few members who had booked flight tickets were asked to cancel and stay back. Even as both parties were engaged in increasing their strength, Leader of the House Kota Srinivasa Poojary met Chairman Basavaraj Horatti in his chamber and sought some more time so that the party members could reach the House, prompting the Chairman to delay convening the House. As the House did not reassemble till 4 p.m., Congress members met the Chairman and accused the Government of “killing time” to ensure their members returned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conversion-bill-not-tabled-in-karnataka-council/article38032914.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Half of tested Omicron cases had 2 doses: ICMR||Maharashtra has reported 88 cases, followed by Delhi (67), Telangana (38) and Tamil Nadu (34). A third of those confirmed with the variant have been discharged. “What we would like to emphasise is that the dominant one in India continues to be the Delta variant. Being infected with Omicron doesn’t necessarily mean severe disease and the treatment of those symptomatic continues to be the same as before,” said Dr. Balram Bhargava, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Beds, oxygen ready Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan stated that India had been continuously monitoring the evolution of the Omicron variant. This Tuesday he wrote a letter to the top authorities of all States, advising them to impose restrictions such as night curfew and declare containment zones if districts either had a 10% positivity rate or occupancy in oxygen-supported or intensive care units rise to 40%. Based on the experience with the first and second waves, 18 lakh isolation beds, 4.9 lakh beds with oxygen support, 1.39 lakh ICU beds, 24,000 paediatric ICUs and 64,796 paediatric non-ICU beds had been readied, he said. In South Africa and other countries, it appeared that there wasn’t a significant need for medical oxygen but India was nevertheless prepared and currently would be able to supply 18,836 tonnes of oxygen a day. During the peak of the second wave, India needed 10,000 tonnes, which was a 10-fold rise from the maximum demand in the first wave, Mr. Bhushan said. He pointed out that 89% of Indian adults had got at least one dose and 60% were fully vaccinated. Nineteen States had administered at least one dose to over 90% of their population, but there were 11 States that were “below the national average” on vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/half-of-omicron-cases-fully-vaccinated-icmr/article38032916.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||No UAPA in Haridwar hate speech case||At the event, Yati Narsinghanand called on Hindu youth to become “Prabhakaran” or “Bhindranwale” and provoked Hindus to pick up arms against Muslims. Mr. Kumar said they would call Narsinghanand and others seen in the video for questioning as per law. No arrests have been made so far. Narsinghanand faces several FIRs in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Earlier this year, his comments about Prophet Muhammad at a press conference in Delhi led the police to file an FIR. Mr. Kumar noted that the State police have also registered a case against Rizvi for objectionable content in a book he wrote on Prophet Muhammed. A former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, Rizvi recently converted to Hinduism at a ceremony endorsed by Narsinghanand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-uapa-in-haridwar-hate-video-case/article38032917.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Gurdwara staffer held in Kapurthala lynching||Mr. Rijiju took a briefing on the incident from Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and other senior officers. He said the Union and the State governments were jointly investigating the case. “The Union government is taking the blast incident case very seriously as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has showed concern towards the incident. I personally spoke to Mr. Channi over the phone today and has assured him full support in the investigation,” he added. Refraining from going into the technical details of the ongoing investigation, Mr. Rijiju said the case would be cracked soon and the perpetrators of the crime would be tracked down. Mr. Channi denied any intelligence failure. He said the government was alert and had sought the Centre’s support to solve the case. “I spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah after the explosion and the Centre had sent teams for the investigation.” He said there was the possibility of a link between the court blast and registering of the police case against Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Majithia. The police recently registered a case against Mr. Majithia under different sections of the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, triggering a political furore ahead of the polls. Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma alleged that the Congress-led government had failed to safeguard the security interests, and the deteriorating law and order situation was alarming. “Unfortunately, the Chief Minister is more of a poster boy and is focusing entirely on making announcements to appease the public and has ignored the security of the State. The government’s fundamental duty is to ensure law and order and not pass the buck around,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gurdwara-staffer-held-in-kapurthala-lynching/article38032920.ece
25 December 2021||Pune,||Ex-MLA, four others quit Trinamool in Goa||In a setback to the Trinamool Congress ahead of next year’s Goa Assembly election, former MLA Lavoo Mamledar on Friday resigned from the party, accusing it of being “communal” and of trying to divide “Goans on the basis of religion”. The former MLA from Ponda in South Goa had been among the first local leaders to join the Trinamool Congress barely three months ago in September, along with former Chief Minister and now Rajya Sabha MP Luizinho Faleiro. Mr. Mamledar, who left the Trinamool along with four other members after penning a strongly worded letter to chief Mamata Banerjee, later remarked that the West Bengal-based party was “worse than the BJP”. “I was under the impression that the Trinamool is a very secular party. But from whatever I have noticed in the past 15-20 days, I came to know that it is worse than the BJP,” Mr. Mamledar said, speaking after his resignation. In his letter, Mr. Mamledar remarked that the Trinamool’s “move to polarise Hindu votes towards MGP [Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party] and Catholic votes towards the AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) is purely communal in nature”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-mla-four-others-quit-trinamool-in-goa/article38032930.ece
25 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Mohali court dismisses bail plea of Majithia||A Mohali court on Friday dismissed the anticipatory bail application of former Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a case of allowing drugs smuggling and harbouring offenders involved in the drugs trade. The Additional District and Sessions Judge, Mohali, said the FIR had been registered on a report which prima facie showed the involvement of the applicant in the drugs trade and harbouring of accused belonging to the drug mafia. ‘Not fit for bail’ The judge said that keeping in mind all the facts and the gravity of the offence, it was not a fit case for anticipatory bail. The police have registered the first information report under Sections 25 (allowing premises to be used for commission of an offence under the Act), 27A (financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) and 29 (abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 against Mr. Majithia at the Bureau of Investigation in Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali). At a press meet, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the case against Mr. Majithia had been registered as there was enough evidence against him. He had been booked on a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket in the State. Meanwhile, Youth Akali Dal members alleged that it was a false case filed by the Congress government to hide its own failures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mohali-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-majithia/article38033147.ece
25 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. waives in-person visa interviews for 2022||Amid growing concerns of surging COVID-19 cases, the U.S. has announced a waiver of in-person interviews for a range of visa applicants during entire 2022, including for H-1B workers and students, many of whom are from India. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows U.S. companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Various categories The Department of State on Thursday announced that consular officers are now temporarily authorised, through December 31, 2022, to waive in-person interviews for certain individual petition-based non-immigrant work visas and their qualifying derivatives in the following categories: persons in speciality occupations (H-1B visas), trainee or special education visitors (H-3 visas), intracompany transferees (L visas), individuals with extraordinary ability or achievement (O visas), athletes, artists, and entertainers (P visas), and participants in international cultural exchange programmes (Q visas). Embassies and consulates may still require an in-person interview on a case-by-case basis and dependent on local conditions. Applicants should check embassy and consulate websites for more detailed information, it said. The new authorisation also applies to temporary workers applying for H-1, H-3, H-4, L, O, P, and Q visas who meet certain conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-waives-in-person-visa-interviews-for-2022/article38033148.ece
25 December 2021||Chandigarh,||AAP declares 18 candidates for Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party on Friday declared 18 more candidates for the Punjab Assembly elections. The party has till now declared 58 candidates for the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-declares-18-candidates-for-punjab/article38033393.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Special prayers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yuletide-spirit/article38033395.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||Telcos told to archive call data for 2 years||The Department of Telecom (DoT) has extended the duration of archiving call data and Internet usage records of subscribers to two years from one year due to security reasons. The amendments in the licences were issued on December 21 and extended to other forms of telecom permits on December 22. Telecom companies may destroy the data stored thereafter if there is no direction from the DoT thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telcos-told-to-archive-call-data-for-2-years/article38032915.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pilot killed in MiG-21 crash in Rajasthan||A MiG-21 Bison fighter jet of the Indian Air Force (IAF) crashed in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan late on Friday evening. The pilot Wing Commander Harshit Sinha was killed in the accident. “This evening, around 8.30 p.m., a MiG-21 aircraft of IAF met with accident in the western sector during a training sortie,” the IAF said on social media. “With deep sorrow, IAF conveys the sad demise of Wg Cdr Harshit Sinha in the flying accident,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilot-killed-in-mig-21-crash-in-rajasthan/article38033192.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||Hate speech is akin to act of terror: CPI(M)||The speeches made at dharma sansad in Haridwar, where former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was targeted, should be treated as an act of terrorism, the CPI(M) said in a statement here. It urged the Uttarakhand administration to name all the accused in the belated FIR filed on the incident and their immediate arrests. ‘Impunity of accused’ The CPI(M) Polit Bureau said the speeches made to incite violence against Muslims in Haridwar was a flagrant violation of the Constitution. “It could continue without hindrance for three days because of the impunity such people enjoy under the BJP-led Governments,” a Polit Bureau statement stated. The party said the delayed FIR was a mockery of the law as it did not name the main perpetrators even as videos clearly showed the identities of those guilty. The Polit Bureau demanded that the FIR should include the names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hate-speech-is-akin-to-act-of-terror-cpim/article38032911.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Complaint filed against Mamata||Two Indian Youth Congress (IYC) office-bearers on Friday filed a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Kolkata Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra over alleged attacks on Congress candidates during the Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections on December 19. IYC national secretary Amrish Ranjan Pandey and national coordinator of its legal cell Ambuj Dixit wrote in their complaint that the Kolkata police stood by and did nothing when Congress candidates and workers were beaten up by the Trinamool Congress cadre. The complainants asked the NHRC to take action against the alleged human rights violation of the candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/complaint-filed-against-mamata/article38032924.ece
25 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||SP and allies incompatible: Adityanath||Can the “followers” of Maharaja Suheldev and Salar Masood join hands, asked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday as he accused previous governments in the State of not according samman (honour) to the legendary backward caste warrior Suheldev. The Samajwadi Party (SP) has emerged as a strong challenger for the 2022 Assembly election and has allied with several small OBC-based parties including the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) of Om Prakash Rajbhar, which stakes claim to the legacy of Suheldev. Mr. Adityanath’s reference to the differences between the followers of Suheldev and Salar Masood reiterates the BJP’s discourse questioning the compatibility between Muslims and Hindu backward castes and Dalit voters and in effect the alliance of SP and SBSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-and-allies-incompatible-adityanath/article38032927.ece
25 December 2021||Pune,||AAP attacks Goan govt.||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Minister Viswajit Rane’s decision to contest against his father, 82-year-old Congressman and 11-time MLA, Pratapsingh Rane from Poriem Assembly constituency. He also criticised the “mad rush for power” ahead of the Goa Assembly elections. In a pre-election video address, Mr. Kejriwal, whose AAP is looking to make inroads into the coastal State, called upon the Goans to revamp the entire political system while giving a watchword of “corrupt out, honest in”. “Viswajit Rane has proclaimed he would contest against his father and defeat him …What is happening in Goa?... people are even forgetting their own fathers… we are Hindus who worship Lord Rama, who, at the behest of his father, sacrificed the throne and went into exile. And Viswajit Rane from the BJP, who calls himself a Hindu, said he will defeat his father,” Mr. Kejriwal said in an AAP-created video which cannily interspersed scenes from Ramanand Sagar’s popular 1980s TV series Ramayana , contrasting Rama’s sacrifice with the younger Mr. Rane’s statements. Renewing his attack on the BJP government, Mr. Kejriwal reiterated that such a corrupt and morally-tainted government could never guarantee development for Goans in the future. “One Minister [Milind Naik] is embroiled in a sex scandal. Another takes money for jobs [PWD Minister Deepak Pauskar], while yet another is facing accusations of committing fraud in the labour sector [alluding to Revenue, IT and Labour Minister Jennifer Monserrate]…such people will only fill their own pockets,” he alleged. Mr. Kejriwal said that the 2022 Goa Assembly elections would be “a revolution” and called upon to weed out the old parties and politicians and make rule by the people possible. Meanwhile, AAP’s Goa convener Rahul Mhambre said it was only his party that could fulfil the vision of late Chief Minister and BJP leader Manohar Parrikar. “Mr. Parrikar’s inclusive policies have been dumped by the present BJP leadership. Goans will reject both the BJP and the Congress,” Mr. Mhambre asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-attacks-goan-govt/article38032931.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Santa’s message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/santas-message/article38033153.ece
25 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Four killed in Vadodara boiler blast||Four people, including a four-year-old girl and a 65-year-old man, were killed and 11 injured in a boiler blast in a chemical factory in the Vadodara industrial zone on Friday. A teenager and a 30-year-old woman, who is the mother of the four-year-old girl, were the other victims. According to local people, the impact of the blast was such that the walls of the surrounding houses came crashing down and glasses of buildings around 1.5 km were shattered. The persons who lost their lives and the injured included workers of the factory and those passing by. The incident occurred in Canton Laboratories engaged in manufacturing active pharmaceutical ingredients. This is the second such incident in the State in a span of eight days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-killed-in-vadodara-boiler-blast/article38033154.ece
25 December 2021||Guwahati,||Assam civic bodies to have women’s quota||The 126-member Assam Assembly has passed two Bills for reserving 50% of seats in civic bodies for 10 years by rotation. According to the third amendment to the Assam Municipal Act of 1956, half the seats in any municipality to be filled up by direct election would be reserved for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-civic-bodies-to-have-womens-quota/article38033156.ece
25 December 2021||Lucknow,||Night curfew back in U.P. from Dec. 25||Night curfew will be back in Uttar Pradesh from December 25 owing to rising cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19, the State government said on Friday. It will be from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. A maximum of 200 persons would be allowed to gather at weddings and other social events. “Some stringent steps are required,” the government stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/night-curfew-back-in-up-from-dec-25/article38032934.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 597 fresh COVID-19 cases||The State added 597 fresh COVID-19 cases, bringing up the total number of infected persons so far to 27,42,821. Among the fresh infections are four passengers who arrived from the United Kingdom and a traveller from Europe and Africa each. A passenger who came by road from Andhra Pradesh also tested positive. Except for Ariyalur and Theni, all other districts recorded fresh infections in the past 24 hours. As many as 22 districts recorded fewer than 10 infections each. At present, 6,798 persons are under treatment, either at home or in health facilities. Chennai continued to have the highest number of fresh cases with 146 more testing positive. In a day, 141 persons were discharged in the district and one, under treatment in hospital, succumbed to the virus. As on date, 1,324 persons are under treatment in Chennai. So far, 5,61,002 persons have been infected in the district and 5,51,035 persons have been discharged. Among the northern districts, Chengalpattu had the highest number of fresh infections at 53. In Coimbatore, 90 more tested positive. In Erode 43 more were infected. The daily health bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine reported 41 fresh infections in Tiruppur. In a day 681, more persons were discharged, which increased the the tally of those who had recovered so far to 26,99,309. The health officials recorded seven deaths among those who were hospitalised (three in private and four in government healthcare facilities), taking the tally to 36,714. All persons, whose deaths were recorded had pre-existing health conditions that led to their demise. Vaccination count In 3,304 sessions to administer Covaxin and Covishield vaccines, 1,49,147 beneficiaries were vaccinated. They included 34 healthcare workers and 82 frontline workers. A total of 80,467 persons between 18 to 44 years of age group; 43,625 between 45 to 59 and 24,939 senior citizens were vaccinated. So far, 7,85,93,814 persons have been vaccinated in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-597-fresh-covid-19-infections-and-seven-deaths/article38033317.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Form squads to inspect clubs, massage centres, HC tells DGP||The Madras High Court has directed the Director General of Police (DGP) to constitute trained special squads in every district and city under the leadership of the respective Superintendents and Commissioners of Police to inspect social and recreation clubs, associations, spas and massage centres, and initiate appropriate action in the event any illegality is detected. Justice S.M. Subramaniam issued the direction while rejecting a 2012 writ petition filed by Kancheepuram Reading Room and Tennis Club, registered under the Societies Registration Act. The petitioner had wanted the court to restrain the police from insisting upon obtaining FL2 licence if the club premises was used by its members to consume liquor bought from Tasmac shops. The judge refused to accept the argument that a licence was required only if the club wants to sell liquor to its members, and not if the latter wants to use the premises to consume liquor purchased by them from government run liquor shops. He said consumption of liquor in a public place, which had not been issued with a licence to be used as a bar, was clearly illegal. Permissible activities The court also pointed out that that a registered society could not either sell liquor or allow its premises to be used its consumption unless the bylaws of the society permit such an activity. In the instant case, the object of the petitioner society was to provide a platform for reading books and promoting sporting activities, not to promote consumption of liquor, it said. Justice Subramaniam held that the society would have to amend its bylaws if it intended to indulge in new activities, and until such an amendment, any activity carried out in violation of its objects could only be considered as an act performed in contravention of the Societies Registration Act, which empowers the officials concerned to hold inquiry and cancel the registration. The judge directed the DGP to ensure that the special squads share details regarding violations, if any, with the competent officials under the Societies Registration Act for initiating further action. The top cop was also ordered to issue a circular in this regard to all his subordinate officials. The DGP was also instructed to share a copy of his circular with the municipal corporations, municipalities and panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-squads-to-inspect-clubs-massage-centres-hc-tells-dgp/article38033323.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Barrier-free pathway at Marina soon for persons with disabilities||The Greater Chennai Corporation has permitted disability rights activists and non-governmental organisations to develop a temporary pathway for persons with disabilities on the Marina beach during Christmas, New Year and Pongal season. Work on the development of an approach along a 720-feet stretch near Queen Mary’s College started on Friday. The pathway will be eight-foot wide. More locations are likely to get such facilities. Senthil Kumar, an art director who is developing the structure on the Marina, said many children with disabilities will get an opportunity to beach next week. The event “Monday @ Marina” will be organised near the Namma Chennai selfie point from December 27 to January 2 for persons with disabilities. The civic body is planning to permit more disability rights activists to launch such projects ahead of Pongal. Smitha Sadasivan, Member, Disability Rights Alliance Tamilnadu (DRA-TN), said the inaccessible environment was restricting the equal participation of persons with disabilities in society. “COVID-19 has added immensely to the barriers and made persons with disabilities completely home bound. During this period, many lacked necessary factors ranging from therapies to education to livelihood and many eventually got into depression. Leisure and socialisation being key to everyone’s mental health was a lost opportunity for us.” “GCC’s pathway at Marina gives fresh hope to all of us, a hope that we would love to see materialise into permanent access for all at both Marina and Elliot’s beaches,” said Ms. Sadasivan. Deepak Nathan, State president of the December 3 Movement, said it was important that tourist places were made accessible to people with disabilities. “It has to be a permanent structure. Nature is for all and sea is for all and so are forests and waterfalls. Human experience of disability will have to be minimised and that be a collective responsibility of the State to do so in line with UNCRPD and RPWD Act 2016,” he said. The coastal regulations have to be considerate to build a permanent structure on the beach with green approach so that not just persons with disabilities but even senior citizens have access to the beach as it has an therapeutic value. “Access to the beach is not access alone but it is essential to have positive health and confidence for persons with disabilities,” said Mr. Deepak. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body planned to provide a permanent approach to the Marina beach sands for persons with disabilities.  It is essential for persons with disabilities to have positive health and confidence Deepak Nathan State president of the December 3 Movement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/barrier-free-pathway-at-marina-soon-for-persons-with-disabilities/article38033292.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Vaccinate all students aged 18 and above’||The Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has directed all educational institutions to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and complete vaccination of all students aged 18 and above. Mr. Bedi has directed all deans, registrars and head of institutions to ensure mask compliance and social distancing on the campus. There were reports of poor compliance with the rule on wearing mask among students. Teachers should ensure that students sit at the allotted places maintaining physical distancing and wear mask in classrooms, in common areas of hostels, laboratories and libraries. Signage and messages to this effect should put up at prominent places. Colleges should avoid holding cultural events and functions which could result in crowding. They seek permission of higher authorities in case holding such an event was inevitable. Disposable plates should be used in hostels and canteens. The institutions had been advised not to use air-conditioners in classrooms. The civic body had asked the head of institutions to keep toilets clean, conduct regular health screening and special camps for vaccination on campus. All protocols as advised by the Higher Education Department should be followed. In order to spread the message of 100% vaccination, the institutions should have a regular count of the number of students aged 18 and above who were yet to be vaccinated. Officials of the Corporation will collect this data from institutions periodically and the institutions should advise all staff and students to get vaccinated fully utilising the weekly mega vaccination camps. The institutions should inform the Corporation zonal officer concerned to hold special vaccination camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccinate-all-students-aged-18-and-above/article38033309.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CIBA scientists decode Indian white shrimp’s genome||Scientists of the Chennai-based Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (ICAR-CIBA) have sequenced and assembled the whole genome of Indian white shrimp Penaeus indicus . It is considered a milestone in the country because Penaeus indicus is a native species and one of the world’s most important seafood commodities. “The whole genome decoding would shift the focus to the native Indian white shrimp [ Penaeus indicus ] and reduce the dependence on Pacific white shrimp, Penaeus vannamei , from the U.S., which has been the major species farmed in India,” said M.S. Shekhar, principal scientist, Genetics and Biotechnology Division, and the leader of the team that achieved the breakthrough. The other members of the team are Vinaya Kumar Katneni, Ashok Kumar Jangam and K.K. Vijayan. The project was financially supported by ICAR-Consortium Research Platform on Genomics and coordinated by J.K. Jena, Deputy Director-General (Fisheries Science), ICAR. Mr. Shekhar said the breakthrough would help to evolve strategies for control and prevention of the white spot syndrome virus disease, a major problem faced by shrimp farmers, as ICAR-CIBA had already decoded the genome of the virus. Economic engine The scientists said shrimp was the economic engine of the seafood exports in India and it accounted for Rs. 40,000 crore in national income, about 75% of the value of the seafood exports. The Indian shrimp industry accounts for about 11% of the global production (7,59,906 tonnes valued at $4 billion in 2019). “This important genomic resource will help in enhancing the growth potential, reproduction and maturation in captivity. Further, it will pave the way for producing more shrimp at low cost by intervening in the nutritional requirement of the shrimp,” said K.P. Jithendran, Acting Director, CIBA. He said the whole genome sequence of shrimp would be an invaluable genomic resource for researchers and shrimp-breeders. “It would serve as a reference genome for future genetic improvement programmes for developing shrimps with desired economically important traits,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ciba-decodes-indian-white-shrimps-genome/article38033312.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway announces changes in pattern of 12 express trains||Southern Railways has announced changes in pattern of 12 Express train services on December 25 and 26, due to temporary suspension of traffic on Bridge No 299 between Mukundarayapuram and Tiruvalam stations on the Arakkonam – Katpadi section of Chennai Division. Train No. 13351 Dhanbad – Alappuzha Express that left Dhanbad at 11.40 hrs on December 23 and 24, 2021 will be diverted to run via Gudur, Renigunta, Pakala and Katpadi duly skipping the stoppages at Nayudupeta, Sullurpeta, Dr MGR Chennai Central, Tiruvallur, Arakkonam, according to a release. Train No. 13352 Alappuzha – Dhanbad Express leaving Alappuzha at 06.00 hrs on December 25 and 26, 2021 will be diverted to run via Katpadi, Pakala, Renigunta and Gudur duly skipping the stoppages at Arakkonam, Tiruvallur, Dr MGR Chennai Central, Sullurpeta, Nayadupeta, it said. Train No. 22646 Kochuveli – Indore Superfast Express leaving Kochuveli at 06.35 hrs on December 25, 2021 will be diverted to run via Katpadi, Pakala, Renigunta and Gudur duly skipping the stoppage at Dr MGR Chennai Central. Train No.12508 Silchar – Thiruvananthapuram Central Express that left Silchar at 20.10 hrs on December 23, 2021 will be diverted to run via Gudur, Renigunta, Pakala and Katpadi duly skipping the stoppages at Perambur and Arakkonam Train No.12540 Lucknow –Yesvantpur Express leaving Lucknow at 20.00 hrs on December 24, 2021 will be diverted to run via Gudur, Renigunta, Pakala and Katpadi duly skipping the stoppage at Perambur. Train No.22669 Ernakulam – Patna Superfast Express leaving Ernakulam at 23.55 hrs on December 25, 2021 will be diverted to run via Katpadi, Pakala, Renigunta and Gudur duly skipping the stoppage at Perambur. Train No. 12551 Yesvantpur – Kamakhya AC Superfast Express leaving Yesvantpur at 08.30 hrs on December 25, 2021 will be diverted to run via Katpadi, Pakala, Renigunta and Gudur duly skipping the stoppage at Dr MGR Chennai Central. Train No. 22605 Purulia – Villupuram Bi-Weekly Superfast Express that left Purulia at 10.00 hrs on December 24, 2021 will be diverted to run via Renigunta, Pakala and Katpadi duly skipping the stoppages at Puttur and Tiruttani. Train No. 22606 Villupuram – Purulia Bi-Weekly Superfast Express leaving Villupuram at 12.15 hrs on December 25, 2021 will be diverted to run via Katpadi, Pakala and Reningunta duly skipping the stoppages at Tiruttani and Puttur. Train No. 12688 Chandigarh – Madurai Express that left Chandigarh at 08.05 hrs on December 24, 2021 will be diverted to run via Arakkonam, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Tiruchchirappalli and Dindigul duly skipping the stoppages at Katpadi, Ambur, Vaniyambadi, Jolarpettai, Salem, Erode and Karur. Train No. 22620 Tirunelveli – Bilaspur Superfast Express leaving Tirunelveli at 01.15 hrs on December 26, 2021 will be diverted to run via Katpadi, Pakala, Renigunta and Gudur. Train No. 18568 Kollam – Visakhapatnam Weekly Express leaving Kollam at 19.35 hrs on December 24, 2021 will be diverted to run via Katpadi, Pakala and Renigunta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-announces-changes-in-pattern-of-12-express-trains/article38033340.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City police to form 51 more boys and girls clubs||The city police are forming more Police Boys and Girls Clubs to prevent children from socially and economically backward areas from falling into bad ways. Originally, the police boys clubs were started in 2003 in Tamil Nadu as a crime prevention strategy. At present, there are 60 such clubs functioning in Chennai in slums and economically backward areas. The primary objective of the club is to engage the children in constructive activities such as sports and literary works so that the chances of their coming in contact with anti-social elements and criminals during evening hours are reduced. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal said the crime data revealed that many criminals now had come in contact with criminals during their childhood. In Chennai, there are many slums and slum clearance tenements which require these clubs for the children. Considering various factors and after extensive analysis, 51 places had been identified for new boys and girls clubs in the city. “The clubs will start from January 1,” said Mr. Jiwal. As many as 32 clubs would be set up in north zone, six in west zone, two in west zone and 11 in south zone. “We go out and reach the children living in socially and economically backward areas and tell them that we have facilities for educational and recreational aspects. These clubs have small libraries for inculcating reading habits, computers and other teaching facilities,” he said. “We help them grow academically by guiding, counselling and giving sports coaching. Whatever these children want, we try to help them out. We conduct two-hour sessions every day on different aspects and will find out what talent they have, their aspirations, and see if we can sponsor them or make arrangements for sponsors,” he said. “People should know about computers and now not all have access to computers and laptops. We will have at least eight computers in each of these clubs and conduct classes. Also, many of these children from these clubs are surprisingly very good at sports. We are arranging sports coaching so that they can go to a higher level,” said Mr. Jiwal. Companies such as HCL and Saint Gobain have adopted these clubs. The city police doubled honorarium for the scoutmaster and caretaker who facilitated the activities of clubs and made it attractive for people who can teach and spend extra time. The city police are tying up with resource persons who can give motivational speeches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-to-form-51-more-boys-and-girls-clubs/article38033305.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GI tags sought for palm leaf drawings, cheese product, toys||The Geographical Indications Registry in Chennai has received applications seeking the GI tag for the Sawantwadi wooden craft, Udhampur Kaladi and Talapatra pothi chitra of Puri. The application in respect of the Sawantwadi wooden craft was filed by Sutar Samaj Hastkala Producer Company Limited. From mango trees Sawantwadi in Maharashtra is famous for its art and culture, especially for toys made from mango trees in the village of Kolgaon. The most sought-after products here are the fruit and vegetable toys that resemble the original. Craftsmen who make these toys belong to the Chittari and Sutar communities. Details given in the application show some of the wooden products of Sawantwadi, gifted by Indian kings to the British monarchs, are preserved in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, as well as in the Museum of Playing Cards in Stuttgart, Germany. Dogra cuisine The Shyam Kaladi Cooperative Limited, Jammu and Kashmir, filed an application for the Udhampur Kaladi (a traditional ripened cheese product). It is an authentic Dogra cuisine that originated from Ramnagar in Udhampur district. Kaladi is prepared daily at almost every sweet shop in the Jammu region. Over the years, it has evolved into a cottage industry in this region. It is generally made from buffalo’s or cow’s milk, but goat and sheep milk is also used. This product lasts 12-30 days in winter and 12-15 days in summer. Tales and secrets The application for the Talapatra pothi chitra of Puri (palm leaf engraving) was filed by the Kalakruti Vikash Kendra, Odisha. These paintings are made by fine-line drawings etched with a steel stylus on rectangular strips of palm leaves that are delicately strung together. Known as Talapatrachitras, these paintings hold a world of tales and secrets, beautifully depicted by the artists of Odisha. The Ramayana and the Mahabharata are the favourite subjects of illustration in many art forms, as they are with the palm leaf paintings.  Kaladi originated from Ramnagar in Udhampur district. Over the years, it has evolved into a cottage industry in Jammu region. It is prepared daily at almost every sweet shop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tags-sought-for-palm-leaf-drawings-cheese-product-toys/article38033313.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New variety of rose named after M.S. Swaminathan||A new rose variety has been named after eminent agriculture scientist M.S. Swaminathan. M.S. Viraraghavan, a leading horticulturist in the country based in Kodaikanal, has bred a new rose variety and named it “The M.S. Swaminanthan Rose”. This rose, wearing a magenta purple, is highly disease-resistant, according to a release from the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai. This variety of rose plant, which results from a series of crosses between “news” variety of rose and other purple roses, grows up to a height of 4 to 5 feet with a dark green granular surface, large leaves with regular thorns. “Professor Swaminathan pioneered new approaches to the breeding of food crops, which increased production and made India self-sufficient in food production,” the release said. Jewel of Monkompu Another new variety of rose has been named “Jewel of Monkompu”, which was bred by KSG Son, a nursery based in Bengaluru, and it is a sparkling pinkish floribunda rose. “Floribunda rose is a hybrid of polyantha and tea roses. They bloom freely with excellent shape and colour and the shrubs are hardy. The shrub of flower grows vigorously with glossy leaves and is thornless,” the release said. These two varieties were handed over by Narendra Dadlani, floriculture scientist and former director, horticulture, Government of India, New Delhi, to Mr. Swaminathan in Chennai. Mr. Dadlani also presented a copy of his book Indian Rose to the agriculture scientist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-variety-of-rose-named-after-ms-swaminathan/article38033308.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ambedkar Sudar Award given to Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday said the DMK government was prepared to enact laws to ensure social equality. Accepting The Amebdkar Sudar Award 2021, presented by Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) leader Thol. Thirumavalavan in Chennai, the DMK leader noted even after many years inequality still exists on social and economic fronts. “Though there are laws, there needs to be a change in mindsets. But we cannot wait for that. There needs to be more laws on the one hand and a campaign on the other to eliminate inequality. The DMK government is ready to enact laws to ensure equality,” Mr. Stalin said. He said the award motivates him to do more for the upliftment of oppressed communities. VCK’s The Periyar Oli Award was presented to MDMK leader Vaiko. The Semmozhi Ñayiru Award was conferred on scholar K. Ramasamy, while the Kamarajar Kathir Award was presented to writer Nellai Kannan. The Quaid-e-Millath Pirai Award was given to the Indian National League’s Tamil Nadu president Alhaj M. Basheer Ahamed. The Iyotheethaasar Aadhavan Award was given to Dalit activist P.V. Kariyamal. Mr. Thirumavalavan said it was because of the DMK that the fascist forces had not been able to enter Tamil Nadu. He emphasised it was important to defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha election and urged Mr. Stalin to unite forces at the national level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambedkar-sudar-award-given-to-stalin/article38033319.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two more districts to distribute fortified rice through PDS||Two more districts — Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram — are to have the supply of fortified rice through the public distribution system (PDS) as part of the Centrally-sponsored scheme. At present, the scheme of distribution of fortified rice with three nutrients (iron, folate and vitamin B12) is under implementation in Tiruchi on a pilot basis. This has been on since October 2020. The scheme is intended to address anaemia and micro-nutrient deficiency. The Department of Food and Public Distribution, Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Department of School Education and Literacy are involved in the country-wide implementation of the scheme while the local implementation is taken care of by the State Governments. Implementation method The distribution of fortified rice is covered under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and Pradhan Mantri Poshan Shakti Nirman (PM POSHAN) Scheme. On an average, 6,500 tonnes of fortified rice is distributed in Tiruchi, with beneficiaries getting about 85% of the allocated rice. Officials, looking after the PDS in the State, say an impact assessment study has also been planned. On the experiences, one of the officials points out that initially, sections of people were reluctant about fortified rice. However, the rice has since found more takers. Approximately 89,720 tonnes of fortified rice has been supplied in Tiruchi since the launch of the scheme, as per an estimate based on the information provided on the Annavirtan portal of the Department of Food and Public Distribution in the Union Government. A few weeks ago, answering a question, Niranjan Jyoti, Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, informed the Lok Sabha that a target of 1 lakh tonnes had been fixed for Tamil Nadu for delivery during the Kharif Marketing Season (2021-22), which commenced on October 1.  Approximately 89,720 tonnes of fortified rice has been supplied in Tiruchi since the launch of the scheme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-districts-to-distribute-fortified-rice-through-pds/article38033321.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No new restrictions on account of Omicron variant in T.N.||The Tamil Nadu government has decided not to impose any fresh restriction in view of the emergence of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. It will continue with the existing curbs till December 31. The announcement came after Chief Minister M.K. Stalin met World Health Organisation Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan; Manoj Murhekar, Director of ICMR-NIE (National Institute of Epidemiology); ICMR-NIE Deputy Director Prabhdeep Kaur; CMC Director J.V. Peter; K.N. Arun Kumar, sub-regional head, WHO; R. Palaniswamy , State president of the IMA; P. Kuganantham. former Director of the Communicable Diseases Hospital; V Ramasubramanian, infectious disease specialist, Apollo Hospitals; and Heath Minister Ma. Subramanian. Suggestions by experts An official statement said the experts made suggestions for tackling the spread of the Omicron variant. “On account of the upcoming festival season, the experts said citizens are likely to converge in large numbers at various places. The citizens are requested not to gather in large numbers anywhere, to wear a mask while stepping out of their homes and to maintain physical distancing outside,” the Chief Minister said. Vaccination Mr. Stalin also requested the citizens to get vaccinated at the camps arranged by the government and asked shops, commercial establishments and cinema halls to adhere to the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-new-restrictions-on-account-of-omicron-variant-in-tn/article38033326.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Edappadi Palaniswami, O. Panneerselvam observe MGR’s 34th death anniversary||The 34th death anniversary of the AIADMK’s founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran was observed on Friday, with party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami leading the events. The two leaders, accompanied by their colleagues, paid floral tributes at the MGR mausoleum on the Marina. They also paid homage to the MGR portraits at their residences in Chennai. The party administered a pledge to its members, calling upon the workers to remain united and strive for the success in the urban local bodies elections. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam referred to the rising prices of vegetables after the DMK came to power seven months ago. Though the prices were on the rise, it was benefiting intermediaries and not farmers. He called for the establishment of an institution to regulate the prices and ensure equitable benefits to producers, wholesale and retail traders and consumers. AMMK pays tribute AMMK founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran paid floral tributes at the party office at Royapettah. V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the AIADMK, paid homage to the former Chief Minister at her residence at T. Nagar. In a pledge, she called upon her followers to “crush the betrayals [betrayers].” Expelled leader Coinciding with MGR’s 34th death anniversary, Supporters of the expelled AIADMK leader Anhwar Raajhaa put up posters in parts of Ramanathapuram on Friday, appealing to the party high command to readmit him to the fold. The ex-MP was removed from the party after he had criticised the dual leadership and favoured admitting Ms. Sasikala into the AIADMK. The posters were seen near Mr. Rajhaa’s residence, at Bharati Nagar and in parts of Kenikarai area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/edappadi-palaniswami-o-panneerselvam-observe-mgrs-34th-death-anniversary/article38033333.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WWF India trains mangrove ambassadors||In an effort to protect mangroves and sensitise people about its conservation, the World Wide Fund for Nature - India has identified volunteers from various parts of the State and trained them as mangrove ambassadors. The “magical mangroves” campaign being organised along with Godrej and Boyce by the WWF-India is aimed at creating awareness, particularly among the youth, on the significance of mangroves and train them as influencers for protecting the ecosystem. Ashish Rose, senior programme officer, WWF - India, said the second phase of the five-month long campaign was organised online to empower mangrove ambassadors in nine coastal States. They would spread awareness about the significance of preserving the vital coastal ecosystems.  The volunteers would take up awareness initiatives in eight districts of Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Salem, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Tiruchi and Sivaganga. Habeeba Fathima, a resident of Royapettah, is one of the mangrove ambassadors. “Mangroves do not get enough attention. It is a good opportunity for me to educate the youth, particularly students, on the ecological benefits of mangroves,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wwf-india-trains-mangrove-ambassadors/article38033293.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||19 start-ups get a grant of Rs. 5 lakh from T.N. government||As many as 19 start-ups from across Tamil Nadu, which were selected in the second edition of the Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund (TANSEED), received a grant of Rs. 5 lakh each from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday. This corpus of Rs. 95 lakh is the first tranche that has been disbursed. Each start-up is eligible for another Rs. 5 lakh in the coming months. Solinas Integrity Private Limited, which works in the water and sanitation industry to solve the problems of pipeline leakages and tank-cleaning; Dev Beetech India Private Limited, which has come out with an IoT-based device to track bees, and Mangoleap Private Limited (Gallabox), an omni-channel customer engagement platform, are among the start-ups that received the funding. Around 640 start-ups applied in the second edition and 53 were shortlisted for a boot camp and 30 start-ups made it to the pre-final pitch and 19 were chosen for the funding. Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Mission, mandated to build a vibrant ecosystem, has been implementing TANSEED to promote start-up culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-start-ups-get-a-grant-of-rs-5-lakh-from-tn-govt/article38033377.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner receives 431 petitions||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Friday heard grievances of police personnel and received 431 petitions under the ‘Chief Minister in Your Constituency’ scheme at the Rajarathinam Stadium in Egmore. The Commissioner interacted with the personnel for close to 10 hours and instructed the respective officials to take quick action on the grievances. Many of the petitions related to transfers, salary, housing, and medical assistance. Additional Police Commissioner J. Loganathan, Joint Commissioner of Police B. Shamoondeswari, and Deputy Commissioner of Police Balaji Saravanan were present. Another such meeting is scheduled to be held on December 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-receives-431-petitions/article38033310.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TMMK opposes move to raise marriage age for women||The Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam on Friday demanded that the BJP-led Central government drop its move to raise the age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years and condemned the Aadhaar-Voter ID linkage. At a meeting of its executive committee, the party passed resolutions on these issues. The party said when women were eligible to vote when they turn 18 years of age, it was amusing that the government was trying to criminalise the current age of marriage for women. While welcoming the decision to send the matter to a select committee, the party demanded that the government drop the proposal entirely. The party also welcomed the DMK government’s ‘ Meendum Manjappai’ initiative, the formation of a committee to recommend premature release of long-term prisoners, and to consider giving a longer parole to prisoners suffering from severe ailments. The Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam also requested the government to drop the plan for the construction of another thermal power plant at Ennore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmmk-opposes-move-to-raise-marriage-age-for-women/article38033315.ece
25 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Gana singer held||The Cyber Crime Police of Tiruvallur district has arrested a Gana singer after a video of his song about minor girls with obscene content went viral on social media. In the 30-second video clip, the singer Saravedi Saravanan alias Saran was seen singing that he would impregnate a Class 8 girl. Several netizens expressed their anger over social media. Tiruvallur SP R.V. Varunkumar said that the act of the singer was unsavoury. Soon he was arrested by the Cyber Crime Police and booked under Section 67B of the Information Technology Act. The singer apologised to the police and assured them that he would not repeat the crime. He was let off later. Saravedi Saravanan became popular following his YouTube channel in which he has been posting videos of him singing gana songs penned and composed by him. He also has sung in films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gana-singer-arrested-for-obscene-song/article38033302.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Red Hills reservoir shutters closed||After a month, the floodgates of Red Hills reservoir, one of the major drinking water sources of the city, were closed on Friday as inflow dropped significantly. The Water Resources Department (WRD) plans to shut the gates of Chembarambakkam reservoir as well next week as rainfall has abated this month. However, the department will take a decision on the closing the shutters of Poondi reservoir, which remains open since October 10, in a fortnight. Officials said the reservoir was still getting inflow of about 1,000 cusecs of water from the upper reaches of the Kosasthalaiyar. “The reservoir has a catchment area spread over 1,900 sq. km. We expect the Kosasthalaiyar to have a flow at least till March. All the check dams downstream of the Poondi reservoir across the river have filled up,” said an official. A portion of the water received at Poondi is diverted to other reservoirs and diverted to the Cooum to reduce pollution in the urban stretch. The water flow in the Cooum was 350 cusecs on Friday. Last month’s torrential downpour had boosted the storage in all the five city reservoirs. They have a combined storage of 11.1 tmcft, which is nearly 95% of their capacity on Friday. This is expected to be sufficient to meet the drinking water supply needs till October next year. At present, Chennai was being supplied with 912.39 million litres of water daily, the officials said. Since the onset of the northeast monsoon, nearly 37 tmcft of surplus water has been drained into the sea through major waterways, including the Kosasthalaiyar and the Adyar. “We have been able to conserve about 50% of the surplus water released from the reservoirs by storing in check dams and groundwater recharge in rivers. We may be able to save additional flood water up to 10 tmcft if projects for new reservoirs and improvement of waterbodies are executed,” an official said. Last year, nearly 15 tmcft of surplus water drained into the sea. This season, most of the tanks in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu are full. Of the 1,249 tanks in these districts, 1,187 were filled up. Officials said the same storage might be sustained for two or three more months as the groundwater level had saturated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/red-hills-reservoir-shutters-closed/article38033299.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mamallapuram dance festival gets under way||The annual 30-day Indian Dance Festival organised by the Tamil Nadu Tourism Department began at Mamallapuram near Chennai on Thursday. Around 90 performances, including those of Bharathanatyam, Kuchipudi, Mohiniattam and Kathak and folk arts such as Oyilattam, Karagattam, Kavadi and Thappaattam will be held as part of the festival. Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises T.M. Anbarasan, who inaugurated the festival, urged the Collector to draw up a traffic management plan for the Mamallapuram town. “The number of visitors, is going up by the year. During some weekends, the traffic is unbearable. The government is taking every step to make the visit and stay of tourists to this town comfortable,” he said. In 2017, 1.50 crore tourists visited the town and in 2018 the number increased 1.82 crore. In 2020, it came down to 36.8 lakh due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Anbarasan said. Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan said 1.90 lakh guests had attended the festival in 2019-2020. This year, the festival would go on till January 23, 2022. The programmes would be held by following all COVID-19 protocol. Sholinganallur MLA Aravind Ramesh, Chengalpattu MLA M. Varalakshmi, Thiruporur MLA S.S. Balaji, Tourism Secretary B. Chandra Mohan, Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation M.D. Sandeep Nanduri, and Chengalpattu Collector Rahul Nadh participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mamallapuram-dance-festival-gets-under-way/article38033425.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Coast Guard DG meets Governor||The Director-General of Indian Coast Guard, K. Natarajan, called on Governor R.N. Ravi on Friday. Mr. Natarajan briefed the Governor about various operational facets and recent string of achievements by the Coast Guard, especially in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coast-guard-dg-meets-governor/article38033301.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Take action against former V-C: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Friday urged the State government to take action against former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, M. K. Surappa, against whom charges of irregularities were levelled. In a Twitter post, he expressed disappointment over the State government’s stance before the Madras High Court that the Governor, who is Chancellor of universities, alone is the competent authority to deal with the issue. A Commission of Inquiry, headed by Justice P. Kalaiarasan, was formed by the previous AIADMK regime and not by the Governor, Mr. Ramadoss said. According to him, Chancellor is an honorary post held by the Governor and the State should not surrender its rights on universities to the Governor. It will be against State autonomy, Mr. Ramadoss added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-action-against-former-v-c-ramadoss/article38033314.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS should apologise, says Dhinakaran||AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Friday said there was no need for him or V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary, to offer apologies to the AIADMK [over the events that led to the split in the party in 2017]. Only AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam should apologise for it, he contended. To questions on Mr. Panneerselvam’s observation a few days ago about “forgiving those who repent their past actions,” he told journalists, “The whole world knows who committed mistakes, who were the betrayers. It is they who have to regret for their actions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-should-apologise-says-dhinakaran/article38033320.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More stipend for trainees in temples||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated a scheme to provide an increased stipend of Rs. 3,000 to students undergoing training to become temple archakas , odhuvars and musicians, over the Rs. 1,000 given earlier. Mr. Stalin provided the amount to 18 students on Friday. Students training at the Palani Dhandayudhapani Swami temple and Kapaleeswarar temple in Mylapore, Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai, Arunachaleswarar temple in Tiruvannamalai will benefit from the increase in stipend, the Government said in a press release. Mr. Stalin also launched welfare measures of the Agricultural Engineering Department, totalling Rs. 9.24 crore. Under the scheme, 672 farmers will be provided with value-adding equipment for farm produce. He also gave away appointment orders to children of 87 staff of the Agriculture Department on compassionate grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-stipend-for-trainees-in-temples/article38033324.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vadivelu admitted to hospital with COVID-19||Actor Vadivelu has been admitted to a private hospital in Chennai after testing positive for COVID-19. Hospital sources said his condition was stable. The actor had returned on Thursday from London after a film shoot. On arrival, he was tested at the airport, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vadivelu-admitted-to-hospital-with-covid-19/article38033334.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Scheme road: Corporation to survey lands||Coimbatore Corporation will soon survey the lands to be acquired for developing a scheme road along the Codissia Trade Fair Complex. Officials in the Corporation East Zone office said the decision to start the survey followed a petition the residents of the area in and around the Complex submitted to the Chief Minister’s Cell, Housing and Urban Development Minister S. Muthusamy, district administration and the Corporation. The residents had asked for development of the road that would serve as an alternative to Kalapatti Road, which connected Sathyamangalam Road to Avinashi Road at SITRA Junction and Vilankurichi Road, which again connected Sathyamangalam Road to Avinashi Road. K. Ramasamy, a Co-operative E Colony resident and one of the people pushing for the scheme road, said the proposed scheme road branched off Codissia Main Road, between the Complex and a private school, towards north to NRI Garden, S.R. Avenue, Cooperative E Colony, connected Cheran Managar and also branched off west to Vilankurichi Road. P. Nanjappan, another resident, said the Corporation’s task was easier as almost all the land owners were ready to donate the portions required for the scheme road. Of the rest, a few, who had encroached upon the land, were willing to vacate as when the Corporation would start the work. This left the Corporation with only a very few land owners with whom it had to negotiate the price for acquisition. The proposed scheme road was a part of the Vilankurichi Detailed Development Plan 7 and 8, Mr. Ramasamy said and added the Corporation way back in 2010 had passed a resolution for the road development. This was prior to the World Classical Tamil Conference and the then government referred to it as the inner ring road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scheme-road-corporation-to-survey-lands/article38033348.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 dilapidated govt. school buildings identified in Coimbatore||The Department of School Education has identified around 304 dilapidated buildings that are unsafe for students in government schools across the levels of primary, middle, high and higher secondary schools in Coimbatore district. Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha said on Friday that following the inspection carried out in all government schools, 187 damaged buildings were identified in primary and middle schools, 44 in high schools and 73 in higher secondary schools. Over 200 members from the School Education Department, comprising four district educational officers, 23 block educational officers, 80 block resource teacher educators and around 100 headmasters of government schools, were engaged in the inspection works, Ms. Geetha said. The inspections commenced in Coimbatore district in the wake of the wall collapse at a government-aided school in Tirunelveli that claimed the lives of three students, and continued for around a week. Details pertaining to the dilapidated buildings in the government schools were submitted to the Public Works Department (PWD) and the respective Block Development Officers (BDO), she said. “The PWD and BDO have started the demolition works,” Ms. Geetha said. Regarding private and government-aided schools, the CEO said the Department of School Education had inspected these schools in Coimbatore district and would soon send notices to the individual schools to demolish the damaged buildings to ensure the safety of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-300-dilapidated-govt-school-buildings-identified-in-coimbatore/article38033359.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Registration under RERA must’||The Registration Department here is asking details of (Real Estate Regulatory Authority) RERA registration to record documents of apartments, villas, and layouts. “We got the government communication on Monday and it has come into effect immediately. However, we do not ask for RERA registration for second sales as RERA is only for the promoters,” an official said. The Registration Department asks for approval from the Directorate of Town and Country Planning or the authority concerned and now it has included RERA registration, the official said. According to a document writer here, the Department is not registering documents if the RERA registration is not there. This order has come without any prior announcement and hence affecting consumers as they were not prepared for it. Now, they need to postpone registrations and wait for the RERA registration. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said according to the instructions given by the Department, “where the area of land proposed to be developed exceeds 500 sq.mt. or the number of apartments proposed to be developed exceeds eight, inclusive of all phases, registration with RERA is mandatory for registration of the documents.” No prior information This instruction was implemented all of a sudden, without any prior information or notification to the public. Registration of documents can be refused only if notified u/s 22A of Registration Act – as documents opposed to public policy and registration of unapproved sites is specifically banned under Section 22A of the Act. But, there is no provision in the Registration Act for mandatory RERA Registration. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said if the total land developed exceeded 500 sq. mt (5,380 sq.ft), registration under RERA was mandatory. It meant all layouts needed to be registered, since 5,380 sq. ft meant normally more than just two sites. When the sites in approved layout were purchased, it was a one-time transaction between the promoter and the buyer. Hence, there should not be a need to ask for RERA registration. And, to regularise unapproved sites, the government had the regularisation scheme, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-under-rera-must/article38033356.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions demand payment of wages to NTC workers||Trade union members on Friday submitted a memorandum to the management of National Textile Corporation (NTC) here demanding payment of wages to workers. CITU leader C. Padmanabhan said the NTC had not paid wages to the workers of the seven NTC mills in the State for October and November. Since the lockdown last year when the mills were closed, the management had paid the workers only 50 % wages. Protest The mills were not functioning and the workers did not receive even the 50 % wages for October and November. The All India Co-ordination Committee of NTC trade unions would meet here on January 4 and a protest was planned for January 5. “We, along with MPs of States that have NTC mills, met the Textile Minister earlier this month and demanded reopening of the mills. However, he did not give an assurance,” Mr. Padmanabhan said. The NTC officials here had assured the trade union members that the wage arrears for the two months would be cleared within a week, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-demand-payment-of-wages-to-ntc-workers/article38033355.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop RSS training programme in college’||Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam has petitioned the district administration to stop an alleged RSS training camp on the premises of a private college in the city. In the petition submitted here on Friday, the outfit’s general secretary Ku. Ramakrishnan said that by holding a training programme for girls aged over 13, the RSS’ affiliate Rashtriya Sevika Samiti was trying to create communal unrest in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-rss-training-programme-in-college/article38033349.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 90 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 90 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday. The Health Department reported two new deaths and the toll increased to 2,504. As many as 105 persons recovered on Friday and the district had 1,058 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 41 new cases on Friday. The district had 480 active cases and 57 persons recovered. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll went up to 1,020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-90-new-covid-19-cases/article38033361.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Take vaccination to guard against Omicron’||Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara has appealed to the residents to take COVID-19 vaccination to guard against the Omicron variant. In a release here on Friday, Mr. Sunkara said the Corporation would be holding the 16th mega vaccination camp on December 26 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at 145 places. Thus far, 94% of the city population had taken the first dose vaccine. As many as 1.15 lakh persons were yet to take even their first jab. Likewise, 2.57 lakh persons were eligible for the second dose. To control the infection spread, those persons would do well to complete their vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-vaccination-to-guard-against-omicron/article38033381.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mini cluster planned for jewellery units||The jewellers here plan to establish a mini cluster at a total cost of Rs. 5 crore to take up assaying and quality control services. S.M. Kamalhasan, president of Coimbatore goldsmith association, said the cluster would be formed by 23 goldsmiths, who would contribute Rs. 1.5 crore. The remaining amount would come as the State government contribution. A special purpose vehicle would be formed to implement the project and create facilities in the city. The special purpose vehicle would be a section 8 company. The project would benefit nearly 2,000 goldsmiths and would provide direct employment to 60 people. It was expected to be commissioned in three months. “We are preparing a detailed project report,” he said. The special purpose vehicle would focus only on assaying, quality control, hallmarking, gold and gem testing. The cost of these services was very high in the private sector. With the mini cluster, the goldsmiths could avail themselves of these services at lower costs, he said. General manager of District Industries Centre B. Karthigaivasan said a committee including the DIC, SIDCO, Lead Bank, and MSME DI would approve the project after receiving the DPR. Since Coimbatore was a major cluster for jewellery production, this project was expected to benefit a large number of small-scale jewellery makers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-cluster-planned-for-jewellery-units/article38033350.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Birds and butterflies survey begins in Coimbatore||The Forest Department in collaboration with three non-governmental organisations (NGOs) began the annual survey of birds and butterflies in the Coimbatore Forest Division on Friday. The field work for the survey will be carried out on Saturday and Sunday. The three NGOs are World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India), Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS) and The Nature and Butterfly Society. P.B. Balaji, core committee member of CNS, said the survey would cover all seven forest ranges in the Coimbatore Forest Division – Coimbatore, Periyanaickenpalayam, Sirumugai, Mettupalayam, Boluvampatti, Karamadai and Madukkarai – to evaluate the number of species of birds and butterflies present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birds-and-butterflies-survey-begins-in-coimbatore/article38033360.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man who attempted to poison sons dies||A man, who allegedly attempted to poison his two sons and end his life in Coimbatore, died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Friday. According to the police, S. Samidurai (42) was staying with his wife and two mentally challenged sons aged 13 and 10 at Varadharajapuram near Singanallur. On Thursday evening, the woman found her husband and the sons vomiting, following which she rushed the boys to a private hospital and Samidurai to CMCH. The man died on Friday morning while the two boys were admitted in the intensive care unit of the private hospital, the police said.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-who-attempted-to-poison-sons-dies/article38033379.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure 100% victory in urban local body polls’||Partymen in Coimbatore should work to enrol at least 10 lakh voters to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and ensure victory in all the 100 wards in Coimbatore Corporation in the ensuing urban local body polls, Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji said here on Friday. Addressing the members at the executive committee meeting for composite Coimbatore units of the party, he said that Chief Minister and party president M.K. Stalin had emphasised at a meeting of MPs and MLAs the importance for forming booth committees. Of those districts where the party had constituted booth committees, Coimbatore was the first. To mark the inauguration of the membership drive, DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidi Stalin would be here in Coimbatore on December 26, Mr. Senthilbalaji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-100-victory-in-urban-local-body-polls/article38033380.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Flight services to Singapore from Dec. 29||Direct flight services from Coimbatore International Airport to Singapore will commence from December 29 under the air bubble arrangement, Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan said here on Friday. Singaporean budget carrier Scoot Airlines will operate three flights per week to the Changi Airport in Singapore from the Coimbatore International Airport, he said. The flights will arrive in Coimbatore Airport at 10.45 p.m. and will depart to Singapore at 11.45 p.m. from December 29. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation recently approved the air bubble arrangement between Coimbatore and Singapore, Mr. Valavan said. The only other approved air bubble route from Coimbatore Airport that is available is between Coimbatore and Sharjah International Airport, the Airport Director said. Air bubble flights are an arrangement made between two countries to allow air travel as regular international flights remain suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flight-services-to-singapore-from-dec-29/article38033373.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Teacher suspended for sexually harassing students||Chief Educational Officer (CEO) N. Geetha on Friday ordered the suspension of a computer instructor from a government school here following complaints of him sexually harassing the girl students. According to sources privy to the development, C. Vijay Anand was a grade-II computer instructor for Classes XI and XII at the Government Higher Secondary School in Vellalore. He allegedly sent inappropriate text messages and images to the girl students in Classes XI and XII through WhatsApp, but allegedly used to delete it immediately after sending. On Friday afternoon, nearly 80 persons, including 40 school students staged a road roko outside the government school demanding action against the teacher. Following this, Ms. Geetha placed Anand under suspension till further notice in the evening. An inquiry will also be carried out to initiate departmental action against him, according to the sources. The police said that a case against the instructor was yet to be registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-suspended-for-sexually-harassing-students/article38033374.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BIS launches mobile app||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has launched a mobile app “BIS Care” for consumers. A release from BIS said consumers could download the app from the playstore and could verify the authenticity of any product that was certified by the Bureau. It could be water bottles, jewellery, or any other BIS certified product. If it was to verify authenticity of products with ISI mark, consumers should go to “verify licence details” section. If it was for hall marked jewellery, they should go to “verify HUID” section. Consumers could also submit complaints on the app. The BIS Coimbatore office planned to organise an awareness programme for consumers on Tuesday at Bharathiar University. It was setting up Standards Clubs at schools and colleges and was encouraging students to download the app. All the daily activities of BIS had moved to the app and hence the complaints would be addressed immediately, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bis-launches-mobile-app/article38033357.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Workshop on astronomy held||Air Force School, Sulur, organised a workshop on astronomy for school students and teachers reently. A release said the workshop included slides and videos to explain the celestial objects. This was followed by a science exhibition and stargazing using telescope. Seminar organised The Good Shepherd Health Education Centre and Dispensary organised a seminar on empowerment of women here recently. A release said District Social Welfare Officer P. Thangamani inaugurated the event, which was attended by community development experts, academicians and community organisation members from Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchi and New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workshop-on-astronomy-held/article38033378.ece
25 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||NABARD extends grant for solar technology to produce quality dry fish in Cuddalore||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has extended a grant of Rs. 23.29 lakh for a project for production of quality dry fish through the portable tunnel solar dryer in Cuddalore district. According to a release, the project is implemented by the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) and aimed at enhancing the livelihood of fisherwomen in Mudalsalodai. The project was formally launched by NABARD general manager S. Sreepathy Kalkura on Thursday. Mr. Kalkura said the project would be implemented under the ‘My District My Product’ scheme. It would provide end-to-end scientific knowledge, training and demonstration of the solar dryer technology for quality dry fish production. The project is the first of its kind in the country, he said. NABARD Deputy District Manager Vijay Neehar highlighted the importance of the ‘My District My Product’ scheme. S. Velvizhi of the MSSRF said the open sun drying technique, followed by fisherwomen, impacted the quality of the products. The solar dryer technology is an alternative to this method, and its implementation with forward and backward linkages would support the fisherwomen in producing quality dry fish. Products from the solar dryer would have added value because of its hygiene, she said. Renuga, general manager of Tamil Nadu State Apex Fisheries Cooperative Federation, and M. Srinivasan, Dean-cum-Director, Centre of Advanced Study in Marine Biology, Annamalai University, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nabard-extends-grant-for-solar-technology-to-produce-quality-dry-fish-in-cuddalore/article38033677.ece
25 December 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Farmers protest against land acquisition for SIPCOT||Tamil Nadu Vivasaya Sangam on Friday opposed the move to acquire additional lands for the establishment of SIPCOT industrial estate here in Dharmapuri. The protesters led by the farmers organisation marched to the Collectorate to object the proposed move. The objections have risen following surveying of additional lands for the SIPCOT project in a follow-up to the announcement made by the State government in the Assembly session. The SIPCOT project was long announced during the earlier AIADMK’s term and lands spread over 1733.40 acres were identified in Adhagapadi, Thadangam, Balajangamanahalli in Dharmapuri. The lands included 1183.05 acres of government porampoke and over 550 acres of patta lands. The State government announced acquisition of additional lands and the authorities had surveyed lands in Jeeva Nagar, Adhiyamankottai, Balajangamanahalli. However, objections have been raised to the proposed acquisition of additional lands in the aforementioned villages that are endowed with farmlands under cultivation, along with houses and farm wells. The farmers called upon the administration to drop plans to acquire patta lands that are under cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-protest-against-land-acquisition-for-sipcot/article38033446.ece
25 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Women’s forums plan to take out march to Chennai in January||Demanding stringent action against those sexually abusing women and girl children, the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) and other organisations have decided to go on a padayatra from Dindigul to Fort St. George and meet Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, former MLA and senior CPI(M) leader K. Balabharathi said complaints from girl students and women were on the rise in the State. Only in very few cases the accused had been convicted. A lackadaisical attitude of the official machinery was largely responsible for the increase in crimes against women. The courts were also lenient in granting bails to the accused. As a result, the victims were under constant threat, and in many crimes, the delay in action had given room for the accused to give the police the slip. In Dindigul district, 500 cases had been registered over the last nine years and only in 21 cases the accused had been convicted. In as many as 187 cases, the accused were either got off scot-free or were on bail. Pachalur incident In a recent incident where a 12-year-old girl died under mysterious circumstances at Pachalur on the Kodaikanal hills, the police were yet to arrest the accused. Only after the AIDWA and others intensified their stir did the DGP order a CB-CID probe into the issue, she added. The delay in handling the cases encouraged the accused to indulge in more crimes. Many women ended their lives, unable to tolerate the humiliation or were forced to stay silent, Ms. Balabharathi said. To draw Mr. Stalin’s attention to the issue, the AIDWA, the Vidiyal Women Organisation and others plan to take a march to Chennai by the end of January and submit a petition seeking his personal attention. The courts and judicial officers in Dindigul district should also be sensitised to the need for quick action in cases related to crimes against women and girl children, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aidwa-plans-march-from-dindigul-to-chennai/article38033341.ece
25 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||20 women get assistance||Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy handed over cheques to the tune of Rs. 19.54 lakh to 20 needy women who were either aged, deserted by their husbands or left uncared for, at a function here on Friday, the Christmas eve. The Minister said that in coordination with ‘Christuva Mahalir Udhavum Sangam,’ the Backward Classes and Minority Welfare Department had screened the beneficiaries. He said that women from the minority communities, engaged in self-employment ventures such as selling eatables on the roadside and vendor of essential goods could apply for loans. Mr. Periyasamy said that the Tamil Nadu government had acted in a fair manner on the death of the 12-year-old girl in Pachalur near Kodaikanal. The case had been transferred to the CB-CID police for a fair probe. Very soon, a Government Order would be issued on retrieval of jewels weighing up to five sovereigns pledged with the cooperative banks and societies. For so many years the farmers had been complaining about wild animals raiding their fields and destroying their crops. As a temporary measure, to prevent raid by wild animals, armed forest guards with a good knowledge of elephant movement in the forests would be posted. A permanent solution to the man-animal conflic will be arrived at through meeting with forest officials. On buying sand, Mr. Periyasamy said that the State government had examined the modalities and soon consumers can place order for sand online. Dindigul Collector S. Visakan presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-get-assistance/article38033436.ece
25 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Parents worried over transformer near school||A transformer installed outside the Corporation Middle School at Kalaimadu Silai area would pose a threat to the safety of the students, according to a few parents who staged a protest demanding its removal on Friday. Parents said that over 200 students study from L.K.G. to Class VIII in the school. They said that the issue was taken up with the corporation and the electricity board. But, no steps were taken to stop the installation as work continued. They wanted the transformer to be installed at another location. Erode Taluk police held talks with the parents and assured to take up the issue with officials concerned. Later, the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-worried-over-transformer-near-school/article38033454.ece
25 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps in Erode tomorrow||The district administration has planned to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people across the district during the special vaccination camps to be held in hospitals and also the door-to-door vaccination to be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 26. Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that camps will be held at 512 centres in government hospitals, government primary health centres, urban primary health centres and also in schools. Also, 2,048 health staff would be covering the households with the help of 66 mobile vehicles in the district to vaccinate people at their doorsteps. Since the Omicron virant is spreading, vaccination is important.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-in-erode-tomorrow/article38033455.ece
25 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Desist from spreading rumours on leopard movement: Forest Dept.||The Forest Department has ruled out the possibility of a leopard entering a residential area in 6, Pudur Panchayat in Modakkurichi Taluk and added that action will be taken against miscreants for spreading rumours in social media on Friday. Recently, residents of Sanjai Nagar were caught in fears as a social media post claiming that an unidentified animal was found moving in their area during night hours. Also, a picture from the surveillance camera installed in a house owned by Kotravel showing the animal was also circulated causing panic among the residents. Forest officials inspected the spot and confirmed that it was a brown palm civet, a species endemic to the Western Ghats. On Thursday, a video showing a leopard entering the house and attacking a dog and leaving the house was circulated in social media. The message said that the footage was retrieved from Kotravel’s house. A team led by Erode Forest Ranger Raveendranath, Erode Taluk Sub-Inspector Sasikala inspected the spot on Thursday night. The team found no such incident was recorded in the camera in the house and also the spot mentioned in the social media post was different. Mr. Raveendranath said that miscreants had purposefully circulated rumours to create panic among the residents and added that a complaint would be lodged with the cyber crime police to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desist-from-spreading-rumours-on-leopard-movement-forest-dept/article38033452.ece
25 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode dist. reports 42 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Friday reported 42 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,07,521. While 52 persons were discharged, 536 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 29 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,02,311. While 37 persons were discharged, 405 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 24 cases taking the tally to 54,432. Krishnagiri recorded four cases, while 13 persons got discharged. Dharmapuri district reported six cases, while seven persons gots discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-reports-42-new-covid-19-cases/article38033451.ece
25 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in elephant attack||A 57-year-old woman was killed in an elephant attack in Sathyamangalam here. Over 100 tribal families were residing near the forest area at Ramapailoor Thotti village in Chikkarasampalayam panchayat. They were involved in grazing cattle and collecting minor forest produce. On Thursday afternoon, four women from the village, Masani, Bommi, Rajathi and Marakkal, went to the forest to collect turkey berries. A wild elephant chased them and attacked Masani in which she suffered injuries and died on the spot. Others escaped and reached the village and narrated the incident. Villagers alerted Sathyamangalam Forest Department and they were admitted to the Sathyamangalam Government Hospital. Later, the body was retrieved and sent to the hospital. Postmortem was conducted on Friday and the body was handed over to the relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-in-elephant-attack/article38033457.ece
25 December 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Flower growers want a ban on plastic flowers||The once-ubiquitous yellow cloth bag, which was evocative of simplicity and occasional ridicule, has been brought to the centre stage in the fight against single-use plastics, with the launch of the ‘Meendum Manjappai’ campaign by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. For Hosur’s flower growers, the initiative, lauded for its intent, would be incomplete without a ban on plastic flowers and plants that altered the aesthetics of events and celebrations. The ‘Meendum Manjappai’ campaign has reiterated the earlier ban on 14 types of single-use plastics. “All we ask is to include plastic flowers in the list of banned items to prevent public consumption,” says Bala Siva Prasad, Director, National Horticulture Board, and president of Hosur Association of Small Farmers. Plastic flowers imported from China, in deep, lush colours and dotted with plastic dew drops, have made inroads into homes, hotels and public places. Today, it occupies a central space in the event management business with decorators seeking out plastic flowers for stage décor. According to Bala Siva Prasad, the strong dyes used to give the sheen, colour and the authentic look is highly toxic. After multiple use, they are disposed of in the environment, polluting waterbodies, hurting livestock and eventually entering the food chain. “There is enough literature to show the hazardous effects. The colours of plastic flowers are made of picric acid (yellow dye), fuchsine acid (magenta dye) and aniline dye (coal tar). Even the banned items here, such as tea cups and plastic bags, are not so toxic as the plastic flowers that get imported along with China-made toys,” he says. Earlier, there were just cut flowers (roses, chrysanthemums) that were made in plastic. Today, even loose flowers like jasmines, made of plastic and pumped with artificial fragrance, have come to hog the bridal make-up scene, says Mr. Prasad. If plastic flowers have normalised a form of aesthetic, that some may see as tacky, it has come to hurt the profitability for flower growers, who are dependent on weddings and auspicious days for sales. “Over 60% of weddings and the majority of birthday parties use plastic flowers.” To counter this, flower growers have come together to form the Growers’ Flower Council of India, with headquarters in Pune. Registered as an autonomous body, the Council is holding nationwide meetings to lobby for a ban on plastic flowers. According to Mr. Prasad, there is also a disconnect between the import-export data of India and China. China has said it has exported 3.5 metric tonnes in shipment to India. “We are looking at that quantum of plastic waste after 9 or 10 cycles of use, which is what the government should stop.” Plastic flowers are hurting not just the cut flower-growing areas like Hosur but also other production areas such as the Nilgiris and Madurai, he says. Even nurseries are hit, with indoor plants in plastic taking over the décor of homes and hotel rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-growers-want-a-ban-on-plastic-flowers-to-make-meendum-manjappai-meaningful/article38033459.ece
25 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fake currencies seized||The Madurai rural district police seized fake currencies, with the face value of Rs. 11.64 lakh and in the denominations of Rs. 500 and Rs. 200, from a private farmhouse at Salupapatti village under Saptur police station limits near Tirumangalam in Madurai district on Friday. The prime accused identified as Pandi (53), son of Thirumal, was arrested. Following a complaint from VAO, the Saptur police registered a case under IPC Section 420 (cheating) among others. Speaking to reporters, Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said that preliminary inquiries revealed that Pandi, in connivance with Illango alias Illangovan, aged about 60 years, had been printing fake currencies for a few months at his farmhouse. Based on the confession by Pandi, the police came to know that he had come in contact with Illango in the prisons in 2017, where Pandi was cooling his heels in a cheating case. Since then, they became friends and committed crimes. The modus operandi was that after the fake notes were printed in the farmhouse, Illangovan, through his contacts with agents in Virudhunagar, Sivakasi and some places in Dindigul district, had circulated the notes. They may have planned to transport the printed currencies to the tune of Rs. 11.64 lakh to different destinations secretly in the next few days. It was likely that the duo may have circulated fake notes for the last six months in remote locations, which would be thoroughly investigated, the SP added. On Friday, Illangovan was allegedly found dead in the farmhouse of Pandi. After some neighbours alerted the police, a team descended on the scene of crime and seized the body. Whether Pandi had planned to perform the last rites silently was also being probed, the police said. Inquiries revealed that Illangovan hailed from Thuvariman in Madurai district and was ailing for some time. Probably, he may have collapsed. The body had been sent for post-mortem and based on the report, further action would be initiated. The SP said that a special team under DSP Saroja had been formed to probe the network of the accused. The police seized the gadgets and ink used among other materials from the farmhouse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-currencies-seized/article38033601.ece
25 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders payment of Rs. 1.25 lakh to Tiruchi cold storage facility||Coming across a classic instance ‘where exercise of statutory right would further worsen the condition of the right holder’, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court granted relief to a petitioner. The court was hearing the petition filed by the manager of a cold storage facility in Tiruchi, seeking a direction to Tiruchi police to pay rent arrears. In 2018, the police seized dates that were being sold under a fake brand name. The Judicial Magistrate directed the police to keep the seized dates in a cold storage facility till the disposal of the case. But even after three years, the dates remained in the cold storage unit. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed, “What should have been a routine business engagement turned out to be a fatal ‘date’ with the dates. A full three year lapsed. The petitioner has kept the goods ever since. Unfortunately the case went into ‘cold storage’.” Even the best of facilities could not halt decay of the stored materials beyond a point. A foul odour was emanating from the goods. No amount was paid and the bill kept mounting. The local police could not be expected to cough up the amount as they had acted only on court orders. The complainant also could not be asked to bear the charges. Though as per Section 170 of Indian Contract Act, 1872, the petitioner as bailee had the right of lien over the bailed goods till the charges were paid, he was in a position of being unable to exercise the right, the court said. The court observed that Section 459 of the Cr.PC authorised the magistrate to direct sale of seized properties that are subject to speedy and natural decay. The fake labels and wrappers were sufficient to establish the case against the accused. Directing the police to keep the goods in safe custody till the disposal of the case was erroneous, the judge said. Stating that the bill had mounted to Rs. 3.54 lakh, the judge observed that the petitioner was not entitled to full payment. This was because as per Explanation to Section 73 of the Indian Contract Act, in estimating the loss or damage arising from a breach of contract, the means which existed of remedying the inconvenience caused by non- performance of the contract must be taken into account. This was known as the rule of mitigation. The petitioner had the duty of taking all reasonable steps to mitigate the loss. could have moved the jurisdictional magistrate or the High Court at the earliest. Therefore, the petitioner should be paid only Rs. 1 lakh. The cost of removal of the decayed goods and subsequent sanitation of the cold storage facility was fixed at Rs. 25,000. The Tiruchi Superintendent of Police should coordinate with the petitioner and ensure that the stored goods were removed within a few days. The petitioner should be paid Rs. 1.25 lakh from the victim compensation fund by the jurisdictional magistrate court within four weeks, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-rs-125-lakh-to-cold-storage-facility-says-high-court/article38033432.ece
25 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses plea||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has dismissed a petition that sought a direction for the implementation of the 2019 final report of a high-level committee with regard to appointments and promotions of the faculty in the Madurai Kamaraj University. The petitioner M. Lionel Antony Raj of Madurai sought a direction to the authorities to implement the final report of the committee headed by a former judge of the Madras High Court and revise the appointments and promotions of the teaching and non-teaching faculties made during May 5, 2017 to June 6, 2018 within a time frame. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan took note of the fact that the report of the committee was implemented. The court said the petition had become infructuous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-petition/article38033444.ece
25 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Former MLA’s plea placed before Special Bench||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the High Court Registry to place the anticipatory bail petition filed by former Dindigul MLA and CPI (M) leader K. Balabharathi before the Special Bench for cases related to sitting and former MLAs and MPs. Justice G. Ilangovan directed that the matter be placed before the Special Bench in the Principal Seat in Chennai. Ms. Balabharathi and five others sought anticipatory bail after they were booked based on a complaint lodged by an advocate. Members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) staged a demonstration in front of Dindigul District Court complex on December 6, condemning the grant of bail to a college correspondent who was accused of sexually assaulting some students. A grievance petition At about 11 a.m. on that day, the advocate, Devendran, accompanied his client to the court. It was said that the advocate’s client questioned the demonstrators about the inaction on a grievance petition she submitted to the AIDWA members. It was alleged that the AIDWA members questioned her and accused the advocate of instigating his client. It was said that they had verbally abused Mr. Devendran and also tried to attack him. The petitioners denied the allegations levelled against them and said a false complaint was lodged against them. They said while they were agitating, the complainant used certain unwanted words against them. The advocate had defamed the association, they said. Annoyed by this, the AIDWA members raised slogans against the advocate, the petitioners said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mlas-plea-placed-before-special-bench/article38033443.ece
25 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Four held for theft in train||The Government Railway Police arrested four persons from Sellur and Meenambalpuram in the city and recovered two cell phones and a gold jewellery weighing about five sovereigns on Friday. Police said that following a complaint from two railway employees, a case was registered. It was said that when the Thiruvananthapuram Amirtha Express train was waiting for signal clearance near Sellur, four persons barged into the train with the intention of robbing passengers. When two railway employees travelling to Madurai from Dindigul objected to the four persons getting into the train, there was a wordy altercation. In the melee, the accused took away their mobile phones and a gold jewel. DSP Ponnusami formed a special team and based on the inputs, Mohamed Arshad (23) Ashik (22) and Sharukh Khan (22) of Sellur and Karthik (23) from Meenambalpuram were arrested. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-persons-arrested/article38033599.ece
25 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rights forum welcomes SHRC’s order||People’s Watch, a Madurai-based Human Rights Organisation, has welcomed the Tamil Nadu State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) order that recommended the State government to pay compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to 15 victims in an alleged case of rape of four women by four policemen attached to the Tirukoilur station in November 2011. The SHRC has recommended departmental against the four policemen. “It is appreciated that not only compensation was recommended but the commission has directed speedy departmental action against the police in three months and the immediate filing of a final report in the criminal case registered against the policemen”, said People’s Watch Executive Director Henri Tiphagne. People’s Watch demands that the government not only pay the SHRC ordered compensation of Rs. 75,00,000 but also ensure that disciplinary action is completed in time, the chargesheet against the policemen is laid immediately and trial completed as contemplated under the SC/ST PoA Act, 2016 within the next three months. The case needs a public condemnation of such continuing atrocities and should serve as a wake-up call to all IGs and the ADGP (L&O), he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rights-forum-welcomes-shrcs-order/article38033433.ece
25 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway works discussed at meeting||Madurai Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (DRUCC) meeting was held through video conference on Friday. Divisional Railway Manager Padmanabhan Ananth presided over the meeting. During his address, he elaborated on the completed and ongoing developmental works. In all, 29 members attended the meeting and discussed the developmental works at railway stations in their area, new trains and new train halts etc. An election was conducted to select a representative for the Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee from Madurai DRUCC and P. Thangaraj was elected Madurai Division representative. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager V. Prasanna welcomed. Senior Divisional Railway Operations Manager R.P. Rathipriya proposed a vote of thanks after detailing about new trains and new stoppages. Additional Divisional Railway Manager T. Ramesh Babu and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-works-discussed-at-meet/article38033437.ece
25 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 141.80 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 457 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.85 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 553 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,951 mcft. There was no rainfall in the region during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38033441.ece
25 December 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Protest continues seeking relief for land given to road project||Members of the Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association continued their protest with support from other public welfare organisations for the fourth day at Thirukkadaiyur near Tranquebar on Friday demanding adequate compensation for their agricultural and other land acquired by the authorities for four-laning of the Kollidam-Porayar stretch of the on-going NHAI project in the Villpuram-Nagapattinam sector. The protest that began on Tuesday in front of the office of the NHAI concessionaire despite refusal of permission by the police forms part of a series of agitations in recent months by the farmers and other public welfare organisations. Citing the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, they argued that possession of the land/property can take effect only after payment has been paid to the landowners. The district administration can take the possession of the land only after ensuring that full payment of compensation has been paid and rehabilitation or resettlement of persons has been completed, they said. They said their protest will continue until they receive the compensation they are entitled to under the Right to Fair Compensation Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-continues-seeking-relief-for-land-given-to-road-project/article38033414.ece
25 December 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Tough to find wards of fishermen for free coaching programme||Fisheries Department is in the midst of executing a challenging task of identifying wards of fishers fulfilling eligibility conditions for the free coaching for UPSC examinations offered by All India Civil Services Coaching Centre run under the auspices of the Government of Tamil Nadu. Across the State, 20 wards of fishers whose parents (one of them) hold membership in Tamil Nadu Fishermen Welfare Board are eligible to undergo the free training programme for which the candidates are chosen based on an entrance examination to be conducted on January 23, 2022 at 22 centres across the State. The free training is provided under Corporate Social Responsibility of Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation. Though the applicants are required to be graduates of post-graduates, the requirement for them to have secured 80 % in Plus Two has made the task a tough proposition for the Fisheries Department, according to sources in the education department. Last year, three candidates from Nagapattinam district underwent the training programme and appeared for the UPSC examination but none could go to the next level. Across the State, fishers in Kanyakumari area are known to accord importance to education for the next generation and are able to derive the utility of the scheme, sources said. While the All India Civil Services Coaching Centre Chennai, accepts 225 aspirants for full time residential programme and 100 part-time aspirants. The Anna Centenary Civil Services Coaching Academies, Coimbatore and Madurai accept 100 aspirants each for full time residential programme Anna Institute of Management, Chennai, has prepared the syllabus for the Civil Services Examination screening test. Eligible candidates will have to appear for a two-hour competitive entrance examination conducted by the department. The examination will have objective type questions on history of India and Indian national movement, Indian and world geography, Indian polity and governance, economic and social development, general issues on environmental ecology, bio-diversity and climate change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-to-find-wards-of-fishermen-for-free-coaching-programme/article38033434.ece
25 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No Omicron case yet in U.T.||No Omicron case has yet been reported in the Union Territory even as authorities have stepped up surveillance and enforcement of safety protocols ahead of the influx of tourists for the New Year celebrations. Since the emergence of the new variant, the Health department has acquired special test RT-PCR kits for assaying the S-gene dropout or the S-gene target failure (SGTF), the marker for Omicron variant, in patients identified with COVID-19. "We have not yet seen a positive for SGTF in the marker tests conducted in patients so far,” said G. Sriramulu, Health Director. Any sample that returns positive for the Omicron variant would be sent for confirmatory tests and genome sequencing to NIMHANS in Bengaluru. At Jipmer, the priority of screening is now largely on travellers from countries designated as ‘at high-risk’ for the new variant while a small proportion of other positive cases are also being subjected to SGTF marker tests for Omicron, specialists said. While the protocols for Delta or Omicron variants are the same, quicker identification of the new variant may help slow down speed of transmission so that the level of preparedness is better, doctors said. "The treatment or isolation protocols are the same but unlike Delta cases which are already widespread, the standard quarantining and contact screening procedures for the new variant will be more stringently enforced," said M. Vivekanandan, Nodal Officer, COVID-19, Jipmer. Meanwhile, the Health department is quite nervous about the impact of tourist arrivals on the course charted by the pandemic, especially after the first set of Omicron cases have been identified in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. They hope that early evidence suggesting Omicron may not turn out to be as fatal as feared holds good though the variant has much higher transmissibility. "The coronavirus case numbers have been declining for the past few weeks in the Union Territory. But, it is important that there is no lowering of guard, especially with the high influx of holidaying crowds over the next few days", Dr. Sriramulu said. "The first fortnight of the New Year will be crucial," an official said. On Friday, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan chaired a high-level COVID-19 review meeting to decide on precautions to be taken as footfalls are expected to increase over the X-mas-New Year week. The Lt. Governor emphasised the need to ensure that everyone followed COVID-appropriate behaviour. Notices should be issued at the State borders. People need to be made aware that the mask must be worn even after being vaccinated, Ms. Soundararajan said. The Union Territory has made vaccination certificates mandatory for participation in the New Year celebrations. The Lt. Governor also directed authorities to keep the infrastructure such as oxygen and bed facilities ready in hospitals to treat infections in the event of a spike in cases. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, Anand Mohan, ADGP, C. Udayakumar, Health Secretary, Ramesh, Nodal Officer (COVID-19), Saira Banu, WHO representative and representatives of private medical colleges attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-omicron-case-yet-in-ut/article38033673.ece
25 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||More boats back at Chunnambar||The Pondicherry Tourism Development Corporation has made available more boats ahead of the tourist arrival for New Year celebrations at Chunnambar Boat house. Speaker R. Selvam and Minister for Public Works K Lakshminarayanan jointly flagged off five boats at the Chunnambar Boat house on Friday. The boats, which were kept idle for a long time due to technical problems, were deployed for tourists after procuring new engines, said a PTDC employee. “We want to increase the availability of boats ahead of the New Year rush. So new engines were purchased as the boat house is one of the biggest avenue for revenue generation for the Corporation. We depend mainly on footfalls during weekends, festival seasons and New Year for generating revenue to run PTDC,” said the employee. The PTDC also plans to organise a three-day music festival at the Old Port Complex, starting December 30. The musical event would see the participation of around 46 DJs from across the country and actor Sunny Leone. The Corporation also plans to organise major events at Seagulls on New Year as part of its revenue generation exercise, said the employee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-boats-back-at-chunnambar/article38033670.ece
25 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two co-operative bank staff held for fraud||The D-Nagar police on Friday arrested two employees of a Co-operative bank in a fraud case. The accused Ganesan and Vijayakumar have been taking away gold pledged by customers in the bank and repledging the jewellery with pawn brokers for money. In place of the gold ornaments pledged with the pawn brokers, the duo kept imitation jewellery in the bank’s locker. The fraud came to light when a customer visited the bank to take back the pledged gold, the police said. Ornaments worth more than Rs. 1 crore repledged by the two employees with the pawn brokers were recovered, police added. Police have arrested Ganesan working as cashier and Vijayakumar, assistant cashier under Section 407, 420 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code. Investigation was on to find out whether other employees were involved, police said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-co-operative-bank-staff-held-for-fraud/article38033445.ece
25 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Naval ships illuminated||The Indian Naval ships ‘Bangaram’ and ‘Baratang’ will be illuminated and anchored off the Promenade rock beach on the Bay of Bengal on Saturday. A press note said the illuminated ships would be on view from 5.50 p.m. to 11.59 p.m. The ships would be anchored off the coast to showcase various aspects of the Indian Navy and encourage the young generation to join the Armed Forces, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naval-ships-illuminated/article38033676.ece
25 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP to hold booth-level meetings at 1,000 places||Coinciding with the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on December 25, the Puducherry unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has decided to organise booth-level meetings at more than 1,000 places in the Union Territory. Former legislator and party president V. Saminathan told a press conference on Friday that meetings would be organised to highlight the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the Union Territory. Home Minister A. Namassivayam was present. “Vajpayee believed in good governance and Mr. Modi is following the path of the former Prime Minister. The local unit will organise booth-level meetings on good governance,” he said. A musical event will be held on Beach Road to coincide with the birth anniversary celebrations on Saturday, he added. In the last six months, the NDA government had made several strides, especially focussing on pro-poor schemes. He also highlighted the measures taken in the Police Department, including the decision to recruit 360 constabulary. “Earlier, Mr. Narayanasamy (former Chief Minister) could only meet the Central Ministers and officials in New Delhi during the previous Congress government. Now, the NDA Ministers are free to call on the Prime Minister and Central Ministers to discuss issues pertaining to Puducherry,” Mr. Saminathan said. When reporters pointed out that Chief Minister N. Rangasamy did not meet the Prime Minister or Ministers in New Delhi after he took over, Mr. Namassivayam said it was up to the Chief Minister to decide. “Even though it is a coalition government, the Chief Minister has to decide on meeting the Prime Minister. We cannot comment on his decision,” he said. Mr. Namassivayam said the BJP Central leadership had given directions to party local units to form committees to educate the public on the need for vaccination against COVID-19. “We are also educating the elderly yet to get the jab to do so at the earliest,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-hold-booth-level-meetings-at-1000-places/article38033668.ece
25 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 20 new COVID-19 cases||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory even as 20 new cases were detected from 2,466 tests on Friday. Puducherry accounted for 11 of the new cases. The active cases stood at 154 with 33 patients in hospital and 121 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.81%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.43%. The cumulative toll remained at 1, 880 — Puducherry (1,468), Karaikal (251), Yanam (109) and Mahe (52). The Union Territory has to date reported an aggregate of 1,29,394 cases and 1,27,360 recovered patients. Of an estimated 20.35 lakh tests conducted, over 17.24 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,862 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-20-new-covid-19-cases/article38033671.ece
25 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Two government school teachers booked under POCSO Act in Paramakudi, one arrested||The Paramakudi all-woman police station booked two male teachers of a government girls higher secondary school under POCSO Act on Friday. While the police arrested one of the accused, a special team was formed to arrest the other, a senior officer said. The police registered the case on a complaint from District Child Protection Officer D. Vasanthakumar. The complaint said girls of a government higher secondary school had filed a complaint through the Childline number 1098. After visiting the school and interacting with students, the complainant said the two teachers were allegedly in the habit of targeting some girl students. They used foul language, sent posts and talked with them after school hours on the mobile phones (of their parents) under the pretext of discussing subjects. They occasionally threatened the girls not to disclose the subject of conversations. The complaint was based on the statements of at least 13 girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-government-school-teachers-booked-under-pocso-act-in-paramakudi-one-arrested/article38033342.ece
25 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway cancels train services due to suspension of traffic on bridge||Due to suspension of train traffic on Bridge No. 299 between Mukundarayapuram and Tiruvalam railway stations in Arakkonam – Katpadi section of Chennai Division, train services will be cancelled, short-terminated and short-originated as given below. A press release from Salem Railway Division said that the train services scheduled to leave on December 25 and stands cancelled were Train No.12243 Chennai Central – Coimbatore Junction Shatabdi Express, scheduled to leave Chennai Central at 7.10 a.m., Train No.12244 Coimbatore Junction – Chennai Central Shatabdi Express, scheduled to leave Coimbatore Junction at 3.05 p.m., Train No.22649 Chennai Central – Erode Yercaud Express, scheduled to leave Chennai Central at 11 p.m. Train No.22650 Erode – Chennai Central Yercaud Express, scheduled to leave Erode at 8 p.m., Train No.12695 Chennai Central – Thiruvananthapuram Express, scheduled to leave Chennai Central at 3.20 p.m. Train No.12696 Thiruvananthapuram – Chennai Central Express, scheduled to leave Thiruvananthapuram at 5.15 p.m. Train No.22637 Chennai Central – Mangalore Central West Coast Express, scheduled to leave Chennai Central at 1.15 p.m., Train No.22638 Mangalore Central – Chennai Central West Coast Express, scheduled to leave Mangalore Central at 11.45 p.m., Train No.12671 Chennai Central – Mettupalayam Nilagiri Express, scheduled to leave Chennai Central at 8.05 p.m. and Train No.12672 Mettupalayam – Chennai Central Nilagiri Express, scheduled to leave Mettupalayam at 8.20 p.m. Train services that were scheduled to leave on December 26 and stand cancelled were Train No.12243 Chennai Central – Coimbatore Junction Shatabdi Express, scheduled to leave Chennai Central at 7.10 a.m., Train No.12244 Coimbatore Junction - Chennai Central Shatabdi Express, scheduled to leave Coimbatore Junction 3.05 p.m. Train No.22637 Chennai Central – Mangalore Central West Coast Express, scheduled to leave Chennai Central at 1.15 p.m. and Train No.22638 Mangalore Central – Chennai Central West Coast Express, scheduled to leave Mangalore Central at 11.45 p.m. Train No.12680 Coimbatore Junction – Chennai Central Intercity Express, scheduled to leave Coimbatore Jn. at 6.15 a.m. on December 25 and 26 will be short-terminated at Katpadi and the train will not run from Katpadi to Chennai Central. Likewise, Train No.12679 Chennai Central – Coimbatore Junction Intercity Express, scheduled to leave Chennai Central at 2.30 p.m. on December 25 and 26 will leave from Katpadi. The train will not run from Chennai Central to Katpadi, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-cancels-train-services-due-to-suspension-of-traffic-on-bridge/article38033375.ece
25 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) alleges irregularities at ration shop in Salem||Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a protest in front of the South Alagapuram ration shop (AB002) here on Friday alleging irregularities. Led by its urban secretary N. Praveen Kumar and urban committee member S. Cauvery, the members said 1,300 family cards were attached to the shop against the government norms of 550 ration cards a shop. All the products, including rice, dal, oil and sugar, were given at inaccurate weight, they alleged. Though the government had clearly said that all products should be sold every day, the members said only one product was sold a day and the card holders had to visit the shop many times to purchase products. The price of products or the date of sale of products was not displayed in front of the shop. “Wheat is not sold to the card holders and the products are sold in black market,” they claimed. The members said the supervisor was serving at the shop for 13 years and held additional charge of another ration shop. The District Supply Officer held talks with the protestors and assured them that the supervisor would be transferred and a board showing working hours and availability of products on a particular day would be kept outside the shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-alleges-irregularities-at-ration-shop-in-salem/article38033449.ece
25 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||73 persons get appointment orders||A total of 73 persons, including 23 women, received their appointment orders at the job mela on Friday. Organised by the Salem District Employment and Career Guidance Centre, 21 companies participated. After completion of the interview process and certificate verification, selected candidates were given appointment orders, while 35 candidates were selected for the next round of interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/73-persons-get-appointment-orders/article38033447.ece
25 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Water level continues to be at 120 feet in Mettur Dam||Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur continues to be at 120 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet on Friday. At 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 4,953 cusecs while the discharge was 10,000 cusecs into River Cauvery and 600 cusecs into East-West canal. The storage was 93.47 tmcft against the total capacity of 93.47 tmcft. Water level at Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district stood at 104.12 feet against the FRL of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow was 675 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-continues-to-be-at-120-feet-in-mettur-dam/article38033456.ece
25 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose registration at DPCs||The Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxists), has opposed the extension of online registration for selling paddy at the direct purchase centres during the ‘samba’ season also. A petition signed by the district secretary, TVS, N.V.Kannan, opposing the new procedure was submitted to the Revenue Divisional Officer, Thanjavur, Ranjith at the divisional-level agriculture grievance meeting held here on Friday. He said the new procedure would benefit traders and not farmers. Alleging that the Central government had introduced the new procedure keeping in mind the interests of paddy traders, he urged the State government to oppose the move at the very beginning itself and pressurise the Centre to withdraw the new procedure. If not, they would organise demonstrations from January 5, 2022 onwards. He said that it would be practically impossible for the farmers particularly small and marginal farmers to get the ‘chitta’ and other documents required to register names through the portal for selling the paddy. Sugumaran of Thirupoonthuruthi, a progressive farmer, said that the name and other details of farmers who bring paddy to the DPC for measuring were being recorded at the DPC. Such being the case, asking the farmers to register their names online was not at all required, he added. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation officials clarified that the new procedure would help farmers avoid waiting at the DPCs to sell their paddy. They could sell their paddy on the date and time fixed earlier. Further, the new procedure would ensure an infallible procurement process, officials said. The delay in the announcement of compensation for the crop loss suffered by farmers in the recent rains and non-disbursement of crop loans to some farmers for the crop loss suffered during the last ‘samba’ season, were the other issues raised at the meeting. Officials said that disbursement of insurance compensation had been withheld in a few villages as the total area for compensation claim had exceeded the actual cultivated area in those villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-oppose-registration-at-dpcs-for-sale-of-paddy/article38033424.ece
25 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen representatives to meet External Affairs Minister||Minister for Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Anita R. Radhakrishnan will take fishermen’s representatives to New Delhi to meet Minister for External Affairs Jaishankar to ensure the early and safe release of 68 fishermen from Tamil Nadu and their 10 mechanised boats held by the Sri Lankan Navy for allegedly entering the territorial waters of the island nation while fishing in the high seas. “I will be leaving for New Delhi to meet Mr. Jaishankar along with a few fishermen representatives from Rameswaram, Mandapam and Jegathapattinam to expedite the release of the fishermen in Sri Lanka,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said after meeting the office-bearers of the fishermen’s association and Ramanathapuram Member of Parliament K. Navaskani in Thoothukudi on Friday. After the fishermen were detained on December 18, 19 and 20, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin sent a letter to Mr. Jaishankar seeking to secure their release. As that has not happened yet, the fishermen representatives — N.J. Bose, V.P. Jesu, Alwin and Dhakshinamurthy — met Mr. Radhakrishnan and submitted a memorandum to him to expedite the process. “The Chief Minister has also spoken to Mr. Jaishankar to press the demand. Since the fishermen wanted to meet the Union Minister, steps are being taken with DMK MP K. Kanimozhi’s help to get an appointment within two or three days,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-representatives-to-meet-external-affairs-minister/article38033331.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to prevent animals from damaging crops||A high-level committee, comprising experts and officials of Forest, Animal Husbandry and other departments, will be constituted to take up a study and recommend measures to prevent wild animals from damaging crops in Tiruchi region, Minister for Forests K.Ramachandran said. “We have appointed teams to dig and maintain moats throughout the year in districts to prevent large animals such as elephants and gaurs intruding into human settlements and agricultural fields wherever such problems were reported. This will help recharge the underground water table in the respective areas,” he said speaking at a public hearing organised here on Friday. The meet witnessed a spirited discussion with farmers from the districts of Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur highlighting the frequent damages to crops by wild animals like wild boars, peacocks and monkeys. He said that the meeting had showed him that compared to other places in Tamil Nadu, the human-wildlife conflict in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts was confined to smaller animals such as monkeys, peacocks, deer, wild boars and snakes. “We have got an indication of the way ahead to solve some of these problems from the farmers today,” he said and added that the feasibility of setting up a sanctuary for peacocks at Viralimalai based on the ideas shared in this meeting would be assessed. K.N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, said that the natural water bodies in forests required protection to ensure ecological balance of the area. “We need to safeguard not just the new urban forests that we create but also the existing natural wealth of Tamil Nadu,” he said. “Planting trees on the banks of rivers and developing green beauty spots on empty tracts of land in Pudukottai will be useful to the environment.” Farmers aired their views in an hour-long interaction. “The compensation for crop damage given by the government for crop damage caused by wild animals is often too late to be of any help to the farmers and should be disbursed faster,” said P. Ayyakannu, president, Desiya Thennindiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam. “It is heartbreaking to see our yield damaged overnight by wild boars after a year’s hard work,” said a sugarcane farmer. “Using solar powered electric fencing or ultrasonic audio alarms to keep them out is essential, but not affordable to all, so financial aid for this would be welcome.” Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education, and S.S.Sivasankar, Minister for Backward Classes Welfare, attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-prevent-animals-from-damaging-crops/article38033421.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Postponement of semester exams deplored||The decision of the Higher Education Department to conduct the odd semester examinations after January 20, 2022, has apparently not gone down well with a large section of teachers and students in government-aided and self-financing colleges, that had started the offline classes early this academic year and had completed the portions. For, they have missed well-deserved Christmas holidays extending up to New Year. This time around, colleges are required to function for a few days between Christmas and New Year much to the chagrin of teachers and students who complain of fatigue, according to a senior professor. The State Government had, during November, announced that the offline examinations will be conducted during January next year to quell protests by students demanding conduct of online exams for the odd semester. But this announcement was not favourable to a majority of teachers and students. A short break would have served the purpose of rejuvenating the mind for better productivity in the even semester, teachers say. As per the UGC guidelines, a semester has to encompass 15 to 18 weeks of academic work equivalent to 90 actual teaching days or 450 hours of teaching. This requirement has been complied with by government-aided and self-financing colleges For those in government colleges, however, the postponement of the semester examinations has served the purposes of ensuring 90 working days in a semester. According to teachers’ organisations, there have been instances of a few government-aided colleges going ahead with conducting the semester examinations. Some colleges have even completed evaluation of the answer scripts but have withheld results until next month to technically fall in line with the government directive, a representative of a teachers’ organisation said. The idea behind the conduct of the examinations was to make sure that there will be no compulsion for the teachers and students to go through the usual rigour during the days they used to enjoy as Christmas vacation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postponement-of-semester-exams-deplored/article38033423.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Christmas celebrations on a grand scale||Sales of ornaments and crib sets have picked up this year after a two-year dull due to the pandemic. While they are yet to get many large orders, families have resumed purchases almost on a par with pre-COVID time. This year has been a marked improvement compared to the previous two at Kanya Krafts, a store for purchasing crib sets and Christmas decorations in Melapudur. Most of their crib sets at various sizes have been sold out with families continuing to throng the store even a day before Christmas. Its proprietor Joseph Antony said that the response was unexpected. ‘Many manufacturers were unwilling to make and distribute more sets as they were not sure of sales,’ he said. While earlier most figurines for the crib sets were made in terracotta, followed by Plaster of Paris and even Chinese made polyresin, ones made of fibre are the new entrants in the market. ‘They are lightweight, last longer and cost less than PoP ones. They are the ones flying off shelves this year,’ he said. While a five-inch set in PoP would cost nearly Rs. 5,000, the fibre ones come at Rs. 2,500. A set includes 12 figurines - baby Jesus, his mother Mary, father Joseph, three kings of Orient, some shepherds and livestock to emulate the nativity scene. The tradition of setting up up of the nativity scene is something that Christians follow prior to Christmas. Large figures for crib sets kept in churches too are sold here. Shops selling Christmas decorations including Christmas trees too report good sales. While the presence of stars and ornaments made in plastic materials have declined, customers prefer eco-friendly options. ‘We have had many customers asking for stars made of paper the traditional way and wooden ornaments, it is a good sign,’ another shop owner in Melapudur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/christmas-celebrations-on-a-grand-scale/article38033410.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Gandhi Market in Tiruchi to function without hindrance’||Seeking to set at rest speculations over any possible move to shift traders of the Gandhi Market to the new market complex proposed to be built at Panchapur in the city, the Tiruchi Corporation has announced that the existing wholesale and retail trade at the market would be allowed to function without any hindrance. The corporation has announced that a modern market complex would be established as part of the Rs. 832 crore project to establish an integrated bus stand for the city on an area of about 500 acres at Panchapur, off the Tiruchi-Madurai Highway. One of the components of the project would be the establishment of a modern market complex at an investment of Rs. 110 crore. The complex would have shops for wholesale and retail trade of vegetable and food grains, Corporation Commissioner Mujibur Rahuman said. The facility would be established in an area of 22 acres and would include cold storages and storage godowns. Traders, including those from Gandhi Market, and public can apply for allotment of shops at the market, he said. His announcement comes in the wake of speculations that traders of the Gandhi Market may be asked to shift to the new facility at Panchapur. One of the traders associations had opposed any such move. He indicated that the corporation intends to pursue a plan to refurbish the Gandhi Market. “The market, which has become dilapidated, will be renovated at a cost of Rs. 60 crore,” he said. Although the corporation had announced plans to renovate the market a few years ago under the Smart City Mission, it had not pursued the project subsequently. In the meantime, the district administration and the Tiruchi Market Committee had made sporadic but unsuccessful attempts last year to shift traders of the market to the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi on the outskirts of the city. Traders had resisted the move to shift them to the Central Market, built at a cost of Rs. 77 crore with assistance from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). Situated about 12 km away from the city off the Tiruchi-Madurai National Highway, the complex has been at a centre of a row ever since it was opened in September 2017 after traders refused to shift to the market on the grounds that it was far away from the city and the shops did not suit their requirements. The market was established on 9.79 acres with 830 shops. Farmers groups, who have been allotted shops at the Central Market,and some consumer activists have been urging the authorities to make the new market complex functional in the wake of failed efforts to shift traders from Gandhi Market to this facility. The Market Committee, functioning under the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, had been taking efforts, without much success, to allot some of the vacant shops in the complex to traders from other parts of the State other than those from the Gandhi Market. Sources in the department expressed confidence that the central market would become functional and attract traders once the integrated bus stand comes up, as it was not very far off from Panchapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhi-market-in-tiruchi-to-function-without-hindrance/article38033417.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Perform archanas in Tamil’||The Deiva Tamizh Peravai has urged the State government to ensure that all archakas were trained to perform archanas in temples in Tamil. In a resolution adopted at its executive committee meeting held here on Friday with P.Maniarasan, coordinator, in the chair, it regretted that the government order to perform archanas in Tamil at the sanctum sanctorums largely remained on paper. All archakas should perform archanas only in Tamil, and in Sanskrit only when asked for. The existing system of providing telephone numbers to call archakas who can perform archana in Tamil on request should be done away with, it said. It urged the government to ensure that the kumbabishekam of all temples were performed in Tamil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perform-archanas-in-tamil/article38033413.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Isha Yoga Centre issue: survey to be conducted||A survey would be conducted by a joint team of Forest and Revenue officials in the wake of allegations that Isha Yoga Centre in Coimbatore has constructed buildings without permission and in violation of Forest Department rules, Forest Minister K. Ramachandran said on Friday. “The Isha Yoga Centre has submitted documents saying that they have not encroached upon forest areas. Yet, as many have been raising such allegations, a fresh survey has been ordered. The issue is not about encroachment but allegations that they constructed buildings without permission. They claim to have obtained exemptions from Central Government. I had asked for all documents, and they are being studied. Once a report is obtained, I will be able to give a clearer picture,” he told reporters in Tiruchi. When asked about allegations that Karunya Deemed University had also encroached upon forest lands, he said that he would ask officials to look into them. “If there are doubts, we will examine it. Action will be taken if any violations are detected, regardless of who committed it,” Mr. Ramachandran said. Answering a query, he said that the proposed zoological park at M.R. Palayam near Tiruchi is likely to take shape within a year.  Action will be taken if any violations are detected, regardless of who committed it K. Ramachandran Forest Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-yoga-centre-under-scanner-for-possible-building-violations/article38033336.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 45 cases||The central region reported 45 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. No death was reported among the nine districts. Thirteen persons reported positive for the viral infection in Thanjavur while Tiruchi reported 10 and Karur eight. Four patients each reported COVID-19 positive in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam while three were reported in Pudukottai. Two patients contracted the infection in Mayiladuthurai. Meanwhile, Perambalur registered one case while Ariyalur reported none on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-45-cases/article38033412.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Safety certificate: officials have to face inquiry, says SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission, which has suo motu initiated an inquiry into the death of three students of Schaffter Higher Secondary School in a wall collapse, will also take due action against the officials who had issued ‘safety certificates’ to the buildings, SHRC member Durai. Jayachandran has said. After meeting the families of the deceased here on Friday and visiting the spot where the boys were crushed to death on December 17, he said that the SHRC had sent notices to the Collector and other officials to submit their affidavits with details of action taken on the accident. While the police had registered a case and arrested the headmistress and the correspondent of the school and the contractor who built the wall without basement, three teachers had been placed under suspension by the management for negligence. When asked about the ‘safety certificates’ issued by the Department of Revenue, Corporation and Fire and Rescue Services expressing satisfaction with the quality of construction of the wall, he said the officials who had issued such a certification would also have to face the inquiry or departmental action. “The wall had been built without foundation, which was a gross negligence on the part of the management. Officials who have given ‘safety certificate’ to the precariously built wall will also have to face SHRC’s inquiry and the departmental action,” he noted. Mr. Jayachandran said the family members had complained that the teachers, even as the seriously injured boys were battling for life, refused to use their cars to rush them to hospital. The SHRC had directed the police to probe this charge too. Due action would be taken on this allegation based on the findings of the probe. He also expressed his displeasure over the management over not even expresing its grief to the families of victims in person. The management, which failed to ensure the safety of the students on the school premises, should be unequivocally condemned,” he said.  Notices have been sent to Collector and other officials to submit their affidavits with details of action taken Durai. Jayachandran SHRC member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-to-face-inquiry-shrc/article38033604.ece
25 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for abetting suicide||The Cheyur police on Thursday arrested two men on charges of abetting the suicide of a woman near Avinashi in Tiruppur district. According to the police, Sheeladevi (35) from A. Kurumbapalayam, mortgaged her land measuring 47 cents to Sivaraj (40), a land broker from Tiruppur, in 2017. However, the broker along with his younger brother Kathirvel (35) had allegedly registered the land in his father’s name and sold it for Rs. 60 lakh. Having refused to return the land documents, the woman had appealed several times to the district administration to retrieve her land, the police said. However, she died of suicide on Wednesday. Following this, the police booked Sivaraj and Kathirvel. They were remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-abetting-suicide/article38033351.ece
25 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Groundbreaking ceremony||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Friday participated in the groundbreaking ceremony for construction works in Tiruppur Corporation under the ‘Namakku Naame’ scheme. A release said the works to construct a storm water drain and a mini-bridge at Thanthai Periyar Nagar in Ward No. 57 (Zone-IV) at Rs. 60 lakh began. The Ministers also accepted petitions from the public following the event, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/groundbreaking-ceremony/article38033363.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvannamalai police to auction seized vehicles||The district police in Tiruvannamalai will auction 157 seized vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, on the parade ground for the Armed Reserve at the office of the Superintendent of Police (SP)at 10 a.m. on December 29. According to a press release, these vehicles were seized during raids of units brewing illicit arrack by the Prohibition Enforcement Wing. All COVID-19 safety norms, including compulsory wearing of masks and ensuring social distancing, should be followed during the auction. An advance of Rs. 1,000 and entry fee of Rs. 100 should be paid by interested persons at the special counter that would be set up in the SP Office. The special counter will operate between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on December 28, a day prior to the auction. Only those who have registered will be allowed to participate in the auction and successful bidders will get receipt only on the names registered for the auction. “Such periodic disposal of vehicles also helps in creating more open space in police stations that can be used for other purposes,” said A. Pavan Kumar Reddy, SP, Tiruvannamalai. This is the second auction in this month by the Tiruvannamalai police. A fortnight ago, 365 seized vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, were auctioned at the parade ground. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvannamalai-police-to-auction-seized-vehicles/article38033713.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Drop cases against farmers’ leader’||The district unit of CPI (M) has passed a resolution, at the two-day district conference, seeking withdrawal of cases filed against the district president, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, S.Thambusamy, and 11 others following a demonstration held during the previous AIADMK regime at Tiruvarur in support of an agitation against three new farm laws held at Singhu border of New Delhi. The party demanded crapping of the IPC section relating to ‘attempt to murder’ to enable the withdrawal of the case. It also wanted Rs. 30,000 an acre of paddy, implementation of a mechanism to prevent purchase of paddy from farmers of other districts, procurement of paddy stacked near DPCs, safeguard of those who have taken loans from micro-finance companies, expeditious completion of Mysore-Nagapattinam National Highway project and the Needamangalam Road Over Bridge project, construction of a memorial for Mahakavi Bharathi at Melanagai in Mannargudi taluk and filling up of vacant posts at the Government Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, sources said a case was made out against Thambusamy and 11 others after the participants in the tractor-trailer rally organised by the Sangam drove tractors menacingly towards the police providing security for smooth conduct of the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-cases-against-farmers-leader/article38033415.ece
25 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore DIG inspects police stations in the Nilgiris||Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore Range), M.S.Muthusamy, inspected police stations in the Nilgiris on Friday. Mr. Muthusamy visited police stations in Kotagiri and Ooty town limits and inspected arms and ammunitions as well as the files relating to pending cases. He urged the station officials to expedite completion of investigations in pending cases. He told them to increase night patrols. The DIG also told police personnel to have cordial relationships with people. He applauded Kotagiri police personnel for solving a challenging case in which the accused, who had escaped with the car of a murder victim, was apprehended after two months, while a person accused of murder and theft was arrested within three days since the date of occurrence of the incident. The police personnel in-charge of the investigations were given prizes. In an effort to reach out to unemployed tribal youths, Mr. Muthusamy inaugurated a programme to train Class X dropouts from the communities to undergo driving lessons. The DIG also distributed blankets and plastic water tanks to 460 beneficiaries from villages across the Nilgiris. More than 100 houses were also being fixed with meters for electricity consumption, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dig-inspects-police-stations-in-the-nilgiris/article38033382.ece
25 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||132 recruits attested into Army||After the successful completion of an year-long basic and advanced military training, 132 recruits were attested into the Army at the Shrinagesh Barracks in Wellington, Coonoor, on Friday. The attestation parade was reviewed by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of The Madras Regimental Centre, Wellington. “The attestation parade was carried out with appropriate COVID-19 protocols in consonance with the highest traditions of the Indian Army. While addressing the parade, the Reviewing Officer congratulated the recruits and appreciated the instructors and staff for achieving very high standards of training and lauded the effort of MRC to train smart and effective soldiers for Indian Army,” a release from the MRC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/132-recruits-attested-into-army/article38033352.ece
25 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Girl ends life||A 17-year-old girl, who scored low marks in NEET, ended her life in O-Valley in Gudalur on Thursday. The police said she had been living in Tirupur for the last three months and ended her life at her house in O-Valley on Thursday. (Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-ends-life/article38033383.ece
25 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Bridge damaged, repairs taken up||The restoration of the damaged railway bridge across the Ponnai, a tributary of the Palar, in Vellore district has been going on since Thursday. Support columns are being erected around the damaged brick and mortar pillar. The British-era bridge, on the Arakkonam-Katpadi section of the Chennai Division of Southern Railway, connects Tiruvalam and Mukundarayapuram, the border stations of Vellore and Ranipet districts. Built in 1865, the bridge has 56 pillars, covering 914 metres. These pillars, railway officials say, have a lifespan of 60 years. Such British-era bridges were identified for demolition by Southern Railway a few years ago. The Elephant Gate bridge, built in 1915 between Chennai Central and Basin Bridge Junction, is an example. More than 100 workers and railway officials have been working on the site since Thursday when cracks were found in the 38th pillar by a gang-man. A team of technical experts from Structural Engineering Research Center (SERC-CSIR), along with Ganesh, Divisional Railway Manager, Chennai, and railway engineers, inspected the bridge on Friday. The line is taken by trains going from Chennai to Katpadi. The trains going to Chennai take the new bridge built adjacent to the damaged one. “Once the repairs are done, trains can be run at 30 kmph-45 kmph because of the bridge’s structural weakness,” said a Southern Railway official.  Officials said the discharge of 1,04,054 cusecs from the Ponnai and Palar anaicuts on November 19, followed by a daily discharge of 60,000 cusecs-80,000 cusecs, could have damaged the old bridge. On Friday, Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian ordered that the flow of water in the Ponnai be reduced to facilitate the repairs. “We are also operating more buses between the Katpadi station and the Vellore bus terminus for the stranded long-distance travellers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-bridge-across-ponnai-damaged-repairs-taken-up/article38033338.ece
25 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 10 fresh COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,424 with 10 fresh cases reported on Friday With a total of 49,173 persons having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 110. The district's toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, three positive cases were reported and the total number of cases stood at 43,667. In Tirupattur district, one case was reported on Friday and the total number of cases stood at 29,455. In Tiruvannamalai district, four fresh cases were recorded, which took the total number of infections to 55,333. Out of these, 54,597 have been discharged. The number of active cases stood at 63.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-10-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38033714.ece
25 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||A 22-km channel comes alive after 45 years||A 22-km water channel has come to life, after 45 years, thanks to the residents of Villupuram and three villages. Originating at the zero point of the Thenpennaiar at Thelimedu, the Villupuram channel meandered its way to eight waterbodies that helped to recharge the groundwater table and meet the drinking water requirements of Villupuram town. The waterbodies are Villupuram Periya Eri, Puthu Eri, Sitheri, Virattikuppam Eri, Maruthur Eri, Ayyankovilpattu Eri, Vazhuthureddi Eri and Thattampalayam Eri. But the channel lost its glory with waste dumping, encroachments on account of farming activities and the closure of a part of the channel after the Villupuram-Chennai national highway was four-laned in 2003. Instead of building a culvert, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) closed the channel near the west end of Villupuram, thus stopping the flow from the Thenpennaiar to Periya Eri. Then, debris and silt filled the channel. Since 2015, the town had gone through a severe water scarcity. Lack of maintenance of the channels meant the eight waterbodies remained dry, while the other waterbodies in the district brimmed. This was when a group of residents from Villupuram and from Nannadu, Viratikuppam and Alathur stepped in. “We found that the Villupuram channel had once flowed 22 km and recharged eight large waterbodies spread over 900 acres. But a major portion of the channel was encroached upon and covered with debris and was on the verge of extinction,” says Ra. Panchamurthy, a member of the Villupuram Channel Committee. “A WhatsApp group of youths from Villupuram and the three villages was formed. This group decided to desilt the channel and the inlets to streamline the flow to the eight tanks. In 2018, the residents volunteered to do manual work, while others contributed money for the first phase of restoration,” he says. “The locals cleared the waste, strengthened the embankments and carried out other works to increase storage. Though the channel received around 20% of the flow from the Thenpennaiar, it stopped after a few days,” Mr. Panchamurthy added. Yet, the youths continued their efforts and restored the channel to a distance of 16 km in 2019. Their dream became a reality, and the channel got a copious flow from the Thenpennaiar, reaching 65% of its carrying capacity. “The Water Resources Department joined the efforts and sanctioned Rs. 35 lakh under the ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme in 2020,” according to T. Dakshinamoorthy, a resident of Nannadu. Subsequently, the villagers and the residents of Villupuram found that the channel had to be restored to another 6 km from Nannadu to Villupuram town and approached the district administration for help. Collector D. Mohan inspected the channel and promised them funds. However, the villagers raised Rs. 8.54 lakh through crowdfunding and restored the final portion of the channel. The channel is back on the district’s water map. The efforts of the villagers have helped to drive up the groundwater table, and irrigated 250 acres of farmland around the eight waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-22-km-channel-comes-alive-after-45-years/article38033330.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pintail ducks rescued||The Ramanathapuram Wildlife Range officials on Thursday rescued eight pintail ducks from a poacher near Devipattinam. The forest officials said that the accused, K. Veeran, 58, had kept the migratory ducks captive and planned to sell them at a high price. The officials caught Veeran with the birds during an early morning patrol. He was picked up for an inquiry. A wildlife case was booked against the accused. The offence was compounded and Veeran was let off after he paid Rs. 15,000. Later, the migratory ducks were released in the Therthangal bird sanctuary, said B. Jabez, Forest Range Officer of the Ramanathapuram Wildlife Range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pintail-ducks-rescued/article38033439.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Save Nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/save-nature/article38033296.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Celebration time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebration-time/article38033354.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The Lord is born||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-lord-is-born/article38033603.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||TIRUNELVELI The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 139.15 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 556.71 cusecs and 1,104.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam was 117.35 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 120 cusecs and 235 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38033710.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||25-12-2021-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AAA/ ROSHNI / BK Drama festival 2021 @ YGP AUDITORIUM. ( Psbb school ) T. Nagar.. TOMORROW 7PM...Stage Veteran Kathadi Ramamurthy in HONEY MOONCOUPLE.. Bkg.. bookmyshow.com96771 60240. ABBAS CULTURAL 30th Year Annual Art Festival SHRIRAM PROPERTIES presents KALAI VIZHA 2022 powered by APOLLO HOSPITALS.Venue Partner BHARAT KALACHAR. From 1st to 16th January 2022,continuously for 16 days - 30 performances @ YGP Auditorium,PSBB School, Thirumalai Road, T.Nagar.Daily two performances@ 4.30pm & 7.00pm. Partly in aid of LAKSHMI PAIN & PALLIATIVE CARE TRUST, Print Partner-DINAMALAR ,Magazine Partner-ANANDA VIKATAN, Co-Sponsors-INDIAN BANK, KOTAK LIFE, LIC HFL, LIC, SBI, IOC, T.NAGAR LKS, ADITYA BIRLA, GIRI TRADING, GOPURAM, METAL PRODUCTS,TVS JUPITER. Book Tickets @ bookmyshow.com. Season/Daily Tickets Call : 9710 633633. NEW MEMBERSHIP ENROLLED. For detailed program schedule refer to The HINDU Supplement today. ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY- 98841 90454 Today R.R.Sabha Hall-2, Mylapore. Bharathanatyam 4.30 pm P.V.Anuvarshini Guru Archana Narayanamurthy, 5.45 pm Manasa Sriram Guru Tapas Mahalakshmi, 7.15 pm Students of Guru Nandini Kartik. All are Welcome. Live https:// livewebcast.in/anusham. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai-600 004 Bhavan's Naatya Utsav 2021, Live Programme :16.12.2021 to 26.12.2021 at Bhavan's Main Auditorium, East Mada Street, Mylapore, Chennai -600 004. Today:4.45pm: "Om Namah Shivaya" by Smt. Archana Mahesh (Bharathanatyam - Solo), 5.45pm: Padmashri Dr. Narthaki Nataraj ( Bharathanatyam - Solo) and 7.00 pm: Sridevi Nrithyalaya (Guru Smt.Sheela Unnikrishnan) ( Bharathanatyam-Group).Tomorrow: 5.00 pm: Kum.S. Maanasa ( Disciple of Kalaimamani Smt. Jayanthi Subramaniam) (Bharathanatyam-Solo), 6.00 pm: Smt. Aishwarya Ananth Karthik (Bharathanatyam- Solo) and 7.00 pm: Shobanas' Kalarpana (Guru Ms.Shobana Chandrakumar) (Bharathanatyam - Group).Programme supported by :Apollo Hospitals.Watch Live(Courtesy - Bhavan's Kolkata Kendra). www.bhavanschennai.org. Covid-19 S.O.P to be followed. All are Welcome. Lasya The Culture Hub - Season 5 Janaki Ammal Auditorium (APL GlobalSchool campus-Thuraipakkam)Ph 9787574158 Today@6pm Carnatic Vocal by "Dhassa Saahithya Bhooshanaa" V.V.Prassanna.  Mylapore Arts Academy 9940635664 To-day 6.45 pm at TAG Dakshinamurthy Auditorium PS High School R K Mutt Road Mylapore Thiru Isari Velan Endownment drama by Stage Creations Kalaimamani Kathadi Ramamurthy in Honeymoon Couple (a hilarious comedy by Crazy Mohan) Chief Guest: Dr Ishari K Ganesh, Chancellor Vels University All are welcome New members enrolled Donations accepted Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Ch – 4 December - 2021 "Music in Perpetuity" Today at 10.00 am "THIRUVOTRIYUR TYAGAYYAR" (Lec Dem) by Dr. Aravind Ranganathan. Program supported by Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited. Ph. No: 86103 57987. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines. ALL ARE WELCOME. Our programs can be watched on https://www.rrsabha.org at later dates. Sanjay Sabha Live Today 25th Dec at The Music Academy, 6.30 pm, Sanjay Subrahmanyan, S Varadarajan, Neyveli B Venkatesh & S Venkatramanan. Tickets online on PayTM Insider. Tickets also available at venue from 2.00 pm. SRI MANNARGUDI SAMBASIVA BHGAVATHAR CULTURAL TRUSTMylapore, Phone: 24987432 Today 20th Anniversary of our Trust celebration in memory of Brahmasri Mannargudi Sambasiva Bhagavathar at Sri Thiagaraja Sangeetha Vidwath Samajam, Mylapore. Award function at 5.30 p.m. SRI K.N. RAMASWAMY Director, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan will inaugurate and honour the awardees. Guest of honour by Dr. A. RAMJI, Retd.GM, Railways. Confer the MSB Award ‘Gana Kala Siromani’ to Flute Vidwan Dr. Prapancham S. Balachandran, Vocal Vidwan Kalakkad Brothers Sri R.Thyagarajan &,Dr. R.Srinivasan,Veena Vidushi Smt. Smt. Vasantha Krishnamurthy, Vocal Vidushi Smt.Namagiri Ramesh. ‘Laya Kala Siromani’ to Mridanga Vidwan Sri Thiruvidaimarudur S. Radhakrishnan, Mridanga Vidwan Dr.K.R.Ganesh. Followed MSB Sahithyams Vocal concert by Kalakkad Brothers SRI R.THYAGARAJAN & DR.R. SRINIVASAN with Dr.Mullaivasal Chandramouli, Dr.K.R.Ganesh & Sri N. Rajaraman. All are welcome. Covid 19 S.O.P to be followed. Sunaadalahari, 9344535941 Today 4.45 pm Pranathi Ganapuram, Haritha Narayanan,Gomathi Sankar All are welcome 6.30 pm Vijay Siva,RK Shriramkumar, K Arunprakash and Anirudh Athreya. 52,C.P Ramasamy Road, Alwarpet, Chennai. TAMIL ISAI SANGAM RAJA ANNAMALAI MANDRAM, 79TH TAMIL ISAI VIZHA Ph: 2534 1425, 2534 1958 Today 4.30 PM Chennai,Tamil Isai Sangam Tamil Isai Kalloori Students-Vocal, 6.30 PM Thiru.Sid Sriram - Vocal. THE INDIAN FINE ARTS SOCIETY - EthirajaKalyanaNilayam 87, TTK Road, Alwarpet, Chennai 600 018 Phone 7845755481, 8754437939 89th South Indian Music conference & Festival: Today: Sri Muthuswami Dikshithar Day Celebrations: 2.30 p.m. Amrith Narayanan-Madurai T.Kishore- Kumbakonam S.Aravindh: 4.00 p.m. B.Muthukumar (Flute) - Madurai M.Vijay Ganesh -Thirunakeswaram T R S Manikandan :6.00 p.m. Vidya Kalyanaraman - R.Raghul-B.Ganapathy Raman-K V Gopalakrishnan:All are welcome: Covid S.O.P.to be followed:Venue Sponsored by Narayana Guruviah Chetty's Estate & Charities. THE SRUTI FOUNDATION & MUSIC FORUM Presents LEC DEM MELA 2021 at Arkay Convention Centre, Mylapore. 9:00 am: Lalgudi the Mahavidwan by Palghat Sri RAJARAM; 10.30am: Dr. SRIPADA PINAKAPANI- Preserving a grand tradition by Smt. JAYALAKSHMI SEKHAR. 6.30pm: Lalgudi's compositions for dance music- my experience by Dr. PADMA SUBRAHMANYAM. All are Welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-12-2021-city-cinema/article38033303.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi mahotsavam, Chanting of Thiruppavai, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m.    Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: Painting Expo, Arts Gallery premises, Avanashi Road, 10 a.m.    Committee of Hosts, Industry, Trade and Services Organisa tions: Tributes to C.R. Swaminathan, CODISSA trade fair complex, 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38033362.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Horatti miffed over confusion in Council||Disappointed with the drama in the Legislative Council over the controversial Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, which the BJP Government did not eventually table, Chairman Basavaraj Horatti was keen to resign from the post at one point, it is learnt. He was later persuaded not to go ahead with it, said sources. It all began when reconvening of the Council post-lunch was delayed till way past 4 p.m. The Opposition Congress and the JD(S) argued that it was a delay tactic by the BJP to table the Bill suddenly. Mr. Horatti was upset when the Opposition leaders commented that the House was adjourned for post lunch session as the Government was keen on killing time so that it could call back its members. Mr. Horatti chose not to chair the proceedings when the House assembled for the last time around 4.35 p.m. Instead, he sent his deputy M.K. Pranesh to conduct the proceedings and adjourn the House sine die.  It is said Mr. Horatti had kept his resignation letter ready and conveyed his decision to the Leader of House Kota Srinivas Poojary. He reportedly told the leaders who met him that he was disappointed as the turn out of events which prompted the Opposition to suspect his intent. However, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Mr. Poojary and others pacified and convinced him not to resign.  It all began when reconvening of the Council post-lunch was delayed till way past 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-miffed-over-confusion-in-council/article38033269.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sparks fly over NK, UKP on last day of session||The last day of the Legislature session saw Opposition accusing the Government of ignoring interests of north Karnataka, especially the Upper Krishna Project (UKP), and a dharna by the Congress seeking more time to discuss the subject. Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol, in his reply, accused the Congress attempting to play politics over the issue. In the din created by sloganeering by the Congress members led by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah as they staged a dharna in the well, Mr. Karjol said: “We are ready for discussion and we will expose the Congress that is running away from real issues.” Amidst COVID-19 The Minister said that even during COVID-19 that resulted in shrinking of the budget, the Government had continued to acquire land for rehabilitation and resettlement for the affected people. Besides Rs. 1,372 crore set aside for acquiring land, the Chief Minister hds ordered further release of Rs. 2,500 crore, he said. Of the revised estimate of Rs. 51,148 crore required for UKP-3, Rs. 13,320 crore had been spent so far, said the Minister. “The revised estimates and detailed project report had been submitted to the Central Water Commission,” he added. Mr. Karjol said that in the last two years, Rs. 12,206 crore allocation had been made and Rs. 8,919 crore had been spent with special focus on UKP-3, of which Rs. 3,750 crore was spent. Attention diversion Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah argued that the Anti-conversion Bill was brought in by the BJP to divert the attention from the Government’s failure in north Karnataka. “The Government miserably failed to implement the provisions of Article 371-J of the Constitution,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said, pointing out that the Government had failed to even constitute the Kalyana Karnataka Development Board. House adjourned When the Speaker asked Mr. Siddaramaiah to end his speech as the Government reply was awaited before the adjournment of the Assembly, the latter refused to do so and demanded he be allowed to speak for an hour more. An unrelenting Speaker then allowed BJP members to participate in the discussion, resulting in the Congress members staging the dharna in the well. A barely audible Mr. Karjol replied in the din and soon the Speaker adjourned the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sparks-fly-over-nk-ukp-on-last-day-of-session/article38033276.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Horatti stresses need for Legislators’ Home in Belagavi||Karnataka Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti has stressed the need for construction of a Legislators’ Home (LH) and Secretariat building in Belagavi. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, Mr. Horatti said he had appealed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to construct an LH and a Secretariat. “Recently, I had visited Shimla. There an LH has been built in Dharamshala where the Legislature session is held. Similarly, an LH has been built in Nagpur in Maharashtra,” he said. The Chairman said the session should be held at least twice a year in Belagavi. “If not twice, the duration of the session should be longer,” he said. Mr. Horatti said there were meaningful discussions on various issues in the last 10 days in the Council. As many as 74 members attended the session and the discussion on North Karnataka issues was as long as 11 hours. As many as nine Bills that were approved by the Assembly had been passed by the Council. The government responded to 134 questions on the floor of the House and written replies were given to 792 questions. The Council will conduct training for new members on the functioning of the House, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-stresses-need-for-legislators-home-in-belagavi/article38033271.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||National Consumer Day celebrated at Belagavi school||National Consumer Day was celebrated at KLS Public School, Peeranwadi, in Belagavi on Friday. Chairman of the District Consumer Disputes and Redressal Commission Akatha H.D. spoke of the history of the consumer movement and also consumer rights. Member of the commission S.S. Kadrollimath spoke about smart purchasing and the role of the commission. Chairman of the governing council Prashant Kulkarni, school principal Shalini Sankroni and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/national-consumer-day-celebrated-at-belagavi-school/article38033465.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bommai for 5% cut in non-productive expenses||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has instructed all departments to reduce non-productive expenditure by 5% in the current year. Participating in the debate on the second instalment of supplementary estimates in the Legislative Council on Friday, he said: “If they try to achieve 5% reduction, they could reduce more in the coming days. We are also focusing on increasing revenue collection. I have reviewed tax collections in detail. Within a few days after my instructions, the GST collection on areca trade increased by Rs. 8 crore,” he said. Recovery mode Stating that the financial position had been on recovery mode after suffering a setback due to COVID-19, the Chief Minister said total recovery was not possible just in one year. Further, he said he was committed to implementing the third phase of the Upper Krishna and Mahadayi projects. The Finance Department had given approval for recruitment of 10,000 posts in Kalyana Karnataka. “Apart from that, we are recruiting 10,000 teachers across the State,” he said. The Council passed the Finance Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-for-5-cut-in-non-productive-expenses/article38033273.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLS GIT team wins Hackathon Manthan||A team of students from KLS Gogte Institute of Technology won the National Security Hackathon Manthan-2021 jointly organised by the Ministry of Education Innovation Cell and the Bureau of Police Research and Development. The team developed a solution to a problem statement, Analysis of Hinglish Text, where the task was to identify abusive content written in language that combines Hindi and English words on social media posts and report it to the authorities. Over 3,000 teams across India had submitted their ideas and the top 115 teams qualified for the final round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kls-git-team-wins-hackathon-manthan/article38033467.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. land near Bengaluru airport encroached’||Congress member and former Minister Krishna Byre Gowda alleged that 6.1 acres of government land near the Kempegowda International Airport road in Bengaluru had been encroached by vested interests by creating bogus documents. The land located in Jala village was worth crores of rupees, he claimed. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in the Assembly, Mr. Gowda alleged that a few persons took possession of the land two days ago. They had forged documents to prove that they are the owners of the government-owned land, he alleged. Residents of the village were intimidated by goons wielding dangerous weapons, like daggers, he said, adding that the goons had been hired by the land sharks. He demanded that the government initiate action against the land sharks and officials responsible for the fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-land-near-bengaluru-airport-encroached/article38033275.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Selected||Moleppa Khagganavar, a student of KLE Society’s Basavaprabhu Kore College, has been selected as a member of Rani Channamma University’s hockey team. The selection trials were held at Anjuman Degree College in Belagavi recently. Principal Udaysingh Rajput has congratulated Khagganavar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selected/article38033468.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vial policy: Mixed response to Centre’s letter||The Centre’s letter to Karnataka, clarifying that open vial policy for Covaxin cannot be allowed, has evoked mixed response from private hospitals in the State. The Centre has also said that all vaccines, including for COVID-19, should not be utilised beyond the expiry date mentioned. This is opposed to the manufacturer Bharat Biotech’s announcement on Monday that opened vials of its vaccine against COVID-19 can be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius for up to 28 days and are not required to be discarded immediately in a day or at the end of the immunisation session. The company had stated that the extension of Covaxin’s shelf life up to 12 months from the date of manufacturing was recently approved by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). While the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) has said that hospitals should ideally go by the manufacturer’s instructions as they have purchased the vaccine stock from the company, the Association of Healthcare Providers - India (AHPI) said that all private hospitals are bound to follow the Centre’s norms on vaccination. Private hospitals in Karnataka, who have a stock of nearly six lakh Covaxin vials, are worried that they will incur huge losses if the Centre’s directions are followed. Expressing concern, PHANA president H.M. Prasanna said the Centre’s norms can be applicable for government stocks as they have been supplied free of cost to the States. “We have invested huge amounts on the vaccines and cannot afford to allow them to go waste. We will issue an advisory to our member hospitals to follow the instructions given by the company. They are free to follow the Centre’s norms if they are able to bear the losses,” he said. He said he will write to the Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan seeking a proper clarification on the issue. Although Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin, has assured the private hospitals that the company will revalidate their stock by re-labelling the vials with the extended expiry date of a year, hospitals are worried as it is a huge challenge to transport the stock to the company and get it back. “Thursday’s letter to the State is a knee jerk reaction to the company’s recent announcement. If the CDSCO has permitted extension of Covaxin’s shelf, why has this not been taken into consideration by the Health Ministry?” Dr. Prasanna said. However, AHPI national president Alexander Thomas said all hospitals involved in the vaccination programme are bound to follow the Centre’s norms. “As of now, hospitals are not storing an opened vial beyond four hours. We have been following up with Union Health Minister Mansukh L. Mandaviya, who had assured us that the Government will explore the possibility of exporting the ample stocks in private hospitals to countries that are in dire need of vaccines,” he said. “Based on deliberations of our scientific committee, we had recommended that the Government should consider allowing booster doses on a voluntary basis. We are following up on this aspect too as it will enable effective utilisation of the ample stock of COVID-19 vaccines available with the private sector,” Dr. Thomas said. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said guidelines on vaccination issued by the Centre are applicable to all hospitals, including private facilities. “We understand the practical problems being faced by the private hospitals and will discuss this in our steering committee on vaccination. We will also flag it again with the Centre,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vial-policy-mixed-response-to-centres-letter/article38033259.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fate of many MDS admissions hangs in the balance now||The fate of many admissions to postgraduate dental courses in Karnataka hangs in the balance after the Dental Council of India (DCI) has said that there would be no extension of the cut-off date for admissions for the 2021-22 academic year. The DCI, in a public notice issued on December 23, said that dental colleges were asked to upload details of all students admitted for MDS programmes by November 20. Any request to extend the last date of admissions will not be entertained, it warned. However, admissions to over 900 postgraduate dental seats have been completed after the date specified. Naveen Raj Singh, Secretary to Government, Health and Family Welfare Department (Medical Education), said that they were unable to complete admissions on time as signing the consensual agreement took some time. “We have brought this to the notice of the Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who is in touch with the Central Ministers to sort out this issue. We are hopeful that the date will be extended for these admissions,” he said. A students who bagged an MDS seat said, “The delay to conduct the counselling has jeopardised the future of hundreds of students like me. If the State Government does not get permission, we will be forced to take the legal route.” The State Government had written several letters to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare requesting them to extend the last date to conduct admissions, which was denied. On the other hand, Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) authorities, who conducted the admissions, said that they were merely following the orders of the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fate-of-many-mds-admissions-hangs-in-the-balance-now/article38033262.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID 2nd wave, employees’ strike hit RTCs hard||Yogeesha (name changed on request) has been working in the Bangalore Metropolitan Corporation Corporation (BMTC) for over 14 years. He would get his salary in the first week of the month, but for the last four to five months, his salary was credited to his account in two instalments. But he is not sulking about the delayed payment of salary. “In the beginning of 2021, everyone thought that the good days will come back. But the second wave of the pandemic worsened everything. Knowing the poor financial conditions of the corporation, I cannot complain about receiving salaries in two instalments. Instead, I should feel happy that at least I am receiving a salary every month,” he said. Reeling under heavy financial losses due to the pandemic, paying staff salaries is becoming a challenge for the Road Transport Corporations (RTCs). “I would say, paying salaries to the staff by managing our finances is itself a big achievement of 2021,” said Shivyogi C. Kalasad, Managing Director, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). Mr. Kalasad said the corporation, which was already in a bad shape financially, was hit hard by the second wave. Employees going on strike and the steep hikes in fuel prices added to their woes. “The corporation has been struggling every month to pay the staff salaries, paying fuel bills, and for maintenance. Around 55% of the revenue generated goes towards salary and 45% for fuel. The State Government has been supporting us by paying 25% of the salary amount. Every month, the corporation requires more than Rs. 100 crore to pay towards payment of salaries,” he said. He added that the corporation is raising Rs. 200 crore to pay arrears pending towards provident fund, insurance benefit and others. Ridership is picking up; during pre-COVID times, 30 lakh people used to travel in KSRTC buses every day. Now, it has touched 22 lakh. However, inter-State services operated by the corporation are showing no signs of recovery as demand remains poor. BMTC to raise Rs. 700 crore The financial distress has forced the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) to look for fresh loans for overall development of the corporation, induction of new buses and clearing pending bills, among others. The State Government has given in principle approval for raising a long- term loan. Anbukumar, MD, BMTC said there is a plan to raise a loan of Rs. 700 crore from Asian Development Bank. “We are facing a deficit of Rs. 60 crore to meet our expenses. Despite facing so many hardships, we are managing to pay salaries in two instalments with the State Government’s support. However, keeping in mind future developments, we are planning to raise loans,” he said. He added that all efforts being made to increase the ridership in the city, including maximum utilisation of the fleet size. For close to two years, a majority of the AC buses remained off the road. A few days ago, the corporation announced a slash in fares by 34% to increase patronage. During pre-COVID times, the BMTC was generating revenue of Rs. 5 crore per day, and it has touched Rs. 3 crore now. 15 days strike Apart from the pandemic-induced challenges, 2021 also saw a 15-day strike in April by employees affiliated with the KSRTC Employees League. Their demands included paying salary as per the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission. Repeated pleas by the Government to withdraw the strike were ignored, and the corporations explored all options, including suspension and dismissal of thousands of employees from services for taking part in the strike. During the strike, stones were pelted at buses and employees who did not support the strike were targeted. A driver of NWKRTC near Jamkhandi succumbed to injuries after miscreants attacked him with stones for reporting to duty and driving a bus. Many employees say they were not benefited by the strike. Rather, it caused more hardships to thousands of employees who could not get salaries for months after they were suspended or dismissed from the service, they alleged. When asked about the reinstatement of employees who were suspended or dismissed from service, the BMTC MD said suspension of 4,000 employees was revoked and department inquiry against 11,000 employees has been withdrawn. “Most of the employees have been reinstated,” said the KSRTC MD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-2nd-wave-employees-strike-hit-rtcs-hard/article38033245.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Act sternly against illegal constructions||Observing that time has come to deal with a stern hand those citizens who illegally construct buildings across the State, the High Court of Karnataka has said that the Government should also reduce administrative tolerance to zero against officers who turn a blind eye to complaints from public against illegal constructions. Pointing out that apex court has already declared that illegal and unauthorised construction of the buildings and other structures would not only violate municipal laws, the concept of planned development of a particular area, but affects various fundamental and constitutional rights of other persons, the High Court said that officers who permit such illegal constructions should also be dealt with same stern hands by initiating departmental enquiries. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while dismissing a petition, filed by K.S. Eshwarappa, a resident of Siddeshwara Nagar in Shivamogga city, questioning notice issued to him by Shivamogga City Corporation (SCC). The Court directed the SCC to take to the logical conclusion the notice issued for demolish the building put up by the petitioner as it was found from the record that he had constructed the house in the absence of approval of his application for building plan sanction under the provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act. Though the SCC had issued several notices to the petitioner since January this year acting on a complaint from a neighbour, who had alleged that the petitioner had began constructions on the major storm water drain, the Court found that laxity on the part of officials in stopping construction at the initial stage resulted the petitioner not only completing construction of building in a breakneck speed but also started residing in it.   Pointing out that it has come across a large number of petitions in which officers have turned blind eye on complaints of illegal constructions, the Court said need of the hour is to take action without any loss of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-act-sternly-against-illegal-constructions/article38033248.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Accidental fire destroys shop, no one injured||A stove repair shop in Nagawara was gutted in an accidental fire as at least two LPG cylinders in the shop blasted and added to the fire. Fortunately, no one was injured in the accident. Around 12.20 p.m., there was dense smoke in the shop, right next to a mosque where people were supposed to gather for Friday prayers. People ran out of the shop and as a precautionary measure, evacuated occupants of the neighbouring buildings, and alerted the mosque as well. The fire was eventually put out. A short circuit is suspected to have triggered the fire. Govindapura Police have registered a case and are probing the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accidental-fire-destroys-shop-no-one-injured/article38033250.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR to introduce Vistadome coach service between Bengaluru and Shivamogga from today||People travelling between Bengaluru and Shivamogga can now enjoy the comfort of a Vistadome coach. The South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to augment one AC Vistadome coach to the Yeshwanthpur-Shivamogga Town Intercity express. The coach will be augmented on a temporary basis from Saturday (December 25) to March 31, 2022. The ticket cost has been fixed at Rs. 1,130. Chief PRO SWR Aneesh Hegde said the scenic beauty on the route near Kadur, Birur, and other places can be enjoyed while travelling in the new coach. In July, the SWR launched Vistadome coach service between Bengaluru and Mangaluru. The official said that the service has been received well by the people with 90 to 100 % occupancy. Meanwhile, the suspension of train traffic on a bridge between Mukundarayapuram – Tiruvalam stations in Arakkonam – Katpadi section of Chennai division of Southern Railway continued to disrupt train services between Bengaluru and Chennai. South Western Railway, in a press release, said that as per the notification of Southern Railway, six trains, MGR Chennai Central and Mysuru (12007/12008), MGR Chennai Central– KSR Bengaluru (22625/22626/12027/12028), are cancelled on December 25 and December 26. Train number 12610 (Mysuru to MGR Chennai Central) and 12608 ( KSR Bengaluru to MGR Chennai Central) will be terminated at Katpadi instead of MGR Chennai Central on December 25 and 26. Train number 12609 and 12607 will originate from Katpadi instead of MGR Chennai Central.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-introduce-vistadome-coach-service-between-bengaluru-and-shivamogga-from-today/article38033261.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Film-maker K.V. Raju dead||Well-known film-maker and screenwriter K.V. Raju, 67, passed away at his residence here on Friday. He directed over 20 films. He made his foray into Hindi films with Indrajit, where Amitabh Bachchan played the lead role. Several of his films in the 1980s and 90s were commercially successful. He was the younger brother of another noted film-maker K.V. Jayaram. Mr. Raju started out assisting his brother in 1982 and soon debuted as a film-maker with Sangrama (1987), a remake of a Hindi film, starring V. Ravichandran. He went on to direct a bunch of remakes of successful Telugu and Hindi films, including Yuddha Kaanda, again starring Ravichandran and it was a hit. His 1996 film Huliya that portrayed the travails of a family from drought-hit North Karnataka was critically acclaimed but failed at the box office. His other successful films include Belli Kalungura, Belli Modagalu, and Bandha Mukta among others. Indrajit was a 1991 film and it was a remake of the Kannada film Bandha Mukta starring ‘Tiger’ Prabhakar. In later years, he stopped making films but continued to write screenplay and dialogues for several films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-maker-kv-raju-passes-away/article38033254.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Constable caught running two-wheeler theft racket||A police constable had allegedly been running an organised two-wheeler theft racket using two minor boys whom he had sheltered in his house. Magadi Road police unearthed the racket and arrested the constable — Honnappa Duradappa Malagi, 28 — hailing from Ranebennur, Haveri district. A 2016 batch police constable, he was posted to Vidyaranyapura police station and was working as a driver for IPS officer Bhimshankar Guled. The police also arrested Ramesh, 25, who helped the ring sell the stolen bikes and handed over two minor boys, both aged 17 years, who stole the bikes, to the correction home. care. The police have recovered 53 bikes worth Rs. 77 lakh from the arrested. Special team A special team formed in Vijaynagar subdivision to crack a slew of bike thefts in the area received a tip-off about a house in Vidyaranyapura which saw several bikes parked in front of the house for a day or two, only to be replaced by new ones. The team mounted surveillance on the house and realised it was the house of a police constable and observed that the bikes had their number plates changed as they were taken out, never to come back to the house. A raid on the house led to the arrest of the constable and detention of two minor boys who lived there. The boys earlier worked at a garage in Vidyaranyapura and were good at breaking locks of bikes and lifting them. A year and a half earlier, the duo, who had befriended the constable, approached him with a stolen bike for help to get it sold, which Honnappa did. Soon, he started blackmailing the boys with arrest and made them do his bidding. He sheltered them at his house and got them to steal bikes across the city, the police said. “The ring used to see the bikes on sale on OLX website, note down their numbers and change the number plates of the stolen bikes to that, and create fake RC books. Then, they sold the bikes at very cheap rates and conned the buyers saying that the documents were hypothecated to a bank for a vehicle loan and would hand them over once they paid up, using which they will clear the loan and get the documents, but never to return,” said Sanjeev Patil, DCP (West). A senior police officer, who was part of the team that busted the ring, said the constable Honnappa had been leading a lavish lifestyle beyond his means. The ring has sold the stolen bikes in Haveri, Hubballi, Bengaluru and several districts across the State. Of the 53 bikes recovered, police are yet to trace the owners of 42 bikes, sources said. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said it was sad that a police personnel had resorted to such crimes and said the case was a warning to everyone in the force that none will be spared, even if they were one of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constable-caught-running-two-wheeler-theft-racket/article38033246.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||National honour for Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd.||Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd. (KREDL) was awarded the first prize in National Energy Conservation 2021 in the category of State performance awards (Group-1) sector. R.K. Singh, Union Minister of Power and New and Renewable Energy, presented the award to KREDL recently on the occasion of National Energy Conservation Day in New Delhi. G. Kumar Naik, Additional Chief Secretary, Energy Department, Government of Karnataka, and K.P Rudrappaiah, Managing Director, KREDL, received the award. Minister for Energy, GoK, V. Sunil Kumar said, “It’s a matter of pride that Karnataka has won the first prize. This award is a testimony to our commitment to cleaner, greener energy and environmental conservation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/national-honour-for-karnataka-renewable-energy-development-ltd/article38033249.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The Department of Dairy Business Management, Dairy Science College, Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, Hebbal campus, Bengaluru, has invited applications for admission to MBA (food business). According to a release, students from all disciplines are eligible to apply. Last date for submitting the application form is December 27. For details, visit www.foodmba.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article38033251.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kuvempu Bhasha Bharati Pradhikara to present honorary and book awards on December 28||The Kuvempu Bhasha Bharati Pradhikara (KBBP), Bengaluru, will present five honorary and six book awards for the years 2021 and 2020 respectively at a programme to be held on December 28 at Nayana Auditorium, Kannada Bhavana premises, Town Hall at 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kuvempu-bhasha-bharati-pradhikara-to-present-honorary-and-book-awards-on-december-28/article38033255.ece
25 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply because of quarterly maintenance works on December 26 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and on December 27 from 10 a.m. to 12 noon. According to a press release from Bescom, Koramangala Division, the areas to be affected are: Annaiah Reddy Layout, ITPL Main Road, B and C Blocks AECS Layout, Maruthi Layout, Silver Spring Road, Veerappa Reddy Layout, Chinnappanahalli, BEML Layout, Vinayaka Layout and surrounding areas. Power supply will also be affected on December 27 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. owing to work related to conversion of overhead lines into UG/AB cable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article38033256.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 405 new cases||Karnataka on Friday reported 405 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,03,969. Bengaluru Urban reported 254 cases and two deaths. With four deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,305. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 267 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,58,384. The State now has 7,251 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.35%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.98%. As many as 1,14,559 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 93,102 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,58,26,704.   COVID-19 in Karnataka on December 24  Cases: 405 Deaths: 4 Discharges: 267 Tests: 1,14,559 Vaccinations : 2,79,920 Test Positivity Rate: 0.35% Case Fatality Rate: 0.98% /////////////////////////////////////////////////||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-405-new-cases/article38033260.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug peddler arrested||A drug peddler allegedly involved in the import and the export of narcotics and wanted in multiple cases in Chennai and Australia was arrested at Kempegowda International Airport on Thursday. Sleuths from the Narcotics Control Bureau, who arrested Benjamin Sunday alias Antony, an African, also seized 968 grams of amphetamine and 2.889 kg of ephedrine, officials said. “The drug was cleverly concealed in a cavity specially designed in three wooden boxes: each box containing 165 grams of amphetamine, two back rests containing 237 grams and 236 grams of amphetamine, and two metal pulley containing 1.811 kg and 1.078 kg of ephedrine,” said NCB in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-peddler-arrested/article38033257.ece
25 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Consumers should have knowledge of their rights’||Emphasising the need for consumers to have knowledge of their rights, Assistant Commissioner of Dharwad Gopalkrishna B. has said that because of lack of knowledge about consumer laws among general public, they are often cheated by some traders and service providers. Presiding over a National Consumer Day programme in Dharwad on Friday, he said that as responsible citizens one should have knowledge of basic laws, which, in turn, will prevent them from being cheated. The programme was jointly organised by the Dharwad district administration, Sir Siddappa Kambli Law College, the Food and Civil Supplies Department, the District Legal Services Authority and the District Consumers Grievance Redressal Forum. Mr. Gopalkrishna said that the need of the hour is to set up a healthy consumer society giving no room for cheating. He asked the officials of the Department Food and Civil Supplies to organise awareness programmes and educate people with the help of non-governmental organisations. Asking people not to get duped by glorified advertisements, he asked them to make informed choices after thoroughly checking products before purchasing. Mr. Gopalkrishna said that law students should be proactive and help the common man get justice in case of them being cheated by consumer product companies. Delivering a special talk, chairman of Janadesh District Information Cell and senior counsel Basavaprabhu Hosakeri said that the purpose of observing the day [National Consumer Day] is to sensitise consumers about their rights and responsibilities. On December 24, 1986, the Consumer Protection Act received the Presidential assent, he said. “The Consumer Protection Act guaranteed six basic rights to consumers: right to choose a product; right to be protected from all kinds of hazardous goods; right to be informed about performance and quality of all products; right to be heard in all decision-making processes related to consumer interests; right to seek redressal, whenever consumer rights have been infringed and right to complete consumer education,” he said. There are grievance redressal forums in the district, State and national level and consumers can approach them for justice, he explained. Earlier senior judge and District Legal Services Authority member-secretary Pushpalata C.M. inaugurated the programme and highlighted its significance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consumers-should-have-knowledge-of-their-rights/article38033466.ece
25 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Zanjan varsity honours artist||Kalaburagi-based artist Shaheed Pasha has been awarded a Certificate of Excellence by Zanjan University of Medical Sciences (ZUMS), Iran, for his painting related to COVID-19. Dr. Pasha’s painting was selected for the award during the first international festival of health and art organised by ZUMS recently. The award comprises a cash prize of 500 Euro (Rs. 44,000) along with a certificate and a memento. As Dr. Pasha could not attend the programme, the university transferred the cash award to his bank account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zanjan-varsity-honours-artist/article38033469.ece
25 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Union Govt. urged to develop Mangaluru-Bengaluru corridor||Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has appealed to the Union Government to develop Mangaluru-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (MBIC). In a letter to the Union Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal, which was released to the media on Friday, president of the KCCI Shashidhar Pai Maroor said that the chamber has learnt that the government has approved the development of 11 industrial corridors with 32 projects to be developed in four phases in the country as part of the National Industrial Corridor Programme (NICP) which are under various stages of conceptualisation/development /implementation. He said that the MBIC can connect New Mangalore Port with Bengaluru and other hinterland districts, including Hassan and Bengaluru Rural, through National Highway 75. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is already working on the Shiradi Ghat Tunnel Project (23.6 km). In a few years, the distance between Mangaluru Bengaluru is expected to be covered on road within six hours. The presence of New Mangalore Port, an all-weather deep-draft seaport with capability and experience to handle cargo of volume and diversity on this corridor, will further boost EXIM trade in this region. Further, the Mangaluru International Airport, which operates direct flights to West Asian countries, has not reached its full potential in export cargo. Perishable goods from the hinterland can be exported via the airport. Similarly, the hinterland will have the advantage of the railway hub in Mangaluru which has frequent trains to Kerala and Maharashtra and beyond. “The MBIC has a huge potential for the unparalleled economic development of the State, creating large employment opportunities and helping towards overall socio-economic development,” he said. The development of this corridor will give a boost to the Prime Minister’s vision to enhance export from every district. It will give a boost to small-scale industrial activities in these districts and boost the State’s share of exports, the letter said. Tunnel project It may be mentioned here that Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Jairam Gadkari told the Rajya Sabha on December 22 that a detailed project report (DPR) on the Shiradi Ghat tunnel project is not yet ready. Replying to an unstarred question by Narayana Koragappa, the Minister said that initially, Public Works Department, Karnataka, started the work of preparing the DPR for the Shiradi Ghat bypass. Subsequently, the DPR was transferred to the NHAI. The bidding stage and tenders will take place after the DPR is ready, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-govt-urged-to-develop-mangaluru-bengaluru-corridor/article38033612.ece
25 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Process to beatify Alfred Roche to start shortly||The Diocesan process of Beatification of Alfred Roche will be initiated with a Solemn Eucharistic Sacrifice at Holy Family Church, Brahmavar in Udupi district, at 10 a.m. on Monday. A Franciscan Capuchin priest, Alfred Roche was born in 1924 and brought up at Barkur of Brahmavar. He had served in the State in various capacities. Having served in Brahmavar for 16 years, he passed away in 1996. For his saintly life, selfless service, care for the poor and needy, the people from all walks of life hailed him as an epitome of spirituality and emulated his virtues. Now, 25 years after his death, his devotees have demanded that he should be granted Sainthood in the Catholic Church, a press release from Udupi Diocese said. Green signal The Vatican Department for Beatification and Canonisation has given the green signal to initiate the process of raising Alfred Roche to the saintly height. Beatification and Canonisation are intensely complex and lengthy processes in the church which at times take decades and centuries to be completed. This process will be done according to the rules and regulations laid down by the Catholic Church. At the end of one process, the Pope will pronounce Reverend Father Alfred Roche Beatified and then, at the end of another process, he will be pronounced a Saint. The process of Beatification will be initiated in the place where the person concerned lived his life. This mass will be solemnised by Bishop of Udupi Gerald Lobo, the release said.  A Franciscan Capuchin priest, he was born in 1924 and brought up at Barkur of Brahmavar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/process-to-beatify-alfred-roche-to-start-shortly/article38033614.ece
25 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pulse Polio drive in Udupi on Jan. 23||Pulse Polio Immunisation Drive will be taken up in Udupi district on January 23, 2022 and polio vaccine will be administered in 686 booths, according to Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao. Speaking at a meeting in Udupi on Friday, he said that parents should get their children aged up to five immunised on that day. The Deputy Commissioner said that 74,049 children have been identified for administering polio vaccine in the district. The Health Department should give publicity to the programme, the Deputy Commissioner added..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pulse-polio-drive-in-udupi-on-jan-23/article38033613.ece
25 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Chess tourney||KIOCL Limited will organise a two-day national-level Open FIDE Rating Rapid Chess Tournament, Fourth Kudremukh Trophy, from January 1, 2022. The venue is Nehru Bhavan, KIOCL Township, Kavoor, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chess-tourney/article38033615.ece
25 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||DKS announces padayatra in support of Mekedatu project||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K.Shivakumar said in Madikeri on Friday that the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery has multiple benefits to the people of both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and hence should not be opposed. In support of the project and pressing for its early implementation the Congress leaders and party workers will take out a padayatra to Mekedatu on January 9, 2022. He was speaking to media persons after offering prayers at Talacauvery in Kodagu district. Mr. Shivakumar said the balancing reservoir will ensure drinking water to Bengaluru while it will help meet the requirements of farmers in the Cauvery command area spread covering the districts of Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, Hassan, Tumakuru, Kolar and Ramanagaram. It will also ensure 66 thousand million cubic ft (tmc ft) of water to Tamil Nadu. The detailed project report for Mekedatu has received concurrence from the government and even the Supreme Court has stated that there should not be opposition to drinking water projects, he added. Mr.Shivakumar said that everyone irrespective of political and party affiliations should be supportive of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-announces-padayatra-in-support-of-mekedatu-project/article38033622.ece
25 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Winter chill sets in, temperatures dip||The winter freeze with early morning chills is being experienced in Mysuru and other parts of south interior Karnataka since the last few days. Gloves and sweaters are back in vogue and the number of morning walkers has taken a dip while a few wait for the sun to break out before venturing out for the customary exercise. The minimum temperature in Mysuru was 14.9 degrees C as recorded at 8.30 a.m. on Friday according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. In Mandya it was 15.3 degrees C while Chamarajanagar experienced biting cold with minimum temperature dipping to 12.6 degrees C. Hassan recorded 12.7 degrees C while the minimum temperature in Shivamogga was 13.5 degrees C and Ramanagaram shivered at 14.2 degree C. In Madikeri, which is the preferred choice of tourists to experience the winter chill, the minimum temperature recorded was 11.8 degrees C as per the Indian Meteorological Department. But the KSNDMC records pegged the minimum temperature at 15 degrees C. There is a difference in the minimum temperatures recorded by the IMD and KSNDMC for most centres. In the case of Hassan, the minimum temperature recorded by KSNDMC was 12.7 but the IMD has recorded it as 9.2 degrees C. So it is with other areas. But the forecast for the next few days is a rise in minimum temperature which is set to hover around 14 degrees C. However, winter tends to be prolonged in Madikeri and the mercury level could dip further in the days ahead. Even the maximum temperature will be lower, according to N.Narendra Babu, Research Associate, Agro Meteorological Field Unit of IMD, at Naganahalli. Notwithstanding the variation in the temperatures measured by the two agencies the chill is for real and in and around Mysuru the visibility tends to be reduced till as late as 8 a.m., especially on the outskirts, while Chamundi Hills tend to be covered in mist till the sun rises well above the horizon. Though the winter chill is being experienced in Mysuru after a few years, the IMD has forecast that the minimum temperature for the next few days for Mysuru is 17 degrees C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/winter-chill-sets-in-temperatures-dip/article38033625.ece
25 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA reclaims land in early morning operation following court order||Close on the heels of reclaiming vast swathe of land following a court instruction recently, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) on Friday took possession of 6.14 acres of land near Vijayanagar. The said land was mired in legal dispute over compensation awarded by the MUDA. But the case went in MUDA’s favour. It launched an operation to demolish some of the illegal structures constructed on the land at dawn and took possession to establish its ownership. In all, 6 acres and 14 guntas of land near Viajayanagar 4th stage has been reclaimed and MUDA Chairman H.V.Rajeev said that it will enable the authority to create 163 sites valued at nearly Rs. 170 crore. MUDA Commissioner D.B. Natesh, Superintendent Engineer Shankar, Land Acquisition Officer Harshavardhan, and other officers were present. The MUDA is confident of acquiring additional land in the days ahead as there are scores of cases wherein the original owner has approached the court seeking enhancement of compensation. “In all the cases the compensation has been awarded by the MUDA but the process of taking possession of the land and developing it into sites has been thwarted by court cases’, according to Mr. Rajeev. The MUDA expects a few more cases to go in its favour and in all about 80 acres of land is expected to be reclaimed, some of it from the same survey number in Basavanahalli near Vijayanagar 4th stage. The confidence stems from a Supreme Court ruling on Section 24 of the Land Acquisition Act as per which the land acquisition is deemed as settled once the compensation has been paid, and the case cannot be reopened. Whether MUDA will be in a possession to develop the acquired land into sites and distribute it to the site aspirants remains to be seen. There are thousands of site applicants who are in the seniority list and are yet to be allotted a site. Incidentally, the last major acquisition of land and development of a layout was R.T.Nagar, Lalitadrinagar etc but the exercise to develop the land began in late 1990s and concluded with the allotment only in 2018. In the meantime, the MUDA has launched a demand survey for its proposed construction of apartments on the lines of BDA flats. A team of MUDA officials had visited Bengaluru in this connection and the demand survey so has evoked encouraging response. The vertical growth model is being pushed by the MUDA as it can cater to the housing needs of more number of people on the limited swathe of land. Besides, there is a growing realisation that the current horizontal growth of the through conversion of agricultural land for residential purpose, cannot be sustained forever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-reclaims-land-in-early-morning-operation-following-court-order/article38033627.ece
25 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Protest over defacing of Rayanna statue||A demonstration was staged in Mysuru on Friday in protest against the desecration of Sangolli Rayanna’s statue in Belagavi and the burning of Kannada flag allegedly by MES activists. The protest was organized by the Karnataka Kurubara Sangha with the support of various organisations. Hundreds of people gathered at the Kote Anjaneyaswamy Temple near the palace to vent their anger over the recent developments in Belagavi. They took out a bike rally to the Deputy Commissioner’s office where they submitted a memorandum condemning the incidents and sought against those who are behind the acts. Carrying Kannada flags, the protesters marched on the street leading to the DC office condemning the incidents and seeking action against MES. They raised slogans against the MES and sought its ban. They said the damage caused to Sangolli Rayanna’s statue in Belagavi is nothing but an insult to the people of Karnataka. They also condemned the defacing of social reformer Basaveshwara’s portrait and the burning of Kannada flag allegedly by the MES activists. The heads of some religious institutions, Karnataka Kurubara Sangha president B. Subramanya; former MLA M.K. Somashekar; D. Thimmaiah, MLC; District Congress president B.J. Vijay Kumar, writer K.S. Bhagavan, and several others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-over-defacing-of-rayanna-statue/article38033624.ece
25 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Kurabara Sangha stages protest in Yadgir||Members of Kurubara Sangha staged a protest and demanded action against culprits who they said have damaged the Sangolli Rayanna statue. The Yadgir district unit of the Karnataka Pradesh Kurubara Sangha staged a protest at Subhas Chandra Chowk in Yadgir recently and burnt in an effigy Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray holding him responsible for micreates setting fire to Kannada flag in Kolhapur and damaging the statue of freedom fighter Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kurabara-sangha-stages-protest-in-yadgir/article38033463.ece
25 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Survey||A survey is being conducted to identify manual scavengers under the City Municipal Council limits of Shorapur between 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. till December 29 at the Health Inspector’s office at Hasnapur Circle one and two, according to a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey/article38033464.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Various hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/various-hues/article38033267.ece
25 December 2021||Belagavi,KERALA||MLC: members spend crores to get elected||Raghu Achar, Congress MLC, attracted the wrath of his colleagues in the Legislative Council by stating that many members had been elected to the House by spending crores of rupees and most of the debates during the Winter Session lacked quality and were a waste of valuable time. In his last speech in the House, the two-time MLC said he attended the House regularly during his first term, and listened to the debates. “The quality of debate was not impressive in my second term. Members were wasting time by repeating what others had already presented. Hence, I stopped attending the proceedings,” he said. He claimed that candidates who lose in elections to the Legislative Assembly enter the Council by spending crores of rupees. “Let me be frank. I also got elected to the Council spending crores of rupees. I am aiming to enter the Assembly in the next elections,” he said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai intervened to say that Mr. Achar should have said this much earlier. Taking serious objection to Mr. Achar’s comments, BJP member Ayanur Manjunath said the member had “insulted the House” by his comments. “The House has great tradition. Many well-known personalities, who fought for public causes and suffered police lathi-charge, have been elected to the House. Many members did not campaign in helicopters, like a few did. Mr. Achar should seek the House’s apology for his comments,” he said. Mr. Manjunath’s remarks were welcomed by many members, irrespective of political affiliations. Responding to Mr. Manjunath’s comments, Mr. Achar said he would seek an apology if his comments had hurt anybody’s sentiment. Mr. Achar’s term ends on January 5, 2022. He was seen touching the feet of senior leaders seeking their blessings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/members-spend-crores-to-get-elected-says-mlc/article38033274.ece
25 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Temperature touches 2°C in Munnar||Munnar witnessed the lowest temperature of the season with Chenduvarai and Silent Valley recording 2°C on Friday morning. The temperature at Mattupetty was 6°C and Sevenmalai 5°C respectively. There was a steady rise in the number of tourists to the hill station in view of the Christmas-New Year season. Hoteliers said though foreigners were mostly absent, there was a steady flow of domestic tourists from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. However, tourism stakeholders are apprehensive considering the rise in Omicron cases and its impact on the sector. A hotel manager in Munnar said though tourists were turning up in large numbers, it was nowhere near the numbers before the COVID-19 outbreak. The stakeholders were anxious about how north Indian and foreign tourists would react to the COVID-19 situation this season. Dams opened for visitors The Idukki and Cheruthoni dams were opened for the public in connection with the Christmas-New Year season on Friday. Irrigation Minister Roshy Augustine said public entry would be allowed till February 28. Boating facility Buggy car facilities are available for visitors. The entry fee is Rs. 40 for elders and Rs. 30 for children and the visiting time is from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Idukki Wildlife Sanctuary has also arranged boating facilities from Vellappara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temperature-touches-2c-in-munnar/article38033524.ece
25 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||SilverLine project against people’s interests, says KSSP||The Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has appealed to the government not to go ahead with the SilverLine project, saying that it is against the interests of the State and its people. KSSP president O.M. Shankar said the detailed project report (DPR), environmental impact assessment (EIA), and social impact assessment for the project had not been discussed with the public, and that the alignment of the railway line had not been accurately demarcated. He said Kerala’s development approach was inclusive of all sections of society, and that it laid stress on social justice. “Based on the information available, K-Rail’s SilverLine project should not be prioritised,” he added. The SilverLine project is envisioned as a link between the emerging townships near its stations. Real estate business in those areas alone is estimated to generate over Rs. 10,000 crore in revenue for K-Rail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-project-against-peoples-interests-says-kssp/article38033520.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hit hard by the digital divide||For over a month last year since securing admission for BA History at the Government College, Thripunithura, Vijeesh K., a 22-year-old from a tribal colony at Sulthan Bathery in Wayanad, was effectively shut out of online classes. The Internet network was at best patchy, and he could not afford to recharge the mobile connection with his mother’s meagre wages. That he got admission through supplementary admission meant that he had already missed classes by the time he had joined. “We could not submit our assignments or complete notes. Initially, the college authorities were also in the dark about our plight,” said Vijeesh. Volunteers say that online classes with little access, inadequate gadgets, and hardly any awareness on how to participate in online education had dealt a severe blow to the academic development of tribal youth. ‘Cannot read, write’ “The state of our children is pathetic, as many of them have even forgotten how to read and write. The SSLC results among tribal students this year were good solely owing to liberal valuation. The reality is that many Class X-pass tribal students could neither write their names during admission nor had any clue of the course for which they had gained admission,” said C. Manikandan, a teaching assistant at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University at Wayanad and a volunteer of Adi Shakthi Summer School, a collective of Adivasi and Dalit youths under the Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha. He said the government’s conviction that providing devices to acfcess online education would ensure smooth learning among tribal students was misplaced. Mentors should be drawn from among retired officials and educated members of the community for monitoring and guiding learning and safekeeping of devices at least in the case of SSLC and higher secondary students, said Mr. Manikandan. The situation seems to be no different at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels either. “Many educational institutions were using dedicated apps, and most tribal students did not know how to use them,” said Mary Lydia, State coordinator of Adi Shakthi Summer School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hit-hard-by-the-digital-divide/article38033596.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Stop all SilverLine work: KSSP||The Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) has urged the K-Rail authorities and the State government to suspend all activities in connection with the proposed SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project. In a press release issued by the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad on Friday, the organisation pointed out that indiscriminately laying boundary stones for the project across the State without discussing the detailed project report, environment impact assessment report, and social impact assessment report with people and clarifying the alignment of the project was thoroughly anti-democratic. Based on available information, the SilverLine project is not one to be prioritised in tune with the acclaimed Kerala model. The project gave prominence to the wealthy in society and was estimated to benefit to the tune of Rs. 10,000 crore from real estate business from the proposed townships around SilverLine stations, the KSSP release said. Benefits wealthy By K-Rail authorities’ own admission, the project expected only higher class train passengers and the wealthy class, including those who own private vehicles, air passengers, and those who can afford high-fare bus tickets. Questionable attitude The attitude of K-Rail authorities allowing ordinary passengers to suffer the existing snail-paced railway development and the wealthier to travel faster was not acceptable, the release said. While the SilverLine project benefitted only a minority of the population in the State, its environmental cost would have to be borne by a huge majority, the KSSP said. Project cost The SilverLine project cost of Rs. 64,000 crore was estimated as per the 2018-19 price levels. But the actual cost of the project may exceed Rs. 1.26 lakh crore as estimated by the Niti Ayog, it added.  KSSP claims: The project isn’t one to be prioritised in tune with the Kerala model Project benefits just a miniscule though its environmental cost has to be borne by many||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-project-undemocratic-kssp/article38033539.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pampa sand removal: Centre plans talks||The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) will hold consultations with the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on whether the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has an overriding effect on the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, in the case related to the removal of sand from Pampa river. The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had set up an expert committee after it took suo motu notice of The Hindu report ‘Forest dept. told to permit sand removal from Pampa’ published on May 30 last year. The tribunal had sought the view of MoEFCC as to whether permission under the Forest Conservation Act is required for such activities. It was also asked whether the Disaster Management Act will override the environmental laws. The removal of sand from the banks of the Pampa had turned into a controversy after the Opposition accused the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of having used flood preparedness as a cover to bypass the Forest Conservation Act. ‘Common, rational view’ In its affidavit filed before the tribunal, a MoEFCC official said it had been decided to hold a consultation/meeting with the Ministry of Home Affairs and form joint views of the Union government to ensure that both the Acts are harmoniously implemented. “It will take some time to come to a common and rational view, which upholds and ensures that the objectives of both the Acts are fulfilled,” it said. The MoEFCC stated that ‘land’ was a subject matter of the State government. The forest areas and the legal boundaries thereof are determined and maintained by the State government concerned. It had the primary responsibility to determine the status of any parcel of land, giving due regard to gazette notifications, provisions under the State and Central Acts, and the judgements and directions of the Supreme Court, it said. In its earlier affidavit submitted before the tribunal in October, the Ministry had stated that prior approval of the Central government was required for carrying out any non-forestry activity on forest land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pampa-sand-removal-centre-plans-talks/article38033527.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Suggestions pour in from forward communities||From revising the creamy layer limit fixed for the beneficiaries of various schemes to adequate compensation for the loss suffered in human-animal conflicts, suggestions are pouring in from members of forward communities for improving their living conditions. With five days left for the deadline, volunteers have covered close to 59,000 houses and met around 1.5 lakh community members for a sample survey being conducted by the Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes among Forward Communities, according to commission sources. There are 164 forward communities in the State, according to a list released by the State government early this year. Varied suggestions Most of the respondents sought support from the government for health care, educational needs, and tiding over the pandemic-induced crisis. While some interviewees sought government aid for the construction of houses, some others complained of the delay in getting the flood-related compensation. A call for restructuring the various Samunnathi schemes offered by the Kerala State Welfare Corporation for Forward Communities also came up. As many as 10 educational scholarships are offered under the scheme for graduation, diploma courses, Chartered Accountancy courses, MPhil and PhD programmes. Students are also offered financial support for attending coaching programmes for banks, Kerala Public Service Commission, Union PSC and other competitive examinations, Civil Services, and medical and engineering entrance examinations.  NSS stays away Though the Nair Service Society has dissociated itself from the exercise demanding a comprehensive socio-economic survey in place of the sample survey, some organisations have volunteered to conduct surveys among its community members and submit the reports to the panel. These suggestions will also be taken note of while preparing the final report, sources indicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suggestions-pour-in-from-forward-communities/article38033544.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A bumper fish harvest for Christmas||Fish farmers belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities at Nettoor and Ezhikkara in the district had a bumper harvest of pearl spot (karimeen) and tilapia through cage farming just in time for Christmas and the New Year. The eight-month-long cage farming was carried out under the schemes, SCSP and TSP, of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). ‘Sreedevi’ self-help group, which includes 22 ST families in Thandassery Colony in Nettoor, harvested a yield of 600 kg of pearl spot and 1,300 kg of tilapia from as many as four cages. While pearl spot attained a growth of an average 300g, tilapia got an average weight of 650g. Five SC families benefited from cage farming carried out in Ezhikkara as they managed to harvest 250 kg of tilapia from one cage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-bumper-fish-harvest-for-christmas/article38033535.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ASHA workers to aid in COVID ex gratia process||After being pulled up by the Supreme Court for the low disbursement rate of COVID-19 death-related ex gratia, the State government is planning to deploy Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) across the State to ensure that the family of the deceased apply for money. The court, which considered the case last week, was unhappy with the fact that only 10,778 applications for ex gratia were received against the 40,855 COVID-19 deaths that occurred in the State. The apex court had asked the State government to follow the Gujarat model of giving enough publicity to the matter within a week and to report the developments when the case was considered again. ASHA workers and those from the Local Self-Government Institutions should visit houses in their areas and ensure that families of those who died of COVID-19 applied for ex gratia through the portal relief.kerala.gov.in, according to an order issued by the Additional Chief Secretary A. Jayathilak. One programmer each will be deputed in all the districts for two weeks to sort out software-related issues connected to the portal. All pending applications shall be cleared and money disbursed. The officials should submit the Action Taken Report with supporting data before January 10, it was instructed. Declined claims Incidentally, the State had allotted money in 8,871 cases against the 13,655 claims approved till Friday. It had declined 238 claims from the 16,412 applications it received. As many as 19,69 complaints were recorded. In the below the poverty line (BPL) category, no funds were disbursed till date though 145 claims were accepted. Of the 5,579 claims filed in the category, 81 were denied, according to the website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/asha-workers-to-aid-in-covid-ex-gratia-process/article38033552.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held on theft charge||The Varapuzha police on Friday arrested two persons on the charge of robbing a woman of her mobile phone. The arrested are Shinto, 23, and Ebin, 22, of North Paravur. They are accused of grabbing the phone worth Rs. 13,000. They have cases against them at North Paravur, Varapuzha and Ambalapuzha stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-on-theft-charge/article38033543.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Noise levels near project sites within limits: BPCL||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL)-Kochi Refinery has stated that the overall noise levels in and around its projects are well within the standard limits. “Good sound engineering practices have been incorporated in the design to limit noise level at the refinery boundary. Equipment selection has been done taking into consideration restricting noise levels to acceptable limits,” said George Thomas, General Manager (PR and Admin), in a communication. The sound monitoring conducted by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) in 10 residential areas close to the company based on a directive by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal had found that the noise level exceeded the permissible limits during night hours. Stating that none of the measurements by the board had proved that the industry exceeded the permissible limits for an industrial zone, the company representative said BPCL had conducted a survey on noise pollution by a third party approved by the board in various residential zones in and around Kochi. The base noise level in residential zones is itself high due to rapid urbanisation and development. Noise level in most of the residential zones exceeded the prescribed statutory limits within the residential area itself, the company claimed. The company alleged that there was a concerted effort by different landowners’ groups to force BPCL to acquire around 600 acres of land in the area at a high cost under the guise of pollution issues. Repeated complaints are being given to the board and other statutory bodies by these groups, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/noise-levels-near-project-sites-within-limits-bpcl/article38033536.ece
25 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||IMAGE to appeal against HC order||The Indian Medical Association Goes Eco-friendly (IMAGE) will file a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against a Kerala High Court order dismissing its petition against the decision by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) allocating collection of biomedical waste from five districts to Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL) at Ambalamugal here. The High Court had also dismissed a writ appeal connected to the case filed by the Kerala Private Hospitals’ Association (KPHA). “We are planning to file the petition before the apex court challenging the Kerala High Court’s decision by the first week of January,” said Sharafudheen K.P., Secretary of IMAGE. “The KPHA had already approached the Supreme Court in this case,” he said. Both IMAGE and the KPHA are opposing the order issued by the board in September permitting Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd to collect biomedical waste from both private and government healthcare units in five districts that include Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Kottayam, and Ernakulam. IMAGE was allowed to collect biomedical waste from the remaining nine districts. IMAGE had set up the State’s first common biomedical waste treatment facility in Palakkad. KEIL had established the second such facility at Ambalamugal. The pollution control board had demarcated the districts among the two institutions based on its inference that the time-frame of 48 hours for processing biomedical waste as prescribed in the Biomedical Waste Management Rules could not be met easily, if waste generated across the State was processed at the Palakkad facility of IMAGE alone. IMAGE’s stance IMAGE had opposed the move stating that open competition should be allowed till adequate treatment facilities were set up covering the entire State. The board pointed out that waste collection and processing did not constitute an industry, and that unhealthy competition in the sector might adversely affect waste minimisation. Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd had sought orders from the National Green Tribunal restraining IMAGE from continuing to collect biomedical waste from the five districts allocated to it despite the board’s order and dismissal of petitions filed against it by the Kerala High Court.  KEIL allowed to collect biomedical waste in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Kottayam, and Ernakulam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/image-to-appeal-against-hc-order-on-waste-collection/article38033540.ece
25 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||NSS special camps to begin tomorrow||Athijeevanam 2021, the National Service Scheme’s (NSS) seven-day special camps for higher secondary students, will start from December 26 and the district-level inauguration will be held at SNDPY Higher Secondary School. “Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchurani will inaugurate the programme and the camps will focus on actions plans giving importance to sustainable development. The main objective of the camps is to bring students back to normal life through controlled social interaction,” said K.G. Prakash, district convener at a press meet here on Friday. Main projects The camps will have some main projects and a string of awareness programmes on various topics. As part of the ‘Nambu’ project, 10 lakh seed balls will be made for environment conservation and increasing the green cover. Seed balls are made by mixing manure and soil in special proportions and drying the seeds in the shade. A total of 1.1 lakh seed balls will be made at the camp in Kollam and they will be later distributed at selected locations. The Centre for Neuroscience at the Cochin University of Science and Technology has developed a project to study the increasing cases of dementia and other health problems among the elderly and submit a comprehensive report to the government to find solutions. As part of project Udbodh, each volunteer will collect data from five households for the university. In connection with the Idam project, each NSS unit will cultivate small farms to attain self-sufficiency in food production. Volunteers of each camp will cultivate 500 vegetable saplings and distribute it among the residents. The camps will conclude on January 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-special-camps-to-begin-tomorrow/article38033586.ece
25 December 2021||Kollam,KERALA||‘Make use of education schemes’||District Collector Afsana Parveen has said the children of financially backward widows should make use of the assistance for higher education under the Padavukal scheme. Students, who have secured admission (merit seat) for professional courses that include MBBS, Engineering, BDS, BHMS, BAMS, Nursing and Pharmacy, will be provided tuition, hostel, and mess fees as part of the scheme. The annual income of the family should not exceed Rs. 3 lakh and the beneficiary should not be a recipient of other government scholarships. Applications can be submitted through schemes.wcd.kerala.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/make-use-of-education-schemes/article38033580.ece
25 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Insurance adalat for fishers on December 28||The Fisheries department will conduct a group accident insurance scheme adalat and compensation disbursal programme for eligible fishers from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Kottayam districts. The programme will be held on December 28, said a press note issued by the office of Fisheries Minister Saji Cheiyan on Friday. Funded by the government, the Kerala Fishermen Welfare Fund Board is the implementing agency of the scheme for fishers and persons engaged in allied activities. At present a total of 2,40,867 fishers and 84,603 allied workers are members of the scheme. The financial assistance for accident deaths and permanent disability is Rs. 10 lakh and the scheme is being implemented through public sector insurance companies. “The decision to conduct the adalat was taken after noticing the delay in getting benefits and eligible persons from the five districts will receive the financial aid in a time-bound manner after the adalat,” said the Minister. The adalat will be held at the PWD Rest House, Thycaud, in Thiruvananthapuram and Transport Minister Antony Raju will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/insurance-adalat-for-fishers-on-december-28/article38033581.ece
25 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Christmas celebration||The YMCA Punalur subregion and the Thalavoor YMCA will jointly organise a Christmas celebration on December 26 at the Mar Baselios Shanti Bhavan, Nadutheri. Zachariah Mar Anthonios, Metropolitan of the Kollam diocese of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, will inaugurate the celebrations and subregional chairman K.K. Alexander will preside over. A carol service and a Christmas message from various parish vicars will be part of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/christmas-celebration/article38033587.ece
25 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Entrance topper denied admission at IMHANS||The State government-run Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (IMHANS) in Kozhikode has denied admission to Tara M. Hari, who came first in the entrance exam for the M.Phil Clinical Psychology course, reportedly because she passed her qualifying requirement, M.A. Psychology, from the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU). “During the interview, the institute informed me that all my documents had been verified. I was also asked to procure an eligibility certificate from the Kerala University of Health Sciences [KUHS], as no other distance learning student had cleared the exam yet,” said Ms. Tara. Ms. Tara said she was later informed that the KUHS officials had decided to deny her admission. “The rationale provided to me was that the KUHS did not want to set a precedent of accepting distance learning students even though I was a meritorious candidate,” she added. She said the restriction on distance learning students was not mentioned in the prospectus. “Neither was it brought up during the interview or at the allotment stage. When I approached IMHANS twice for admission, it was denied both times on the directive of the KUHS,” she added. Ms. Tara, a graduate from the National Law Institute University, Bhopal, plans to move the Kerala High Court against the denial of admission. When contacted, IMHANS Director P. Krishnakumar said the admission of the first rank holder had been kept on hold. “However, the KUHS has not taken a decision on distance learning qualifiers. If it gives the eligibility certificate, we shall proceed with her admission,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrance-test-topper-denied-mphil-admission-at-imhans/article38033514.ece
25 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||All set for Beypore Water Fest||Actor Mammootty will virtually inaugurate the Beypore Water Fest to be held at Beypore from December 26 to 29. The official opening event will be held at 6 p.m. at the Beypore Marina and will be chaired by Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas. MPs M.K. Raghavan and M.V. Shreyams Kumar will be the guests of honour. Additional Chief Secretary (Tourism) Venu V. will deliver the keynote address. The festivities will begin much earlier on the day with a cycle ride along the Kozhikode Beach, which will be flagged off by Minister for Ports Ahammed Devarkovil at 6 a.m. The flea market and food festival will be opened at 4 p.m. on the same day by Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran. They will be open from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. on all four days. The Navy team will display a search and rescue demo, which will be followed by a fly past of Coast Guard Dornier flights on the seaside at 4.30 p.m. A Naval band performance will be held at the Marina at 5.15 p.m. The National Kite Festival as part of the Water Fest will be inaugurated by Elamaram Kareem, MP, at 4 p.m. on Monday. Actor Manju Warrier will be the virtual guest of honour at the valedictory ceremony at 6 p.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-beypore-water-fest/article38033523.ece
25 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Entrance test topper denied M.Phil admission at IMHANS||The State government-run Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (IMHANS) in Kozhikode has denied admission to Tara M. Hari, who came first in the entrance exam for the M.Phil Clinical Psychology course, reportedly because she passed her qualifying requirement, M.A. Psychology, from the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU). “During the interview, the institute informed me that all my documents had been verified. I was also asked to procure an eligibility certificate from the Kerala University of Health Sciences [KUHS], as no other distance learning student had cleared the exam yet,” said Ms. Tara. Ms. Tara said she was later informed that the KUHS officials had decided to deny her admission. “The rationale provided to me was that the KUHS did not want to set a precedent of accepting distance learning students even though I was a meritorious candidate,” she added. She said the restriction on distance learning students was not mentioned in the prospectus. “Neither was it brought up during the interview or at the allotment stage. When I approached IMHANS twice for admission, it was denied both times on the directive of the KUHS,” she added. Ms. Tara, a graduate from the National Law Institute University, Bhopal, plans to move the Kerala High Court against the denial of admission. When contacted, IMHANS Director P. Krishnakumar said the admission of the first rank holder had been kept on hold. “However, the KUHS has not taken a decision on distance learning qualifiers. If it gives the eligibility certificate, we shall proceed with her admission,” he said.  The graduate from the National Law Institute University, Bhopal, is planning to move the Kerala High Court against the denial of admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrance-test-topper-denied-mphil-admission-at-imhans/article38033549.ece
25 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSCDC to bring out new edible coconut oil||The Kerala State Coconut Development Corporation  (KSCDC) is bringing out ‘Coco Royal’, a new brand of edible coconut oil, the logo of which will be officially launched by Agriculture Minister P. Prasad in Kozhikode on Monday. Corporation Chairman M. Narayanan told reporters here on Friday that the ‘Kerajam’ brand of hair oil would also be launched on the occasion. “Even though we have the Kerajam brand coconut oil now, it is being sold within Kerala only. With Coco Royal, we plan to explore the market outside the State and the country,” he said. Corporation Managing Director A.K. Siddarthan said Coco Royal was being branded to support more than 40 lakh coconut farmers in the State and to develop a more sustainable market for them. ‘Unadulterated’ “At least 80% of the coconut oil available in the market now is adulterated whereas the consumer has a right to unadulterated products. Hence the Corporation has set up its own plant to manufacture pure and unadulterated coconut oil,” he said. The launch will be held at 10.30 a.m. at the Agricultural Urban Wholesale Market at Vengeri. Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, will preside over the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kscdc-to-launch-coco-royal-oil/article38033515.ece
25 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New building for CRC||The Composite Regional Centre for Skill Development, Rehabiliation and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (CRC-Kozhikode) will start functioning in its own building constructed at Chevayur here in January. The CRC-Kozhikode under the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Justice and Empowerment, has been functioning on the campus of the Institute Mental Health and Neuro-Science (IMHANS) here. The centre started here in November 2012 under the initiative of M.K. Raghavan, MP, had initially functioned at the Social Welfare Complex at Vellimadukunnu. CRC-Kozhikode Director said in a press release that the centre has facilities, including therapy and treatment for various disabilities and departments of physical medicine and rehabilitation, clinical psychology, audiology and speech pathology, special education, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, prosthetics and orthotics, vocational training, and social work and rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-building-for-crc/article38033521.ece
25 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Seven arrested on charge of murder bid||The Chevayur police on Friday arrested seven persons, including the parents of a woman, on the charge of attempting to murder her husband’s relative. The person who was attacked had reportedly helped the couple get married. The arrested are Paloramoottil Ajitha and Anirudhan, parents of the woman, and Subash Benny, Arun, Ashwanth, Avinash, and Balupranavu, all members of a quotation gang. The police said the incident occurred at Vappolithazham near Vellimadukunnu on the outskirts of the city on December 11 at 8.45 p.m. The quotation team allegedly waylaid and attacked Reenish, who was returning home after closing his textile shop at Kovoor. The police said Janet, an MBBS student and daughter of Ajitha and Anirudhan, had been in love with a man named Swaroop. When her parents objected to their relationship, Janet and Swaroop registered their marriage secretly three years ago. Swaroop then returned to Singapore, where he is employed. According to the police, the parents hired the quotation gang to murder Reenish, Swaroop’s brother-in-law, who, they believed, had been helping Janet reach her husband in Singapore. Reenish suffered serious head injuries in the attack, said the police. Following the incident, the gang members had been absconding, travelling to Perinthalmanna, Kochi, and Pollachi. The police arrested them from their hideout at Chemmenchery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-arrested-on-charge-of-murder-bid/article38033519.ece
25 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Greens pay tribute to P.T. Thomas||Environmentalists in Kozhikode paid tribute to P.T. Thomas, MLA, who passed away on Wednesday. T. Shobheendran, who opened the commemoration event on Friday, said Thomas was concerned about the deterioration of forests, hills, and rivers in the State. He had analysed the Gadgil committee report on Western Ghats and had batted for the report to be implemented. He was alienated for his stand on the issue, but rose up like a Phoenix, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-pay-tribute-to-pt-thomas/article38033516.ece
25 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Award for veterinary surgeon||P.K. Shihabudheen, senior veterinary surgeon at Government Veterinary Hospital, Koduvally, has bagged the Best Veterinarian Award instituted by the Indian Veterinary Association, Kerala. The award was presented by Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty at the annual convention of the association in Thrissur recently. With an experience of three decades, Dr. Shihabudheen was part of the team that controlled Avian Influenza in Alappuzha in 2014 and in Kozhikode in 2020. He is also a recipient of the Best Veterinarian Award for Kozhikode and Malappuram districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-veterinary-surgeon/article38033522.ece
25 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A season to celebrate his Xmas stamps||For planter K.C. John from Kalladikode in the district, every Christmas brings added joy. A philately enthusiast, Mr. John has a fairly large collection of stamps with the theme of Christmas. And no Christmas has passed in the last three decades without him celebrating his Christmas stamps numbering 300-odd from 50 countries. Only used stamps “I have not seen any other philatelist taking so much pride in a Christmas collection. I collected these through my contacts in different countries,” he said. He never bought the stamps. All have been stamped by the postal department of the country concerned. “It is not easy to get such used stamps. We cannot buy them,” he said. From reindeer to Santa Claus, various moments of Christmas tales figure on the stamps. A curious omission Christmas stamps brought out by Germany, Austria, Spain, the U.S., Australia, New Zealand, and several African and Asian countries are in his collection. Curiously, he does not own a single Christmas-themed stamp brought out by India. “I don’t know whether India has brought out stamps on Christmas. I have not been able to lay my hands on one so far,” Mr. John said. He started collecting stamps right from his school days. The number of stamps on various subjects in his collection will run into thousands. It was the unique pattern of each stamp that brought him close to philately. “I began observing closely and then I was hooked to the hobby,” he said. He treasures his collection and is reluctant to display it in exhibitions for fear of losing the stamps. The stamps released on the wedding of Prince Charles and Princess Diana, and those of ‘naya paisa’ value are some of the most cherished members of his collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-season-to-celebrate-his-xmas-stamps/article38033594.ece
25 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cops step up gangland watch||The City police have initiated a crackdown on armed gangs that upend peace in the district. A spree of gang violence had prompted the clampdown. It entailed the proactive execution of pending arrest warrants, examining the whereabouts of convicted persons on parole, and widespread raids for persons wanted in criminal cases. So far, the police have arrested 220 wanted persons and executed 403 arrest warrants. An official said most of the arrested persons were youngsters who appeared motivated by notions of masculinity and gang loyalty. Many did odd jobs for a living and were invariably school or college dropouts hailing from working-class families. Some profited as muscle for hire. He said persons involved in environmental crime, particularly illegal river sand mining, hired the youth to settle scores with their rivals and other unlawful purposes. Loan sharks have found a helpful tool in gangs to intimidate persons who default on their mortgage payments. So have the real estate mafia. Alleged police corruption had also helped the gangs. The City police had drawn fire for the recent spree of crimes in the capital. The latest was the gangland-related murder of a youth at his house in Pothencode. The assailants had stormed their victim’s house and lobbed off his leg. A grainy surveillance camera capture of the gang’s make off with the severed leg and holding it like a war trophy had shocked the citizenry and triggered a sense of insecurity in the community. The quivery images disseminated on local television provided the police with a smoking gun. However, the question remained why the police had not acted on a simmering local feud that threatened to erupt into violence. Opposition Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan and a ruling front Minister criticised the alleged police inaction and said criminals appeared to have blindsided the police. Alcohol abuse-fuelled violence has also registered a rise in the city. On December 20 at Balaramapuram, an allegedly intoxicated gang smashed the windscreens of over 13 vehicles parked on the roadside. An official said wayside eateries that remain open into the early hours were a magnet for gangs. Trivial disputes often trigger a long-standing gang feud characterised by tit-for-tat attacks. Following the back-to-back COVID-19 lockdowns, the street presence of the police during night hours has arguably diminished. So have night vehicle checks and anti-drug enforcement. Surveillance camera coverage of the city was patchy. Several cameras reportedly required replacement. An official said a comprehensive scheme to bring the entire capital under camera surveillance was under way. The system would act as a force multiplier and help the police streamline the deployment of officers. Moreover, cameras could instil confidence in citizens, particularly families and women travelling at odd hours.  Most of those arrested are youngsters who appear motivated by notions of masculinity and gang loyalty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-gangsters-in-capital/article38033592.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Airport road to be ready by March next||The Shanghumughom-Airport road, which remains damaged due to sea erosion, will be made motorable by March, Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking to presspersons after assessing the road construction works along the beach on Friday with Transport Minister Antony Raju. A guide wall has been constructed to a length of 131 metre, ahead of the construction of a diaphragm wall. The construction of the guide wall and diaphragm wall at a total length of 360 metre will be completed by February end. The road construction will begin soon after this. A revised estimate of Rs. 12.16 crore has been submitted for the project, according to him. Mr. Riyas has also said the works are delayed due to sea erosion, rains, and natural disasters. A part of the area under construction was washed away after Cyclone Tauktae in May. This led to a major delay. The department is thinking of reintroducing the incentive system for contractors who finish work on time. Fine will be imposed on the contractors who overshoot the schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airport-road-to-be-motorable-by-march/article38033585.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agri dept. seeks to overhaul execution of farm schemes||Drawing lessons from back-to-back natural calamities and the COVID-19 pandemic, the Agriculture department is seeking to overhaul the manner in which schemes and projects are implemented in the State’s farm sector. During the 2022-23 fiscal, the thrust will be on increasing productivity and farmer incomes through the adoption of technology and developing robust marketing networks, while staying true to the concept of farming in harmony with nature, according to the draft annual plan for 2022-23 drawn up by the department. The number of schemes will be pared down to 12 to improve efficiency in implementation. Most of the projects are expected to be implemented in convergence with those of the Local Self-Government department (LSGD) on a 50% fund-sharing basis. Major spending proposals include Rs. 324.28 crore for area expansion of all major crops, Rs. 127 crore for rice development, Rs. 53 crore for vegetable production, Rs. 14.5 crore for fruits and Rs. 48.9 crore for the coconut sector. Cafeteria model Projects will be implemented on a flexible ‘cafeteria model’ allowing for interchangeability of sub-components within the schemes with respect to Agricultural Ecological Unit (AEU)-based requirements. Greater emphasis will be placed on integrated farming methods, value addition and marketing. Schemes based on agro-ecological zones (AEZ) are planned to avoid adverse effects on the agricultural sector, according to the department. The devastating impact of the natural calamities and the pandemic on the farm sector and food security underscore the importance of food self-sufficiency and farming in harmony with nature, the draft noted. Keeping this in mind, the 2022-23 plan is aimed at solving “problems in the agricultural sector by incorporating the ideas of real farmers.”  Low productivity, coupled with price fluctuations, has resulted in a progressive reduction of farmers’ income, the draft plan noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agri-dept-seeks-to-overhaul-execution-of-farm-schemes/article38033557.ece
25 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More non-farm ventures planned in rural areas||The Startup Village Entrepreneurship Programme (SVEP) will be extended to 10 more blocks in the State. The four-year programme is jointly implemented by the Union and the State governments with the aim of promoting entrepreneurship in rural areas. The programme is being implemented in the State through the Kudumbashree Mission. Financial aid Financial and other support is given for setting up a specific number of ventures in the non-farm sector as part of SVEP that is implemented at the block level. The blocks are selected as per the guidelines put forward by the National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM). Now, sanction has been received for implementing the SVEP in 2020-21 in Nemom (Thiruvananthapuram), Vettikavala (Kollam), Koyipram (Pathanamthitta), Ettumanoor (Kottayam), Alangad (Ernakulam), Pazhayannur (Thrissur), Thrithala (Palakkad), Perumbadappu (Malappuram), Kunnummal (Kozhikode), and Taliparamba (Kannur). Project report Kudumbashree is aiming at submitting a detailed project report of these blocks by January 31, a statement here said on Thursday. The first phase of the SVEP was implemented in the State at Vadavukod in Ernakulam and Parakod in Pathanamthitta. While the target was to start 2,054 ventures by March 2021 in Vadavukod, 2,129 have been started. While the target for Parakod was 2,164 ventures, 2,165 have been started, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/svep-to-be-extended-to-10-more-blocks-in-state/article38033532.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hantex launches new line of branded shirts||A new line of branded shirts from Hantex was launched on Friday, as part of efforts to increase the public sector unit’s influence in the apparel sector. Actor Mohanlal on Friday launched the brand of shirts under the name of ‘Commando’. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve presided over the function. ‘Commando’ is the latest brand of clothing to be launched by Hantex, which has been active in the sector for more than six decades. The shirts are being designed at the garment unit attached to the Hantex head office in machinery imported from Japan and Taiwan. Trained workers at the unit make the shirt from fully hand-woven clothes. Mr. Rajeeve said the government’s aim in the handloom sector is to create more value-added products, even while retaining its traditional strengths, to achieve a position of strength in the market. Mr. Mohanlal said that the sector would be able to overcome the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic period with such fresh initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hantex-launches-new-line-of-shirts/article38033589.ece
25 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala reports eight new Omicron cases||Eight new Omicron cases were confirmed in Kerala on Friday, taking the total number of persons infected by the new variant of the coronavirus in the State to 37. Of these, two cases each were recorded in Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Thrissur districts and one each in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. All of them have been admitted to hospital and efforts were on to trace their contacts, the Health department said. Seven of the infected persons were international travellers who had arrived from Russia, Namibia, Qatar, the U.K., Kenya and the UAE, while one had acquired the infection through direct contact. The infected persons include a three-year-old girl who arrived from the U.K. with her parents. Meanwhile, the first person to test Omicron positive in Kerala, a 39-year-old U.K. returnee in Ernakulam, was discharged on Friday after he turned negative.  Seven of those infected are international travellers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-reports-eight-new-omicron-cases/article38033525.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB set to ramp up cyber, physical security||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is ramping up cyber and physical security of its assets in line with the recommendations made by the Union Power Ministry and the Intelligence Bureau. The KSEB has opened a security audit on nearly 22 softwares either purchased or developed in-house. The physical security of computers installed with the softwares also will be done. This is being carried out as per guidelines issued by the Power Ministry. The IB has recommended stepping up security at the data centres maintained by the KSEB in Thiruvananthapuram and Kalamassery and the 780 MW Moolamattam power house in Idukki. The IB had also made a number of recommendations pertaining to the security of the Kerala portion of the southern grid, the KSEB said on Friday. The KSEB had been advised that the security of sensitive power stations and data centres should be handed over to the State Industrial Security Force. A preliminary study had been carried out in this regard, the KSEB said. Steps are on to link consumer data held by the KSEB with Aadhaar as part of enhancing data security, according to the KSEB. Security is also being tightened at the KSEB headquarters at Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram. The use of recording/data transfer equipment will be restricted in select locations of KSEB offices. This will help to curb cyber scams using consumer data leaked from the KSEB database, the utility said. Earlier this week, the KSEB had cautioned consumers not to fall prey to online scamsters posing as KSEB officials. The police have launched an investigation following complaints that several KSEB consumers lost money after they were tricked into divulging bank account details. The KSEB hopes to scale up cyber and physical security in line with the national parameters within three months.  Power utility has opened a security audit on nearly 22 softwares either purchased or developed in-house||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-set-to-ramp-up-cyber-physical-security/article38033558.ece
25 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State registers 2,605 new cases of COVID-19||The State on Friday registered 2,605 new cases of COVID-19 infection when 55,928 samples were tested. Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts registered the highest number of infections logging 534, 496 and 252 cases respectively. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 4.65. With 31 COVID deaths reported and 311 deaths accounted for as per the Supreme Court guidelines, the death toll rose to 46,203. As many as six wards in local bodies with Weekly Infection Population Ratio above 10 were placed under strict COVID control regulations. Of the new cases, 1,407 were fully vaccinated and 173 had received the first dose, while 663 were unvaccinated. Thirteen of the infected persons had arrived from outside the State and 2,427 had been infected through contact. The pressnote said 3,281 patients recovered from the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-registers-2605-new-cases-of-covid-19/article38033559.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Renovated Corporation projects inaugurated||Transport Minister Antony Raju on Friday inaugurated the guest house at Kothalam in the Fort ward, under the city Corporation’s People’s Plan project. Meanhile, Mayor Arya Rajendran inaugurated the renovated Manjalikkulam ground where flood mitigation works were carried out. The inaugurations are part of the first anniversary celebrations of the current administration. The building at Kothalam, which was renovated as a guest house, used to be a camp for soldiers during the rule of the erstwhile Travancore kings. It was later handed over to the Corporation, which used it to run an anganwadi. With the anganwadi shifting to a new building, it was used as a beggar rehabilitation centre. The renovation work costing Rs. 50 lakh was taken up after the beggar rehabilitation centre was shifted to Kalladimukham. The work was done by retaining the building’s traditional structure. Four guest rooms are available at the facility. An amount of Rs. 70 lakh was spent to address the flooding issues at the Manjalikkulam ground and for its beautification. A system has been put in place to ensure that water drains out of the ground after rains. A yoga platform and rain shelter have also been built here as part of the renovation work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-corporation-projects-inaugurated/article38033698.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District reports 534 COVID-19 cases||The district logged 534 COVID-19 cases and 877 recoveries on Friday. The test positivity rate stood at 7.7%. The number of active cases stood at 4491, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-reports-534-covid-19-cases/article38033699.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man gets nine years’ RI for molesting minor girl||The Fast Track Special Court (POCSO) here on Friday sentenced a man, Suresh from Thiruvananthapuram, to rigorous imprisonment (RI) for a total of nine years after finding him guilty of molesting an eight-year-old girl in 2015. The accused Suresh hails from Thiruvananthapuram district and is deaf and dumb. He was sentenced for three years each on three separate counts under various provisions of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He was also fined Rs. 30,000 and would have to undergo additional months of rigorous imprisonment on default of payment. The sentences shall run concurrently, according to verdict issued by Fast Track Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan. Special Public prosecutor R.S. Vijay Mohan appeared for the prosecution. The prosecution case was that the accused molested the girl when she visited the place where he was staying. The girl’s parents had rented out the ground floor to a tenant, Murali, who was not present there at the time. The girl’s mother had sent her downstairs to collect the electricity bill. After the incident, the girl had complained to her mother and the police was alerted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-ri/article38033597.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Report sought on traffic block at Eenchakkal||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered the Traffic Police Deputy Commissioner to submit a report on the need for an efficient traffic management system at the Eenchakkal junction, which has been witnessing huge traffic blocks in recent times. The direction was issued following a complaint submitted by activist Ragam Rahim. The report regarding any action taken has to be submitted within four weeks, the panel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-sought-on-traffic-block-at-eenchakkal/article38033696.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||British Council grant for digital university||The British Council has approved ‘Going Global Partnerships Exploratory Grants’ for Digital University Kerala (DUK) for promoting disaster preparedness in partnership with the University of Southampton, UK. Sinnu Susan Thomas, Assistant Professor, DUK, and Edilson F. Arruda, Lecturer, University of Southampton, would collaborate on the project ‘Developing policy inputs for faster economic recovery while promoting disaster preparedness via artificial intelligence’. Developing techno-socio expertise locally to tackle social problems through digital intervention, especially using Artificial Intelligence, is a key objective. Blockchain workshops As part of annual blockchain summit ‘BlockHash LIVE 2021’, Kerala Blockchain Academy under the DUK is conducting blockchain developer workshops on Ethereum, Hyperledger, and Polygon Blockchain on December 29. The boot camps are free and participants will be accredited with blockchain-powered certificates. To register, visit: https://blockhash.live/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/british-council-grant-for-digital-university/article38033537.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Allay people’s concerns on ESA: Church||Church leaders have urged the State government to hold adalats and allay people’s concerns before submitting its final report to the Centre for issuing the final notification for demarcation of ecologically sensitive areas (ESA) in the Western Ghats. In a representation to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday, Thamarassery bishop Remigius Inchananiyil and Changanassery auxiliary bishop Thomas Tharayil asked the government to designate villages as revenue villages and forest villages for the purpose of ESA classification. Only reserve forest villages should be listed as ESA, they said. They said a delegation of the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council had met Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav and conveyed their concerns. According to the Centre, it was awaiting the final decision of the State government. ‘Villages as ESA’ Although the report submitted by Kerala says that populated areas, plantations and farmlands would be avoided, the map accompanying it shows several villages listed as ESA. The State government should submit its final report only after rectifying such issues, the church representatives said. They said the situation would lead to even Adimali town being considered as forestland. Such errors should be rectified, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allay-peoples-concerns-on-esa-church/article38033547.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Health centre in Andoorkonam inaugurated||The State government will go ahead with its developmental initiatives with a special focus on the health and the education sector, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the physiotherapy clinic at the Community Health Centre in Andoorkonam on Friday. Basic infrastructure More projects would be implemented in the health sector to improve the basic infrastructure, he said. Pothencode Block Panchayat President Hariprasad, who presided over the function, said the aim of the facility was to provide physiotherapy at affordable rates to the public. The physiotherapy clinic would function from Monday to Saturday from January onwards. The cost of the treatment was Rs. 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-centre-in-andoorkonam-inaugurated/article38033697.ece
25 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Insurance adalat for fish workers on December 28||An adalat on the accident group insurance scheme for fish workers will be held on December 28 to ensure timely distribution of scheme benefits to the deserving, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has said. The group insurance scheme is being implemented for fish and allied workers by the Kerala Fishermen’s Welfare Fund Board (KFWFB) with the government’s financial support and through public sector insurance companies. Currently, 2,40,867 fish workers and 84,603 allied workers are members of the scheme. Financial aid to the tune of Rs. 10 lakh will be provided for accident deaths and for those who are completely bed-ridden. Adalats are being held for beneficiaries in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Kottayam districts, as it was noticed that there was a delay due to various reasons in disbursal of benefits. Transport Minister Antony Raju will preside over the adalat to be held at the PWD Rest House at Thycaud at 11 a.m. on December 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/insurance-adalat-for-fish-workers-on-december-28/article38033665.ece
25 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||N. Chandrasekharan Nair receives Padma award||Noted Hindi scholar and founder of Kerala Hindi Sahitya Academy N. Chandrasekharan Nair was presented the Padma Shri award at his residence here by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy on Friday. The award presentation was held in the capital as the ailing 98-year- old scholar could not make it to the Rashtrapathi Bhavan in Delhi for the Padma awards function in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/n-chandrasekharan-nair-receives-padma-award/article38033561.ece
25 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor, CM extend Xmas greetings||Governor Arif Mohammad Khan wished Keralites a Merry Christmas. In a message to the people, Mr. Khan said Christmas embodied love, empathy, and patience. Its message was ‘peace on earth.’ Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged people to celebrate Christmas with due caution duee to the pandemic. In a message, Mr. Vijayan said Christmas embodied the message of equality and fraternity. It prompted people to dream of an egalitarian world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-cm-extend-xmas-greetings/article38033555.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Doubts abound after a fast-paced spectacle||When men bursting to the brim with their egos decide to fight each other, they don’t need a reason. When these men are in a film, they don’t need a script nor the presence of a woman on the screen. That must have been how the initial discussions of Tinu Pappachan’s Ajagajantharam panned out, for that is exactly what takes place during the movie’s two-hour runtime. The whole narrative is set around the night of a ‘pooram’ festival at a temple. The breathless pace of the movie is set in these early sequences, when we switch between the fully dressed up drama troupe who are arriving a little too late, the elephant and the team of mahouts who seem to be raring for a fight, the local goon and his gang of friends who are celebrating his birthday, and the happenings at a wedding party. There really is no character one can root for here, for an average viewer is often left wondering why all of them are keen to have a fight. Lali (Antony Varghese) seems to be the most troublesome of the lot, with his propensity to create a fight anywhere. The other gang led by Kannan (Arjun Ashokan), all of whom are jobless, are no less eager to hit back. In his second film after his debut with Swathanthryam Ardharathriyil , Tinu Pappachan seems to carry proudly the influence of Lijo Jose Pellissery’s Jallikattu , just that here it is an elephant in place of a buffalo. The aim is to create a sensory experience, which a temple festival provides ample scope for. Aided by Justin Varghese’s pulsating score and Jinto George’s cinematography, the movie does succeed in this endeavour, with the story or the script not creating any hindrance to it, as these are non-existent. No attempt is made to show us the minds of these characters or their backgrounds, which would perhaps give us a hint as to why they all behave thus. Some of the fights are started for no reason at all, other than for the sake of having a fight and be a reason for a colourful explosion of fast-paced action and sound on screen. The tasteful manner in which some of these sequences are staged often make us forget all our million grouses with the film. Yet, by the end, Ajagajantharam only leaves us with the question, ‘All of that, for what?’ By the time we reach the climax, the scriptwriter (yes, there is one) even forgets the only woman character that was created — seemingly for the sake of it. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doubts-abound-after-a-fast-paced-spectacle/article38033584.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Superhero shoulders ‘local’ burdens, flies high||Jaison, alias ‘Minnal’ Murali, has American dreams just like many other youngsters of his age in the early 1990s, but he hardly ever steps out of his native Kurukkanmoola village. It is almost a self-contained world and despite his dreams of making it big abroad, his concerns are mostly related to the land that he belongs to. Unlike the American superheroes, who have on their shoulders the burden to save the entire country or even the planet, Minnal Murali’s responsibilities are much smaller, but no less important. In an early scene, Jaison (Tovino Thomas)’s nephew Josemon (Vasisht Umesh) gives a crash course on superheroes to his uncle, who is unaware of them. ‘It seems America survives because of them,’ Josemon says, in a jibe at some of the oft-repeated superhero storylines that also reveals the line of thinking of the makers here. Yet, director Basil Joseph is not averse to drawing inspiration from some usual tropes from these superhero films, even as he firmly places Minnal Murali in the local context. The leap of ambition that Basil takes in his third film is certainly much more than that was required of him in his first two films. Writers Arun Anirudhan and Justin Mathew give Murali a solid backstory. Jaison, a tailor who dreams of a better life in the U.S., is down and out when the seminal event that changes the course of his life as well as that of the village happens. The bolt of lightning that strikes the village gives superpowers to not just Minnal Murali. As in other superhero movies, there is bound to be an adversary with equally crazy powers to challenge him, but here the adversary also gets an empathetic treatment, till he goes fully unhinged and destructive. Even when he gets these powers, Murali takes time to get used to it, testing its limits, from playing around secretly with all the vessels stolen from the kitchen to attempting to fly from a tree. The best of the superhero sequences are these initial ones and the one where he lets go at some policemen, imbibing the spirit and appearance of the good old Malayalam comics. The climactic sequences appear slightly underwhelming, despite its aspirations and scale. Set in the 90s The early 90s setting also lends itself to nostalgia-inducing references from that era, be it the fashion of those times or the introduction of the real-life actor Sudheesh, fresh from his success in Manichithrathazhu , in a key sequence. Basil, who has proved his capability to handle humour both in front of and behind the camera, treats a good part of the movie in a lighter mood. Jaison’s chemistry with his nephew is a highlight in these sequences. Biji (Femina George), who runs a karate institute and a travel agency, proves to be an important sidekick for Murali, with the script thankfully staying away from exploring the romantic angle further. Any assessment of Minnal Murali or comparison with Hollywood superheroes has to be done keeping in mind the budgetary limitations of the regional industry. Despite banking on the familiar superhero tropes at times, the film has a character of its own. It remains to be seen where Basil Joseph would go with this, if he has a franchise in his mind. The film is streaming on Netflix. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/superhero-shoulders-local-burdens-flies-high/article38033582.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All decked up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-decked-up/article38033518.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||All decked up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-decked-up/article38033591.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Last-minute shopping||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-minute-shopping/article38033534.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ringing in festivities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ringing-in-festivities/article38033542.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||From up above||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-up-above/article38033704.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Staying warm in winter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/staying-warm-in-winter/article38033546.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Holy tryst||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holy-tryst/article38033563.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||It’s Silent Night again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-silent-night-again/article38033695.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Standing with the consumer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/standing-with-the-consumer/article38033701.ece
25 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five detained in SDPI leader murder case||The police on Friday detained five persons in connection with the murder of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) State secretary K.S. Shan. The five were directly involved in the murder. Officials said their arrest would be recorded on Friday night or Saturday. While three persons were taken into custody from Thuravoor, two were nabbed from Kuttanad. The police, meanwhile, recorded the arrest of ambulance driver Akhil, 30, of Cherthala. The accused helped the killer gang to escape in an ambulance. Sources said that the statements given by Akhil led the police to the killer gang. Shan was attacked by assailants at Kuppezham Junction at Mannancherry in Alappuzha around 7.30 p.m. on Saturday night. He succumbed to his injuries around 11.30 p.m. He was heading home on his motorcycle when a car knocked him down. A group of persons came out of the car and attacked him. Following the murder of the SDPI leader, a gang hacked to death Ranjith Sreenivas, BJP OBC Morcha State secretary, in his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha municipality. The police suspect the killing was a retaliatory strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-detained-in-sdpi-leader-murder-case/article38033158.ece
25 December 2021||Annavaram (East Godavari),ANDHRA PRADESH||Vishnu Bhavan to be developed as wedding hall||Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamy Devasthanam (Annavaram) Trust Board on Friday decided to develop Vishnu Bhavan into a wedding hall at Annavaram in East Godavari district by spending Rs. 1.69 crore. Trust Board Chairman I.V. Rohit and other members approved the proposal. The development of the wedding hall includes Rs. 49 lakh to be spent on air-conditioning and Rs. 35 lakh towards electric works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vishnu-bhavan-to-be-developed-as-wedding-hall/article38033631.ece
25 December 2021||BELAGAVI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stormy legislature session in Belagavi ends||The 10-day special session of the Karnataka Legislature, which ended in Belagavi on Friday with both Houses adjourned sine die , was held the 10th time in the border city. During the session, the situation inside and outside the Legislature Houses was stormy, following desecration of statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna, highlighting the border row. The Assembly also adopted a resolution condemning the burning of a Kannada flag in Kolhapur, Maharashtra. Another issue that hogged the limelight was former Speaker K.R. Ramesh Kumar’s insensitive comments about rape, forcing him to apologise. In all, the Legislative Assembly adopted 10 Bills, including the anti-conversion Bill, during its 52 hours of transactions. Members cutting across party lines complained about the paucity of time for debating various issues. While Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri acknowledged the need to increase the duration of the session, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would take measures on this next time. Mr. Kageri told mediapersons after adjournment of the House that he had taken up the issue with the government. He hoped that increasing the duration of the session would also go a long way in ensuring strict disciplinary norms in the House. Responding to former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s suggestion to act sternly to bring discipline in the House, the Speaker said it was a long process and it had begun. On allegations that issues related to north Karnataka did not get adequate focus, he suggested debating the issues in the next session to be held in Bengaluru. The tradition of holding the session in Belagavi began in 2006 to send a message to people of north Karnataka in general and the border areas in particular that they are an integral part of the State. But on most occasions, the session in Belagavi has turned out to be a forum for settling political scores rather than one for debate on north Karnataka-centric issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stormy-legislature-session-in-belagavi-ends/article38033160.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC allows woman to conduct prayers at home with riders||The High Court of Karnataka has stayed, with conditions, a notice issued by the police to a 70-year-old woman in Kundapura taluk of Udupi district asking her not to conduct any public prayer or preaching at her house without permission from the police. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the interim order on a petition filed by Esthela Louise, a resident of Ganapathi Katte Road in Kundapur, who practises the Christian faith. The petitioner had questioned the legality of notice issued to her on October 26, 2021 by Kundapur Rural Police, while denying the allegation that she was conducting any public prayers or preaching at her home. Claiming that she had been offering prayers at her home for the past 11 years on select days in a week, she alleged that her fundamental rights had been infringed upon. The police were not allowing her to offer prayers at her home since October, besides threatening to arrest her friends and relatives if they came to her place for prayers. Meanwhile, the court directed the petitioner to ensure that there shall not be a large congregation of people, so that the possible risk of spreading COVID-19 was avoided, and no disturbance or nuisance shall be caused to the neighbours and others by such a congregation nor any scope shall be given for allegations of conversion activities. While giving liberty to the police to video/audio record the congregation or celebration without unnecessarily interfering with the same, the court said its interim order not only stood automatically rescinded in case of violation of the conditions but the police and other jurisdictional authorities may take appropriate legal action against the concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-allows-woman-to-conduct-prayers-at-home-with-riders/article38033162.ece
25 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Air Marshal makes a visit to Suryalanka Air Force Station||Air Marshal J. Chalapati, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Air Command, arrived at the Air Force Station at Suryalanka on Friday. He was received by Group Captain R.S. Chowdhury, Station Commander, Air Force Station, Suryalanka. An impressive guard of honour was presented to the Air Marshal. This was his first visit since assuming office in October 2021. He reviewed the operational activities and took stock of the progress made on infrastructural development at the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/air-marshal-makes-a-visit-to-suryalanka-air-force-station/article38033647.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unfazed by cold, oustees of Gudatipally continue protest||The land oustees of Gouravelli lift-irrigation project at Gudatipally and adjoining hamlets of Akkannapet mandal of Siddipet district continued their protest overnight after a clash with police when they stalled works on the project demanding higher compensation on Thursday. They question the rationale behind taking up works before fulfilling the promises mad to them. The oustees also pointed out that the officials had violated the assurance given to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), South Zone, Chennai, a few days ago. The petition was filed by Baddam Raji Reddy and others. “Mr. Ramachandra Rao, Additional Advocate General (AAG) for State of Telangana submitted that no work is being undertaken in proceeding with the project and even prior to filing this original application, the work has been stopped and it was also mentioned by the Joint Committee in the report that no work is being under taken at the time of inspection. The AAG further submitted that they are not undertaking any work in implementation of the project and they are not dispossessing the persons who are likely to be affected by the project on the basis of the new acquisition to be undertaken,” read the order issued by the NGT on December 20, 2021, the date of hearing. Hardly 72 hours after giving an assurance to the NGT in black and white, the officials of the State Government violated the orders not bothering about consequences, alleged oustees. Around 11 a.m. on Friday the police force was withdrawn. The outees prepared food and stay put there, covering their bodies and faces with winter protective gear. Their agitation was continuing at the time of last reports as no revenue officials visited the site and held discussions with them. In a related development, the police registered cases against a dozen persons belonging to Gudatipally and surrounding villages holding them responsible for the attack that took place on Thursday in which Husnabad Sub- Inspector Sridhar was injured. However, there was no mention of protesters injured in the police lathicharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/braving-cold-oustees-continue-protest/article38033500.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinema ticket prices hiked||In a major relief to the film industry, the State Government has announced hike in entry tickets in various categories of theatres. The minimum ticket in air-conditioned/air-cooled theatres will be Rs. 50 plus GST while the maximum fare would be Rs. 150 and GST. Minimum ticket for non-AC theatres will be Rs. 30 and maximum Rs. 70 excluding GST. Minimum charges for multiplexes will be Rs. 100 plus GST This is in addition to the maintenance charges of Rs. 5 per ticket for AC theatres and Rs. 3 per ticket in non-AC theatres. Maximum ticket for recliner seats in single theatre will be Rs. 200 per ticket plus GST as applicable and it would be Rs. 250 plus GST in respect of special Imax/large screens of 75ft and above/single theatres. The maximum ticket for recliner seats in multiplexes has been fixed at Rs. 300 per head excluding the GST, according to an order issued by Home department principal secretary Ravi Gupta recently. The revised rates would come into force with immediate effect. The government revised the rates of entry and maintenance charges after due consultations by considering the outcomes, he said adding theatres should print the rates of entry tickets clearly indicating GST and maintenance charges as applicable and the online charges separately on all tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cinema-ticket-prices-hiked/article38033503.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||All pass for Class 11 in Telangana||The much awaited trouble shooting following poor pass percentage in the results of Intermediate first year exams happened on Friday evening with the State government deciding to pass all the 4 lakh students who took the exams and presently pursuing their second year. Consequently, all the failed students will be awarded minimum qualifying marks of 35 and those seeking better marks can appear for improvement exams to be conducted in April, 2022 along with the second year exams, Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indra Reddy announced here on Friday. Some 39,000 students applied for reverification and revaluation and their fee would be returned if they don’t wish for reverification. Generally not more than 15,000 students apply for reverification or recounting. The Minister also asked the students not to be under the impression that they would be passed every time if they protest against the results. Students need to study to score better marks and this was the last time the government would be passing all the students. She defended the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE)’s functioning and said the results were evaluated and processed fairly. She said the exams were conducted after taking into account several factors, including the conduct of online classes and digital classes through television. It was unfair to target the Chief Minister every time over the Intermediate results, she said and charged the Opposition parties and parents with politicising the sensitive issue. ‘Serious efforts made’ Ms. Sabitha said that government made all serious efforts to reach the students telecasting lessons on television and also social media platforms apart from online classes through their mobiles. Exams were conducted in the interests of students and not to penalise them. As many as 4,09,911 candidates had appeared for the exam in general stream of which 1,99,786 cleared all the subjects. About 1.15 lakh students secured more than 75% of marks. The results led to huge uproar as the pass percentage was just 49 % and four students took their life allegedly due to the poor scores. Student organisations and political parties blamed the government for conducting the exam when the students attended just 13 days of physical classes. The BIE office saw series of protests since the results were released, including by Congress MLA T. Jagga Reddy who sat on a dharna for three hours demanding that all the students be passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-pass-for-class-11-in-telangana/article38033196.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana govt. issues guidelines for new postings||Intensifying the exercise on allocation of employees to newly created district, zonal, multi-zonal and State cadres, the State Government has issued a series of guidelines for transfer and posting the staff in the newly allotted cadres by counselling. Employees who are currently serving within the jurisdiction of the same local cadre to which they had been allotted should be deemed to have been posted in their current posts and should not be considered for fresh posting for the time being. For instance, an employee of the erstwhile Adilabad district allotted to Mancherial district and currently serving in the same district should be deemed to be posted in his present posting and need not be considered for fresh posting. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said, in the fresh guidelines, that employees allotted to the new local cadres, but not serving within the limits of newly allocated local cadre should be given fresh posting in the newly allotted cadre. Accordingly, employee of the erstwhile Adilabad district currently serving in Nirmal district and allotted to Mancherial district should report to Mancherial district and should be given posting in the same district. The officials concerned had been directed to prepare a seniority list for each category of posts. These lists should be prepared by the district heads of departments for the district cadre posts and should be approved by the collectors of the respective districts. The seniority list should be displayed in a specified format. The officials should also work out vacancies available for filling up in that category/local cadre taking into consideration existing clear vacancies and vacancies arising on account of the movement of employees out of the cadre. Officials concerned should thereafter work out number of allocable posts in each category and local cadre, having due regard to administrative and functional needs, against which postings should be made. In the process, steps should be taken to ensure that minimum operational staff was available in offices and functional units even in remote and hardship areas. The exercise, the Chief Secretary said, was necessary to meet the administrative requirements, prevent skewed distribution and ensure fair and balanced posting of available employees. Efforts should be made to ensure that the posts were filled on priority basis in the cases where the available strength was lower that the allocable posts. Importance should be given to obtaining preferences from the employees in the prescribed formats and officials concerned could take up postings in the event of employees failing to give their preferences. “The posting and transfer of employees shall be done in a transparent and objective manner, having due regard to preferences given and the seniority of the employees,” the Chief Secretary said in the order issued. The police department and the revenue earning departments could give further operational guidelines in the interest of operational efficiency. Mr. Somesh Kumar said that the entire process should be completed within seven days and the employee would be deemed to have been relieved at the end of third day of the issue of orders. “Any violation in this regard will be viewed seriously by the government,” he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-govt-issues-guidelines-for-new-postings/article38033165.ece
25 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM lays stone for garment making unit in Pulivendula||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday laid the foundation stone for Aditya Birla Group’s greenfield garment manufacturing unit coming up in his constituency, Pulivendula, with a financial outlay of Rs. 110.38 crore and a potential to create over 2,000 jobs. The project is touted to be a step towards women empowerment, as most of the jobs will be handled by local women. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Reddy expressed the confidence that the facility would grow into a major garment hub, employing more than 10,000 women. As he also inaugurated the Jagananna Housing Colony, a model housing complex having 7,300 residential units, within a distance of 500 metres from the plant, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy expected it to be convenient for the women residents to become quality workforce for the plant. Training for workforce The training for the workforce will be handled by the skill college coming up at Pulivendula as part of the government’s mission to establish 26 world-class institutions across the State at the rate of one for every parliamentary constituency. Dubbing it a historic moment, the Chief Minister expressed the hope that the textile park would act as a growth engine to spur industrial development in the district. Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Limited (ABFRL) Managing Director Ashish Dikshit attributed the group’s foray into Andhra Pradesh to the government’s support. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha; district in-charge Minister A. Suresh; Member of Parliament Y.S. Avinash Reddy; Industries Commissioner R. Karikal Valaven; Collector V. Vijayarama Raju; and Joint Collectors Saikant Varma and H.M. Dhyanachandra were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-lays-stone-for-garment-making-unit-in-pulivendula/article38033655.ece
25 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retail fish outlets will be set up in State: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced that the government is coming up with retail fish outlets across the State out of care for public health and to boost their immune system. Speaking after inaugurating an aqua hub developed with Rs. 2.60 crore at Pulivendula, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy called it the first step towards ensuring self-sustenance and development of the fishermen community. The hub, which is touted to bring certified aqua products within the reach of the consumers at an affordable price, will cater to three municipalities and 18 mandals around Pulivendula. The Chief Minister said mini retail outlets, ‘Fish Andhra’, would be set up across the State for promoting consumption of the protein-rich aqua products. The aqua hub representatives explained him the functioning of the machinery used for processing fish and prawns. Fisheries Minister S. Appala Raju, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, and Member of Parliament Y.S. Avinash Reddy were present. Pattas distributed The Chief Minister also distributed house pattas to 8,042 beneficiaries in the Pulivendula mega township, where infrastructure such as roads, drainage and drinking water supply was developed at a cost of Rs. 147.70 crore. The colony would also have seven ward secretariats, two government high schools, seven primary schools, playground, police station, post office and two parks. The Chief Minister said development works would be taken up at the Pulivendula market yard, which includes storage space for citrus farmers, at a cost of Rs. 10.5 crore. Revenue Minister D. Krishna Das announced that 31 lakh pattas had been distributed across the State, while Housing Minister Ch. Ranganatha Raju said the State topped in the country in terms of sanction of housing units. Collector V. Vijayarama Raju announced to launch the construction work immediately in the 323-acre layout. Earlier, Mr. Jagan received a guard of honour from the police personnel while inaugurating the Pulivendula model police station developed with Rs. 3.64 crore, besides a policemen’s dormitory and a modern building for Peddamudiyam rural police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retail-fish-outlets-will-be-set-up-in-state-jagan/article38033653.ece
25 December 2021||Kadapa,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan pays tributes to YSR||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid tributes at the ‘samadhi’ of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at the YSR Ghat at Idupulapaya on Friday. Accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha; Ministers A. Suresh and S. Appala Raju; MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy; ZP Chairman A. Amarnatha Reddy; and Kadapa Mayor Suresh Babu, he garlanded the bust size statue of Rajasekhara Reddy. Earlier, his mother Vijayamma pad tributes at the ghat separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-pays-tributes-to-ysr/article38033649.ece
25 December 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘RBK system is exemplary in the country’||Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Praveen Prakash on Friday claimed that Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBK) system is exemplary in the country, particularly in guaranteeing minimum support price to farmers and procuring agriculture and commercial crops directly from them. Mr. Praveen Prakash has inspected the functioning of the RBKs. “The RBK is with the farmer at every stage beginning from seed supply to procurement of the yield in every nook and corner of the State. The RBK system has dismantled the middlemen system in the procurement of farm produce,” he said. In Anaparthi mandal, Mr. Praveen Prakash, accompanied by Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, inspected the functioning of the RBKs and interacted with the farmers on the reach of the services. He also took the stock of the existing status of Pedalandariki Illu housing sites and paddy procurement in the mandals of Pedapudi, Anaparthi, Mandapeta and Rajanagaram. Mr. Praveen Prakash is on a three-day visit to the East Godavari district to study the implementation and impact of the State government’s welfare programmes. Joint Collectors and other senior officials accompanied him during the field trip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rbk-system-is-exemplary-in-the-country/article38033644.ece
25 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Master of mainstream realism||K.S. Sethumadhavan, who died in Chennai on Friday at the age of 90, was one of Malayalam cinema’s finest directors of all time. He played a key role in bridging the gap between mainstream and artistic cinema. In a career spanning over four decades, he made over 60 films. He won 10 national and eight State awards. His Marupakkam (1990) became the first Tamil film to win the national award for the best film. He also directed films in Hindi, Kannada and Telugu. However, his debut feature was in Sinhalese – Weera Wijaya (1960). In 2009, he was presented with the J.C. Daniel Award, the highest honour in Malayalam cinema. His contribution in making Malayalam cinema more realistic cannot be overstated. Before mainstream Malayalam cinema began to come up with quality films on a consistent basis in the 1980s, the biggest box-office hits could not always boast of artistic merit. Sethumadhavan, who was born in Palakkad in 1931, made his debut Malayalam cinema in 1961 with Jnanasundari. He went on to become one of the most prolific directors of the following two decades, during which he made films such as Adimakal, Odayil Ninnu, Bharyamar Sookshikkuka, Kadalpalam, Vazhve Mayam, Ara Nazhika Neram, Achanum Bappayum, Karakanakkadal, Anubhavangal Palichakal, Panitheeratha Veedu, Azhakulla Saleena, Kanyakumari and Chattakkari . He wasn’t as prolific in the 1980s and 90s, but still came up with significant films such as Oppol and Venal Kinavukal , both scripted by M.T. Vasudevan Nair. Best out of stars He succeeded in bringing out the best out of the biggest stars, including Prem Nazir, Sathyan and Sheela. Some of Nazir’s best performances came in Sethumadhavan’s films, such as Anubhavangal Palichakal and Azhakulla Saleena . That was also true for Sathyan, who was brilliant in films like Odayil Ninnu and Kadalpalam.  Film adaptations The director introduced Kamal Haasan to Malayalam cinema. And it was in his 1971 film Anubhavangal Palichakal that Mammootty made an appearance on the silver screen for the first time, albeit only for a scene. Sethumadhavan was particularly adept at adapting literary works to cinema. Celebrated works by writers such as Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai, P. Padmarajan, P. Kesavadev, K.T. Muhammed, Parappurath, Pamman and Malayattoor Ramakrishnan were turned into films by him. He also had plans to make movies based on two of Vaikom Muhammad Basheer’s works. During a lengthy chat with this correspondent at his apartment in Chennai, Sethumadhavan had spoken of how the legendary writer had given him the rights to adapt Mucheettu Kalikkarante Makal and Premalekhanam.  “But Thoppil Bhasi told me that he wanted to direct Mucheettu Kalikkarante Makal as he had a producer and I agreed,” he said. “My plan was to make Premalekhanam in Hindi with (actor) Lakshmi. I was thrilled by her performance in Chattakkari .” However, that film never took off. But he already had to his credit a large number of films most directors could only perhaps dream of. And many of those films are worth going back to, even now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/master-of-mainstream-realism/article38033164.ece
25 December 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Online Spandana’ gets national recognition||The ‘Online Spandana’ (meeting complainants through video-conferencing) has been selected for the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) for further study. Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal, who launched the digital Spandana system, interacted virtually with the IPS officers from across the country during the national conference of Micro Mission. Mr. Kaushal, who is also a panellist of the micro mission project, explained about the importance of access to public, particularly the poor and weaker sections of the society. “Online Spandana will provide more access to citizens, especially inter-State migrants and NRIs at the level of Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), ASPs and SPs,” Mr. Siddharth told The Hindu on Friday. All police stations in the district would be connected to the district police headquarters and the SP could monitor the system from his chamber. Public could be spared the trouble of visiting stations, saving time and money, he said. The system would connect the officers and the petitioners on one platform. The process could be recorded and petitions monitored online. A registration slip would be given to the complainant, the SP said. “The Superintendent of Police can interact with the petitioner who attended the Spandana through video-conference in the police stations. He can inquire into the grievance directly and give necessary instructions to the investigation officers,” Mr. Siddharth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-spandana-gets-national-recognition/article38033719.ece
25 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati best choice for State capital, says Chinta Mohan||Congress Working Committee member Chinta Mohan has opined that Tirupati is best choice for location of the State capital. The former Union Minister observed at a press conference here on Friday that Tirupati missed the opportunity owing to alleged vested interests involved in real estate deals, though it was the perfect choice of political parties, intellectuals, and social groups. Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy had now pushed the State into quagmire by reversing his predecessor N. Chandrababu Naidu’s Amaravati capital plan for reasons best known to him, he alleged. He faulted Mr. Naidu for hastily mooting the Amaravati capital plan when the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act provided for continuing Hyderabad as joint capital for 10 years, in the wake of his alleged involvement in the “cash-for-vote” scam in Telangana. A clear-cut picture of Tirupati as the capital city would emerge before the 2024 general election, he felt. The first opportunity was lost when Kurnool was made the State capital of Andhra State carved out of erstwhile Madras presidency in 1953 before formation of the linguistic State of Andhra Pradesh in 1956 with Hyderabad as capital, he recalled. In an bid to assuage the hurt feelings, S.V.University was located in Tirupati then, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-best-choice-for-state-capital-says-chinta-mohan/article38033634.ece
25 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revellers throng churches as festivities peak||Celebrations peaked as devotees adhering to COVID safety norms thronged tastefully-decorated churches across SPSR Nellore district to ring in Christmas late on Friday. After giving a miss to social gatherings in the past, a large number of people gathered at the famous ABM Church at the Nakallavari Centre with normalcy returning. The lone star Telugu Baptist Church as also the St. Antony Church at Fatehkhanpet witnessed a good gathering of devotees who gathered to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ in the wake of the number of active Coronavirus cases coming down drastically. Various denomination of churches, including the St. Joesph Cathedral, were colourfully decorated on the occasion. As a precaution, pastors have suggested that the elderly and ill-people continue to celebrate the festival by attending the holy mass from their home virtually as done in the previous couple of years, as new variants of COVID-19 were likely to turn out to be super spreader of the viral disease. Sand sculpture Meanwhile, the sand sculpture of Santa Claus created with five tonnes of sand at Eruru was the cynosure of all eyes. It took five hours to create the beautiful sand sculpture, said the artist Sanath Kumar while giving a finishing touch to the mammoth image of Father Chirstmas with whose blessings the devotees can win over the dreaded disease. The month-long semi-Christmas celebrations peaked on Christmas eve, with the faithful singing carols in churches. Voluntary organisations distributed gifts to under-privileged children. People thronged the shopping malls at VRC Centre and other junctions to make purchases in the eleventh hour. Textile shop owners organised festival sale offering attractive discounts to woo the merry-makers. Vendors selling stars and other decoration material also did a brisk business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revellers-throng-churches-as-festivities-peak/article38033639.ece
25 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man drowns in rivulet||One person was washed away in Pambaleru rivulet and another person went missing at Pottupalem, near Gudur, in SPSR Nellore district on Friday. Police and Fire personnel who launched a search operation, fished out the body of Bhagavan, 29. Efforts were on to locate 20-year-old Pawan, said Gudur Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Rajagopal Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-drowns-in-rivulet/article38033632.ece
25 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bottom-up approach to reforms need of hour: farmer rights activist||Sustainable livelihood for farmers should the focal point of reforms in the agriculture sector, said farmer rights activist Kuruganti Kavitha. The agriculture sector certainly needs reforms that are country-specific to ensure a decent return for the growers, who now find the going tough and end up displaced from agriculture, but not getting absorbed either in the industry or service sectors in the absence of adequate job opportunities at a time when the size of landholdings is shrinking at an alarming rate, feels the founder convenor of Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture. As a result, the growers are reduced to mere farm labourers, she observed in a conversation with The Hindu . Advocating bottom-up strategy as against the top-down approach mooted by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre through the three controversial farm laws, she says policy makers should take note of diversity, the main character of the farm sector, including production systems and that of markets, and evolve farmer-centric policies to ensure a dignified livelihoods for not just farmers but also for a large number of farm workers, a majority of them women and tenants who till the land. Remunerative price for farm produce had remained elusive for farmers for long, thanks to consumer-centric approach of the successive governments for several decades, and it was time the growers were given their due. The onus was on the government to legalise the MSP regime and ensure that the ryots were paid the difference between MSP and prices realised by them, she emphasised. Reforms should be initiated to eliminate middlemen in agri-products trade, investments stepped up in Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) and the mandi system should be strengthened, she feels. In this context, she called for replication of ‘Rythu Bazaars’ in twin Telugu-speaking States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and ‘Uzhavar Santhais’ in Tamil Nadu elsewhere in the country. Farmers who stored their produce in cold storage units expecting the prices to improve in the future quite often end up incurring heavy losses when the market goes southwards. They should be given the right of forfeiture of their stored produce and compensated by the government by providing MSP plus interest on warehouse charges, she feels. There should be no adhocism when it comes to EXIM policy, which should in fact encourage import substitution by providing incentives to the growers of crops such oilseeds and pulses to save foreign exchange. The cost of cultivation could be reduced by adopting best agro-ecology practices and eschewing excessive use of chemical fertilizers which has proven to be a bane for farmers, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bottom-up-approach-to-reforms-need-of-hour-farmer-rights-activist/article38033636.ece
25 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South zone shooting volley ball tourney gets under way||The two-day south zone shooting volley ball tournament kicked off at Alakurupadu village in Prakasam district on Friday. Honing skills Inaugurating the tournament, YSR Congress Party leader Balineni Praneeth Reddy said the events like this would go a long way in honing the skills of youth who had the potential to bring laurels to the State and the nation. Twelve teams, including six in the distaff side, will vie for honours, said Prakasam District Central Cooperative Bank Chairman M. Venkaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-zone-shooting-volley-ball-tourney-gets-under-way/article38033641.ece
25 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja destroyed||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg on Friday warned of stern action against those cultivating, transporting and consuming banned narcotic drugs, including ganja. Case registered She was speaking after setting ablaze 815.35 kg of ganja worth over Rs. 48.96 lakh at Kandalur village, near Tangutur. The seized contraband related to 13 cases registered in Singarayakonda and Cumbum. Raids would be intensified to unearth illegal transport of contrabad, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-haul-of-ganja-destroyed/article38033637.ece
25 December 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Urban dwellers told to opt for OTS scheme||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Friday appealed to the beneficiaries to opt for the One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme to claim the right over the assigned land in the city. Mr. Bharat and Rajamahendravaram Municipal Commissioner Abhishikth Kishore on Friday handed over pattas to the beneficiaries of the OTS scheme in the city. “The beneficiaries will get the right over the land under the OTS,” said Mr. Bharat. In the city, as many as 1,016 beneficiaries have opted for the OTS scheme among the total 3,274 beneficiaries. The State government has collected above Rs. 2.3 crore under the OTS scheme in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/urban-dwellers-told-to-opt-for-ots-scheme/article38033678.ece
25 December 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release Rs. 60,000 crore to State, forum urges Centre||Andhra Intellectual Forum State president and vice-president of Pratyeka Hoda-Vibhajana Hamila Sadhana Samiti Golivi Appla Naidu on Friday asked the Union government to release around Rs. 60,000 crore as promised during the division of the State. He alleged that the Union government was trying to please other States by offering Special Category Status(SCS) but failed to implement SCS and other assurances given in Parliament for Andhra Pradesh. Addressing the media here, he urged all the MPs of the State, irrespecive of their party affiliations, to raise the issue of SCS in Parliament. “As long as our public representatives are silent over SCS, the Union government will not sanction funds and implement other promises which were necessary for the speedy progress of the State. These funds are necessary to bring out the State from debt trap,” said Mr. Naidu who retired as mathametics Professor of Andhra University. “Along with forum founder president Chalasani Srinivas, all forum members strived hard for the protection of State’s interests. That is why, at least Rs. 19,000 crore was sanctioned. But it is not sufficient. The State government should strive to get all the funds for the overall development of Andhra Pradesh, including backward North Andhra region,” he added. The forum leaders G. Narsunaidu and G. Yogeswara Rao said that development of Srikakulam district was hampered due to the delay in releasing funds by the Union government. The forum members vowed to fight for the protection of the State’s interests by taking signature campaign and other activities which would create awareness about the ‘injustice’ meted out to Andhra Pradesh for the last seven years. The forum planned roundtables and meetings with intellectuals in all districts in a phased manner, according to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-rs-60000-crore-to-state-forum-urges-centre/article38033646.ece
25 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||First batch of KAS inaugurated||Highlighting the implementation of the Kerala Administrative Service (KAS) as an example of long-pending plans becoming a reality, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government was committed to its projects by taking into confidence even those opposed to these. He was speaking at the formal inauguration of the first batch of KAS at the Institute of Management in Government (IMG) here on Friday. “It was the first administrative reforms commission formed by the first government led by E. M. S. Namboodiripad that put forward the idea of a KAS with the aim of making the civil services, which still had colonial baggage, more people-friendly. However, the idea did not become a reality until now. There were a lot of opposing voices to KAS, many of them due to misunderstandings. But the experience of the previous LDF government shows that by scientifically and factually making them understand the need for such projects for the State’s future, many will change their minds and support it. This can be seen in the case of the GAIL pipeline, national highway development, the Kochi-Edamon Power Highway and so on,” he said. The Chief Minister’s comments came in the context of the opposition to K-Rail SilverLine semi-high-speed rail corridor. He said society in general was not opposed to such projects. Even those who oppose stand to benefit from them when they are implemented. “For a time, the public used to think nothing would happen here, as many initiatives could not be taken up due to resistance from some sections. However, the situation has changed. There is confidence among the people that things will happen here too,” said Mr. Vijayan. Attempts to weaken He said the civil services generally were “having a hard time” in the country, with attempts being made to weaken and destroy it. However, steps are being taken in Kerala to further strengthen the civil services. “They are being equipped to tide over any adversity. They have proved themselves in recent times, be it during the floods or after the COVID-19 outbreak,” he said. The 18-month-long training of the first batch of KAS will begin next week. The Chief Minister also lauded the Public Service Commission (PSC) for the successful implementation of KAS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pinarayi-inaugurates-first-batch-of-kas/article38033170.ece
25 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination certificate or negative RT-PCR report must for darshan: TTD||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Friday reiterated that pilgrims with vaccination certificate, or negative report of RT-PCR test done 48 hours in advance, alone will be allowed to visit Tirumala for darshan of Lord Venkateswara. Though the stipulation has been in force since October 1, several devotees are turning up without proper certificate or test report, and are forced to return disappointed. In the wake of fresh alerts issued by the government amid reports of fast spreading Omicron variant of COVID-19, the TTD once again appealed to the devotees to adhere to the stipulation in the larger interest of the temple staff as well as other visiting pilgrims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-certificate-or-negative-rt-pcr-report-must-for-darshan/article38033168.ece
25 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahinda Rajapaksa offers prayers at Tirumala||Prime Minister of Sri Lanka Mahinda Rajapaksa, accompanied by his wife Shiranthi, on Friday offered prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. TTD officials accorded the dignitaries a traditional reception at the ‘mahadwaram’, and escorted them into the sanctum sanctorum . Mr. Rajapaksa went round the temple and made offerings into the ‘hundi’. After ‘Vedasirvachanams’, the authorities presented them a memento, New Year calendar, and diaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahinda-rajapaksa-offers-prayers-at-tirumala/article38033167.ece
25 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lepakshi expo begins||The ‘Lepakshi cotton and silk fab’, an exclusive handloom exhibition-cum-sale conducted every year by the Andhra Pradesh Handicrafts Development Corporation, began at Sindhura Kalyana Mandapam at Ramanuja Circle here on Friday. The expo was formally declared open by the Mayor R. Sireesha. The expo offers some of the best in class in the traditional weaves of Andhra Pradesh, besides the famed varieties from various states like Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. Also, earthenware, fashion jewellery, metal artefacts and wooden art pieces are set to attract the women of all age groups. The expo, which is timed with the New Year and Sankranti holidays to cash in on the heavy footfall in Tirupati, will end on January 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lepakshi-expo-begins/article38033643.ece
25 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. decision on tickets, raids on theatres rile film fraternity||The YSRCP government’s decision to reduce the prices of cinema tickets and the subsequent raids on theatres at many places has riled the film fraternity. Theatres found to be functioning allegedly in violation of the rule book during the surprise visits of officials have been sealed, while nearly 55 theatre owners are said to have shut down business, unable to continue with such “low rates” of tickets. Raising serious concern over the decision ahead of the release of his film ‘Shyam Singha Roy’, actor Nani said the prices fixed were not logical. He went on to say that when a kirana shop owner outside a theatre makes more money than the theatre owner, its an insult to the audience. He expressed the hope that the issue would be resolved soon. Another actor Siddharth, in his reaction on Friday, criticised the government decision in a series of tweets. Taking a dig at the government, Siddharth questioned why not regulate land prices, or cutting the cost of staging cricket matches, and pass on the discount to the customer. He criticised the Ministers who speak of reducing cost of cinema and passing on the discount to customers. “We are tax payers and we pay for all your luxuries. Politicians earn lakhs and crores of rupees through corruption. Reduce your corruption and give us our discount,” he said. Ambika Krishna’s plea Telugu film producer and distributor, and former Chairman of Andhra Pradesh Film Development Corporation Ambika Krishna expressed grave concern over the move, and said the government should rethink the issue. “The fact that owners of nearly 55 cinema theatres in the State have voluntarily shut down business explains the magnitude of the problem,” he said. Mr. Krishna attributed the decision to the “failure of the film directors and actors to heed the repeated pleas of the government to come and shoot their films in the State.” Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana (Municipal Administration) and P. Anil Kumar (Irrigation), in a counter to Nani’s remarks, said the decision was taken in the larger interest of the public. “How can it be an insult to the audience when we are trying to bring down the rates,” asked Mr. Satyanarayana, while Mr. Anil Kumar said it was the worry of “lower remuneration” that was bothering these actors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-decision-on-tickets-raids-on-theatres-rile-film-fraternity/article38033661.ece
25 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t forget roots and mother tongue: CJI||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Justice N.V. Ramana has said that mother tongue can be added to the Sanskrit verse Janani janma bhoomishca swargadapi gariyasi (Mother and motherland are superior even to heaven). None can forget their mother tongue or their native place, he said. The CJI visited Ponnavolu, his native place, in Veerulapadu mandal of Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh, on Friday. The residents accorded a rousing reception to Justice Ramana, who visited the village for the first time after assuming office of Chief Justice of India. On the occasion, Justice Ramana recalled his association with the village and his teachers in childhood. The village was politically active by 1967. There were representatives of four political parties, Congress, Communist Party, Swatantra, and Jan Sangh. But, problems never cropped in the village till date. Social awakening was necessary for development. Unity was a better medicine for all problems, he said. One should not forget his roots, greatness and eminence of the Telugu language. Many people talk about the greatness of Telugu in Delhi. They recall that noted constructions were done by the Telugus, he said, adding, “If I am at the zenith in Judiciary, it is due to the blessings of people. I will strive for the greatness of Telugu and Telugu pride. I swear that all my actions will be in that endeavour.” Justice Ramana said that he too had anguish that Telugu had no proper recognition. There was a need to strengthen the Telugu language, culture and traditions. “It was our fortune that the vaccine for COVID was prepared by Telugus, Dr. Krishna Ella and Suchitra Ella of Bharat Bioetech,” he said. Earlier, the CJI and his wife were was taken into the village in a well-decorated bullock cart. It was a photographer's delight that he carried a tricolour decorated whip. He visited the temple in the village where he was accorded a ceremonial welcome. Panchayat Raj and Rural development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah(Nani), MLAs Vasanta Krishna Prasad, Monditoka Jaganmohan Rao, Bhumana Karunakar Reedy, MLC Monditoka Arun Kumar and others welcomed and presented bouquets to him. Former Minister Mandali Buddha Prasad and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/none-can-forget-their-mother-tongue-or-native-place-says-cji/article38033172.ece
25 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhavani deeksha viramana from today||The Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam has made elaborate arrangements for the Bhavani Deeksha viranama (relinquishment) from Saturday. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, devasthanam trust board chairman Pyla Somi Naidu said the relinquishment process would be conducted on the lines of Dasara festival. Five queue lines would move simultaneously from Vinayaka temple on Canal Road to Kanaka Durga temple atop Indrakeeladri here. All the queue lines were meant for free darshan. The temple management had made arrangements for hassle-free giri pradakshina, circumambulation of Indrakeeladri, for the convenience of the devotees. The roads had been recarpeted and made pothole-free, and a walking track had also been earmarked. At Sitammavari Paadalu, 500 people could take shower at a time. The Bhavanis and their family members had been requested to follow COVID guidelines and cooperate with the temple administration, he said. Temple Executive Officer D. Bhramaramba said the devasthanam authorities had made elaborate arrangements for the programme. The temple was expecting a devotee rush of about five lakh from December 25 to 29. Also, the devotee spillover was possible on December 30 and 31, she said.  The EO said the temple was making arrangements for free prasadam, pulihora and daddojanam to the devotees visiting the temple. Pulihora prasadam would be given from 5 a.m. to 11 a.m. Sambar rice and curd rice would be distributed from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Again from 4 p.m. till night, tomato baath would be served to the devotees visiting the temple. Adequate laddu prasadam was being prepared to meet the demand. About five lakh laddus would be prepared everyday, she said. The temple pradhana archaka L. Durga Prasad and Sthanacharya Siva Prasad said the temple would be thrown open for darshan after 8 a.m. on Saturday On remaining days, the darshan would be from 3 a..m to 10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhavani-deeksha-viramana-from-today/article38033210.ece
25 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor to open book festival on Jan. 1||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will inaugurate the 32nd Vijayawada Book Festival at Swaraj Maidan on January 1. In a statement on Friday, secretary of the Vijayawada Book Festival Society K. Lakshmaiah said the earlier plan to host the book festival at the Satavahana College grounds was dropped after permission was given to organise the annual event at the PWD Grounds, thanks to the intervention of the people’s representatives and officials, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-to-open-book-festival-on-jan-1/article38033718.ece
25 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic curbs near temple||The Vijayawada police have imposed traffic diversions and restrictions at Indrakeeladri and other places for the Bhavani Deeksha viramana, which commences from December 25. Lakhs of Bhavani’s are expected to visit the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanam and relinquish the deeksha. Buses and cars will not be allowed from Seetammavari Padalu, P.S.R. Statue, Ghat road and Swathi Junction, and vehicles will be diverted from Kakakadurga flyover. No-vehicle zone will be maintained from Kummaripalem to Vinayaka temple, and traffic will be diverted to Kanakadurga flyover. Vehicular traffic will be not be allowed from Undavalli to Prakasam Barrage, and the Secretariat and High Court employees have been requested to travel via, Varadhi. Vehicles will not be allowed from Gadda Bomma Centre towards Vinayaka temple and P.C.R. Junction to the flyover. Traffic coming from Bhavanipuram will be diverted via. Kummaripalem, Nalugu Stambala Centre, Sitara and Tunnel Road. Bhavanis coming from other districts should park their buses and other vehicles at lorry stand and Bhavani ghat. Vehicles entering into the city from P.C.R. Statue should come via. Tummalapalli Kalakshetram, Gadda Bomma Centre, K.R. Market, B.R.P. Road, Ganapati Rao Road, K.R. Road, Chittinagar, Tunnel (Sorangam), Sitara, Vidyadharapuram and Bhavanipuram. APSRTC buses going towards Kondapalli, Chittinagar, Milk Project and Bhavanipuram should proceed via Challapalli Banglow, Eluru Locks, Budameru Bridge, A.S. Nagar Pipula Road, Y.V. Rao Estate and C.V.R. Flyover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traffic-curbs-near-temple/article38033208.ece
25 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramateertham row: Ashok files quash petition in HC against FIR||A day after the Vizianagaram police filed a case against him, hereditary trustee of the Kodandarama temple at Ramateertham and senior TDP leader P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju filed a petition in the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday seeking that the First Information Report (FIR) filed against him be quashed. Representing Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, advocate N. Aswini Kumar urged the court to take up the matter on priority basis. Justice D. Ramesh, however, said the court would take up the matter on Monday. In his petition, Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju said the sections cited by the police against him in the FIR were not valid. ‘False complaint’ A case was filed on the basis of a false complaint, Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, who was also former Union Civil Aviation Minister, alleged. “The intention is to create trouble. Hence, the court is requested to stop all actions based on the FIR,” he prayed. Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju was charged with obstructing the duties of government officials and damaging public properties during the foundation stone-laying ceremony for temple renovation works on Wednesday. The case was registered following a complaint lodged by temple executive officer D.V.V. Prasad. Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju had allegedly entered into an altercation with the Endowments Department officials for not following protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramateertham-row-ashok-files-quash-petition-in-hc-against-fir/article38033659.ece
25 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu seeks probe into ‘kidnap’ of party activist||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Director General of Police (DGP) Gautam Sawang to order an inquiry into the alleged kidnap and attempt to murder party’s Kuppam activist C. Murali in Chittoor district. In a letter to Mr. Sawang on Friday, Mr. Naidu stressed the need for stringent action against the YSRCP leaders who allegedly held Mr. Murali hostage and threatened him of dire consequences. “The incident is an indication of complete collapse of law and order in the State. It seems to be a jungle raj. There is lack of respect for fundamental rights. In spite of recurring attacks on the TDP leaders and sympathisers, there appears to be negligible, or nil action against the culprits,” Mr. Naidu said in his letter. “The YSRCP leaders, in connivance with a section of the police, are trying to stifle the voice of the TDP leaders,” Mr. Naidu alleged. Mr. Murali was kidnapped from Kuppam town on December 22 at around 1.55 p.m. allegedly by the YSRCP supporters, the TDP president said. “It is learnt that Mr. Murali has been taken to the house of RESCO chairperson G.S. Sendhil Kumar,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-seeks-probe-into-kidnap-of-party-activist/article38033656.ece
25 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KKT matrimonial meet today||Kalyana Kalpa Taruvu, Hyderabad, is organising a prospective Brahmin brides and bridegrooms meet “Kalyana Samrambham-2021’ at Pullareddy Pharmacy College and Pullareddy Degree and PG College, opposite Pillar No. 23, Mehdipatnam, Hyderabad, on Dec. 25. For online registration for supplementary book log on http://kktvivaha.org/wordpress/registration. For details contact 8008579012 / 9440586594, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kkt-matrimonial-meet-today/article38033715.ece
25 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, Jagan greet people||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has greeted Christians in the State on the eve of Christmas, on Friday. In his message, he said: “Christmas is a time of joyous celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. It is also an occasion to cherish the teachings of Jesus that lay stress on bonds of love, tolerance and compassion among all people across the world. The life of Jesus Christ is a source of inspiration to all of us to lead a life of virtue and faith. On this occasion, I join my Christian brothers and sisters and pray for peace and harmony in the world.” The Governor appealed to people to take all precautions by following COVID-appropriate behavior Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy said Christmas is a celebration of humanity and mankind, of love and compassion. He said Christ's life teaches mankind generosity and kindness and that people should imbibe the true spirit of Christmas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-jagan-greet-people/article38033211.ece
25 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Students must take up innovative projects’||Students should be encouraged to adopt interdisciplinary approach and take up innovative projects, said BJP’s former national general secretary Ram Madhav. He was delivering a lecture on “New world order — post COVID education in particular”, at NIT, Andhra Pradesh, after inaugurating an academic complex named after Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya on the campus. Complimenting the efforts of the institution’s head and his team in creating good infrastructure on the campus, the BJP leader said the Centre was trying to scale up greater levels of support to the higher educational institutes to enable them to compete at the global-level. Speaking about the COVID-19 impact on the education sector, he said the new world order was dominated by various technologies in a big way. The pandemic had brought to the fore the several advantages of digital technology which had a very high potential in sectors such as education, defence, aerospace, healthcare, energy, security, agriculture and governance. Artificial Intelligence-technologies would play a big role in the days to come, he said. Director, NIT, Andhra Pradesh C.S.P. Rao explained about the student-centric training programmes being conducted by the institute to enhance their skill sets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-must-take-up-innovative-projects/article38033212.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokayukta disposed of 33 cases in two days: Justice Lakshman Reddy||Andhra Pradesh Lokayukta Justice P. Lakshman Reddy has said that 33 cases, pertaining to Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts, were disposed of in two days. Interacting with the media here on Friday, Justice Lakshman Reddy said that opening of regional offices of the Lokayukta in Kurnool, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam would provide greater accessibility to the common people. He said the proposal was communicated to the Chief Minister, and hoped that the latter would respond positively to it. He hoped that the State government would sanction the required staff and infrastructure for this purpose. Justice Lakshman Reddy said that a vast majority of the 135 staff of the Lokayukta were allocated to Telangana State in both the Telugu States. He hoped that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, which was according priority to decentralisation, would extend cooperation in this regard. He said that complaints could be made to the Lokayukta on anyone barring the Chief Minister, MPs and High Court staff. The complaints could be on officials and staff, who prevent beneficiaries from getting the benefits of various welfare schemes given by the government and indulging in corruption pertaining to government land and properties. Justice Lakshman Reddy said that the Lokayukta has already received complaints pertaining to grabbing of government lands in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. A probe was made into the complaint received on Gunna Engineering Company of Parawada mandal in the district. The details were given to the District Collector for further action in the case. He said that complaints were received on diversion of Rs. 34.42 lakh of NRDS funds at Gopalapuram in Srikakulam district. A probe was conducted and the funds would be recovered. In another case at Valagadda village in Srikakulam district, the process of recovering of Rs. 14.85 lakh diverted from the mid-day meal scheme, has begun. Complaints were also received regarding the siphoning off of funds allocated for water management scheme, to the tune of Rs. 3.64 crore, at Garividi in Vizianagaram district. A probe was conducted and the recovery was launched. He said that complaints were also received that some vested interests had occupied government land in the Polavaram project in a bid to get compensation from the government. It would be investigated. He called for greater awareness among the people on the institution of Lokayukta. Complaints could be made through post, e-mail and phone. A majority of the complaints pertain to non-receipt of the benefits of welfare schemes and non-payment of PF and ESI by the employers, after deducting it from the salaries of the employees. Lokayukta Director (Legal) T. Venkatswara Reddy and Deputy Director (Legal) P. Muralimohan Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokayukta-disposed-of-33-cases-in-two-days-justice-lakshman-reddy/article38033723.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinemas should comply with ticket rules, says District Collector||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has clarified that cinema theatres should comply with the rates fixed by the government on sale of tickets. He inspected various theatres in the city and the district on Friday. He verified the online ticket rates, cleanliness and other issues at the theatres. He interacted with filmgoers and took their feedback on the online ticketing system. The audience expressed happiness at the online ticketing system. He found fault with the management of Jagadamba theatre for charging higher rates for the 3 D screen. Later, he visited Melody theatre and instructed the management to sell the tickets at the rates prescribed the government. Dr. Mallikarjuna said that the revenue officials have already inspected several theatres in the district and warned that action would be initiated against those not complying with the norms. RDO Penchala Kishore and Maharanipeta Tahsildar Paul Kiran participated in the inspections. Exhibitors in a fix Meanwhile, the inspection of cinema theatres is causing anxiety among the film fraternity. The industry is divided over the issue, with some finding fault with the government for interfering in the sale of tickets, and others stating that locking horns with the establishment would invite further trouble. The Andhra Pradesh High Court had suspended G.O. no. 35, which was issued to fix the prices of cinema tickets across the State. The State government had filed an appeal challenging the single-judge order before a Division Bench of the High Court.It said that only the 225 theatres, whose managements had filed a petition against the G.O., have been granted relief by the court, while the G.O. would be be applicable to all other theatres in the State which did not file any petitions. Some exhibitors felt that it was this move of the industry which has made the State government to act tough on violations. “Those who challenged the G.O. had added the names of many others who were not willing to take on the government without our consent,” said an exhibitor from the city requesting anonymity. “It is difficult to comply with the rules all the time, and now even minor lapses would be viewed seriously by the State government,” he said. The State government issued an order on December 21, asking the Collectors, Joint Collectors and Licensing Authorities to inspect theatres and furnish detailed information regarding their compliance with all safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cinemas-should-comply-with-ticket-rules-says-district-collector/article38033729.ece
25 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INS Khukri decommissioned at ENC||The sun finally set on INS Khukri (pennant number 49), an indigenously built missile corvette, here on Thursday evening. The ship was decommissioned after 32 years of service to the nation, at the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) here. At the solemn ceremony, the national flag, the naval ensign, and the decommissioning pennant were lowered at sunset in the presence of Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, FOC-in-C, ENC, and some serving and retired former commanding officers of the ship. The corvette was built by the Mazagaon Dock Shipbuilders and commissioned on August 23, 1989. It had the distinction of being part of both the Western and Eastern Fleets. During her service, the ship was commanded by 28 commanding officers and traversed a distance of over 6,44,897 nautical miles. The ship was affiliated with the Gorkha Brigade of the Indian Army. Lt. General P.N. Ananthanarayan, president of the Gorkha Brigade, attended the ceremony. The legacy The name INS Khukri has a connection with the naval history of India. The first INS Khukri, with pennant number 149, which was a Type 14 Blackwood-class frigate, had been built by J. Samuel White in England and commissioned into the Indian Navy on July 16, 1958. The ship was sunk off the coast of Diu, Gujarat, by the Pakistan Navy’s Daphné-class submarine, PNS Hangor, on December 9, 1971, during the India-Pakistan War.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ins-khukri-decommissioned-at-enc/article38033663.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s a myth that Hindutva is a form of extremism, says Ram Madhav||The time is ripe for India to contribute original ideas to the emerging new world order. Climate change and holistic healthcare, as propounded by the ancient Indian system of medicine, and innovation are some of the areas, which India can contribute, said senior BJP leader Ram Madhav. He was speaking at a discussion, organised to mark the launch of his book ‘The Hindutva Paradigm,’ here on Friday evening. Mr. Ram Madhav said that his idea in writing the book was to dispel the myth that Hindutva was a form of extremism that was against other religions. He recalled how Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay, during the 1960s, had put forth the integral humanist philosophy. Secularism, democracy and capitalism were all post-World War-II ideas, which had contributed to the world order. Unfortunately, through ancient India has a history of rich culture and traditions, it had not contributed much to the world order, except Mahatma Gandhi’s concept of truth and non-violence. The rest were all European ideas and thoughts. “I do not say they are wrong, they had given us our Constitution and contributed to our growth,” he said. The Constitution guarantees Fundamental Rights, but duties were added much later during the 1970s with a rider that the “duties are non-enforceable” and were only suggestive. This had given us rights without responsibilities. When the UN Human Rights Commission (UNHRC) had sought suggestions from India, on the rights to be included in its Human Rights Charter, Mahatma Gandhi wrote: “Rights and duties are complementary to each other. When everyone perform their duties, they would automatically get their rights.” New world order Mr. Ram Madhav said that India could contribute to the new world order in areas like protection of nature and healthy living. “Ayurveda is about healthy living and not treatment after a disease attacks the human body. India is the only country in the world that has the concept of treating the world as one family, and respects diversity”. He referred to leaders of various political parties trying to show off their ‘Hindu identity’ in public and hoped that it should not be limited to garner votes in elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-a-myth-that-hindutva-is-a-form-of-extremism-says-ram-madhav/article38033720.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naval Dockyard and INS Dega awarded Rajbhasha trophies||Vice-Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, presented the ENC Rajbhasha Winners Trophy for the year 2020-21 to Naval Dockyard, and the Runners-up Trophy to INS Dega during the Half Yearly Command Staff Meeting held at the ENC headquarters on Friday.Eastern Naval Command has been awarding these trophies annually to its units for doing maximum official work in Hindi, as per the directives issued by the Department of Official Language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naval-dockyard-and-ins-dega-awarded-rajbhasha-trophies/article38033731.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two houses burgled||Unidentified miscreants reportedly burgled two houses at KRM Colony under III Town Police Station limits in Visakhapatnam city. The incident came to light after the inmates returned on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-houses-burgled/article38033726.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records nine new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded nine new COVID-19 cases, taking the cumulative cases to 1,59,312, as on Friday morning. During the same period, 19 persons who were infected with the virus were declared as negative and discharged, taking the number of discharges to 1,58,074. No deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, keeping the total death count as on Friday at 1,107. The active cases as on date stand at 131.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-nine-new-covid-cases/article38033727.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unidentified body found||The body of an unidentified man was found on the sea shore at Peda Rushikonda here on Friday. The man aged, around 60 years, was of medium complexion, and was wearing a mixed colour striped shirt, without pant. The cause of death is not known. P.M. Palem Police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unidentified-body-found/article38033725.ece
25 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen plant inaugurated at railway hospital||Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, Anup Satpathy, inaugurated a 500-litre per minute capacity Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) oxygen generation plant at the Divisional Railway Hospital(DRH) here on Friday. M.K. Ramakrishna, Chief Medical Superintendent, Rajesh Dhuddu, vice-president and practice leader of Tech Mahindra, and senior officials from Railways and Tech Mahindra were present. The oxygen generation plant makes the DRH self-sufficient in oxygen supply, required for treatment of COVID-19 and other patients. The DRH played a pivotal role in the fight against the pandemic and treatment of patients. Shortfall of medical oxygen was a major issue faced at various locations in the country during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-plant-inaugurated-at-railway-hospital/article38033722.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Need to educate consumers on their rights’||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy has underlined the need to educate consumers on their rights to ensure quality goods and services. Participating as a chief guest at a meeting organised under the auspices of the Civil Supplies Department, near the Kali temple, on Beach Road here on Friday, the JC called upon consumers to be vigilant when buying any product. Senior Civil Judge K.K.V. Bullikrishna called upon the consumers to utilise the services of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) to avail of free legal services. Civil Supply officers G. Surya Prakasa Rao and R. Siva Prasadwere among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-educate-consumers-on-their-rights/article38033724.ece
25 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders insulted Ashok, alleges Ayyanna||Former Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on Friday alleged that the YSR Congress Party leaders and Ministers had misbehaved with former Union Minister and TDP leader P. Ashok Gajapathiraju at Ramatheertham on Wednesday. Releasing a video from Narsipatnam, he said that the treatment meted out Mr. Ashok should be deplored, as the YSRCP leaders had done fully knowing about the background of Mr. Ashok. He hails from the Vizianagaram royal family that has contributed immensely for the development of this region, especially in the field of education and culture, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said. 100 temples The family had constructed and maintained over 100 temples in this region and they were the people who started the famed music college in Vizianagaram from where stalwarts such as Ghantasala and Suseela had passed out, said Mr. Ayyanna. The former TDP minister said that it is surprising to see that a person who is the accused number 2 in a CBI case talking about corruption against a person like Mr. Ashok, who known for soberness and spotless political career.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-leaders-insulted-ashok-alleges-ayyanna/article38033730.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ushering in Christmas spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ushering-in-christmas-spirit/article38033733.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebrating with colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebrating-with-colours/article38033174.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ushering in Christmas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ushering-in-christmas/article38033717.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Omicron spreads faster, don’t let your guard down: Harish Rao||Health Minister Harish Rao said on Friday that preliminary indication revealed that Omicron spreads faster even if it might not be much severe. “So, the onus is on us to keep ourselves, our families and the city safe by adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour. The government is ready to tackle any third wave as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had released sufficient funds for the same,” he said. In twin cities itself, 1,400 hospital beds have been added, including 800 in Niloufer Hospital and 600 in the area hospitals at Vanasthalipuram, Golconda, Kondapur and three others with oxygen facility. Vanasthalipuram health care facility had 120 beds and will now be having a capacity of 220 beds with 35 doctors, he said. The Minister was addressing a gathering after inaugurating a 100-bed ward at Area Hospital of Vaidya Vidhana Parishad at Vanasthalipuram on Friday. An oxygen generating plant and a 12-bed intensive care unit, established with the help of a voluntary organisation, were also opened at the hospital. Local MLA D. Sudheer Reddy was present. About 21 lakh home isolation kits have been readied and the oxygen capacity has been increased by three times ever since the second wave. Sufficient drugs have been procured, he said. Mr. Rao urged citizens to make use of government healthcare facilities like urban healthcare centres and newly-established diagnostic centres where as many as 57 tests are done free of cost. The Minister said that every eligible person should take both doses of the COVID vaccine, and even pregnant women should not skip it. He appealed to people to get tested at the nearest government facility in case of any COVID symptoms. Osmania and Gandhi hospitals were being equipped with CT-scanners and cath labs. Soon, the CM would lay foundation stone for a 1,000-bed hospital at Gaddiannaram, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/omicron-spreads-faster-dont-let-your-guard-down-harish-rao/article38033490.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||C. V. Anand named city police chief||Hyderabad has got a new Police Commissioner in C. V. Anand who was till recently Inspector General of Central Industrial Security Force on deputation to the Central government. He will replace Anjani Kumar who had a long stint in the post from March 2018 and was among three senior officers recently promoted to the rank of Director General of Police. He was now posted as Director General of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in the existing vacancy. Mr. Anand returned to the State service two months ago and was awaiting posting. The appointment of the new Commissioner was part of a major shake-up of IPS officers that resulted in transfer of 18 of them and giving postings to 10 others, including non-cadre Superintendents of Police.  The new postings of officers transferred are:   Shikha Goel: Director of ACB  A.R. Srinivas: Joint Commissioner of Police, Crimes and Special Investigation Team, Hyderabad vice Ms. Goel  A.V. Ranganath: Joint Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Hyderabad  Rama Rajeswari: Superintendent of Police, Nalgonda  N. Swetha: Commissioner of Police, Siddipet, vice D. Joel Davis  D. Joel Davis: Deputy Commissioner of Police, West Zone, Hyderabad  Karthikeya: Joint Commissioner of Police, City Armed Reserve, Hyderabad  Rohini Priyadarshini: Superintendent of Police, Medak, vice Ms. G. Chandana Deepthi  Kalmeshwar Shingenavar: Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes), Cyberabad  Avinash Mohanty: Joint Commissioner of Police (Admn), Cyberabad  Chandana Deepthi: Deputy Commissioner of Police, North Zone, Hyderabad, vice Kalmeshwar Shingenavar  Gajarao Bhupal: Deputy Commissioner of Police, Detective Department, Hyderabad vice Avinash Mohanty  P. Viswaprasad: Joint Commissioner of Police, Special Branch, Hyderabad  Sharath Chandra Pawar: Superintendent of Police, Mahabubabad, vice N. Koti Reddy  Nyalakonda Prakash Reddy: Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic - I), Hyderabad  N. Koti Reddy: Superintendent of Police, Vikarabad  K. R. Nagaraju: Commissioner of Police, Nizamabad, vice Karthikeya  D. Udaykumar Reddy: Superintendent of Police, Adilabad  K. Suresh Kumar: Superintendent of Police, Asifabad  Ch. Praveen Kumar: Superintendent of Police, Nirmal  K. Manohar (non-cadre): Superintendent of Police, Nagarkurnool  K. Shilpavalli (NC): Deputy Commissioner of Police, Madhapur zone, Cyberabad  Sudeep Gone (NC): Deputy Commissioner of Police, Balanagar zone, Cyberabad  B. Srinivas Reddy (NC): Superintendent of Police, Kamareddy, vice N. Swetha  J. Surender Reddy (NC): Superintendent of Police, Jaishanker Bhoopalpally  R. Jagadishwar Reddy (NC): Deputy Commissioner of Police, Shamshabad, Cyberabad, vice N. Prakash Reddy  P. Sitaram (NC): Deputy Commissioner of Police, Jangaon, vice B. Srinivas Reddy  N. Venkateswarlu (NC): Superintendent of Police, Narayanpet, vice Chetna Mylabhutala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/c-v-anand-named-city-police-chief/article38033506.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Haritha Hotel inaugurated in Siddipet||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao said that Ranganaiksagar will be developed as a tourist destination at an estimated cost of Rs. 100 crore. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating a three-star Haritha Hotel, along with Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy in Siddipet on Friday, Mr. Rao said the face of the State changed after the formation of Telangana under the leadership of K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The district stands on top with several development activities, he said. Road connectivity “This hotel will be useful for those coming from north Telangana. The Information Technology tower near the hotel is fast getting completed and will be ready shortly. Oxygen park was established on about 200 acres opposite to the hotel. L.V. Prasad Eye Hospital was established here to provide free eye care to the poor,” said Mr. Harish Rao adding that several infrastructure facilities are being established in the district in addition to extending the connectivity roads to Hanamkonda, Jangaon, Cherial, Duddeda and Siricilla.  The IT tower near the hotel will be completed shortly. T. Harish Rao, Finance and Health Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/haritha-hotel-inaugurated-in-siddipet/article38033685.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Talk on civil military fusion||Captain Amogh Sharma of degree engineering course and Lt Suraj K of technical entry scheme course won awards for best all round student officers for exemplary all round performance in academics and extracurricular activities at the centenary convocation ceremony of Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) on Friday. Captain Dheeraj Sharma, Lt Kottana Anvesh Kumar and Lt Rachakonda Rishab Shankar won medals for their academic performances. B. Tech degrees were conferred on 53 graduating officers of the degree engineering course-102 and technical entry scheme course-36 by chief guest and chairman and MD of Bharat Forge Limited Babasaheb Neelkanth Kalyani. Mr. Kalyani spoke about the association of Bharat Forge Ltd with the Indian Army as well as MCEME and said that civil military fusion was critical to realisation of the dreams of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. Commandant, MCEME and Colonel Commandant of the Corps of EME Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan was present at the ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talk-on-civil-military-fusion/article38033488.ece
25 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Businessman held on charge of duping Union Bank of India||The director of Kompass Infrastructures Private Limited was arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of Cyberabad police on charges of forgery and cheating Union Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 53 crore. The accused, Kattamidi Santosh Reddy, 36, from Sanathnagar, forged bank guarantees (BGs) and cheated the bank by exceeding his credit limit. Two cases were registered against the company and four of its directors. In July, Assistant General Manager of Union Bank, Sarigala Prakash Babu, approached police stating that the Directors of M/s Kompass Infrastructures obtained bank guarantees from the complainant’s bank branch at Kondapur to the tune of Rs. 53,18,50,093. After obtaining the bank guarantees from the bank, the accused Reddy was approached the branch and returned the BG and closed the transaction. Recently the bank came to know that in many of these transactions the accused has not closed his transaction with the beneficiary company but he fabricated a fake BG and closed transaction with the bank. The other two directors – Kondakal Gopal and Sompavarapu Surender Reddy are absconding and efforts are on to trace them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/businessman-held-on-charge-of-duping-union-bank-of-india/article38033479.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks action in PACS scam||Additional Solicitor General of India T. Suryakaran Reddy on Thursday said that K. Srinivasa Rao, director of Madhucon Projects Limited and its subsidiary Ranchi Expressways Limited be presented before Enforcement Directorate special court again. Presenting arguments in a petition before Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court, the ASG said the ED officials, who registered a case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), accused Mr. Rao of misusing loans given by banks for road laying project works. ‘Remand declined’ But the Enforcement Directorate court declined to remand the accused in judicial remand when he was presented before it on December 18. The Additional Solicitor General said the ED court judge did not record any specific reasons for rejection of remanding the accused in judicial custody. The matter was posted to next January 3 for hearing. ‘Initiate action’ Justice T. Vinod Kumar of Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the Registrar and Commissioner of Co-operative Societies to initiate action against the persons accused of embezzling Rs. 2.26 crore of Konapur Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society (PACS). Directors of Konapur Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society alleged that the society’s chairman M. Devender Reddy, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) M. Gopal Reddy and other executive committee members misused the society’s funds. An inquiry was launched and a report was presented stating that the funds were misappropriated. However, no action was initiated against persons accused of embezzling the society’s funds. During presentation of arguments, Justice Vinod Kumar of the High Court sought to know form the State government why the report was prepared when the authorities were not ready to take action based on its findings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-seeks-action-in-pacs-scam/article38033497.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR targets Modi yet again, this time on GST increase||TRS working president and Minister K.T. Rama Rao yet again targeted the Prime Minister Narendra Modi questioning the huge gap between his ideas and actions. This time, he questioned the Central government’s decision to increase the GST on handlooms and textiles from 5% to 12% when Mr. Modi himself has been speaking of strengthening the handlooms sector. In a tweet, KTR urged the Prime Minister to reduce the GST on handlooms and textiles or else the industry will face crisis. “Honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, on the National Handloom Day you had talked of strengthening #Vocal for handmade. On the contrary to the idea, your government has enhanced GST on Handlooms and Textiles from 5 percent to 12 percent, which will be a death knell for the industry. Request you to intervene and save the weavers,” he tweeted. Earlier, KTR shared a picture of the Prime Minister having lunch with construction workers in Kashi Vishawanadh temple and posted several pictures of workers walking to their homes hundreds of km away during the lockdown without any support from the government. The Minister wanted to convey that the Prime Minister remembers workers only when elections were around, and he said the same in the tweet. On the enhancement of GST, the Minister earlier shot off a letter to Union Minister for Textiles Piyush Goyal and demanded withdrawal of the decision to hike GST from 5% to 12%, which will come into effect from January 1, 2022. Opposing the hike, KTR Said that the handlooms industry was going through a crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-targets-modi-yet-again-this-time-on-gst-increase/article38033507.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uttam goes on fast for reinstallation of statues||Former Pradesh Congress Committee president and Member of Parliament from Nalgonda N. Uttam Kumar Reddy took up a hunger strike at Huzurnagar demanding re-installation of statues demolished as part of highway widening works. The three-decade old Indira Gandhi statue, which identifies the place as Indira Chowk and the Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy statue on the arterial road at Huzurnagar were damaged and removed by officials for the works. Following it, the senior Congress leader and a large number of activists staged a sit-in and fast to protest the action. Alleging that a few persons with vested interests had instructed the officials for demolition of the statues, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy called it “illegal”. He demanded action against the Roads & Buildings officials who oversaw the works. Tension prevailed in the town for a brief while as Congress activists were engaged in heated talks with officials and a large number of police personnel took over the scene. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy, towards the evening, broke his fast as officials assured that the statues would be reinstalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-goes-on-fast-for-reinstallation-of-statues/article38033510.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ministers return home||Five Ministers and some MPs of TRS who had been camping at New Delhi since Saturday last seeking a written assurance from the Centre that it would purchase the entire quantity of paddy cultivated in recent kharif returned on Friday night empty-handed. Before leaving, the delegation had made a last-ditch effort to seek an appointment with Union Food Minister Piyush Goyal through the Resident Commissioner of the State government in the capital but Mr. Goyal was reportedly unavailable. The Ministers waited till Friday as Mr. Goyal had informed them when they last met him that the Centre would require two days to consider the demand for procurement of paddy over and above the quota fixed for the State. Before leaving for Hyderabad, Mr. S. Niranjan Reddy and other Ministers told a media conference that they had no option but to leave for Hyderabad and purchase the entire quantity of paddy from farmers and dump the stocks at India Gate in the capital to expose the indifference of the Centre. Ministers V. Prashant Reddy, G. Kamalakar, E. Dayakar Rao and G. Jagdish Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ministers-return-home-from-new-delhi/article38033504.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MLA withdraws threat of laying siege to BIE||Following the Government’s declaration that all Intermediate first year students would be passed, Sangareddy legislator and TPCC working president T. Jagga Reddy has withdrawn his threat to lay siege to the Board of Intermediate Education with 10,000 students on December 28. Mr. Reddy thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for realising the gravity of the situation and understanding the students’ plight and taking a favourable decision as sought by him. “I have sat on a dharna at the BIE office for three hours and also gave an ultimatum of laying siege to the BIE office with 10,000 students in the interest of students’ future.” The MLA earlier said he would also meet the families of students who committed suicide after they failed in the exams to console them and infuse confidence in others. He said the silence of Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy for the last one week had sent a wrong signal to the students leading to suicides. “She should have been more considerate in her approach and informed the Chief Minister of how 2.35 lakh students were suffering due to the fault of the BIE,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mla-withdraws-threat-of-laying-siege-to-bie/article38033688.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR commissions automatic coach washing plant in city||South Central Railway, as part of environment friendly measures and to enhance the cleanliness of coach exteriors, commissioned an automatic coach washing plant at the coaching depot in Hyderabad on Friday. A new pit line at the busy Kazipet yard was also inaugurated by General Manager Gajanan Mallya virtually from Rail Nilayam in the presence of top officials. Similar automatic coach washing plants have already been commissioned at Secunderabad, Kacheguda and Kakinada. The new one at the Hyderabad coaching depot has been set up at a cost of Rs. 1.78 crore. It is a multi-stage external cleaning system that uses vertical rotating brushes and pressurised water and soap solution jets to clean coach exteriors and an entire train of 24 coaches in about 8-10 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-commissions-automatic-coach-washing-plant-in-city/article38033492.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Namdhari’s to invest Rs. 50 crore||Bengaluru-based Namdhari’s Group, which starting as a seed producer has emerged as a leader in sustainable farming, retail and food business, plans to invest Rs. 50 crore to expand footprint in Hyderabad. “We plan to expand our footprint and concentrate on this city with an investment of around Rs. 50 crore in 2 years. We will be setting up growing facilities, standalone Simpli food stores and dairy subscriptions for direct supply of single origin fresh A2 and organic milk and dairy products,” CEO Gurmukh Roopra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/namdharis-to-invest-rs-50-crore/article38033485.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Japanese research institute, IIT-H renew MoU||Japan’s National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) and Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), renews the Memorandum of Understanding to extend and strengthen the relationship and collaborative activities between the two organisations. AIST’s Artificial Intelligence Research Center (AIRC) and IIT-H established a working relationship in the field of Artificial Intelligence through an MoU on October 29, 2018. Over the last three years, this cooperation led to several collaborative research projects and AIRC hosted many student interns. IIT-H students worked on joint projects related to topics such as machine learning, deep learning, data mining, and other AI themes. The extended MoU covers joint scientific and technological cooperation in areas, including machine learning and probabilistic reasoning techniques for various data types and combinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/japanese-research-institute-iit-h-renew-mou/article38033486.ece
25 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three girls meet watery grave||Three girls drowned in a deep drainage water point at KPHB Colony here on Friday afternoon. The girls — Ramya, 7, Sangeetha, 12, and Safiya, 10, all residents of Phase 4 KPHB — along with two other girls went to play near the point. “They were playing on a small ground near the drainage water point. After some time, they went near water and accidentally slipped into it. While two girls managed to come out, the other three panicked and drowned,” Cyberabad’s Deputy Commissioner of Police (Madhapur zone) M Venkateswarlu said. He said that the incident took place around 3.40 p.m. and after more than three hours of operation, the bodies were retrieved and sent to Gandhi Hospital morgue for autopsy. The parents of the victims are labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-girls-meet-watery-grave/article38033480.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||162 more test positive in Telangana||Telangana recorded 162 COVID cases, including the five samples collected from Hyderabad airport, on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 3,547. The reports of as many as 4,267 people are awaited, which has been the pattern in the last few days. According to the health bulletin, one person succumbed to the virus, taking the total death count to 4,019. The number of total infected rose to 6.81 lakh and with 210 recoveries, total number of those recovered is 6.73 lakh. About 35,037 tests were conducted and the results of 15 airport cases to check for Omicron are awaited while 10 passengers who had tested positive for the emerging variant had recovered.  GHMC reported 83 cases, Rangareddy 24, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Nalgonda eight and Hanamkonda 10 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/162-more-test-covid-positive/article38033494.ece
25 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for online fraud||Three persons who colluded with Chinese nationals and opened 12 fake online investment companies and cheated several people were arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime Station police on Thursday. The Registrar of Companies, Hyderabad, recently lodged a complaint with the police regarding the registration and operation of private companies by furnishing fabricated documents to the ROC. Based on the complaint, a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Act was registered, and accused Adabala Srinivasa Rao, 46, Narala Vijay Krishna, 37 and Kannareddy Vijay Bhaskar Reddy, 46, were taken into custody The trio were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held-for-online-fraud/article38033548.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AFA Hakimpet gets new chief||Air Commodore Manish Sabharwal took over command of Air Force Station, Hakimpet, as Air Officer Commanding (AOC) from Air Commodore AS Minhas on Friday. Mr. Sabharwal graduated from the National Defence Academy in November 1991 and was commissioned into the fighter stream of Indian Air Force (IAF) on December 1992. He is an alumnus of Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, and College of Air Warfare, Secunderabad. He is a qualified flying instructor and has a vast experience of flying various aircraft with more than 3,300 hours. He has held several command and staff appointments and took part in Operation ‘Safed Sagar’ and ‘Parakram’, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/afa-hakimpet-gets-new-chief/article38033491.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Provide Aadhaar card to everyone’||The State Government has focused on issue of Aadhaar cards to everyone across the State and ensuring its linkage with the personal mobile numbers. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said an estimated six lakh new births were reported in the State every year. Steps should be taken to provide Aadhaar cards to all children under five years. The Chief Secretary conducted a high-level meeting with senior officialson progress of issue of Aadhaar cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/provide-aadhaar-card-to-everyone/article38033498.ece
25 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Will expose Modi-KCR nexus in farmers’ rally: Revanth||Yerravalli village that houses Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s farm house will be the first venue of the Telangana Congress ‘Rachabanda’ programme where the party plans to expose the alleged nexus between the BJP and TRS on ‘cheating’ the farmers on paddy procurement. TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy said a massive farmers’ rally would be organised on December 27 at Yerravalli in Gajwel constituency represented by the Chief Minister. The Congress chief said the TRS Ministers, who were in New Delhi for the proposed fight with the Centre, were actually enjoying a holiday. If there was any seriousness Ministers K.T. Rama Rao and T. Harish Rao would have been part of that delegation, the PCC chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-expose-modi-kcr-nexus-in-farmers-rally-revanth/article38033508.ece
25 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cold wave continues in State||Cold nights continued across Telangana with 8.8 degree C recorded at Sonala, Adilabad district, and also in Medak, whereas it was 10.8 degree C in Rajendranagar, 12.6 degree C in Ramagundam and 13.4 degree C in Hyderabad, on Friday. The forecast for Saturday is dry weather to continue with the minimum temperatures expected to be in the range of 14-17 degree C., while the maximum temperatures are to be in the range of 27-30 degree C. No major change is expected in the twin cities with the likely temperatures to be about 32 degree C and 14 degree C. Temperatures recorded on Thursday were 31.6 degree, which is three degree more than normal during the day and a minimum of 13.4 degree C., which is two degrees less than normal. Meanwhile, the Department of Municipal Administration and Urban Development officials identified about 117 destitutes living on the roadsides in various municipal areas across the State and shifted them to 35 shelters being run by the Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cold-wave-continues-in-telangana/article38033484.ece
25 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Journalist killed in road accident||A young journalist working for a Telugu newspaper's online edition was killed in a road accident at Begumpet on Friday morning. O. Madhusudhan, 29, from Warasiguda, a sub-editor with Andhrajyothi news website, was on his way to office when his bike skidded near Government Degree College for Women, Begumpet, due to the scrapped road, and he came under the wheels of a container truck. The accident took place around 7 a.m. He suffered a severe head injury and died on the spot. Madhusudan was a native of Dhone in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/journalist-killed-in-road-accident/article38033482.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Matrimonial meet||Kalyana Kalpa Tarvu is organising a prospective Brahmin brides and bridegrooms meet ‘Kalyana Samarambham-2021’ at the Pullareddy Pharmacy College and Pulla Reddy Degree & PG College, opp. pillar 23, Mehdipatnam, on Dec.25. Call - 8008579012/9440586594 or log onto -http://kktvivaha.org/ wordpress/registration, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/matrimonial-meet/article38033501.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BrahMos Deputy CEO||Joint Management Board of India and Russia approved the appointment of Atul Dinkar Rane as CEO and CMD of BrahMos Aerospace Limited and senior DRDO scientist Sanjeev Kumar Joshi as Deputy CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-brahmos-deputy-ceo/article38033483.ece
25 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Book released - Briefs||Vice Chairman of the State Planning Board, B. Vinod Kumar and Manthani MLA, D. Sridhar Babu released the book ‘Infrastructure Contracts and Management’ at the Institute of Engineers here on Friday. The book is authored by Sridhar Mothe and deals with best practices of the construction industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-released-briefs/article38033690.ece
25 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Mobile tower battery theft gang busted||The LMD police on Friday arrested five members of an inter-State gang allegedly involved in 13 theft cases and seized 37 batteries of mobile towers, Rs. 1.20 lakh in cash, a four-wheeler and five mobile phones from their possession. Police said the arrested members of the gang were wanted in connection with many theft cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mobile-tower-battery-theft-gang-busted/article38033687.ece
25 December 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Police step up vigil||The Khammam police have stepped up vigil in the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits to prevent huge congregations during the year-end festivities as part of COVID-19 safety precautions. Prohibitory orders are already in force under Section 30 of the Police Act in the Khammam Police Commissionerate limits. Elaborate bandobust arrangements were made at all the main churches in the town for Christmas on Saturday. Police set up barricades on several main thoroughfares including the main road at Church Compound in the town to regulate traffic and ensure smooth conduct of the festival celebrations. All the churches in the district were decked up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-step-up-vigil/article38033691.ece
25 December 2021||WARANGAL,TELANGANA||Innovation hub to come up in Warangal||Warangal is set to emerge as a major hub for fostering a culture of innovation among children and youth through hands-on activities and projects in science and technology in future. The Telangana State Council of Science & Technology (TSCOST) and the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), Ministry of Culture, Government of India, inked a pact to set up an innovation hub at the Regional Science Centre. TSCOST member secretary Marupaka Nagesh and NCSM director S. Kumar signed the Memorandum of Understanding for setting up the innovation hub on Hunter Road in Hanamkonda in the heart of the tri-city of Warangal-Hanamkonda-Kazipet at a meeting held in Kolkata on Thursday, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/innovation-hub-to-come-up-in-warangal/article38033493.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Shyam Singha Roy’ review: Nani and Sai Pallavi make it immensely watchable||The actual hero introduction scene in the Telugu film Shyam Singha Roy happens at the midway mark. Coming into full view, gradually, is not a man who has just beaten up goons to rousing music but a fearless writer in Bengal of the 1960s and 70s. The typewriter, pen and the printing press are Shyam Singha Roy’s (Nani) weapons. When he is offered a gun to align with the naxal movement, he chooses the pen and asserts that it is mightier than the sword. Director Rahul Sankrityan and writer Satyadev Janga make us root for a writer, a thinking hero. Even the rousing title song plays to visuals of Shyam at work in the printing press and his books turning out to be bestsellers. There are two worlds — one of aspiring filmmaker Vasudev Ghanta (Nani in a dual role; the surname alludes to the actor’s real surname) and that of writer Shyam Singha Roy. Vasu’s world, shot in comparatively cooler tones by cinematographer Sanu John Varghese, could be that of any new filmmaker. After quitting his IT job, he makes a low budget short film which becomes his passport to make a feature film. The movie making process involving Keerthi (Krithi Shetty) and friends (Abhinav Gomatam and Ankith Koyya) is filled with lines reflecting the travails of emerging filmmakers, with a tinge of humour. The conflict arises from a legal suit after Vasu’s film becomes a success, paving the way for his discovery of Shyam. Though the most endearing portions of the film unfold in Bengal of yore, the portions leading up to it are not in vain. Vasu’s short film comes handy at a crucial moment later in the story. A sequence where Vasu fends off men who harass Keerthi becomes a tool to push the story forward. Same is the case with an intimate scene between Vasu and Keerthi. In contrast to Vasu and Keerthi, today’s urban youngsters, the Bengal portions introduce us to Shyam and Maitreyi aka Rosy (Sai Pallavi). Shyam is loosely modelled after reformers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy who were aware of their class privileges and raised their voice against religious, class and gender discrimination. The ideals that define Shyam and how he meets Maitreyi who is confined to the devadasi tradition, unfolds like poetry. Romance blooms as the two ride away on moonlit nights to the ‘Sirivennela’ song written by late Sirivennela Sitarama Sastry, sung by Anurag Kulkarni to Mickey J Meyer’s lilting music. Nani portrays Shyam with an innate sense of pride and effectively differentiates him from the cool dude Vasu. Shyam’s styling and body language hark back to the time of Ray and Guru Dutt.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Shyam Singha Roy  Cast: Nani, Sai Pallavi, Krithi Shetty  Direction: Rahul Sankrityan Music: Mickey J Meyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shyam-singha-roy-review-nani-and-sai-pallavi-make-it-immensely-watchable/article38033496.ece
25 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Cases surge in Gujarat||Gujarat reported 98 new cases and three deaths on Friday, resulting in the State Government extending night curfew in eight major cities by two hours. Curfew will be in force from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cases-surge-in-gujarat/article38033403.ece
25 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Orissa HC orders special scheme for prisoners’ children||The Orissa High Court has directed that a detailed scheme be formulated for children of prisoners. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Muralidhar and Justice A.K. Mohapatra passed a comprehensive judgment taking into account overcrowding in Odisha jails and other factors. Convict’s petition The Bench was hearing a petition filed by a convict lodged in the District Jail, Balasore. It highlighted various issues concerning the jails in the State. Subsequently, the court appointed Gautam Misra as amicus curiae to assist the court. The court noted that there were around 59 children in the State jails. It was informed about the schemes formulated both in Rajasthan and Maharashtra relating to children in prisons as well prisoners’ children who may not be inside prisons themselves. “During the hearing, both the Home Secretary as well as the Director General (Prisons) were open to suggestions for adopting the best elements of such schemes for children of prisoners in Odisha, which will include mandating a minimum stipend per child per month to meet the expenses connected with a decent standard of living and subsidising the entire expenses connected with the education of such children,” the order said. “A detailed scheme be formulated within two months and placed before the court by the next date,” the Bench directed. The next hearing will be on March 8. The High Court on Thursday directed the Odisha government to set up a high level committee chaired by the Home Secretary within 10 days for implementation of its order. The court had considered the condition of sevens jails as a sample.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/orissa-hc-orders-scheme-for-prisoners-children/article38033579.ece
25 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Restrictions in Haryana||The Haryana government on Friday announced night curfew between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. from December 25. In indoor and open spaces, gatherings of up to 50% of the hall/area capacity would be allowed, said an order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/restrictions-in-haryana/article38033404.ece
25 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Rights groups slam attack on RTI activist in Barmer, demand action||The brutal attack on a young right to information (RTI) activist in Barmer district has led to tension in western Rajasthan and spurred the State’s civil rights groups into action. Following the arrest of four persons for the assault, a six-member fact-finding team left here on Friday for Barmer to assess the situation. RTI activist Amar Singh Godara, 30, was allegedly abducted in a car earlier this week and forcibly taken to an isolated place where he was tortured and left for dead on the roadside. His legs were pierced with nails and he was forced to drink urine. The assailants told him that he was being “punished” for raising RTI queries on the village panchayat works. Mr. Godara had earlier lodged police complaints about illegal liquor trade and corruption in two government schemes — the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) — in the Kumpliya village panchayat, where he lives. His activism had reportedly angered the local liquor mafia as well as the current and former sarpanchs. Shifted to Jodhpur Having suffered multiple fractures, Mr. Godara has since been shifted to a government hospital in Jodhpur, where he is stated to be out of danger. The district administration has provided security to the activist and his family. He has alleged that he was hit with wires, chains, sticks and rods. The four arrested include the son of the sarpanch of the Pareu village panchayat, situated near Kumpliya. The role of former Kumpliya sarpanch Nagraj in the attack is being probed. The accused have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 365 (abduction), 355 (assault) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. The SHO of the Gida police station has been sent to the Police Lines till the investigation is completed. A police constable, under whose beat the illegal liquor trade was going on, has been suspended. Civil rights groups have demanded exemplary punishment to the guilty and an investigation into the village panchayat works for which Mr. Godara had raised RTI queries and made complaints. Kamal Tak of Suchna Evum Rozgar Adhikar Abhiyan said this was the third attack on an RTI activist in Barmer and was clearly a revenge against Mr. Godara’s exposure of corruption and irregularities in the MGNREGS, road construction and other works of the village panchayat. The team will visit the spot of the alleged assault and meet people in Barmer, besides the District Collector and the police officers. The team will raise the issues of financial assistance to the victim and compliance with a government order for audit of the incidents of attacks on RTI activists by a State-level committee. SHRC notice The State Human Rights Commission has also taken cognisance of the case and issued notices to the Director General of Police, the Excise Commissioner and the Barmer Collector, seeking a report on the incident and the action taken subsequently.  This is the third attack on an RTI activist in Barmer and an act of revenge against Mr. Godara Kamal Tak Suchna Evum Rozgar Adhikar Abhiyan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rights-groups-slam-attack-on-rti-activist-in-barmer-demand-action/article38033400.ece
25 December 2021||Mumbai,||Night curfew imposed in Maharashtra from today||Maharashtra has announced night curfew from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. beginning December 25 in view of rising number of COVID-19 cases. This was announced by the State's Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab in the Assembly on Friday. The new guidelines for the State also mandate restaurants, spa, gym, theatres and auditoriums to function at 50% capacity. These establishments will have to declare their total capacity. Indoor marriage ceremonies can have maximum 100 attendees at one go and in case of outdoor venues, the number cannot exceed 250. Similar restrictions will be applied for social, political and religious programs. The guidelines prohibit the assembly of five or more people at one place from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. In case of other programmes, attendees not more than 50% of the indoor venue capacity are allowed while the limit is 25% of the seating capacity for outdoor events. Sports programmes can have attendance up to 25% of total capacity of venue. The State Government has also authorised District Disaster Management committees to impose restrictions strictly based on the condition of the spread of the pandemic in their respective areas. Mr. Parab said that restrictions at airports will be decided by the Central Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/night-curfew-imposed-in-maharashtra-from-today/article38033406.ece
25 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Pandemic reduced Maharashtra’s income by Rs. 1-1.5 lakh crore’||Maharashtra’s Finance Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday told the Assembly that the pandemic has led to a reduction of the State’s income by around Rs. 1 to 1.5 lakh crore. Replying to a question raised by Shiv Sena MLA Prakash Abitkar on the State’s non-payment of the promised subsidy under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Farm loan waiver scheme, Mr. Pawar said the pandemic has drastically affected the State’s treasury. “Around Rs. 1 to 1.5 lakh crore of the State’s income has been reduced due to the pandemic. But we will not forget our promise. Once the State’s economy comes back on track, we will make the payment of subsidy,” he said. Mr. Pawar added that Maharashtra is the only State which offers Rs. 3 lakh farm loan at zero interest. Speaking in the Assembly later in the day, he also informed that the State awaits its GST reimbursement share of Rs. 31,624 crore from the central government. On MSRTC strike Talking about the ongoing strike by Maharashtra State Roadways Transport Corporation employees, Mr. Pawar said their demand for merger of the undertaking with the State Government was not acceptable. A dominant section of MSRTC employees have been on strike since October 28. “No matter who is in power, this demand is not acceptable. The State Government has already increased the basic pay of the employees by Rs. 5,000. The MSRTC employees shouldn't take any extreme step like the mill workers strike which destroyed textile mills in Mumbai,” he said in the House. In another question related to farmers’ suicides, State’s Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Vadettiwar informed the Assembly that a total of 1,076 cases were reported during June to October 2021. Out of these, 491 cases have been held eligible for compensation as per the State norms while 213 are ineligible. Rest cases are pending for verification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pandemic-reduced-maharashtras-income/article38033578.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bharat Darshan Park to be unveiled today||People in Delhi can catch a glimpse of the replicas of 21 monuments, including the likes of Taj Mahal, Victoria Memorial Hall and Mysore Palace, from across the country at the Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh, which is set to be inaugurated by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday. Undertaken by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the project was constructed over a period of 22 months in an area spanning across 8.5 acres using 350 metric tonnes of waste material — old automobile parts, iron rods and electricity poles. A senior SDMC official said while the cost approved for the project was Rs. 14 crore, the estimated expenditure stood close to Rs. 10 crore. “The opening of this park also comes as a good source of revenue for the SDMC. For adults, the ticket is priced at Rs. 100 during day hours, and Rs. 150 in the evenings, while the ticket prices for children below the age of 12 years stand at Rs. 50 and Rs. 75. The park will be closed on Mondays.” Previously, the civic body had launched a similar project titled ‘Waste to Wonder Park’ at Sarai Kale Khan. Apart from the cost, the senior official added that 17 more replicas of Indian monuments will be added in the second phase of the project. He said the replicas will be of monuments that are lesser-known. While construction of the Bharat Darshan Park started in 2020, a string of delays due to the pandemic had delayed its completion. The 21 replicas include the likes of Qutub Minar, Char Minar, Konark Temple, Nalanda Stupa, Meenakshi Temple, Sanchi Stupa and Gol Gumbaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bharat-darshan-park-to-be-unveiled-today/article38033399.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||5 held for bid to extort money from MoS Ajay Mishra Teni||Five persons have been arrested for allegedly threatening and trying to extort money from Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni, the police said. According to officers, four of them were arrested from Noida and one from Delhi. “The accused called up the PA of the Minister and attempted to extort money by threatening him of consequences,” a senior police officer. Threat calls The main accused have been identified as Amit, 24, and Kabir, 25. Officers said the accused used to operate their extortion racket from Noida. The accused were trying to extort money from the Minister claiming that they have some ‘incriminating’ video clips, but the police said the matter is being verified. The accused were presented before a Patiala House court where police said that Amit, a tech expert, used to make most of the calls. Police told the court that they used to operate from a park in Noida Sector 15. Police said they needed four days’ custody to record their voice samples and that “national security was at stake”. The accused have been sent to three days’ police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5-held-for-bid-to-extort-money-from-mos-ajay-mishra-teni/article38033396.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||Now, digital life certificate service at EDMC||In a bid to provide relief to pensioners who served at the East Delhi Municipal Corporation, the civic body has implemented a digital life certificate service which will help cut down the need for pensioners to travel to banks to verify their life certificates. A senior official said:“The banks that are registered with us are providing the service online through Aadhaar-based biometrics and photographs, once the individual downloads and registers on the bank’s mobile application.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/now-digital-life-certificate-service-at-edmc/article38033397.ece
25 December 2021||Dhaka,||40 killed, 70 injured as fire rips through ferry in Bangladesh||A crowded three-storey ferry carrying around 800 passengers caught fire on the Sugandha river in southern Bangladesh early on Friday, killing at least 40 people and injuring more than 70, officials said, in the latest maritime tragedy to hit the country criss-crossed by rivers. The fire broke out around 3 a.m. on Friday in the engine room of the Barguna-bound MV Abhijan-10 that started its journey from Dhaka, police and fire service officials said, adding that scores of passengers were missing. Officials familiar with the rescue efforts said 40 people were killed in the blaze, including nine who drowned after jumping off the vessel, but some private television channels, quoting officials, reported 41 deaths from the accident in southern Jhalakathi district, 250 kilometres from the Bangladesh capital Dhaka. “The rescue campaign is still under way, we can update you about the casualties later,” a district administration official told reporters. ‘Save my family’ As light broke, rescue workers combed through the still-smoking and charred remains of the ferry, called “launch” in Bangladesh, removing bodies wrapped in white plastic as distraught relatives waited on the muddy riverbank for news. “I have just found the body of my mother in law. She jumped in the river and died of drowning. I don’t know what happened to my wife and children,” said Mohammad Russell from the riverbank near Jhalakathi. “I searched the hospital. My wife and children weren’t there. I hope they survived by jumping into the river. Oh, Allah, save them,” he said. “My father, me, my six-month-old nephew and my sister were travelling together. When the fire broke, I gave the baby to a man. He was trying to save the baby. But now we cannot find them,” one woman survivor said. Probe ordered Junior Minister for Shipping Khaled Mahmud Chowdhury said three separate investigations had been launched to find out the background and other details of the accident. “The record suggests 310 listed passengers were travelling in the ferry, but we assume the actual number was much higher,” he added. Doctors at Sher-e-Bangla Medical College Hospital in the neighbouring Barishal district said they were currently treating 70 people, while fire service officials said some 50 more were being treated at other health facilities. The Coast Guard, fire service and police personnel are spearheading a search campaign covering rivers in three downstream districts. The accident took place at the confluence of rivers. (With AFP inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/40-killed-70-injured-as-fire-rips-through-ferry-in-bangladesh/article38032903.ece
25 December 2021||FRANKFURT,||Several Christmas flights grounded by Omicron||At least three major airlines said they have canceled dozens of flights because illnesses largely tied to the Omicron variant of COVID-19 have taken a toll on flight crew numbers during the busy holiday travel season. Germany-based Lufthansa said on Friday that it was cancelling a dozen long-haul transatlantic flights over the Christmas holiday period because of a “massive rise” in sick leave among pilots. The cancellations on flights to Houston, Boston and Washington come despite a “large buffer” of additional staff for the period. The airline says it couldn’t speculate on whether COVID-19 infections or quarantines were responsible because it was not informed about the sort of illness. Passengers were booked on other flights. Lufthansa said in a statement that “we planned a very large buffer for the vacation period. But this was not sufficient due to the high rate of people calling in sick.” U.S.-based Delta Air Lines and United Airlines said they had to cancel dozens of Christmas Eve flights because of staff shortages tied to Omicron. United canceled 170 flights, and Delta called off 133, according to FlightAware. “The nationwide spike in omicron cases this week has had a direct impact on our flight crews and the people who run our operation,” United said in a statement. “As a result, we’ve unfortunately had to cancel some flights and are notifying impacted customers in advance of them coming to the airport.” The airline said it was working to rebook as many people as possible. Delta said it canceled flights on day because of the impact of omicron and possibility of bad weather after it had “exhausted all options and resources — including rerouting and substitutions of aircraft and crews to cover scheduled flying”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/several-christmas-flights-grounded-by-omicron/article38032896.ece
25 December 2021||Hong Kong,||More Tiananmen memorials removed in Hong Kong||Universities in Hong Kong are removing memorials to the bloody suppression of the 1989 Chinese pro-democracy movement centered on Beijing’s Tiananmen Square. The Chinese University of Hong Kong early on Friday took down the Goddess of Democracy , a statue based on a figure created by art students and brought to the square shortly before the crackdown in which hundreds, if not thousands, of people were killed. The removal of the monuments testifies to the Communist Party’s efforts to erase the bloody events from public consciousness. It also comes as the party snuffs out democratic challenges in Hong Kong to its rule. On Thursday, a monument at Hong Kong University was dismantled, wiping out one of the city’s last remaining places of public commemoration of the crackdown. The government has never provided a figure on casualties and the pro-democracy movement remains a taboo topic in mainland China. Hong Kong and Macao, the two semi-autonomous territories, were the only places on Chinese soil where commemorations of the crackdown were allowed until authorities banned annual candlelight vigils for two consecutive years. In a statement, Chinese University confirmed the removal of the statue and said it had never authorised its display and that no organisation has claimed responsibility for its maintenance and management. Separately, Lingnan University also removed a bas relief memorial wall display dedicated to the memory of the June 4 movement. The university’s decision was predicated on the “overall protection of the university community after a recent assessment,” government-run Hong Kong Radio Television reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/more-tiananmen-memorials-removed-in-hong-kong/article38032899.ece
25 December 2021||Seoul,||S. Korean ex-President Park, in prison for graft, gets pardon||South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Friday he will pardon his chief conservative rival and predecessor, Park Geun-hye, who is serving a lengthy prison term for bribery and other crimes. Mr. Moon’s liberal government said the pardon is meant to promote national unity in the face of difficulties brought by the pandemic. Some observers say Mr. Moon may want to ease conservative criticism stemming from Park’s health problems, or even use her to split the opposition ahead of a presidential election in March. “We should move into a new era by getting over the pains of the past. It’s time to boldly pull together all our strengths for the future rather than fighting against each other while being preoccupied with the past,” Mr. Moon said in remarks released by his office.  Park, a daughter of assassinated dictator Park Chung-hee, was once the darling of conservatives in South Korea. Dubbed by local media as “the queen of elections,” she won election as South Korea’s first woman President in late 2012 by beating Mr. Moon, then a unified liberal candidate, by a million votes. She was impeached by lawmakers in late 2016, and was formally removed from office and arrested the following year over an explosive corruption scandal that prompted months of massive street protests. In January, the Supreme Court upheld her 20-year prison term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-korean-ex-president-park-in-prison-for-graft-gets-pardon/article38032901.ece
25 December 2021||Minneapolis,||U.S. ex-officer found guilty of manslaughter||A former U.S. police officer was found guilty on Thursday of manslaughter after she shot dead a young African-American man, claiming she mistook her gun for her Taser during a traffic stop. Kim Potter, 49, was convicted of the first and second degree manslaughter of Daunte Wright, a 20-year-old father, in Brooklyn Center, a suburb of Minneapolis, Minnesota, in April.  The former police officer now faces a maximum of 15 years in prison on the first charge and 10 years on the second, with the sentencing expected to take place in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-ex-officer-found-guilty-of-manslaughter/article38032894.ece
25 December 2021||Moscow,||Russia slaps $98-mn fine on Google||A Moscow court on Friday slapped Google with an unprecedented fine of nearly $100 million, while Meta (formerly Facebook) received a penalty of $27 million. Moscow has repeatedly taken legal action against Western social media giants for allegedly not moderating their content properly and interfering in the country’s affairs. But so far fines on Facebook parent company Meta and Google have stretched into the tens of millions of rubles, not billions. However on Friday a Moscow court fined Google a record 7.2 billion rubles ($98 million), while Meta received a fine of 1.9 billion rubles ($27 million) for repeatedly failing to delete illegal content. “For the first time, a Russian court has imposed fines that make up a share of the annual revenue of these companies in Russia,” Russia’s state communications regulator Roskomnadzor said in a statement. The regulator said that Google and Meta had “ignored multiple demands” to remove materials that incite religious hatred and promote views of “extremist and terrorist organisations”, among other violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-slaps-98-mn-fine-on-google/article38032897.ece
25 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. to lift travel ban on south African nations||The United States will next week lift the travel ban imposed on several southern African nations when the Omicron variant of the coronavirus was first detected, officials said on Friday. Countries around the world restricted travel from southern Africa after the variant was detected in South Africa, which reported Omicron to the World Health Organization (WHO) on November 24. The WHO and the UN spoke out against the travel bans; South Africa said it was being punished for being transparent. “The restrictions gave us time to understand Omicron and we know our existing vaccines work against Omicron, esp boosted,” Kevin Munoz, the White House Assistant Press Secretary, said on Twitter. He said the travel ban would be lifted on December 31.   The ban applied to South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-lift-travel-ban-on-south-african-nations/article38032898.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A Christmas of grief in Mon||Seven minutes before all hell broke loose, Kepwang Wangsa Konyak recalled handing over his phone to a soldier on the passenger seat of one of the three SUVs parked midway on the steep kutcha road between the hilltop Oting village and the coal mines of Tiru Valley close to Assam. The soldier, his face barely visible in the dark, appeared to be in command. He was the only one who spoke but in monosyllables. Kepwang, the president of the Oting Students’ Union, was among scores of villagers who had converged past 10 p.m. on December 4 at the spot from where they had heard a volley of gunshots about six hours earlier. Some had come down from Oting village about 4 km uphill and some from Upper Tiru and the adjoining Lower Tiru villages a couple of kilometres downhill. Kepwang, based in Mon, the headquarters of Nagaland’s Mon district about 65 km away, was not supposed to be in Oting that night. The death of an elderly neighbour had brought him home on December 3, more than a fortnight before his usual trip to the village for Christmas. He rode down to Tiru Valley the following afternoon to catch up with friends and relatives working in the coal mines. He was particularly interested in meeting his “richer” cousin Shomwang, owner of a coal mine, and extracting Rs. 500 from him for khana-peena (food and drinks). “I was having tea and snacks with his money at Tamulbari (a junction from where the road to Oting snakes up from near the opencast mines) when Shomwang drove past in his pickup truck, carrying seven of my friends and cousins. He turned towards Oting,” Kepwang said. Minutes later, at about 4:30 p.m, Kepwang heard gunshots in the direction where the pickup truck had gone out of view. The gunshots were unlike those produced by the ubiquitous muzzle-loading hunting rifles that almost every adult Konyak male villager carries as a habit, along with a machete. It had been a while since the people of Oting and nearby hamlets had heard such gunshots. Members of two rival extremist groups had an exchange of fire in a jungle close to Oting in 2001. Three extremists and a soldier had died in two encounters over the past five years — one between Oting and Wangla village and the other at Lapa village. The shots of December 4 sent a chill down Kepwang’s spine; he knew something was wrong. ‘Night of madness’ “The mind said encounter, but the heart hoped not. There were 10 motorcycles at Tamulbari at the time the shots were fired. All of us headed uphill, with three of us who knew how to converse in Hindi and English leading the way. Some soldiers stopped us about 200 metres from where the presumed encounter happened and we took a detour to Oting as told to,” Kepwang said. The villagers grew worried when eight of their sons did not reach home after more than three hours. A public announcement sanctioned by the Angh, the local king, was made about the missing men and the need to search for them. Messages were also sent to their brethren in Tiru Valley. “The Army vehicles, all Assam-registered and driven by civilians, were ready to leave when we reached the spot. We saw in the near-darkness three soldiers jump onto the back of a pickup truck and try to cover something. I reached out and felt a head, a leg and a hand, cold and sticky. I withdrew my hand instinctively, asked the soldiers what was up. They did not speak,” Kepwang said. He went to the vehicle where the soldier who seemed to be in command sat. “At 10:12 p.m., I called the DC (Deputy Commissioner of Mon district, Thavaseelan K.) and told him something bad had happened. I handed over the phone to the soldier and asked him to speak to the DC. I don’t know what they discussed, but the soldier handed the phone back to me after about two minutes when my sister called in desperation to know about our missing men,” Kepwang said. The sister’s call probably saved Kepwang’s life. As he moved away from the Army vehicle to speak, some villagers spotted the bodies on the pickup truck and charged at the soldiers, who exited the vehicles, snatched three motorcycles of the villagers and went towards the Assam border. “They were shooting on the run, as if we were enemies,” Wangnai, one of the 35 survivors of that “night of madness”, said from his hospital bed in Dimapur, Nagaland’s commercial hub about 250 km southwest of Oting. He is recovering from two bullet injuries. Before long, the spot turned into a battleground — sophisticated firearms versus machetes — leaving seven villagers dead and the Army vehicles in flames. When the local police arrived, there were 13 bodies, six of them coal miners killed at around 4:30 p.m. in what the Army called a case of “mistaken identity”. One of the slain coal miners was Shomwang, shot through the windscreen. Missing among those who Shomwang was driving back to Oting were Sheiwang and Yeihwang. The soldiers, said to be from an elite commando unit, had reportedly evacuated and dropped them at the Assam Medical College and Hospital in Dibrugarh. On December 22, Sheiwang was shifted to the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital for further treatment while Yeihwang was expected to be discharged from the Dibrugarh hospital soon after Christmas. Cold-blooded murders A signboard quoting Mahatma Gandhi greets people entering Nagaland’s Namsa from Assam’s Namtola across a rickety bridge spanning a stream that virtually demarcates the inter-State boundary. It reads: “The future depends on what we do in the present.” The signboard is close to a flex poster displaying the photos of the 14 civilians killed on December 4 and the resultant unrest in Mon town on December 5. Similar posters are strung at strategic points along the road to Mon and elsewhere in Nagaland, a reminder of the greater goal — the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) of 1958 that is believed to give the armed forces personnel the licence to kill — besides the fight for justice to the victims of the botched Army operation. Tahwang Angh, whose kingdom comprises Oting and Tiru Valley, agrees with the Konyak Union that the future of the Nagas has to be protected by ensuring the present is answerable for the “cold-blooded murders in the name of counter-insurgency operations based on credible intelligence”. The union is the apex body of the Konyaks, one of Nagaland’s 14 principal Naga communities, that dominates the Mon district. The Angh’s standout two-storey house is on the tip of the hill on which Oting rests, lording over 221 other houses. His house is barely 400 metres from the village cemetery where fresh graves are under shades made of bamboo and palm leaves. The freshest is the mass grave of 12 of Oting’s sons laid in a row, each — according to Konyak custom — adorned by his worldly possessions. The 13th victim is buried in his native village, Upper Tiru. “That should have been me lying there instead of him,” 65-year-old Monyam said, pointing to one of the graves in which Langtun (36) lay buried. “God has perhaps punished me for some sin I may have committed.” Monyam had grown used to his elder son, who joined the Nagaland Armed Police 10 years ago, staying away for months due to security assignments elsewhere in the State. “I will have to make it a habit to celebrate Christmas without Langtun for as long as I live,” he said, wishing the Lord would allow him enough time on earth to see Yingmai, Langtun’s two-month-old daughter, come of age. Recovering in Dimapur, 30-year-old Wangnai would be away from his family for the first time during Christmas. “But at least I am alive unlike some of my saathis (friends),” he said. He will not be alone. The Konyak Union has issued an order asking all members of the community in Nagaland and elsewhere in the Northeast to refrain from merry-making, feasting and any kind of extravagance. “Only church services, special prayers and marriages have been exempted. We owe this much to our brothers who have died for no fault of theirs,” Wango Konyak, the union’s secretary, said. T. Nokyem, the pastor of Oting’s Baptist Church, announced the quietest Christmas ever for the village during a special service for the departed on the evening of December 22, a day after all the villagers marched to the spot where the incident had taken place. They offered prayers near Shomwang’s bullet-riddled pickup truck and the burnt Army vehicles, cordoned off by crime scene tapes, and vowed not to relent unless the killers are punished and the people who matter in India offer an unconditional apology. “In 12 years of my service as a pastor, I have never experienced a Christmas of grief. We will visit the graves of our men and pray for their souls and also for good sense to the trigger-happy,” the pastor said. Village elders said the hill where Oting stands today was chosen in the late 1800s for its strategic location – close to the plains of present-day Assam and offering vantage points to keep a watch on enemies in case of a war. “Our people never ever joined the underground groups and we have at least 20 of our men in the armed forces, with whom we have had a cordial relationship for a long time. We never imagined they would do to us what even enemies may not,” Kepwang said. “Why is it so difficult for the Army and the Government of India to admit their mistake and apologise without giving operational excuses? God forbid, what would have happened had our people killed 14 soldiers? Would we have been living in peace,” the pastor asked, recalling Operation Bluebird at Oinam village in Manipur’s Senapati district in 1987. An account by the Naga People’s Movement for Human Rights said 27 people, including children, were starved or tortured to death in a counter-insurgency operation following an attack on a post of the paramilitary Assam Rifles by the Isak-Muivah faction of the extremist National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M). A coal-powered local economy Mon and the adjoining Longding district of Arunachal Pradesh have seldom been the domain of the NSCN (I-M) unlike its rival Khaplang faction. The NSCN (I-M) has been on ceasefire mode since 1997. The split-prone NSCN (Khaplang), now NSCN (K-Yung Aung), followed suit in 2001 but walked out of the peace process in March 2015. The topography – dense jungles, difficult hills and poor roads – of these two districts offered passages for the Myanmar-based NSCN (K/K-YA) to carry out hit-and-run operations. The districts also became conduits for the members of the Assam-based United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent). A dossier prepared by the Army before the December 4 incident said extremists of various shades use the tea, coal and oil belt from Nagaland’s Namsa in the northeast through Oting, Tiru and Naginimora in the southwest for extortion. According to the Nagaland Coal Policy, 2005, by the State Directorate of Geology and Mining, Nagaland has a total coal reserve of 150 million metric tonnes. Borjan and Tiru Valley in Mon district, Konya in Tuensang district and Changki-Merakeyong in Mokokchung district have a total proven reserve of 11 MMTs. A report by the Public Accounts Committee (2020-21), tabled in the 60-member State Assembly, said 44 out of 49 coal mining units identified by the Nagaland Pollution Control Board had no authorisation. The coal mining practised in the State is mostly rat-hole but some districts have opencast mining, the report added. The coal mines of Tiru Valley, on one bank of the Teyep River snaking towards Assam, are about two decades old. Mining on the other bank beyond which Oting is situated is locally prohibited for possible damage to the landscape sustaining the tea, broomstick and betel net growers of the area. These were the prime sources of income for the villagers before they struck coal to make thrice the money in daily wages. The Army report said the valley has 51 coal mines owned by as many or fewer people. Each mine produces an average of 10,000 tonnes of coal per annum, each tonne fetching an average price of Rs. 1,00,000. While a landowner gets Rs. 800-1,000 per tonne as royalty, the extremists reportedly extract at least Rs. 5 lakh per coal mine a year. “Apart from Tiru, the illegal coal mines in the Mon district are at Nokzang, Wakching and Pogong… Several local mine owners favour the presence of the Assam Rifles, as the insurgent groups who run parallel systems of taxation often demand money from them. The Assam Rifles provides a deferent in these areas,” a senior Army officer acquainted with the area said. There is a theory that the special commando unit could have been taken for a ride with planted information about the movement of NSCN (K-YA) members on December 4 in a vehicle similar to the one Shomwang drove, in a bid to keep the armed forces away from the coal belt. “After the incident, many villagers fear that it may take ages for the relationship with the armed forces to mend,” the officer said. The Oting villagers trash the “presumption” that mining is controlled by the extremists. They point to Article 371A that guarantees special rights to the Nagas with regard to the ownership of land and natural resources. “There is no question of the mining activities being illegal since the government has little to do with it. Mining is done through proper agreements with contractors from Assam and elsewhere in the country, and they include some Bharatiya Janata Party MLAs,” a villager said, declining to be quoted. But the Oting Citizen, a forum of the villagers, admitted they have been charging Rs. 500-1,000 as “tax” per dumper carrying 15-16 tonnes of coal at a check gate opening into Assam where the coal is usually sold. “We have been using the money collected since 2019 to build pathways and other public amenities because the government hasn’t done that for us. A shortcut to Mon and the track to Tiru, which saves time for our people going to Assam, are examples of such projects,” a member of the forum said. The villagers hope the money from the coal mines – their lifeline – would someday help them bring piped water to Oting; tankers hired by them make several trips to a spring 15 km downhill daily. And repair the “main road” to Namsa that was paved in the 1990s. No to AFSPA A solution to the “Naga political issue” has been as elusive as Oting’s wish for a proper road. While the Naga National Political Groups, a conglomerate of seven rival organisations, said the Oting massacre could taint the peace process, the NSCN (I-M) upped the ante against the AFSPA. The 60-member Nagaland Assembly adopted a resolution for the repeal of the AFSPA and demanded an apology from the “appropriate authority” for the botched Army operation on December 4. “The incident was a misuse and abuse of the AFSPA that simply needs to go,” the State’s Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio said, insisting on efforts to strengthen the peace process dented by the “mindless operation”. Nagaland’s pain has been felt by its north-eastern neighbours and the country beyond. For instance, Kohima-based poet Beni Sumer Yanthan’s poem titled ‘Oting’ has been translated into the Tamil. The people of Oting hope the December 4 case, originally registered at the Tizit police station and being probed by the Special Investigation Team headed by Inspector-General of Police, Limasunep Jamir, would provide justice to the victims. They also hope a probe constituted by the Army would for once fix responsibilities. The families of the victims had initially declined to accept the compensation of Rs. 16 lakh each offered by the Central and State governments. They have all accepted the compensation although it “cannot really fill the vacuum in their lives,” Mon’s Deputy Commissioner Thavaseelan K. said. “We cannot bring the dead back to life, but the government can set an example by showing no one can kill with impunity, with or without a protective shield,” Nenwang said. His younger twin brothers Langwang and Thapwang were among the 13 who were gunned down on December 4. Alem, Langtun’s widow, recounted how passionately he had uttered “till death do us part” during their wedding at the village church a little more than a year ago. “He had so little time to live…” she said, fighting back the tears, also recalling how Langtun would kiss their daughter Yingmai goodbye on Monday mornings and would caress her after returning on Saturday evenings. “I want Yingmai to grow up in a world where people pursuing a livelihood do not leave home forever,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-christmas-of-grief-in-mon/article38032893.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Under Modi 2.0, a course-corrected foreign policy||There is a new momentum in India’s foreign policy, a clinical sharpness to its external policy design, articulation and implementation, in clear departure from the ‘song and dance diplomacy’ that characterised the foreign policy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi 1.0. After wasting several crucial years in the political promotion of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Prime Minister aboard, there is today a visible transformation in India’s engagement of the world. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) appears to have taken back the reins of the country’s foreign policy from the BJP apparatchiks, preferring substance over style. A conciliatory policy If Hindutva ideology and imperious aggression characterised New Delhi’s diplomacy towards the region/neighbourhood during Modi 1.0, India’s neighbourhood policy today is an act in careful, well-calibrated and well thought-out policy overtures towards most of the region, with a deep desire to win back the neighbours. During Modi 1.0, relations with Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka (as well as the attitude towards the Taliban until they overran Kabul in August 2021), for instance, were complicated due to ideological overtones and aggressive policies. The intervention in Kathmandu’s Constitution-making process and the subsequent (undeclared) blockade of Nepal; irking the Bangladeshis by offensive references; attempting to be the kingmaker in the Sri Lankan elections, among others, seemed to stem from an imperious attitude. Such an ‘either you are with us or against us’ attitude prompted many of India’s neighbours to opt for the latter part of the choice allowing China a free pass, at least to some extent, into India’s traditional sphere of influence. The Sangh Parivar’s deep-seated desire to build a Hindu religious plank with Nepal along the lines of V.D. Savarkar’s vision — “The whole territory including Kashmere and Nepal, Gomantak, Pondicherry and other French possessions constitutes our national and territorial unit and must be consolidated in a free and centralised state” — did not outlast Mr. Modi’s 2014 visit, clad in saffron attire, a rudraksh garland and sandal paste smeared on his forehead, to the Pashupatinath temple in Nepal. Gone are those days, so it seems. The manner in which the BJP-led government reached out to the Taliban shedding its past reservations and its outreach to the West Asian/Gulf states are noteworthy. India’s new Nepal policy devoid of Hindutva fantasies and diplomatic imperiousness, and friendly outreach to both Bangladesh and Sri Lanka are already yielding results. If indeed ‘illegal Bangladeshi migrants’ do not become an issue in the upcoming elections in India, the warmth generated by the recent golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh’s liberation from Pakistan (with Indian help) could further strengthen the relationship. India’s foreign policy interests should not be allowed to become a handmaiden to the BJP’s domestic political ambitions. Effective multilateralism New Delhi’s multilateral engagements have also become more result-driven and interest-based which it seems to pursue without getting caught in a holier-than-thou rhetoric. India’s membership and presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) witnessed some resolute positions from the country. New Delhi’s able framing of the world body’s response to the crisis in Afghanistan (especially when India was holding the presidency of the UNSC) along with an outreach to the Taliban, when much of the world was struggling to make up its mind on how to deal with Taliban 2.0, was remarkable. India’s far more determined engagement of the Quad(India, Australia, Japan and the U.S.) and the global climate change negotiations in Glasgow, while at the same time pushing back attempts at securitising climate change at the UNSC, also indicate that it is willing to be a responsible stakeholder in global/regional governance forums. The Modi government’s transition from political rhetoric to purposeful action is clear. Balancing contradictions For a country like India, located in an unfriendly neighbourhood and caught amidst the vagaries of great power competition among the United States, Russia and China, it is not easy to balance the various geopolitical contradictions. New Delhi’s foreign policy has, of late, exhibited a great deal of agility and flexibility in managing those contradictions to the extent possible. Consider the following. The complex balancing act that New Delhi plays between Russia and the United States at a time when India is closer to the U.S. than ever in its history highlights diplomatic nimbleness and sophistication. Buying the S-400 missile system from Russia risking potential sanctions from Washington, and strengthening its participation in the Quad despite strong words from Moscow show an ability to smart-balance systemic contradictions. In the broader West Asian region too, New Delhi’s balancing acts have been remarkable: between Arab States and Israel, Israel and Iran, Iran and the Gulf states, and Iran and the U.S. In all of these, Iran appears to be the weakest link in New Delhi’s West Asian balancing acts, but that is a different story. The arrival of the West Asian Quad consisting of the U.S., India, UAE and Israel is yet another indication of the new-found foreign policy finesse in New Delhi. On the flipside, however, the question is whether New Delhi can deliver on all these promising partnerships given the acute staff shortage in the MEA. If New Delhi aspires to be a system-shaping power, it must have more men and women to carry out its work. India’s relations with China too has witnessed a certain amount of careful balancing. Despite the military stand-off on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), bilateral trade has only shot up: India-China trade, for instance, increased by a record 62.7% in the first half of 2021. New Delhi has also been able to engage the China-dominated Shanghai Cooperation Organisation even as it is strengthening its participation in the Quad. Realities of geoeconomics Modi 2.0 has also appeared to have realised the folly of resisting global and regional economic integration. Mr. Modi’s first term exhibited a great deal of scepticism towards free trade agreements (FTA). When Mr Modi assumed office in 2014, his government even announced that it would review all existing FTAs to see if they were helpful to the country. What followed was a depressed Indian approach towards FTAs. In 2019, India decided not to become part of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). The only FTA signed by the Modi government in the past seven years was with the ASEAN in 2015, even though much of the work for that was done by the Manmohan Singh government. However, today there seems to be a rethink in the government about the utility of FTAs. New Delhi is scheduled to begin FTA negotiations with the United Kingdom and Canada in 2022 and may start discussing the possibility of another one with the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. It may finalise an FTA with the United Arab Emirates in 2022. And this comes in the wake of the Government’s decision to resume long-suspended negotiations with the European Union for a comprehensive trade and investment treaty. The Modi government seems to have realised that its desire to make India a $5 trillion economy (from the current $3 trillion) by 2024-25 will remain a fantasy unless it is able to proactively pursue trade agreements, among other things. In sum, New Delhi appears to have realised that the pursuit of national interest is a serious business and must move beyond the promotion of ideological predilections and personality cults. A rebooted Indian foreign policy must find ways of imagining a new regionalism with or without the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), and must shed its obsession with Pakistan and terrorism. Pakistan or terrorism pose no existential threats to India nor should New Delhi spend too much diplomatic capital on them. You are, after all, defined also by your obsessions. Happymon Jacob teaches at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi and is the founder of the Council for Strategic and Defense Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/under-modi-20-a-course-corrected-foreign-policy/article38032887.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Simple ways to better counts of Omicron in India||In the last three weeks it has been impossible to miss the slow building of tension over the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The news from Europe is not good with regard to the rise in cases and also the severity of the disease. Every day, the national news has reports of case numbers that are slowly rising: 100 last week, 200 this week. So, is there any indication of the actual number of cases in India? Should one be worried about a virus which has infected about 200 people in a land of over 1.3 billion, and when many are vaccinated? Cause of error Let me attempt to put the numbers in perspective. The reported cases of identified Omicron infections come from a genomic surveillance which is mounted by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG). Genome sequencing is complex, and  only 38 laboratories across the country (https://bit.ly/3ED4vrP) have the ability to sequence a virus which is as infectious as this. As a result, only a small fraction of infected individuals contribute virus samples for sequencing. The numbers reported by the media are the number out of this small sample which show infection by the Omicron variant. So, the media makes an error when it reports this as the number of cases in the country. A calculation How can we do better? Let us think in terms of fractions or percentages. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) reports that in December, India performed about 12 lakh RT-PCR tests a day, and about 0.5% of the test results were positive. So, in the first two weeks of December, about 1.7 crore tests were performed nationally, and about 80,000 people tested positive during this time. The number of genomes sequenced by INSACOG is perhaps 1% of these. This means that of the 800 or so samples taken, about 200 tested positive by the end of the second week of December. If the sample of the virus genomes to be sequenced was drawn randomly from the newly infected, then one would be forced to conclude that there are about 20,000 Omicron positive cases in India. However, all public health agencies around the world have proceeded on the assumption that the Omicron variant arose recently and is still being transported around the world. So, the sequencing effort has been biased towards international travellers. This means that the incidence of Omicron infections would be somewhat smaller. Could it be that only about 2,000 people are infected, i.e. , about 2.5% of cases? If the numbers were really that low, then about 80% of the virus samples would have been taken from travellers. The remaining 20% of the samples is then likely to give no Omicron positive results at all. But we know from news reports that at least about 10 cases are from people without a history of recent international travel. Just based on the numbers that we know from the media and from other public sources, we realise that more than 5% and definitely less than 25% of the cases seen in the first two weeks of December are due to the Omicron variant. The number of cases is then closer to being somewhere between 5,000 and 25,000 in this period. Now that the total number of cases per day is beginning to rise, the lower number has become less likely. Improving the estimates Of course, these are very rough numbers. The agencies which handle the data and the scientists who run statistical models would be able to refine these estimates immensely and narrow the range of uncertainty. If the number of genomes sequenced from infected travellers and others are separately given by INSACOG, and tagged by the date on which the sample was collected, it would be much easier for you and me to make these estimates. However, there might be concerns about medical privacy which prevent the Government and its agencies from making public such details about the data. One should also be wary of other mistakes that the intentional bias in sampling virus genomes could lead to. If international travellers arrive more often in Delhi and Mumbai, then could the bias in sampling wrongly lead us to underestimate the speed of the spread of Omicron in the rest of India? The numbers will change every week. Is Omicron spreading faster than Delta, the variant which gave India its second wave? If yes, then week by week, the fraction of Omicron cases would increase, as it out-competes the Delta variant in infecting people. This has happened in other parts of the world, and it could happen here too. I have indicated here the kind of logic that an interested mediaperson or a layman can use. If you make informed judgments about whether to invest your savings in fixed deposits or in shares, then you make more sophisticated numerical estimates quite regularly. Given the numbers made available by the MoHFW and INSACOG, it is possible for you to estimate your personal health risks from COVID-19, whether you stay at home or travel on work or on vacation. Sourendu Gupta is a theoretical physicist at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research Mumbai. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/simple-ways-to-better-counts-of-omicron-in-india/article38032889.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Striking fear||A conclave of Hindu religious leaders and political activists in saffron robes held recently in the holy city of Haridwar has brought great shame to the country and its constitutional and religious values. In a so-called Dharam Sansad, or a religious parliament, key personages with a track record of inflammatory and provocative speeches made unconscionable calls for genocide against Muslims and asked Hindus to arm themselves. There were other offensive themes running through the speeches, parts of which have come out in the public domain in the form of video footage, indicating an alarming zeal to spread hatred for minorities and render them vulnerable to armed violence. It requires no deep knowledge of recent national history to say that the genocidal tenor of the conference is the apotheosis of divisive and sectarian tendencies that have been displayed with great impunity by Hindutva organisations in recent decades, but more audaciously since 2014. The references to a Myanmar-like cleansing campaign, the threat of mutiny ‘more horrible than 1857’ against the state if the outcome of the conference was not adopted as official policy, and the astounding claim by one speaker that he would have turned into a ‘Godse’ and shot a former Prime Minister in Parliament if he had had the opportunity, are all indicative of an organised offensive against the rule of law and the Constitution. There is, however, no cause to be surprised at the tepid response of the Uttarakhand authorities in registering an FIR based on a solitary complaint, naming one person, that too, after much outrage and criticism. A feigned and manufactured sense of fear about the future of Hindus and Hinduism in India has been the hallmark of right-wing politics. The conclave of religious leaders is providing an outlet for such rabid thoughts, and the confidence with which messages of hatred are being bandied about suggests an expectation of official patronage. Those occupying positions of power and high offices in government, especially the Prime Minister and Union Home Minister, must take a clear stand against this. The political leadership must explicitly denounce the event and affirm that it stands by the constitutional values of secularism, religious tolerance and the preservation of the rule of law. The police in Uttarakhand should act more resolutely and invoke all applicable provisions of law, and not be content with a solitary FIR under Section 153A of the IPC, which deals with promoting enmity between groups. In a country where ‘sedition’ and ‘terrorism’ charges are invoked in a heartbeat, the call to a revolt and mass cleansing has not evoked a similar response. It may be easy to dismiss the hate speeches in the ‘Dharam Sansad’ as representing only a fringe within the majority. However, given the vehemence and frequency of these articulations in the public domain, it is only a matter of time before the phenomenon spreads among more moderate sections. Hate propaganda must not win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/striking-fear/article38032882.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A shot in the arm||If full vaccination using any COVID-19 vaccine greatly reduces a person’s risk of progressing to severe disease and death, then the move by the U.S. FDA to grant emergency-use authorisation (EUA) to two oral antiviral drugs for certain categories of people who are likely to become severely ill provides a much-needed fillip to fight the disease. Unlike in the case of remdesivir, these drugs — Pfizer’s paxlovid and Merck’s molnupiravir — are oral pills and so can be administered outside hospital settings. They are meant for use by people with mild-moderate disease within five days of symptom onset. Paxlovid, an antiviral drug, was the first to be granted an EUA on December 22, and has been greenlighted for above-12 years use; molnupiravir — with an EUA on December 23 — is for only above-18 years use. Paxlovid has 88% efficacy in preventing COVID-19-related hospitalisation or death, while molnupiravir has only 30% efficacy in achieving the same endpoint. The efficacy of molnupiravir dropped from 50% during interim analysis to 30% in the final analysis of the trial data. The FDA specifically mentions that molnupiravir is recommended when “alternative treatment options are not accessible or clinically appropriate”. Both pills are likely to work against Omicron, with the biggest gainers being immunocompromised people who may lack sufficient immune protection despite being fully vaccinated. Antivirals can never substitute vaccines and, hence, every eligible individual should get fully vaccinated as soon as possible, especially as the highly transmissive Omicron variant is spreading. Since treatment should begin within five days of symptoms onset, access to testing and turnaround time should be vastly improved. At the same time, indiscriminate use of the drugs should be avoided — this will not only cause complications for individual patients but also lead to drug resistance. Unlike in the case of COVID-19 vaccines, where access and availability have become a sore point for many low- and middle-income countries, both drugs will be far more freely accessible there. This is because of the agreement that the companies have reached with the Medicines Patent Pool. As in the agreement, generic manufacturers are permitted to produce and supply paxlovid to 95 low- and middle-income countries, while 105 countries will have access to the generic version of molnupiravir. India should be able to manufacture the generic versions of both drugs and supply them to the approved countries as well as access them here at a lower price. With increased coverage of vaccination and easier availability of treatment, the world will be better placed to deal with the fast-mutating virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-shot-in-the-arm/article38032883.ece
25 December 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Monetary policy is financially inclusive’||India’s monetary policy is by design financially inclusive, the evidence of which is still coalescing, and increased inclusion will over time enhance policy effectiveness by fostering societal intolerance to inflation, said Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Deputy Governor Michael D. Patra. “Although it is empirically observed that there is a two-way relationship between monetary policy and financial inclusion, it is unambiguous that financial inclusion is able to dampen inflation and output volatility,” he said, addressing a meet on financial inclusion on Friday. “This is achieved by smoothing consumption by enabling people to draw down financial savings in difficult times for everyday needs. In the process, it makes people interest-sensitive. Moreover, inflation targeting monetary policy ensures that even those at the fringe of financial inclusion are secured from adverse income shocks that hit them when prices rise unconscionably,” Dr. Patra added. Observing that financial inclusion appeared to have increased, with the level of the RBI’s financial inclusion index rising from 49.9 in March 2019, to 53.1 in March 2020, and further to 53.9 in March 2021, he said: “The evidence is still forming and strong conclusions from its analysis may be premature, but India’s monetary policy is by design” inclusive. Financial inclusion appeared to be the lowest in rural, agriculture-dependent areas where food was the main source of income. “Recent work in the tradition of dualistic models shows that in the presence of financial frictions – in this case, financially excluded or credit-constrained consumers existing alongside those that have full access to formal finance – flexibly determined food prices have a critical role to play in influencing the real wages and incomes of the excluded and hence their aggregate demand,” he said. “Interest rate change don’t matter so much. When food prices rise, the extra income earned by the financially excluded is not saved but instead consumption is increased, leading to higher aggregate demand,” he said. Price stability target In this kind of a situation, the efficacy of monetary policy in achieving its stabilisation objective increases by targeting a measure of prices that includes food prices rather than one that excludes them such as core inflation, Dr. Patra noted. In India, food accounts for 46% of the CPI, among the highest shares globally. “The lower the level of financial inclusion, therefore, the stronger is the case for price stability being defined in terms of headline inflation rather than any measure of core inflation that strips out food and fuel,” the RBI Deputy Governor emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/monetary-policy-is-financially-inclusive/article38032871.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Flipkart reports jump in DIY product, tool orders in 2021||Flipkart, the Walmart owned e-commerce platform, reported a 56.6% growth in the sales of do-it-yourself (DIY) products and tools meant for interior designing, home fixing and gardening in 2021. A large part of these sales came from Tier-3 cities and smaller towns and some 83% of these customers were men, according to Flipkart. The most searched items in 2021 were drill machines, inverters with batteries, bathroom accessories, glue guns, soldering iron, solar panel batteries and washing machines, said the e-tailer. Trends around decorating household spaces and upgrading bathroom accessories were observed. This led to a surge in sales of power and hand tool kits, cloth dryer stands, power drills, angle grinders, etc. According to data shared by Flipkart, gardening emerged as one of the popular activities. Planting and plant pot decorations topped the indoor interior set-up trends, witnessing an increase in the sales of plant containers, seeds, saplings, grass trimmers, hose pipes, soil and manure. The gardening segment grew 60.9% and to meet the growing demand, Flipkart said it had stocked up on a wide variety of pots, plants and plant seeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flipkart-reports-jump-in-diy-product-tool-orders-in-2021/article38032860.ece
25 December 2021||COIMBATORE,||‘Reverse GST increase on textiles and apparel or risk job losses’||The Union Finance Minister should call for an urgent meeting of the GST Council, which must reverse its decision to raise the GST rate on several textile and apparel products to 12% from January 1, Amit Mitra, Principal Chief Adviser to the Chief Minister of West Bengal, urged on Friday. Citing a study conducted by a national level body of the textile and clothing sector, Dr. Mitra told reporters at a virtual press meet that it was estimated that one lakh small-scale units would be forced to close down and almost 15 lakh people rendered jobless if the GST rate increases took effect. The apparel textile market at a retail level was said to be worth Rs. 5.4 lakh crore. Moving to 12 % GST for several products meant manufacturers would need more working capital. When funds were not available, the units would either shut down or shift to the informal sector. It could also lead to higher imports. And, if the prices rose because of higher GST, consumer demand would drop. Even the textile units in Surat and Ludhiana, which were major clusters of manmade fibre, had demanded reversal of the decision. Given the inflationary pressure, high unemployment, rise in cotton and apparel prices and the pandemic, there ought to be status quo on the GST rates for the textiles and clothing sector, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reverse-gst-increase-on-textiles-and-apparel-or-risk-job-losses/article38032873.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Daimler India exports cross pre-COVID levels’||Daimler India, the 100% subsidiary of Stuttgart-based Daimler has breached pre-COVID levels on its exports, up more than 10% from the previous record, the commercial vehicle maker said on Friday. Since the beginning of 2021, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles said it has set a record by shipping more than 9,000 commercial vehicles (CV) crossing a new milestone, including 45,000 vehicles, 9,000 CKD (completely knocked down) kits, and 200 million parts being exported, DICV said. The Daimler India facility at neighbouring Oragadam here is the only Daimler Truck location worldwide that produces engines, transmissions, trucks and buses at the same site under four brands, the company said in a statement here. “It is a a great testimony to the trust our customers worldwide have in our locally-made products,” DICV, MD and CEO, Satyaka Arya said. “Despite the ongoing challenges presented by the pandemic and its effect on logistics, we continue to foster a global presence with exports of ‘Made in India products,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/daimler-india-exports-cross-pre-covid-levels/article38032863.ece
25 December 2021||Ahmedabad,||‘COVID-19 takes sheen off entrepreneurial activities’||The COVID-19 pandemic has taken its toll on the entrepreneurial activities in the country with the total early-stage entrepreneurial activity (TEA) declining to 5.34% in 2020-21, as compared to 15% in the previous year. According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) India Survey conducted by Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), the entrepreneurial intentions among individuals have declined due to the setback caused by the pandemic. The survey was conducted in more than 45 countries, of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial perceptions. EDII, Gandhinagar conducted this GEM India survey with a sample size of 3,317 adults and national level experts. “The survey has found out that the major indicator of entrepreneurial activity— the TEA — has declined significantly due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” EDII director General and team leader of GEM India Sunil Shukla told the PTI. “Of the total population in the work age group in 2019-20, TEA was 15% which has declined to 5.34%.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-takes-sheen-off-entrepreneurial-activities/article38032875.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Engineering exports to China doubled in Nov.’||Engineering goods shipments to China more than doubled in November, to $434.6 million (Rs. 3,260 crore approximately) as compared with $205.3 million (Rs. 1,540 crore) in the same month last year, sector export promotion body EEPC said on Friday. The U.S. remained the top importer of Indian engineering goods at $1,196 million during this period, registering 36.6% growth.  India’s engineering exports continued to grow in November but a decline was observed in the value of shipments, the EEPC said. Total engineering goods exports slowed down to $7.7 billion (Rs. 57,000 crore approximately) in November from $9.03 billion (Rs. 67,000 crore) in October. Growth was, however, still substantial at 37.1% over the exports of November 2020, which stood at $5.62 billion. “The slowdown seems to be indicating the distress exporters are facing given volatility in world demand and the uncertainty regarding the pandemic which has been triggered by Omicron,” EEPC India chairman Mahesh Desai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/engineering-exports-to-china-doubled-in-nov/article38032876.ece
25 December 2021||MUMBAI,||‘GDP to grow 8.2% in FY23 with more downside risks’||Warning that the new year would be riskier than the previous two in terms of growth, inflation and the perils of monetary policy normalisation on consumption demand in particular, along with other external risks, a Wall Street brokerage has pencilled in an 8.2% GDP growth next fiscal, with more downside risks to the projection. Consumption demand The biggest risk to the projection is a derailed consumption demand that has been the main growth driver in the past many years, said the Bank of America Securities India house economists who still believe that consumption demand will remain the key driver of growth next fiscal as well. The economists expect higher growth next fiscal on the back of higher overall gross value add (GVA) growth due to the lower outgo on subsidies, along with stable agriculture sector growth at about 4% and robust services growth, adding up to an overall GVA growth of 7%, down from a likely 8.5% in FY22. FY23 GDP growth is seen at 8.2%, down from 9.3% in FY22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-grow-82-in-fy23-with-more-downside-risks/article38032865.ece
25 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Canara Bank bond issue nets Rs. 2,500 cr.||CanaraBank has raised Rs. 2,500 crore via Basel III-compliant Tier II bonds, at a coupon rate of 7.09%, the bank said on Friday. The issue saw an overwhelming response from investors with bids received for more than Rs. 9,374 crore. The base issue size was Rs. 1,000 crore with a green shoe option of Rs. 1,500 crore. The bonds, issued with a tenor of 15 years, can be called back by the issuer after 10 years or any anniversary date thereafter. In Q3 2021-22, the bank had raised Basel III-compliant additional tier I bonds worth Rs. 3,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/canara-bank-bond-issue-nets-rs-2500-cr/article38032861.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. set to decriminalise metrology law||The Centre said it will soon finalise a proposal to decriminalise the Legal Metrology Act in order to reduce compliance burden for businesses and consumers. In his virtual address on the occasion of National Consumer Day, Union Minister Piyush Goyal said there is a need to decriminalise the Legal Metrology Act in such a way that both consumer interest is protected and traders or businesses are not harassed. “This, we will finalise at the earliest,” the Food and Consumer Affairs Minister said. The act enforces standards related to weights and measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-set-to-decriminalise-metrology-law/article38032867.ece
25 December 2021||Mumbai,||GMR Group inks shareholders' agreement with Indonesia's Angkasa Pura II for Medan Airport||Infrastructure major GMR Group said it has signed a shareholders agreement with Indonesia's Angkasa Pura II for the development of Medan Airport on December 23. GMR Airports had in November won the bid for this high growth potential brownfield airport through an international competitive bidding process.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gmr-group-inks-shareholders-agreement-with-indonesias-angkasa-pura-ii-for-medan-airport/article38032866.ece
25 December 2021||Mumbai,||BOB Financial, Indian Navy unveil co-branded credit card||BOB Financial Solutions Ltd. (BFSL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Bank of Baroda (BoB) and the Indian Navy have introduced a co-branded credit card for the personnel of the Indian Navy. The card will be equipped with contactless features and offered on the RuPay platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bob-financial-indian-navy-unveil-co-branded-credit-card/article38032869.ece
25 December 2021||Melbourne,||Do-or-die time for under-siege England||England heads into the Boxing Day Test against Australia on Sunday knowing it must fix the mistakes that have blighted the tour or lose the Ashes series. After a nine-wicket thumping in Brisbane and then crashing by 275 runs in Adelaide, Joe Root’s team must win at the Melbourne Cricket Ground to keep their slim Ashes hopes alive. A boisterous crowd of about 70,000 is expected on the opening day of the Test. Distant precedent As holder, Australia needs only to avoid defeat to retain the urn. The omens are not good for England — the only instance of a team coming from 2-0 down to win the Ashes was Donald Bradman’s Australia back in 1936-37. In the first two Tests the tourists’ batting, bowling and fielding were sub-standard and Root knows they must improve quickly. “I am convinced we have what we need to win Test matches over here but we are not going to if we keep missing chances and don’t give ourselves an opportunity to get into the Test match with the bat,” he said. English media reports suggest the visitors could make up to four changes with opener Zak Crawley potentially in for either Rory Burns or Haseeb Hameed and Jonny Bairstow taking over from Ollie Pope. They are also likely to mix up the bowling unit again with speedster Mark Wood tipped to return, along with off-spinner Jack Leach, after England blundered by dropping him for Adelaide. That would mean one of Chris Woakes, Ollie Robinson, Jimmy Anderson or Stuart Broad missing out. Riding high In contrast, Australia is riding high. All of its top six made 50s in Adelaide, bar struggling opener Marcus Harris, while the bowling group performed admirably despite missing captain Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood. Cummins missed Adelaide but is set to return, while Mitchell Starc has a rib concern but should be fit. There is less certainty around Hazlewood who is yet to recover from a side strain, while the fitness of Jhye Richardson and Michael Neser is being assessed. That could open the door for Scott Boland after he was called in as injury cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/do-or-die-time-for-under-siege-england/article38033217.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Harbhajan carved a unique space for himself in India’s spin lineage||For a spinner who remained fiery on the field and raucous fun off it, his walk towards the cricketing twilight proved to be a gentle breeze. An era concluded as Harbhajan Singh tweeted and added a YouTube video through which he announced his retirement on Friday. The sign-off through words high on gratitude effectively signalled the end of a generation in Indian cricket. Over the last few years, chronologically, Zaheer Khan, Yuvraj Singh and M.S. Dhoni pressed the exit button. The last-named is still displaying his skills in the Indian Premier League (IPL) but for Harbhajan this is his final full stop. At 41, and having turned out last for India in 2016 in an Asia Cup T20I against the United Arab Emirates at Dhaka, Harbhajan was restricted to his IPL outings, be it for Mumbai Indians, Chennai Super Kings or Kolkata Knight Riders. His retirement was inevitable but he took his time to make a formal announcement. Remarkable career Harbhajan had a remarkable career even if his 1998 Test debut was a muted affair against Australia at Bangalore (Bengaluru now). India lost that match and Harbhajan was soon part of the National Cricket Academy’s inaugural batch. There were whispers of disciplinary issues and about his desire to migrate to Canada and drive trucks just to keep the home fires burning at Jalandhar. Thankfully, the off-spinner stayed with cricket and his patience found spectacular rewards when the then captain Sourav Ganguly leant on him during that magical home series against Australia in 2001. Anil Kumble was injured and Harbhajan was pitch-forked into the primary spinner’s slot. He weaved a web, his whirring action leaving the Aussies in a bind, especially Ricky Ponting. Harbhajan bagged 32 wickets, including a hat-trick, in a series remembered for the heroics of V.V.S. Laxman and Rahul Dravid at the Eden Gardens. Steve Waugh’s men were humbled and India found a new star. Harbhajan backed his bowling with some handy batting and forged a potent combination with the legendary Kumble at home and, while playing overseas, they competed for the lone spinner’s position. It was never a smooth ride for Harbhajan and his tendency to fly off the handle nudged him into dark corners of angst. The 2008 ‘Monkeygate’ crisis involving him and Andrew Symonds in Australia, and the slapping episode with S. Sreesanth during the IPL, cast Harbhajan in poor light. But he soldiered on, embracing a calm head and helmed the spinners after Kumble retired. He also worked on his bowling action that at times drew scrutiny. With 417 Test wickets, the fourth-highest among Indians, besides 269 scalps in one-dayers and the added yield from T20s, Harbhajan revealed his bowling prowess. He has two Test centuries too under his belt. However, once R. Ashwin emerged, transition kicked in and Harbhajan had to make way. But by then, he was part of India’s title victories in the 2007 ICC World T20 and the 2011 ICC World Cup. Recently, he turned out as a commentator, acted in a Tamil film and seems open to whatever life can spring upon him. In an off-spin lineage headed by the great E.A.S. Prasanna and now guided by Ashwin, Harbhajan carved his unique space. And as the Aussies would agree, in his prime, he was an incredible bowler.  Harbhajan has overcome many hurdles and put many setbacks behind him to rise every time. What inspired me the most about him was his hunger to perform Sourav Ganguly BCCI president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harbhajan-carved-a-unique-space-for-himself/article38033183.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,||K.P. Sunny passes away||K.P. Sunny, the senior vice-president of the Kerala Football Association and its former secretary, passed away in Thrissur on Friday. He was 77. He had been the KFA secretary for eight years till 2011 and before that was the State association’s treasurer. “He was a very good mentor and advisor for me. When I took over as the secretary in 2011, I was very young, he was very helpful,” said P. Anikumar, general secretary, KFA, on Friday. “He was also a former chairman of the All-India Football Federation’s Players Status Committee. “He had organised many national and international tournaments. I think he played football at the local level but I don’t know much about his achievements in the State or national level.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kp-sunny-passes-away/article38033529.ece
25 December 2021||Tokyo,||Japan government officials to give Beijing Olympics a skip||Japan said on Friday it will not send government representatives to February’s Beijing Olympics as it called upon China to respect human rights and the rule of law. Government spokesman Hirokazu Matsuno did not describe the move as a diplomatic boycott — already announced by the U.S, the U.K, Australia and Canada over what they consider to be rights abuses by China, including against the Uighur minority— but said there were “no plans” for officials to attend the Games. “Japan believes it is important that common values shared by the international community such as freedom, human rights, and the rule of law are also respected in China,” he said. “As Tokyo 2020 demonstrated to the world, the Olympics and the Paralympics are festivals of peace and sports that give courage to the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/japan-government-officials-to-give-beijing-olympics-a-skip/article38032904.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poonacha steers Challengers into final||National champion Niki Poonacha survived three match-points and went on to beat the country’s No. 1 player Ramkumar Ramanathan 5-4(6) to drive Bangalore Challengers into the final of the Centena Pro Tennis League at the RK Khanna Stadium here on Friday. Bangalore Challengers won five of its six matches for a 27-16 triumph over Pro Veri Challengers. Ramkumar could not pull his weight in doubles in the company of Nitin Kumar Sinha as Niki and Paras Dahiya combined well for a bright game. Bangalore was well served by Aman Dahiya who won both his matches and Sai Samhitha who was equally efficient with her calm and calculated play. The other semifinal went down to the wire before Team Radiant won the decisive mixed doubles through Prerna Bhambri and Arjun Uppal, who outplayed Swarandeep Singh and Diva Bhatia 5-0. Sriram Balaji and Siddhant Banthia had kept Indian Aviators in the fray beating Saketh Myneni and Suraj Prabodh respectively. It was an anticlimax after Aviators had stayed close at 19-20 with Radiant before the last rubber.   The results (semifinals): Bangalore Challengers bt Pro Veri Supersmashers 27-16 (Aman Dahiya bt Aditya Nandal 5-3; Aman & Sai Samhitha bt Aditya & Mahika Khanna 5-0; Niki Poonacha bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 5-4(6); Niki & Paras Dahiya bt Ramkumar & Nitin Kumar Sinha 5-2; Paras bt Nitin 5-2; Dilip Mohanty & Sai Samhitha lost to Mohit Phogat & Mahika 2-5).   Team Radiant bt Indian Aviators 25-19 (Parv Nage bt Ajay Malik 5-2; Parv & Prerna Bhambri bt Ajay & Diva Bhatia 5-4(6); Saketh Myneni lost to Sriram Balaji 3-5; Saketh & Suraj Prabodh bt Balaji & Siddhant Banthia 5-3; Suraj lost to Banthia 2-5; Arjun Uppal & Prerna bt Swarandeep Singh & Diva 5-0).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poonacha-steers-challengers-into-final/article38032879.ece
25 December 2021||Centurion,||‘India may play five bowlers’||India vice-captain K.L. Rahul on Friday indicated the team would continue with its five-bowler strategy in the first Test against South Africa but agreed the choice between Ajinkya Rahane and Shreyas Iyer for the No. 5 batting slot was a tough one. Workload management Asked if playing four bowlers, which allows an extra batter in the line-up becomes a workload management problem, Rahul replied: “Every team wants to pick up 20 wickets to win a Test. We have used that tactic and it has helped us in every Test match that we have played away,” Rahul said at a virtual media interaction. “Workload also becomes slightly easier to manage with five bowlers and when you have that kind of quality, we might as well use it,” he said. Shardul Thakur, because of his superior batting skills holds an advantage over senior pro Ishant Sharma, it could mean that only one among Iyer, Rahane and Hanuma Vihari will get a look-in as Rahul, Mayank Agarwal, Cheteshwar Pujara, Virat Kohli and Rishabh Pant select themselves. “Rahane has been an important member of the Test team, played very, very crucial knocks in his career,” Rahul waxed eloquent about his senior teammate. “In the last 15-18 months, he has played some crucial knocks, that partnership with Pujara at Lord’s, was important for us in winning the Test match. “Shreyas, obviously has taken his chances and got a brilliant hundred (along with a fifty) in Kanpur and he is very exciting. Hanuma has done the same for us, so it’s a tough decision,” he said. Rahul also agreed that the Supersport Park track was slow to begin with, quicken later only to taper off towards the end of the match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-may-play-five-bowlers/article38033178.ece
25 December 2021||Jaipur,||Aparajith, Washington dazzle as TN wins cliffhanger||In a humdinger of a semifinal, Tamil Nadu prevailed over Saurashtra off the last ball of the innings while chasing a mammoth target of 311 to reach the final of the Vijay Hazare Trophy here on Friday. Quality performances The match saw high-quality individual performances throughout the day, but in the end B. Aparajith’s brilliant 122 (124b, 12x4, 3x6) and Washington Sundar’s masterful 70 (61b, 8x4) under pressure, ensured TN will have a chance to go for a record sixth title on Sunday. Needing seven off the last over, R. Sai Kishore and R. Silambarasan traded singles off the first five balls of the over which also included an above-the-head bouncer that was deemed wide. With one required off the last ball and all fielders inside the ring, Sai Kishore creamed one through point to the boundary for a two-wicket win. Earlier, the experienced Sheldon Jackson came to the party after a quiet tournament, with a brilliant 134 (125b, 11x4, 4x6) to help Saurashtra post 310 for eight. He was well supported by opener Vishvarajsinh Jadeja (52) and the experienced Arpit Vasavada, who came up with a quickfire 57 (40b, 4x4, 2x6). TN’s chase got off to a disastrous start, N. Jagadeesan and skipper Vijay Shankar playing loose shots and falling to Chetan Sakariya (5/62). Brothers in arms Aparajith was then joined by his twin Indrajith for a brilliant third-wicket partnership of 97. Aparajith was the aggressor, playing some delectable punches and drives through the off-side against the pacers and picking up a flurry of boundaries. Indrajith joined the party and made a vital 50. The experienced Dinesh Karthik chipped in with a quick 31. With 143 needed off just about 20 overs, Washington Sundar played an effortless knock and added 76 with Aparajith for the fifth wicket. Once Aparajith fell, Washington took charge with a knock filled with finesse and style rather than power. Twist in the tale With 25 needed off the last three overs, he picked up two boundaries behind point off Unadkat to bring the equation to just 11 off the last two. But Sakariya brought Saurashtra back into the game dismissing Washington and Shahrukh Khan (17, 11b, 1x4, 1x6). In the end, TN managed to keep it together and will meet Himachal Pradesh in the final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamil-nadu-wins-a-cliffhanger-off-the-final-delivery/article38033186.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||FC Goa and Odisha FC share points||FC Goa may have seen a change of coaches these past few days, but its players ensured there was no change of trend for the team in the ISL. It drew with Odisha FC 1-1 at Vasco to take its unbeaten run to four games. After the Goans took the lead shortly before the break, their new coach Derrick Pereira may have entertained hopes of a dream start to his job, but he is unlikely to be too displeased with the result. For, it was a close encounter, and Odisha had come strongly back in the second half. Jonathas De Jesus had found the equaliser for Odisha eight minutes into the second half. Goa’s goal was scored by Ivan Gonzalez. Just 17 minutes into the game, Goa had a setback when its striker Airan Cabrea was injured and had to leave the field; he was replaced by Nongdamba Naorem. The first half had some fine end-to-end football, but neither side could break through till a few minutes left for the half-time whistle. The deadlock was broken by a goal that came off a free-kick from near the right corner flag. The well-floated kick by Alberto Noguera, who had an excellent game, was met by an Aiban Dohling header. The finishing touch was provided by Gonzalez, who slotted the ball home from just in front of the post. After the break, the Odisha men seemed determined to strike back. And they did. Jonathas raced in swiftly to convert the cross from Nandhakumar Sekar, who had been given a fine through ball by Javi Hernandez. It was a well-deserved equaliser for Odisha. There is no change in the table for either side: Odisha is seventh with 10 points and Goa eighth with eight. Saturday is a rest day.  The result: FC Goa 1 (Ivan Gonzalez 42) drew with Odisha FC 1 (Jonathas De Jesus 53) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goa-and-odisha-fc-share-points/article38033188.ece
25 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||RRHA fights back to make final||Ritu Rani Hockey Academy came back from the brink, then held its nerve in the shootout against NCC Directorate General to advance to the final of the 38th Nehru sub-junior boys’ hockey tournament here on Friday. Down one goal for most part of the game, the team from Patiala, run by former India women’s captain Ritu Rani, managed to level scores eight minutes from time through a penalty corner by Sunny. Tied at the end of regulation time, the shootout then saw both teams converting three each of the five attempts. Sunny again managed to score in the sudden death while NCC’s Manav Paul faltered. The other semifinal was a comparatively tame affair with Naval Tata Hockey Academy, Jamshedpur winning easily 4-1 against Government Boys SSS, Ghuman Hera, Delhi. The final will be played at the Shivaji Stadium on Saturday and will be telecast on DD Sports.  The results: Semifinals: Ritu Rani Hockey Academy 1 (Sunny) bt DGNCC 1 (Rahul) on penalties; Naval Tata Hockey Academy 4 (Tushar Parmar 3, Satyam Pandey) bt GBSSS, Delhi 1 (Mohd. Jaeed) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rrha-fights-back-to-make-final/article38033385.ece
25 December 2021||Fort Lauderdale,||Ireland draws T20 series with USA||Lorcan Tucker scored 84 runs off 54 deliveries to lead Ireland to a nine-run victory over the United States in the second Twenty20 International here on Thursday. The Twenty20 series was drawn as the US had won the opening match on Wednesday. Ireland was bowled out for 150 with one ball remaining in the 19th over. In reply, the US could make on 141 for seven in its 20 overs. Tucker was named Man-of-the-Match and Man-of-the-Series. Curtis Campher returned four for 25 to lead the Ireland bowlers. Saurabh Netravalkar took three for 33 for the US. The teams begin a three-match One-Day International series on Sunday, also at Ft. Lauderdale. Ireland then travels to Kingston, Jamaica in January for three ODIs and a T20I against the West Indies.  The scores: Ireland 150 in 18.5 overs (Lorcan Tucker 84; Saurabh Netravalkar 3/33) bt USA 141/7 in 20 overs (Monank Patel 26, Sushant Modani 27; Curtis Campher 4/25).   Ireland won by nine runs and drew series 1-1; MoM: Tucker; MoS: Tucker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ireland-usa-t20-series-drawn/article38033218.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bhavani to compete in four FIE WCs||India's first-ever Olympian fencer Bhavani Devi is set to take part in four international competitions in the next calender year after the Sports Ministry sanctioned an amount of Rs. 8.16 lakh to facilitate her participation in the events. According to a ministry statement, the amount was sanctioned via the Annual Calendar for Training and Competition (ACTC) scheme. Training camp   Bhavani, who won her first round individual sabre event before going down in the Round of 32 match at the Tokyo Olympics earlier this year, will be taking part at a training camp in Tbilisi, Georgia, from January 4, before competing at the International Fencing Federation (FIE) World Cup in the same city from January 14 to 16. World Cup She will then be competing at the World Cup in Plovdiv, Bulgaria, scheduled from January 28 to 29. Bhavani, currently world No. 55 in the individual women's sabre category, will also participate at the following FIE World Cups in Greece and Belgium on March 4 and 5 and March 18 and 19, respectively. The Sports Ministry, earlier this year, had approved an ACTC amount of Rs. 3 crore to the Fencing Association of India (FAI) for the financial year 2021-22, until March 2022.  The Sports Ministry, earlier this year, had approved an ACTC amount of Rs. 3 crore to FAI for the financial year 2021-22||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhavani-to-compete-in-four-fie-wcs/article38033220.ece
25 December 2021||PUNE,||Diana ends Reyngold’s dream run||Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia cut short the fine run of Ekaterina Reyngold of Russia with a 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(2) victory in the semifinals of the NECC $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament held at Deccan Gymkhana on Friday. In the other semifinal, Moyuka Uchijima of Japan beat fifth seed Nigina Abduraimova of Uzbekistan for the loss of five games. In the doubles semifinals, Rutuja Bhosale in partnership with Hiroko Kuwata of Japan missed two match points at 9-7 in the super tie-break and got beaten by the top seeds Anna Danilina and Valeriya Strakhova 3-6, 6-2, [11-9].    The results (semifinals):   Singles: Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(2); Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) bt Nigina Abduraimova (Uzb) 6-2, 6-3.   Doubles: Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Hiroko Kuwata (Jpn) & Rutuja Bhosale 3-6, 6-2, [11-9]; Funa Kozaki & Misaki Matsuda (Jpn) bt Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) & Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/diana-ends-reyngolds-dream-run/article38033229.ece
25 December 2021||New Delhi,||Shaili, Riddhima selected for TOPS||Under-20 World Athletics silver medal-winning long jumper Shaili Singh is among 50 sportspersons across eight disciplines who have been added to the Core Group of the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), the Sports Ministry announced on Friday. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Mission Olympic Cell (MOC) on Thursday, where 143 athletes were included in the Development Group. By picking 50 athletes in the Core Group and 143 in the Development Group across eight disciplines in the second list, the MOC has increased the count to 291, including 102 in the Core Group.  The 17-year-old Shaili had won the silver medal in the long jump event at the World U20 Athletics Championship earlier this year. Among the youngest of those identified for support is swimmer Riddhima Veerendra Kumar. The 14-year-old won a clutch of medals in the National Junior Championships in October and also made waves in the National Championships a week later. There were no surprises in the selections made in other sports as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shaili-and-riddhima-selected-for-tops/article38033290.ece
25 December 2021||AURANGABAD,||It’s Tanush vs Arnav||Tanush Ghildyal beat Aradhya Kshitij 6-1, 4-6, 6-0 in the boys’ semifnals of the EMMTC National under-14 tennis tournament here on Friday. In the final, Tanush will play fifth seed Arnav Paparkar. The girls’ final will be between N. Harshini and second seed Sohani Mohanty.  The results:   Boys (semifinals): Tanush Ghildyal bt Aradhya Kshitij 6-1, 4-6, 6-0; Arnav Paparkar bt Pradyumna Tomar 6-1, 6-3. Doubles (final): Tanush Ghildyal & Arnav Paparkar bt Samprit Sharma & Pradyumna Tomar 6-2, 4-6, [10-1].   Girls (semifinals): N. Harshini bt Aakruti Sonkusare 6-1, 6-3; Sohani Mohanty bt Janvi Sai 6-4, 3-6, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-tanush-vs-arnav/article38033386.ece
25 December 2021||KOCHI,||KFA gives a 10-day break||With the varsities zonal and National championships threatening to disrupt the Kerala Women’s League (KWL), the Kerala Football Association (KFA) has now given a 10-day break for the event and it will now resume on January 2. “The AIFF has given some extension, because of the university matches, so we have changed the dates of a few matches too. Initially, the AIFF’s deadline (to complete the league) was Jan. 25, now it has been extended to Feb. 10,” P. Anilkumar, KFA general secretary, told The Hindu on Friday. “The winner of the KWL will play in Indian Women’s League.” The varsities matches had threatened to hit many teams which were packed with university players. The teams will now be heaving a sigh of relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kfa-gives-a-10-day-break/article38033511.ece
25 December 2021||Alappuzha:,||Anaswara powers Emerald to the top of the table||Anaswara Santosh’s all-round show (three for 19 & 40 not out) powered Team Emerald to a nine-wicket win over Team Ruby in the KCA Pink Challengers T20 tournament on Friday. Anaswara’s spell restricted Ruby to 85 for eight and Emerald won in 17.3 overs losing one wicket. Emerald is on top with 20 points.  The scores: Team Ruby 85/8 in 20 overs (Anaswara Santosh 3/19) lost to Team Emerald 88/1 in 17.3 overs (Anaswara Santosh 40 n.o.).   Team Pearls 94/6 in 20 overs (Akhila Ponnukuttan 37, Diya Ganesh 3/9) bt Team Sapphire 83 in 19.4 overs (Keerthi James 3/5).  Women’s GP Chess Super The Judit Polgar Super Finals of the Women’s Grand Prix Chess tournament, organised by Chess Kerala, will be held at the Shakthan Thampuran College auditorium on December 26. The top-25 finalist from the Koneru Humpy Mega Final and three nominated players will take part in the Super Finals. P. Balachandran, MLA, will inaugurate. Early this year, Chess Kerala conducted preliminary eight Grand Prix tournaments, each dedicated to former women chess champions from the state. The top-50 players from these preliminary tournaments qualified for the Koneru Humpy Mega Final. The super finals carries total prize money of Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anaswara-powers-emerald-to-the-top-of-the-table/article38033530.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI:,||Storm Breaker has an edge over rivals||Storm Breaker has an edge over his rivals in the Dr. T. Dhevanathan Yadav Winner Trophy (1,200m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Dec. 25).  DREAM TO LEAD HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 00 to 25 (no whip) — 2-30 p.m.: 1. Beauregard (6) Inayat 60, 2. Priceless Treasure (5) Farid Ansari 58.5, 3. Stern Maiden (1) P. Sai Kumar 58. 4. Azeria (4) P.P. Dhebe 56.5, 5. Rajputana (9) M.S. Deora 56, 6. Vibrant Approach (7) R. Manish 55.5, 7. Glorious Nissy (8) B. Darshan 52.5, 8. Driftwood Pacific (2) Ram Nandan 52 and 9. Price Striker (3) A. Ayaz Khan 51.  1. STERN MAIDEN, 2. AZERIA, 3. PRICELESS RULER   DANCING GLANCES HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 — 3-00: 1. Storm Trigger (8) Santosh G 60, 2. Off Shore Breeze (4) Yash Narredu 58.5, 3. Divina (1) Nikhil Naidu 56.5, 4. Eagle Prince (3) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 5. Dont Dilly Dally (2) Shyam Kumar 55, 6. Cavallo Vincente (9) Mubs Kareem 53.5, 7. Rays Of Sun (5) P.P. Dhebe 53.5, 8. Royal Commander (6) Kuldeep Singh 53 and 9. Waytogo (7) P. Sai Kumar 53.  1. RAYS OF SUN, 2. STORM TRIGGER, 3. EAGLE PRINCE   DR. T. DHEVANATHAN YADAV WINNER TROPHY (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 — 3-30: 1. Copper Queen (8) Farid Ansari 61.5, 2. Glorious Destiny (3) Nikhil Naidu 60.5, 3. Storm Breaker (5) Yash Narredu 59.5, 4. Star Twist (7) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 5. Namak Halaal (1) A. Ayaz Khan 54, 6. Starriya (4) Ramandeep 53.5, 7. Spicy Star (2) N. Jodha 52.5, 8. Lordship (6) Farhan Alam 51 and 9. Catelyn (9) P.P. Dhebe 50.  1. STORM BREAKER, 2. COPPER QUEEN, 3. GLORIOUS DESTINY   P.M. ANTONY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), maiden 2-y-o only (Terms) — 4-00: 1. Dark Son (1) Nikhil Naidu 56, 2. Desert Storm (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 3. Glorious Evensong (8) Farhan Alam 56, 4. Secret Of Love (3) S. Kamble 56, 5. The Rebel (7) Kuldeep Singh 56, 6. Chaposa Springs (4) P.P. Dhebe 54.5, 7. Priceless Beauty (2) Yash Narredu 54.5 and 8. Royal Symbol (2) C. Brisson 54.5.  1. PRICELESS BEAUTY, 2. CHAPOSA SPRINGS, 3. DARK SON   SILVER BIRCH HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 — 4-30: 1. Rwanda (5) Mubs Kareem 60, 2. Oberon (7) M.S. Deora 57.5, 3. Carnoustie (1) P. Sai Kumar 57, 4. Break The Silence (8) Farhan Alam 52.5. 5. Epistoiary (6) Manikandan 52.5, 6. Lady Santana (12) Kuldeep Singh 52.5, 7. Lord Of The Turf (9) Nakhat Singh 52.5, 8. Beforethedawn (2) R. Manish 51.5, 9. Roger O'More (10) Ramandeep 51.5, 10. War Emblem (11) C. Brisson 51.5, 11. Symphony In Style (4) Shahar Babu 51 and 12. Uncle Sam (3) B. Dharshan 51.  1. RWANDA, 2. CARNOUSTIE, 3. OBERON   RIVER KNIGHT HANDICAP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 45 — 5-00: 1. Maranello (9) R. Manish 60, 2. Lady Mimi (11) Yash Narredu 58.5, 3. Moonlight Sonata (5) Nikhil Naidu 58.5, 4. Sovereign Power (3) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 5. Supreme Angel (4) N. Jodha 58.5, 6. The Mentalist (8) Kuldeep Singh 58.5, 7. Marshall (6) P. Sai Kumar 57.5, 8. Royal Eminence (1) Rajendra Singh 57.5, 9. Wisaka (7) Ramandeep 57.5, 10. Artic Star (10) P.P. Dhebe 57 and 11. Pink Pearl (2) Shahar Babu 54.5.  1. LADY MIMI, 2. SOVEREIGN POWER, 3. MARANELLO  CJkt: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6; Mini Jkt: 3, 4, 5 & 6; Tr (i): 1, 2, & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/storm-breaker-has-an-edge-over-rivals/article38033278.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI:,||Fun Storm wins feature event||Fun Storm (C. Umesh up) won the As Good As Gold Handicap, the main event of the races held here on Friday (Dec. 24). The winner is owned by Mr. S. Naveen Chandra and trained by N. Rupa.     1. ALEXUS HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 20 to 45 (no whip): FENI (B. Dharshan) 1, Daiyamondo (M.S. Deora) 2, Henrietta (Santosh G) 3 and Illustrious Ruler (Farid Ansari) 4. Not run: Glorious Symphony. Shd, 1-3/4 and 1-1/4. 1m 02.91s. Owners: Mr. K. Ganesh Rajan, Balasubramanian M & Mrs. S. Nirmala. Trainer: Mandanna.  2. TRIUNFO HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: WALKING BRAVE (Yash Narredu) 1, Come Calling (R. Maish) 2, Masterpiece (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Supreme Excelsior (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1-3/4, nose and lnk. 1m 43.54s. Owners: Mr. Bhupinder Singh S.S. & Ameeta Mehra. Trainer: D. Narredu.  3. STAR OF DESTINY HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: OUI SAUVAGE (Santosh G) 1, Star Ranking (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Manzoni (C. Umesh) 3 and Shadow Of Love (Yash Narredu) 4. 5-3/4, 1 and 1/2. 1m 14.61s. Owners: M/s. Gainsville Stud & Agl. Farm, Mr. Krishore Rungta, Adhiraj Singh Jodha & M/s. Jai-Govind Stud Agricultural Farm's. Trainer: A. Jodha.  4. AS GOOD AS GOLD HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: FUN STORM (C. Umesh) 1, Super Girl (Yash Narredu) 2, Knight Envied (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Beethovan (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 1-1/2, 1 and 3-3/4. 1m14.19s. Owner: Mr. S. Naveen Chandra. Trainer: N. Rupa.  5. STAR OF DESTINY HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: MAGICAL WISH (C. Umesh) 1, My Kingdom (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Renegade (Nikhil Naisu) 3 and Sasakwa (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1/2, 1 and 2. 1m 15.12s. Owner: M/s. Rapar’s Galloping Stars. Trainer: D.K. Futnani.  6. SU CHALIYO HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: SUCCESSION (Yash Narredu) 1, Cartel (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Air Marshall (C. Umesh) 3 and Mystical Magician (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 1, 3-1/4 and 1. 1m 16.05s. Owners: M/s. Gainsville Stud & Agl.Farm. Mr. Kishore Rungta & Mr. Saleem Fazelbhoy. Trainer: D. Narredu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fun-storm-wins-feature-event/article38033279.ece
25 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Ascoval expected to score in main event||Ascoval, who is in fine fettle as evidenced by his mock race here, is expected to score in the Bangalore 2000 Guineas (1,600m), The chief event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Dec. 25). There will be no false rails.  BUCKPASSER PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 1-45 pm.: 1. Artesian (14) Vishal Bunde 57, 2. Lord Of Legend (10) Akshay K 57, 3. Magellan (4) C. Umesh 57, 4. Matera (3) C.S. Jodha 57, 5. Perfect Hella (6) Arshad 57, 6. Scribbling Hopper (-) (-) 57, 7. The Adviser (2) M. Naveen 57, 8. Adefa (1) J.H. Arul 55.5, 9. By The Book (13) Nazerul 55.5, 10. Divine Blessings (11) Antony 55.5, 11. Immaculate (9) Arvind Kumar 55.5, 12. Measure Of Time (7) P.S. Chouhan 55.5, 13. Setareh (12) Shane Gray 55.5 and 14. Southern Chrome (8) Kiran Rai 55.5.  1. MATERA, 2. MEASURE OF TIME, 3. SETAREH   HUMAN RIGHTS DAY PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 25, 2-15: Turkoman (5) Shane Gray 62.5, 2. Impelling Power (12) S. John 61, 3. Star Of The Hills (10) Kiran Rai 60.5, 4. Acaster (3) J.H. Arul 60, 5. Southernaristocrat (2) Arshad 59.5, 6. Capable (7) M. Naveen 59, 7. Osibisa (9) Ajeet Kumar 58, 8. Dream Chaser (1) Vishal Bunde 57.5, 9. Rainbow Rising (11) L.A. Rozario 57.5, 10. Stunning Beauty (4) Arvind Kumar 57, 11. Perfect Halo (6) Akshay K 56 and 12. Capital Gain (8) Tousif Khan 55.  1. IMPELLING POWER, 2. TURKOMAN, 3. ACASTER   SHANTI FALLS PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over, 2-15: 1. Golden Vision (3) Darshan 60, 2. Galactical (7) J.H. Arul 57.5, 3. General Patton (5) Antony 57.5, 4. Anne Boleyn (2) Akshay K 57, 5. Definitive (13) S. Saqlain 56.5, 6. Palm Reader (12) Ikram Ahmed 55.5, 7. Blue Fire (10) Saddam H 54.5, 8. Embosom (6) Dhanu Singh 54.5, 9. Fernet Branca (4) R. Marshall 54.5, 10. Rightly Noble (8) Vishal Bunde 54, 11. Crimson Heart (1) Ajeet Kumar 53.5, 12. Dynamical (11) Kiran Rai 53.5 and 13. Arathorn (9) Shreyas Singh 52.  1. GENERAL PATTON, 2. GALACTICAL, 3. ANNE BOLEYN   PHAR LAP PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 3-15: 1. Frederico (2) Anjar 57, 2. Golden Wings (1) Antony 57, 3. Mitsuro (7) P.S. Chouhan 57, 4. Royal Thunder (9) S. Shareef 57, 5. Armory (5) Dhanu Singh 55.5, 6. Black Velvet (12) Nazerul 55.5, 7. Divya Shakti (6) P. Surya 55.5, 8. Electric Blue (10) Arshad 55.5, 9. Flamboyant Girl (4) Darshan 55.5, 10. Perfect Empress (8) Akshay K 55.5, 11. Shivalik Mirror (3) C.S. Jodha 55.5 and 12. Spectacular (11) Shane Gray 55.5.  1. SPECTACULAR, 2. ARMORY, 3. PERFECT EMPRESS   ICE BREAKER TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4-y-o & over, 3-45: 1. Set To Win (4) S. John 60, 2. Kvasir (8) Saddam H 58.5, 3. Aachen (13) C. Umesh 57.5, 4. Commodus (7) Darshan 57.5, 5. Schafenberg (14) Shreyas Singh 57.5, 6. Harmonia (12) J.H. Arul 57, 7. Starry Wind (2) Md. Akram 57, 8. Alberetta (11) L.A. Rozario 56, 9. Mongolian King (1) S. Saqlain 55.5, 10. Wings Of Desire (9) Arshad 54.5, 11. Miniver Rose (6) Vishal Bunde 53.5, 12. Three Wishes (10) Kiran Rai 52, 13. Perfect Rendition (5) S. Shareef 51.5 and 14. The Strength (3) Ajeet Kumar 51.5.  1. AACHEN, 2. HARMONIA, 3. SET TO WIN   BANGALORE 2000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o (Terms), 4-15: 1. Ascoval (6) Shane Gray 57, 2. Evaldo (1) Akshay K 57, 3. Imperial Blue (5) C. Umesh 57, 4. Kensington (4) Antony 57, 5. Obsidian (8) A. Sandesh 57, 6. Siege Perilous (3) Dhanu Singh 57, 7. Southern Dynasty (7) C.S. Jodha 57 and 8. Spinoza (2) P.S. Chouhan 57.  1. ASCOVAL, 2. SIEGE PERILOUS,3. KENSINGTON   SHANTI FALLS PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o &over, 4-45: 1. Cherokee Moon (12) Akshay K 62, 2. Aceros (1) Srinath 61.5, 3. Musterion (6) Vishal Bunde 61.5, 4. Baltimore (11) S. John 60, 5. Kimera (2) Md. Akram 60, 6. Gin Daisy (7) Mark 58.5, 7. Land Of Liberty (10) Rajesh Kumar 57.5, 8. Gypsy (4) Ikran Ahmed 57, 9. Copper Sunrise (5) Darshan 55.5, 10. Secretsuperstar (3) Chetan K 55.5, 11. Songkran (8) Arshad 55.5, 12. Pastiche (9) Kiran Rai 54.5 and 13. Mr. Humble (13) P. Surya 53.  1. ACEROS, 2. CHEROKEE MOON, 3. BALTIMORE   VANI VILASA SAGARA PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 5-15: 1. Katana (5) Srinath 61, 2. Four Wheel Drive (2) Akshay K 59.5, 3. Candlelightqueen (3) Ikram Ahmed 57, 4. Marco Polo (10) Darshan 57, 5. Mighty Red (14) C.S. Jodha 55, 6. Kalyan (13) Jagadeesh 54.5, 7. Ansaldo (11) Vivek 54, 8. Black Coffee (1) Antony 53.5, 9. Rule Of Law (7) Kiran Rai 53.5, 10. Tyto Alba (6) Rajesh Kumar 53.5, 11. Limited Edition (8) S. Shareef 52.5, 12. Windstorm (4) Arshad 52.5, 13. For Old Times (12) Md. Habeeb 51.5 and 14. Infinite Grace (9) Vinod Shinde 51.  1. FOUR WHEEL DRIVE, 2. KATANA, 3. BLACK COFFEE   Days best: SPECTACULAR   Double: GENERAL PATTON - FOUR WHEEL DRIVE  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Treble: 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ascoval-expected-to-score-in-main-event/article38032877.ece
25 December 2021||Centurion,||Mayank credits Dravid for successful return to team||India opener Mayank Agarwal says his time away from the national team was spent in understanding his mind space, something India coach Rahul Dravid has always emphasised on. And, it benefited him immensely as he reclaimed his place. The 30-year-old from Karnataka lost his place in the team after missing the first Test in England due to injury. He then made a strong comeback with scores of 150 and 62 in the second Test against New Zealand as India won the series 1-0. “It is not a fresh start. The last one year was a lot to do with understanding myself and understanding what ticks and what hadn’t worked for me,” Mayank said. Talking about chief coach Dravid’s contribution, Agarwal said: “For me, he has just been a person who talks about understanding yourself and understanding your mind space. “If you can work that out and sort that out, then more often than not you are giving yourself the best possible chance to succeed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mayank-credits-dravid-for-successful-return-to-team/article38033176.ece
25 December 2021||COIMBATORE,||Amir to battle it out in French F4 in 2022||Amir Sayed has been hitting the headlines for his skilful driving in the MRF and JK Tyre National racing championships this year. He could well rest on his laurels, but he is hungry for more. The youngster from Kottayam is getting ready to battle it out with talented stars in the French Formula 4 championship next year. Amir is the only Indian to figure in the 2022 driver line-up that includes 12 Frenchmen. “He will race the full season that starts next April in France but prior to that, he will do the F4 winter testing at the famous Paul Ricard F1 circuit in February. He did travel to the circuit to test the Formula 4 car in April and May this year and got a bit of track time too. Amir is clear with his plans for the New Year. “This year has been quite eventful for us. In January, we won the JK Tyre Novice Cup and all the races in the championship. We further tested the F4 car and, as the racing season began in India, we took part in both the MRF and the JK Tyre championships,” said Amir in a chat with The Hindu . “Heading into 2022, we focus on finishing both these championships on a high before fully preparing and committing to the French F4 season. We are looking to have quite a bit of testing and practice before the season starts so that we can be competitive from the first race as my main goal is not only to learn from the international championship, but to get on to the top step of the podium for my country!” he added. Committed Nibu Sayed, a former rally driver, said his son Amir has come a long way in a short while. “I am very happy with his progress. He is 100% focused and committed. My dream is for him to be successful in whatever he does. Also, I will be there to support him right through.” Sounds good and may well make life easy for Amir on the road to France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amir-to-battle-it-out-in-french-f4-in-2022/article38033230.ece
25 December 2021||Kovilpatti,||Chandigarh enters final||Chandigarh edged out defending champion Odisha in the shootout after the teams finished 2-2 in the regulation period in the semifinals of the 11th Junior National men’s hockey at the SDAT astroturf grounds here on Friday.  Chandigarh outplayed Odisha 3-0 in the shootout for a place in the final.  The results (semifinal):   Chandigarh 2 (Rahul, Raman) bt Odisha 2 (Sudeep Chirmako, Prasant Lakra), 3-0 in shootout.   Uttar Pradesh 8 (Sharda Nand Tiwari 3, Arun Sahani 3, Uttam Singh 2) bt Haryana 3 (Pankaj 3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chandigarh-enters-final/article38033215.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Star raider||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/star-raider/article38033191.ece
25 December 2021||CHENNAI:,||Sailor Naveen passes away||Army Yachting Node’s Naveen Vashisht, who was in coma for a week or so after he was thrown out due to a gust of wind, injuring his head during the 49er event of the Senior National sailing championships at the Girgaum Chowpatty beach, died at a private hospital in Mumbai on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sailor-naveen-passes-away/article38033231.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Bharanidharan, Karthik gives Eswar the crown||Bharanidharan (81) and S. Karthik (five for 15) were instrumental in Eswar registering a thumping 152-run win over Thiaga in the final of the CCCA-Jerrold Benjamin memorial open tournament held here.  The scores (final): Eswar 221 in 49.5 overs (Bharanidharan 81, P. Munirathinam 45, Utsav Varadh 3/49, Yugee 3/48) bt Thiaga 69 in 26.1 overs (S. Karthik 5/15).   Special awards: Best batter: S. Srinath & Muniratnam; Best bowler: Adhithya & Chinraj Eswaran; Player of the match: S. Karthik .    SRM IST clinched the men’s and women’s titles in the South Zone inter-university volleyball tournament here. The top four from each category qualified for the National inter-university tournament at KIIT University, Bhubaneswar, from Jan. 4 to 7.  Final standings: Men: 1. SRM IST, 2. Mangalore University (Karnataka), 3. University of Calicut, 4. MG University (Kerala). Women: 1. SRM IST, 2. University of Mysore (Karnataka), 3. Bharathiar University (Tamil Nadu), 4. MG University (Kerala) .      Veteran International player and chess coach Babu won the district open championship, conducted by Chengalpattu District Chess Association, at the Valluvar Gurukulam School recently. Sowmiya won the women’s title.  Final placings: Under 10: Open: 1. Sai Abhinav Kuchibhotla, 2. R. Gautam.   Under 10: Girls: 1. Tanusri, 2. M. Thashvi.   District senior: Open: 1. S. Babu, 2. S. Narendra Pallavan, 3. K.P. Aakash, 4. K.P. Pranav.   District senior:   Women: 1. M. Sowmiya, 2. K. Sindhusree, 3. Nandhitha Anand, 4. V.S. Shwetha .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bharanidharan-karthik-gives-eswar-the-crown/article38033287.ece
25 December 2021||Coimbatore:,||Kaamadhenu Arts clinches title||Kaamadhenu Arts and Science College finished on top of the four-team league table to emerge the champion of the Bharathiar University inter-collegiate kabaddi tournament at the KPR CASR courts recently.  Final standings: 1. Kammadhenu ASC; 2. Rathinam CAS; 3. KPR; 4. Dr. NGP .    The Rotary Club of Coimbatore Uptown will conduct Rotacheck, a district-level chess tournament, at the Krishna Gounder Kalyana mandapam in Ganapathy, on December 26.   The Orange CC scored a facile six-wicket win over HPF in the NDCA K.S. Premnath Memorial knockout prize money rolling trophy cricket tournament at the Laidlaw Memorial School grounds in Ketti on Friday.  The scores:   HPF 139 in 28 overs S. Manigandan (3/22) lost to The Orange CC 144/4 in 18.4 overs (K. Sanjeev Ram 56 n.o., K. Dinesh Kumar 54).    Anna registered a 46-25 win over Karnatak in the South Zone inter-university kabaddi tournament for men, organised by the Bharathidasan University, here on Friday.  Other results (knockout): Kuvempu bt Alagappa 52-37; Yogi Vemana tied with Madurai Kamaraj 36-36, Vemana won 6-4 via tie-breaker; Bharathidasan bt Pondicherry 44-24; Yenepoya bt Kalasalingam ARE 36-23; Sathyabama bt TNPESU 38-19; Madras bt Bharath IHER 51-33.   Acharya Nagarjuna bt Karpagam AHE 46-27.       Mathan performed a hat-trick as Jamal Mohamed College defeated Bishop Heber College 3-1 in the final to clinch the men’s title in the Bharathidasan University inter-collegiate hockey tournament recently.  The results ( final):   Jamal Mohamed 3 (Mathan 3) bt Bishop Heber 1 (Ponnarasan);.   Third place: H.H. The Rajah’s College 0 drew with Sri Amaraavathi CAS 0. The Rajah’s won 4-2 in shootout .      The Orange CC scored a facile six-wicket win over HPF in the NDCA K.S. Premnath Memorial knockout prize money rolling trophy cricket tournament at the Laidlaw Memorial School grounds in Ketti on Friday.  The scores:   HPF 139 in 28 overs S. Manigandan (3/22) lost to The Orange CC 144/4 in 18.4 overs (K. Sanjeev Ram 56 n.o., K. Dinesh Kumar 54).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kaamadhenu-arts-clinches-title/article38033344.ece
25 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Rahul advances||K. Rahul defeated Amogh Sharma 15-0, 15-1 in the boys’ under-13 singles first round of the Simhadri Lakshya Cup badminton championship at Lakshya Academy here on Friday.  The results: 1st round: Boys: U-11: Harsha Vardhan bt Ch. Vijay Charan 15-6, 15-10; K. Aarush Varma bt Y.S.R. Rithvik 15-7, 15-3; P. Ritvik bt Anikesh 15-11, 15-0; Pushpak bt B. Vishwant 15-6, 15-11; Manas bt B. Devansh 15-5, 15-11.   U-13: K. Rahul bt Amogh Sharma 15-0, 15-1; P. Nihal Babu bt U. Tarun 15-1, 15-1; Hemang Gupta bt G. Haneesh 15-2, 15-7; S.J. Pavan Rohit bt Snehil 15-5, 15-8; M. Charan bt Vikram 15-7 15-5.   Girls: U-11: Vijaya Tejaswani bt Samanvitha 15-4, 15-2; Nagasatwika bt Nishitha 15-2, 15-4; Samiksha bt Alia 15-10, 15-5; Rishitha bt R. Tejasree 14-15, 15-12, 15-5.   U-13: M. Jasmeen bt Mokshagna 15-0, 15-1; G. Lahari bt Vijaya Tejaswani 15-0, 15-1; P. Joshika bt Sri Sai Sudha 15-13, 13-15, 17-15; Samitha bt Palak Shukla 15-2, 15-13 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-advances/article38033472.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: CDCA league, II div., Thiruporur vs Triune (7.30 a. m.), Kovalam vs Maduranthagam (12.30 p. m.), ACE Cricket Stadium, Kandigai; Harrington CA-Esbee State-level u-12 tournament, NM Greens, Vengaivasal, 12 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article38033280.ece
25 December 2021||DOHA,||Mukund crashes out||Qualifier Sidane Pontjodikromo of Netherlands outplayed third seed Sasikumar Mukund 6-0, 6-2 in the quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here.   Other result: Quarterfinals: $15,000 ITF men, Doha: Adil Kalyanpur & Sasikumar Mukund bt Rishab Agarwal & Rishi Reddy 6-4, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukund-crashes-out/article38033227.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The power of faith||There is much to learn from the lives of Tirunavukkarasar and his sister Tilakavathiyar. They have shown that faith in God paves the way for God to intervene in the lives of the devout and that every challenge is an opportunity to move closer to God realisation, pointed out Sivathiru Pa Peraathu Selvan in a discourse. God’s grace is the surest guidance to each one to mould one’s thought, word and deed in the right path. Both of them are affected with deep grief at a very early stage when they lose their parents in quick succession. In addition they face another tragedy when they lose the bridegroom who was betrothed to Tilakavathiyar. Since she had already mentally accepted him as her husband, she decides to end her life. But she is prevented from this by her young brother who pleads with her to take care of him. So she chooses to lead a life of penance and engage in service to the Lord. Though the young Tirunavukkarasar understands the ephemeral nature of life, and how even youth, and wealth are only very temporary attractions in one’s lifetime, for some reason he is drawn from Saivism to the Samana faith. Perhaps this is God’s will and during that period he becomes well versed in the Samana philosophy. But his sister is sad that her brother is on the wrong path and prays to Siva that He should bring him back to Saivism, his true faith. Siva makes him suffer severe stomach pain. Then he thinks of his sister and comes to her presence. At the temple of the Lord at Tiru Athikai Veerattanam, he prays for relief from pain. His sister offers him the Lord’s Tiruneer and imparts the Panchakshara. He is cured and he becomes a staunch Saivite saint. His many soul stirring hymns continue to inspire posterity with tremendous faith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-power-of-faith/article38032935.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 07:28 IST,||Sudoku — December 25, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-25-2021/article38033736.ece
25 December 2021||Goa to Pondy:,||Instapic||While Goa continues as the number one New Year’s Eve destination in the country, Puducherry now joins the top 5 list, according to travel platform Agoda. Celebrations go low key across the country, with curbs over the New Year’s weekend in many States. So Anjuna and Baga beaches are readying for the party crowd! Delhi, Mumbai, and Bangalore are the other popular cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/instapic/article38033565.ece
25 December 2021||Watch Party:,||Talking point||It’s Christmas indeed for cinephiles who plan to stay home. While The Matrix Resurrections and Spiderman: No Way Home are out, there is more coming to binge your way into 2022 - Don’t Look Up , with its powerhouse cast,  Stand by Me Doraemon 2 from the much-loved anime franchise, Licorice Pizza etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/talking-point/article38033566.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Silent Night No More||Testing. 1-2-3. Hello parents and welcome to the Christmas skit by the future CEOs and start-up founders of Kindergarten. Performed live after months of online class. Take your socially-distanced seats, make sure your masks and cameras are on. When you post, remember to tag us. Enter Mary and Joseph looking for a room. Download the Hotella app, our main sponsors, and you will never be in this roomless state. Mary’s headgear is from tablecloths.co.in. 10% discount on tough, non-tear tablecloths. Joseph, look out, you’re tripping on Mary’s headgear tablecloth and tearing it. Discount increased to 50%. Teacher, please stop Mary and Joseph from battling with the tablecloth. This is not a video game! Joseph, stop sneezing on Baby Jesus! Why didn’t Joseph’s parents enter his hay allergy into the registration form? Instant auction for Joseph’s role now begins. Our 5-year-old vocalist, who has been professional voice-training since she was 1-week-old, will now sing ‘Silent Night.’ Joseph, stop sneezing on the vocalist! Events in long-time-ago Bethlehem, please pause for urgent announcement: Will the sheep’s mother, Dr Divya, please come backstage? He has been eating his wool. The camel’s father has won the auction with a gift of 3 computers for our lab. Will the camel please take off his hump and become Joseph? We apologise. Apparently, Mary refuses adult matchmaking and wants the donkey, who is her BFF, to be her new partner. We support same-gender relationships. Will the grandfather in the first row who shouted, ‘Marriages don’t last nowadays!’ please leave the audience? Security! The Three Kings enter from Extreme Right, signifying the political stance of royalty, calling, ‘Hark, a star!’ To avoid racial and gender stereotyping, the star is a lightbulb, and the three kings are queens – in the traditional sense of the word. Three Queens, please stop chasing Mary around stage for return gifts. Shepherd, stop waving to your family! Cow, please parade now, as your father has paid for a Prime Solo picture. This part of the programme is sponsored by A-Star English Tuitions. The speaking roles now begin. The lamb who gave a long, melodious ‘Baaaaaa!’ is undergoing Beauty’s Bollywood Coaching. Details on Instagram. She preserves her vocal cords by never eating sweets, ice cream or anything tasty. Will the fir trees at the back stop fighting immediately! The vocalist is trying to sing ‘Silent Night’. Will the mother who typed into the WhatsApp group: ‘Whose fir tree attacked mine?’ please meet the Principal. Here comes Santa Claus, distributing gluten-free, peanut-free, pink-colour-free, taste-free toffees and discount coupons of our sponsor brands. Santa Claus, stop eating the toffees yourself. Teacher, please go on stage to shush the crying vocalist, crying Santa and fighting fir trees. May there be peace on earth! Curtain! For more politically-correct festival drama, please like and follow us on YouTube. Where Jane De Suza, the author of ‘Happily Never After’, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/silent-night-no-more/article38033564.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Silent Night No More||Testing. 1-2-3. Hello parents and welcome to the Christmas skit by the future CEOs and start-up founders of Kindergarten. Performed live after months of online class. Take your socially-distanced seats, make sure your masks and cameras are on. When you post, remember to tag us. Enter Mary and Joseph looking for a room. Download the Hotella app, our main sponsors, and you will never be in this roomless state. Mary’s headgear is from tablecloths.co.in. 10% discount on tough, non-tear tablecloths. Joseph, look out, you’re tripping on Mary’s headgear tablecloth and tearing it. Discount increased to 50%. Teacher, please stop Mary and Joseph from battling with the tablecloth. This is not a video game! Joseph, stop sneezing on Baby Jesus! Why didn’t Joseph’s parents enter his hay allergy into the registration form? Instant auction for Joseph’s role now begins. Our 5-year-old vocalist, who has been professional voice-training since she was 1-week-old, will now sing ‘Silent Night.’ Joseph, stop sneezing on the vocalist! Events in long-time-ago Bethlehem, please pause for urgent announcement: Will the sheep’s mother, Dr Divya, please come backstage? He has been eating his wool. The camel’s father has won the auction with a gift of 3 computers for our lab. Will the camel please take off his hump and become Joseph? We apologise. Apparently, Mary refuses adult matchmaking and wants the donkey, who is her BFF, to be her new partner. We support same-gender relationships. Will the grandfather in the first row who shouted, ‘Marriages don’t last nowadays!’ please leave the audience? Security! The Three Kings enter from Extreme Right, signifying the political stance of royalty, calling, ‘Hark, a star!’ To avoid racial and gender stereotyping, the star is a lightbulb, and the three kings are queens – in the traditional sense of the word. Three Queens, please stop chasing Mary around stage for return gifts. Shepherd, stop waving to your family! Cow, please parade now, as your father has paid for a Prime Solo picture. This part of the programme is sponsored by A-Star English Tuitions. The speaking roles now begin. The lamb who gave a long, melodious ‘Baaaaaa!’ is undergoing Beauty’s Bollywood Coaching. Details on Instagram. She preserves her vocal cords by never eating sweets, ice cream or anything tasty. Will the fir trees at the back stop fighting immediately! The vocalist is trying to sing ‘Silent Night’. Will the mother who typed into the WhatsApp group: ‘Whose fir tree attacked mine?’ please meet the Principal. Here comes Santa Claus, distributing gluten-free, peanut-free, pink-colour-free, taste-free toffees and discount coupons of our sponsor brands. Santa Claus, stop eating the toffees yourself. Teacher, please go on stage to shush the crying vocalist, crying Santa and fighting fir trees. May there be peace on earth! Curtain! For more politically-correct festival drama, please like and follow us on YouTube. Where Jane De Suza, the author of ‘Happily Never After’, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/silent-night-no-more/article38033068.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Finally, a desi holiday movie||We have sex, we drink, we curse like the sailors of yesteryear, and then some. But the Indian women we often saw in movies or series were always the result of cultures of perfection or exoticisation, rather than fully-formed, flawed human beings. Slowly and surely, the real force of representation came in the comedy-drama films such as Lipstick Under My Burkha, Margarita With a Straw and Queen . But what of pure, slapstick comedy? That is Hot Mess Holiday as it captures the Indian diaspora woman of today in the bizarre context of ‘Deepavali in New York, a public break-up going viral, a diamond heist and Kal Penn being Kal Penn.’ Directed by Jaffar Mahmood, the Comedy Central film stars actor-comedians Surina Jindal and Melanie Chandra, who also executive-produced the film written by Sameer Gardezi ( Modern Family ). It also brings much-loved names such as Penn, Punam Patel, Definition Please ’s Ritesh Rajan, Kunal Dudheker, Never Have I Ever ’s Richa Moorjani, Ravi Patel, Aparna Nancherla and Ayptical ’s Nik Dodani. The film – seven years in the making – follows a finance executive who is publicly dumped by her cheating fiancé during Deepavali and is inadvertently swept into a diamond heist. And what would any Indian diaspora film be without a few cheeky digs at the condescending attitude Indian diaspora face? That is, an angry uncle or aunty berating them for not speaking in their mother tongue fluently, still being unmarried before 30 or not pursuing the ideal career path. Hot Mess Holiday treats this with shades of comedy. A rom-com for friendship Through pre-production, the duo shared anecdotes of their decade-long friendship with the writer Sameer Gardezi; the stories were equal measures of laughs and love, highlighting Jindal’s go-with-flow approach to life and Chandra’s knack for getting all her ducks in a row. In fact, the makers decided that the characters in the film should be named Surina and Melanie. “It’s a rom-com for our friendship,” she sums up with a laugh, “It’s so beautiful to finally put something out there that says ‘females first!’ where – despite how partners, location, work issues (or a diamond heist) can test a friendship – the friendship sticks.” The duo are grateful for the ensemble featured in the film and not just those of South Asian-origin. You will see other familiar faces such as Saturday Night Live alum Chris Parnell and The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt actor Titus Burgess. Hot Mess Holiday makes the best of their cast by leveraging Dodani’s deadpan humour, Penn’s legend status, Moorjani’s dance skills, and more. The key, states Chandra, is “letting everyone on set play.” The reality is that this film would not be what it is if it were released seven years ago. For far too long, India-oriented projects about a child of poverty wanting to be a doctor or arranged marriages were the only ones greenlit in Hollywood. “If we had gotten this done with a major studio seven years ago, I feel we would have a lot more pressure to make it something we didn’t want it to be. This means playing into the tropes and stereotypes; now in 2021, people lean into hearing your unique voice,” Chandra muses. After years of attending various diversity talent showcases in Hollywood where she was pushed to ‘put on an Indian accent’ and ‘just do the character in a sari’, Jindal was tired of “constantly creatively compromising” herself. “It hurts that the thought of Indian women having sex, smoking and drinking is an anomaly,” she sounds out.  Hot Mess Holiday releases on Comedy Central India on December 25 at 9 pm.   “It’s a rom-com for our friendship. It’s so beautiful to finally put something out there that says ‘females first!’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/finally-a-desi-holiday-movie/article38033117.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Streaming saved the film industry’||In journalist and film critic Anupama Chopra’s A Place in My Heart , there are individual chapters devoted to a wildly miscellaneous range of Indian films: from 1960s classics like Mughal-e-Azam to early 2000s trendsetters like Dil Chahta Hai to the much more recent, unorthodox fare like the short film Tungrus . When one has been talking and writing about cinema for so long, it’s sometimes easy to lose sight of what one primarily expects from a film, especially on the large screen. What stands out is her evolving taste in cinema thanks to film festivals, and the acceptance of newer formats and languages, especially Malayalam and Tamil content.  The film festival advantage  “When I started off as a journalist in the early 90s, it was hard to access anything other than very mainstream cinema — except for the festivals,” says Chopra, adding, “Over the years I have developed a palate for more non-linear narratives or a cinema that’s more about stillness. But the first response is always to story, to narrative. I want the drama, I want the plotting.” Film festivals, as Chopra mentions, were crucial when it came to accessing films outside commercial Bollywood.  Chak De India , a favourite Throughout A Place in My Heart , there are chapters breaking down Chopra’s favourite films in a simple, elegant manner. There’s an early chapter about the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Chak De India (2007) that will resonate with a lot of readers. It’s sharply written and makes some fine observations about the director Shimit Amin’s narrative style, but addresses how the film has aged, thereby acknowledging its weaknesses: “You could argue that the film’s feminist stance is specious because ultimately Kabir is the male saviour who’s constantly pushing and inspiring the women to fight the odds… But Shah Rukh plays the role so persuasively that I’m willing to make my peace with that.”  The OTT shift  Perhaps significantly, one of the only made-for-streaming films Chopra talks about in the book is Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman , that too in the context of a theatrical screening organised by Netflix at Delhi’s Regal Cinema. “Movie theatres are my office and my place of worship,” she declares pithily towards the end of A Place in My Heart . At the same time, she believes that in the immediate future, “theatrical and streaming (models) will co-exist happily”. “Streaming saved the film industry. All these films over the last 18 months found distribution platforms online, found ways to recover their money. It threw up new stars: Jaideep Ahlawat, Prateek Gandhi. So that genie is not going back into the bottle, I feel. At some level, consumer behaviour has changed because of streaming.”  Published by Penguin Random HouseIndia, A Place in My Heart is priced at Rs. 599.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/streaming-saved-the-film-industry/article38033122.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s oldest hotel company updates its legacy||It’s a bustling London morning, a smoggy Delhi noon, and clear azure skies in Udaipur, when Puneet Chhatwal, Lakshyaraj Singh Mewar and I meet up — online, logging in from three different cities for a tête-à-tête that has been long pending. At first, the idea had been to meet over a meal. Perhaps at the redone The Chambers at the Taj Mahal Hotel in New Delhi to talk about everything that IHCL (the Taj group’s parent company and South Asia’s largest hospitality company) has been up to lately — posting a decent recovery after the initial months of the pandemic, strategising cogently to cut down debt, upping its revenues a whopping 132% (in Q2 FY 2021-22 over the same period last fiscal), but above all, expanding furiously, signing up not just newer hotels but interesting ones: an all-women managed luxury residence (the Taj Wellington Mews in Chennai), a 100-year-old house by the Ganga, in a town not known for either leisure or luxury (Pilibhit House, Haridwar), a hotel in the heart of the Makaibari tea estate (the Taj Chia Kutir, offering a deep dive into plantation lifestyle with permaculture and sustainability built in), and a Taj Exotica at the Palm in Dubai early next year (with a marquee Indian restaurant opening). But first, London. It’s early morning still when Chhatwal, MD and CEO IHCL, logs on, and we begin chatting about the Indian food scene in that metropolis. “Indian restaurants are buzzing,” he says, but confesses to not having checked out any save the Taj-owned Quilon “because if I am in Europe after all this while, I don’t want to eat Indian food”, he says candidly. Then again, Sriram Aylur serves some of the best South Indian coastal food in the world, and the restaurant also retained its Michelin Star for the 14th year consecutively earlier this year. We are still talking food, when Singh, the 77th custodian of the 1,500-year-old house of Mewar, joins in with a cultured namaskar . “So, Lakshyaraj ji , you have been jogging?” Chhatwal quips about the former’s fitness routine. The camaraderie between my two guests is immediately apparent. IHCL completes 50 years of operating the iconic Lake Palace in Udaipur, a home and a hotel whose visitors’ book contains messages from some of the most famous people in the world, including Queen Elizabeth II; where Octopussy , the James Bond movie famously featuring Vijay Amritraj and Roger Moore was filmed; and which was built (it opened in 1746) well before the US became a nation. “That is what I tell people… that you are in a place that existed before your country,” says Singh, more practical hotelier than prince, “otherwise who remembers history?”  For the millennial Indian  They talk about keeping in touch with the needs of the contemporary traveller, even while retaining old values, and how the pandemic has thrown up a new segment in luxury travel — of the millennial Indian, with his family, ready to pay higher than before (while still looking for value); and one whose patronage will be important going forward, even when dollar-paying high-fliers return. “The domestic leisure market is not going away,” says Chhatwal. When it comes to luxury experiences, the Indian traveller is steadily evolving in terms of exposure “and if helped by policy decisions like reducing taxes on quality wines”, this market will come of age. Cognisant of this new demand, global luxury hospitality chains such as Six Senses and Raffles as well as the Indian ITC hotels (with its new brand Mementos) have all launched/signed new hotels. While the new Six Senses Fort Barwana near Ranthambore has been in the news for the super-private wedding of actors Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal, Raffles in Udaipur has been talked about for experiences customised to the Indian context. ‘ All competition is good’  Does this competition faze my guests, both with considerable interests in Rajasthan that seems to be at the epicentre of the new hospitality tug-o-war? Chhatwal smiles, “You should not be alone at the top”, and elaborates, “all competition is good in the long run because different brands bring different customer sets, whose cost of acquisition may otherwise have been too high. This helps us because new customers get a chance to see your brand”. He proceeds to highlight the Tata legacy: “Just see the iconic properties we have… Lake Palace, Falaknuma [Hyderabad], 51 Buckingham Gate [in London, where he is staying as we speak], who can match these?” As the new India story unfolds, IHCL’s relationship with the Udaipur royal dynasty that owns HRH hotels (the only chain of palace-hotels in India under private ownership) is significant. “It is not a marriage; marriages can be complicated, this one is not,” says Singh of the 50-year-old ties between the two legacy businesses. “Through the pandemic, the Tatas have stood firmly behind us; I only had to pick up the phone and there was immediate help,” he adds. It is a relationship built on shared values, but as Chhatwal adds drily, “every relationship must have investment too, both emotional and capital”. For IHCL, it not only means better access to a pool of premium prestigious properties but also leverage when it comes to other aristocratic owners who may look up to the Udaipur royals. For HRH, growth and modernisation with the heft of such a large chain is an obvious advantage.  100 Taj hotels coming up  Chhatwal ponders the “paradox of life” where time has stood still at some places, as it should, but where modern tastes and needs must be attended to nevertheless. “That is the tightrope you have been walking everywhere,” I muse, remembering breakfast at the refurbished Machan in Delhi, a beloved coffee shop, now stripped of its striped carpet and old air. It is lighter, brighter and with options like a Japanese ‘trail’ menu, and old-style Taj service. The mention of Machan brings forth nostalgia from Chhatwal too, who is moved to exclaim, “That is the reason I became a hotelier!” He tells us how he would sit at the coffee shop watching people for hours as a young hospitality student — over the single cup of coffee he could afford then. Now, however, his eyes are firmly on the future. Chhatwal, who played cricket in his younger days, is looking forward to a fresh century: 100 Taj hotels in the next three years (the tally is 85 currently), a feat that would make it one of the top three luxury hotel chains in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/indias-oldest-hotel-company-updates-its-legacy/article38033110.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Make way for the Anti-plum cake||This year, Bani Nanda’s Christmas menu at Miam Pâtisserie in New Delhi incorporates everything that’s in season — from “strawberries to rhubarb from Coonoor togalgal[hill lemons] from our estate in Himachal Pradesh”. Ever since the affable chef (@chefbani on Instagram) launched Miam in 2015, she has pushed the creative envelope. This week, she sets a table for us with her popular Anti-plum cake, a refreshing departure from the Christmas staple. “I am not a fan of traditional plum cake and I have disturbing memories as a child biting into them thinking they’re chocolate cakes. I can never let that go,” she explains. “I’ve also come to realise that a lot of people have the same feelings towards plum cake. This is our Christmas-style cake with notes of marmalade, cinnamon and nutmeg. It’s like Christmas in the mouth!” Featured here with her popular puff pie, introduced last year. This one has onion jam, cream cheese and potatoes. While her Instagram feed will make you want to take your work meeting to the nearest pretty café that serves good cake, she is generous about showcasing other brands, too (see box). A long-time crockery collector, she suggests buying plates in sets of six, no more, “so they are easy to mix and match”. Having discovered “the art of doing absolutely nothing” during the pandemic, she also began experimenting with tablescapes. What works best when it comes to the tablecloth, we ask her. “Go with white, always white! You’ll see a lot of white on my Instagram feed. Honestly, with India being one of the biggest textile exporters in the world, all my table linen is from Amazon or Flipkart,” she shares. “I also like shopping at local markets and pop-ups, especially Dilli Haat.” That said, chef Bani has an eclectic list of tableware specialists to check out during the holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/make-way-for-the-anti-plum-cake/article38033102.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||For peat’s sake||The words craft and artisanal are bandied about quite frequently nowadays when it comes to alcoholic beverage brands in India. So, I’m curious to know how Diageo interprets them. They’ve just launched their second edition Epitome Reserve, this one a peated single malt, with just 3,600 numbered bottles (signed by master blender Mahesh Patil has). It comes quick on the heels of their first edition, a single grain rice whisky launched six months ago. I’m in conversation with Vikram Damodaran, the Chief Innovation Officer of Diageo, who, along with Patil, is responsible for both the products. To him, the emerging Indian consumer is looking for product authenticity (in craft), and a narrative with roots that run deep — quite like the banyan embossed on the Epitome bottle.  When whisky met wine  The single malt is distilled at their facility in Ponda, Goa, by the Mandovi river. Select Indian six-row barley, from the Himalayan foothills over 2,000 kilometres away, goes into its making, and the whisky — matured in ex-bourbon casks — is finished in casks that previously held Cabernet Sauvignon wine. Keshav Prakash, the founder of The Vault, an importer of boutique spirits, had occasion to taste it recently, and told me that the maturation had been managed brilliantly, with the whisky balanced yet interesting, making it a great dram to pair with tandoor or BBQ. “Overall, an impressive world whisky,” he said.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/for-peats-sake/article38033113.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||To disrupt and discover like Satish Gujral||The world knows Satish Gujral as the acclaimed muralist, magical sculptor and architect but to me, he was a truly expressive father. When it comes to him, my biggest art acquisition was an accidental one, found while I was cleaning his attic. The work is called ‘Nancy’ and it is a very muscular, pronounced portrait of his American girlfriend in Mexico. When I discovered it, I told my mother I was hanging it in my bedroom. That was the first interior space I designed. It was a much simpler world then, where artists were truly absorbed in their art and not what their expression would bequeath. From him I learnt not to allow success to limit my creative flow, making me repeatedly go to what ‘worked’. Instead, he asked us to explore, let the mind roam free, disrupt, discover and keep tampering with success. Raseel Gujral Ansal is an interior designer and art connoisseur. Read the full article on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/to-disrupt-and-discover-like-satish-gujral/article38033058.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The 2021 Indian Wine Power List||Last year during the lockdown, when wine stocks dried up in home bars across the country, Indians began to look to local producers to meet their needs. This not only gave the industry a boost, but as consumers began trading up, and drinking better quality, Indian premium wine moved front and centre. A few wine stalwarts led this change, bringing new ideas and processes to the table. Whether it is in terms of upping quality levels of premium Indian wine, introducing a diverse international portfolio to the Indian market, championing the cause of sustainability (a hot button topic worldwide), making wine a fun and joyous topic, or just directing world focus on to India with ambitious plans and projects, there is much happening that is positive. Those featured on The Hindu Weekend ’s pandemic Power List are few, but already it is possible to see new shoots everywhere — the doughty Indian spirit of entrepreneurship is blooming quickly across the country. While next year’s list will hopefully be longer and more diverse, this year's already brings new cheer and confidence as we move into 2022.                                                Uma Chigurupati| 61 Founder, KRSMA Estates Focus on sustainable viticulture and a portfolio with premium-only wines Two years ago,Uma was worrying about the lack of rainfall at their vineyards near Hampi. Today, she is despairing at quite the opposite. “Our crop is fantastic this year, but with rain during veraison [ripening of grapes]… the risk of damage to the fruit and increase in pests is high.” The size of harvest is important as KRSMA boasts premium-only wines in their focussed portfolio, made from grapes grown only in their vineyards. So, production is small (50,000 bottles), their market smaller, out of choice (Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Goa), and they dominate the premium wine landscape in India. While Uma leads with decision-making — from vineyard to the finished product — her husband, and co-founder, Krishna, steps in to offer advice when required. “I tend to play safe, he is the bolder decision-maker,” she explains. Her wish list includes growing the production of their ‘second’ wine, the approachable, fruity brand K2, which caters “to those getting introduced to wine drinking”. Uma is firm about following the rules of sustainable viticulture. “It is vital to stay away from indiscriminate use of fungicides and herbicides. When a consumer opens a bottle of wine, they shouldn’t taste chemicals.” Soon on the cards is their Covid-delayed project — constructing a state-of-the-art tasting room overlooking their vineyards, as well as a couple of rooms for visitors to the winery. “People visit us while they’re at Hampi [a 1.5-hour drive away] so we do not need larger hospitality facilities.” While Uma regrets ignoring repeated demands to export to countries like the US, the UK and Japan, as well as withdrawing from New York, where they were once listed at top restaurants and bars — “we couldn’t continue owing to growing domestic demand” — she hopes to now increase their plantings, which will help their ability to supply to additional markets. At the end, what is vital for her is quality. “We are not about numbers. KRSMA is not a business for us, but a passion project.” End-of- pandemicwine :  La Sirena2010 Cabernet Sauvignon by Heidi Barrett is a bold and well-balanced wine with fine tannins that is well integrated with oak. Ravi Viswanathan| 58 Chairman, Grover Zampa Vineyards Put his money behind high tech at the winery and vineyards He madenews when he snapped up three barrels of top Burgundy at the iconic Hospice de Beaune charity auction in 2018. Now, he’s charting a course with sustainability at the forefront. A new state-of-the-art winery is being built in Karnataka not far from Grover Zampa Vineyards’ old flagship, containing everything from solar panels to gravity flow tanks. “It will be a completely green winery,” says Viswanathan. “Every element to support sustainability has been built into the design, and targets problems specific to India, such as higher temperatures.” Under his charge, Grover Zampa Vineyards has introduced a slew of high tech: from plans for weather systems and drones in the vineyard to detect vine disease early, soil monitoring sensors to improve water efficiency, to a canopy growth vegetative index to provide regular assessment of yields. In the winery, modern temperature-controlled amphorae, new French foudres and tanks are already being put to use. Research is also being done to increase the life cycles of vines from 20 to 30 years, thereby reducing costs and decreasing use of herbicides. Viswanathan strongly believes that Indian wine drinkers, though still small in numbers, are more knowledgeable than their counterparts in developed countries (at this stage of their wine journey). “The consumer today is very different from 10 years ago — there’s a growing appetite to try new styles and grape varieties, as wines gain acceptability in social circles.” Two of the world’s largest trade fairs, Prowein and Vinexpo, have now reached India in 2021, he points out. He is also betting big on wine tourism. Besides the Nashik project, each of their four wineries will feature hospitality services, from chalets to wine boutiques, restaurants and lounges. Rajeev Samant| 54 Founder-Chief Sustainability Officer, Sula Vineyards Led the way with reuse of waste water and rainwater harvesting Samant soldhis first bottle of wine in 2000 and has now crossed the one million mark. But he isn’t pausing for breath. This September, Sula embraced sustainability by signing on with the Miguel Torres-led IWCA (International Wineries for Climate Action), which has over 20 big-brand wineries on board, including Australia’s biodynamic star Cullen Wines and USA’s Jackson Family Wines. This, according to Samant, is another step towards their commitment to fight climate change, and make Sula future-ready. “Ten years ago, we installed our first solar panel. Today we generate 65% of our energy requirements. If we aren’t sustainable, we lack the meaning to exist.” There is change happening on all fronts. With increased focus on the premium end of their portfolio, brands Rasa and The Source have seen new packaging and improved sales — the award-winning Source Rosé is now established as India’s top-selling rosé brand. On the wine tourism front, Sula already sees a record-breaking 400,000 visitors to their hospitality centres, The Source and Beyond. When we speak, this has hit 100% occupancy, and Samant is thrilled. “The pandemic was a very difficult time for us and the bounce back is very welcome.” They opened five new rooms in the last month and now “need to take a breath”. Sustainability remains Samant’s raison d’etre . Addressing India’s acute water shortage, Sula is reusing waste water to save up to 33% per case of wine produced, while large-scale rainwater harvesting supplies 85% of their fresh water needs. Among other measures is e-vehicles for winery-linked transportation, a major contributor to greenhouse gases. Sula also aims to touch 75% solar energy use by 2023. End-of- pandemic wine: La Romaneeby Liger Belair or La Grande Rue by Domaine Lamarche. They are the true expressions of Pinot Noir. End-of- pandemic wine: La Romaneeby Liger Belair. It is a true expression of Pinot Noir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-2021-indian-wine-power-list/article38033062.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The X in Vinita Chaitanya’s 2021||Bengaluru-based interior designer Vinita Chaitanya has had a busy year of collaborations. And now comes her ‘Inde Rose’ with Jaipur Rugs. The line of silk carpet pairings or coordinated sets of rugs designed by her is an expression of her observations of nature, gardens, colour, textures and techniques. There are five pairings, which she layers with unexpected weaves, textures, prints-on prints and colours. Woven in the ‘gultaraash’ technique, each has 121 knots per square inch, in dusty pinks, pale jades and purples.  What led to the collaboration with Jaipur Rugs?  Rutvi and Yogesh Chaudhary (Brand Director, Jaipur Rugs) approached me during a dinner conversation over two years ago for this. They knew my style and wanted me to bring my ‘India proud’ ethos to their range.  The last year has seen you as part of several collaborations.  I am actually very reticent to enter collaborations unless I admire the brand and they compliment my design language. For example, I approached Tarun Tahiliani to make a handcrafted unique masterpiece for my project and he readily agreed. It was a brilliant outcome and we collaborated on another beautiful piece of embroidered tapestry that was completely different. My collab with Sabyasachi for Nilaya fabric was also wonderful, I was already working with the prints and wallpapers when my friend Manju Sara Rajan approached me. The layering and ‘India proud’ ethos are what I truly believe in and I am committed to it in my design process. And then the Jaipur Rugs collaboration was in the making for two years.             Available at jaiprrugs.com,      prices start at Rs. 4,00,000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-x-in-vinita-chaitanyas-2021/article38033082.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The 2021 Indian Wine Power List||Last year during the lockdown, when wine stocks dried up in home bars across the country, Indians began to look to local producers to meet their needs. This not only gave the industry a boost, but as consumers began trading up, and drinking better quality, Indian premium wine moved front and centre. A few wine stalwarts led this change, bringing new ideas and processes to the table. Whether it is in terms of upping quality levels of premium Indian wine, introducing a diverse international portfolio to the Indian market, championing the cause of sustainability (a hot button topic worldwide), making wine a fun and joyous topic, or just directing world focus on to India with ambitious plans and projects, there is much happening that is positive. Those featured on The Hindu Weekend ’s pandemic Power List are few, but already it is possible to see new shoots everywhere — the doughty Indian spirit of entrepreneurship is blooming quickly across the country. While next year’s list will hopefully be longer and more diverse, this year's already brings new cheer and confidence as we move into 2022.                                                Uma Chigurupati| 61 Founder, KRSMA Estates Focus on sustainable viticulture and a portfolio with premium-only wines Two years ago,Uma was worrying about the lack of rainfall at their vineyards near Hampi. Today, she is despairing at quite the opposite. “Our crop is fantastic this year, but with rain during veraison [ripening of grapes]… the risk of damage to the fruit and increase in pests is high.” The size of harvest is important as KRSMA boasts premium-only wines in their focussed portfolio, made from grapes grown only in their vineyards. So, production is small (50,000 bottles), their market smaller, out of choice (Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Goa), and they dominate the premium wine landscape in India. While Uma leads with decision-making — from vineyard to the finished product — her husband, and co-founder, Krishna, steps in to offer advice when required. “I tend to play safe, he is the bolder decision-maker,” she explains. Her wish list includes growing the production of their ‘second’ wine, the approachable, fruity brand K2, which caters “to those getting introduced to wine drinking”. Uma is firm about following the rules of sustainable viticulture. “It is vital to stay away from indiscriminate use of fungicides and herbicides. When a consumer opens a bottle of wine, they shouldn’t taste chemicals.” Soon on the cards is their Covid-delayed project — constructing a state-of-the-art tasting room overlooking their vineyards, as well as a couple of rooms for visitors to the winery. “People visit us while they’re at Hampi [a 1.5-hour drive away] so we do not need larger hospitality facilities.” While Uma regrets ignoring repeated demands to export to countries like the US, the UK and Japan, as well as withdrawing from New York, where they were once listed at top restaurants and bars — “we couldn’t continue owing to growing domestic demand” — she hopes to now increase their plantings, which will help their ability to supply to additional markets. At the end, what is vital for her is quality. “We are not about numbers. KRSMA is not a business for us, but a passion project.” End-of- pandemicwine :  La Sirena2010 Cabernet Sauvignon by Heidi Barrett is a bold and well-balanced wine with fine tannins that is well integrated with oak. Ravi Viswanathan| 58 Chairman, Grover Zampa Vineyards Put his money behind high tech at the winery and vineyards He madenews when he snapped up three barrels of top Burgundy at the iconic Hospice de Beaune charity auction in 2018. Now, he’s charting a course with sustainability at the forefront. A new state-of-the-art winery is being built in Karnataka not far from Grover Zampa Vineyards’ old flagship, containing everything from solar panels to gravity flow tanks. “It will be a completely green winery,” says Viswanathan. “Every element to support sustainability has been built into the design, and targets problems specific to India, such as higher temperatures.” Under his charge, Grover Zampa Vineyards has introduced a slew of high tech: from plans for weather systems and drones in the vineyard to detect vine disease early, soil monitoring sensors to improve water efficiency, to a canopy growth vegetative index to provide regular assessment of yields. In the winery, modern temperature-controlled amphorae, new French foudres and tanks are already being put to use. Research is also being done to increase the life cycles of vines from 20 to 30 years, thereby reducing costs and decreasing use of herbicides. Viswanathan strongly believes that Indian wine drinkers, though still small in numbers, are more knowledgeable than their counterparts in developed countries (at this stage of their wine journey). “The consumer today is very different from 10 years ago — there’s a growing appetite to try new styles and grape varieties, as wines gain acceptability in social circles.” Two of the world’s largest trade fairs, Prowein and Vinexpo, have now reached India in 2021, he points out. He is also betting big on wine tourism. Besides the Nashik project, each of their four wineries will feature hospitality services, from chalets to wine boutiques, restaurants and lounges. Rajeev Samant| 54 Founder-Chief Sustainability Officer, Sula Vineyards Led the way with reuse of waste water and rainwater harvesting Samant soldhis first bottle of wine in 2000 and has now crossed the one million mark. But he isn’t pausing for breath. This September, Sula embraced sustainability by signing on with the Miguel Torres-led IWCA (International Wineries for Climate Action), which has over 20 big-brand wineries on board, including Australia’s biodynamic star Cullen Wines and USA’s Jackson Family Wines. This, according to Samant, is another step towards their commitment to fight climate change, and make Sula future-ready. “Ten years ago, we installed our first solar panel. Today we generate 65% of our energy requirements. If we aren’t sustainable, we lack the meaning to exist.” There is change happening on all fronts. With increased focus on the premium end of their portfolio, brands Rasa and The Source have seen new packaging and improved sales — the award-winning Source Rosé is now established as India’s top-selling rosé brand. On the wine tourism front, Sula already sees a record-breaking 400,000 visitors to their hospitality centres, The Source and Beyond. When we speak, this has hit 100% occupancy, and Samant is thrilled. “The pandemic was a very difficult time for us and the bounce back is very welcome.” They opened five new rooms in the last month and now “need to take a breath”. Sustainability remains Samant’s raison d’etre . Addressing India’s acute water shortage, Sula is reusing waste water to save up to 33% per case of wine produced, while large-scale rainwater harvesting supplies 85% of their fresh water needs. Among other measures is e-vehicles for winery-linked transportation, a major contributor to greenhouse gases. Sula also aims to touch 75% solar energy use by 2023. End-of- pandemic wine: La Romaneeby Liger Belair or La Grande Rue by Domaine Lamarche. They are the true expressions of Pinot Noir. End-of- pandemic wine: La Romaneeby Liger Belair. It is a true expression of Pinot Noir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-2021-indian-wine-power-list/article38033099.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Single Malt experiment||Amrut Spectrum is the world’s first multi-wood barrel Single Malt Whisky. Bengaluru’s Amrut Distilleries launched this limited bottle release of Spectrum 004 last week. There were 600 bottles in Bengaluru, priced at Rs 12,999; if you get your hands on one, let us know. Approximately 6,000 bottles will be retailed in Europe, the US and the Asia-Pacific region. It is aged in a Spectrum cask made with staves (wooden slats) from four types of oak: a new American oak with char level 3, lightly toasted new French limousin oak, ex-oloroso sherry cask staves and ex-PX sherry cask staves. Trust head distiller Ashok Chokalingam to be behind the novel idea of maturation in a custom-built barrel! As for the tasting notes, he says it is a jammy affair with a hint of mild spice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/single-malt-experiment/article38033064.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Golden hearts in a box||ITC’s Fabelle now has a ‘Heart of Gold’ collection. You get 10 chocolate pralines, filled with ruby mousse, white mousse with a hint of lemon etc. The luxury quotient is the 24K edible gold coated crisp at the core of each. Handcrafted by Fabelle’s master chocolatiers and Michelin Star Chef Marco Stabile, it is priced at Rs. 2100, and available at Fabelle Boutiques on ITC properties and online at itcstore.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/golden-hearts-in-a-box/article38033066.ece
25 December 2021||Goa to Pondy:,||Instapic||While Goa continues as the number one New Year’s Eve destination in the country, Puducherry now joins the top 5 list, according to travel platform Agoda. Celebrations go low key across the country, with curbs over the New Year’s weekend in many States. So Anjuna and Baga beaches are readying for the party crowd! Delhi, Mumbai, and Bangalore are the other popular cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapic/article38033074.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||EDM and the beach||Sunburn Goa 2021, the year’s biggest party and two-day EDM extravaganza begins on Dec 27. Armin Van Buuren, KSHMR, Nucleya, Woo York, Vini Vici, Loco Dice etc will be there till Dec 29. Hilltop Vagator. Tickets Rs. 3000 onwards, entry for those who have both shots of the COVID-19 vaccine and 18+. in.bookmyshow.com. Or livestream a party... Miley Cyrus will host a special live with Pete Davidson from Miami. Brandi Carlile, Billie Joe Armstrong, Jack Harlow etc. On NBC, New Year’s Day 8.30 am IST||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/edm-and-the-beach/article38033076.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Art station||Modernist artist Tyeb Mehta’s ‘Figure with bird’ and ‘Diagonal’ are among 41 works by Indian artists to be auctioned at Modern Art Online, a virtual auction by AstaGuru. Mehta’s works are priced between Rs. 12 and Rs. 16 crores. Dec 27-28. Other artists are M F Husain, F N Souza, Amrita Sher-Gil, S H Raza etc. astaguru.com. Also Prinsep’s will host India’s first NFT auction, with Gobardhan Ash’s five rare works on paper alongside 35 accompanying NFTs on January 14, 2022. prinseps.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/art-station/article38033078.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Snow patrol||Rather than the sun and sand, usher in a white new year in India at Elgin Hall, a restored 1857 British bungalow in Dalhousie. With Victorian furniture and a fancy spot for high tea. Choose from 30 varieties of Sancha tea and other snacks. elginhall.com Savour a quiet break at Himalaica, near Nainital, a fully functioning home in an estate, that grows its own vegetables and uses local organic produce. himalaica.com. Plans for Kashmir? There is the luxurious The Khyber in Gulmarg. khyberhotels.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/snow-patrol/article38033080.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Artists and a flea market||Head to mental health advocate Reshma Valliappan’s (Val Resh) solo show of charcoal sketches, ‘Black, White and the Unseen’, inspired by French impressionists for an art fix. India International Centre (IIC), Delhi. Till Dec 28. iicdelhi.in. If you are still planning your Christmas Day, head to the Christmas Flea Market by The Dreamcatcher Events. Besides clothing, jewellery and home decor there will also be a tarot card reading by Meenal Anand. Dec 25, 11 am - 8 pm. Fika, Adyar. 6383646177||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/artists-and-a-flea-market/article38033084.ece
25 December 2021||Watch Party:,||Talking point||It’s Christmas indeed for cinephiles who plan to stay home. While The Matrix Resurrections and Spiderman: No Way Home are out, there is more coming to binge your way into 2022 - Don’t Look Up , with its powerhouse cast,  Stand by Me Doraemon 2 from the much-loved anime franchise, Licorice Pizza etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article38033086.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Silk route||Taniera highlights tussar silk saris sourced from clusters across the country at a ‘Tussar Silk Festival’. Traditional or contemporary, take your pick. The latest collection, ‘Cityscapes’, has been inspired by elements of a city. At Taniera stores and www.taneira.com. Rs. 4000-15000. In Delhi, shop for crafts and textiles from 15 states at Dastkar’s ‘Winter Mela’. 75 crafts groups will participate, and you can chow down on winter specials at 15 food stalls. At Nature’s Bazaar, Andheria Mor. Till Dec 27 @dastkar.delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/silk-route/article38033088.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Party on a plate||If your plans for the day are open, sign up for brunch with holiday specials such as roast turkey and cranberry marmalade, apple pie, butternut squash risotto etc at Black Orchid. Also a live performance by Natuaku. Dec 25, 12 pm. Rs. 2999 For reservations 9176477647. Want to head out of town for New Year? La Villa, Puducherry has a special spread for the New Year’s Weekend dinner that includes grilled lobster and poached pear. Dec 31-Jan 1. Prices at Rs. 3200 onwards. 0413 4200028||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/party-on-a-plate/article38033090.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a wrap||Sher Bagh, the Raw Mango collaboration with Sujan’s Anjali Singh, is a fine addition to NYE wardrobes. Showcasing the coexistence between nature and man, the trench coats and skirts have 11 wild animals intermingled with humans as inspired motifs on Benarasi brocade. @rawmango Rs. 35000 onwards. Meanwhile, menswear designer Kunal Rawal’s new kidswear line ‘Boyhood’ for boys is experimental while sticking to the brand’s signature detailing. nalrawalofficial.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/its-a-wrap/article38033092.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Holiday tables from Goa||Early this year, Srimoyi Bhattacharya changed both her pin code and her lifestyle. The PR professional, and founder of Peepul Consulting, shifted her base from Delhi to a tiny, sleepy village in North Goa called Olaulim — “which even Goans don’t know about”. Work didn’t come to a grinding halt, but everything slowed down in the village that boasts winding lanes, lush fields and a solitary cafe. It also gave Bhattacharya, 48, an opportunity to look beyond meetings, power lunches, and parties (and to write her newly-published book, Pitch Perfect ). A year and a half of entertaining her family (and bringing out the tableware she’s been collecting over the years) made her realise that there’s something beautiful about setting up a special ritual for breakfast, lunch or dinner. As she began befriending local tastemakers, ceramists and artists in Goa, she decided to give form to an idea that’s been germinating for a while — to create a sourcebook for curated tablescapes. “I am a proud Bengali born and brought up in Paris. France has a legacy of decorative arts and the pleasure of the table, as I like to call it, is an art of living. In India, we talk about treating a guest like a god. So, to me, it was about bringing these double roots together,” she says.  Small batch designs  Bhattacharya launched TableCode by Sri on Instagram a couple of months ago, which “from an aesthetic standpoint, is about my journey of travelling to many places, and picking up products for the table”. She is teaming up with known and unknown creators to showcase small batch designs. Currently, her feed is alive with festive creations from Suite Nº8 — chevron dinner plates teamed with polka dot quarter plates with gold-gilded edges.  “I’m not here to give lessons in table styling because I think that is very personal. What I will do is share how you can mix things up. You don’t need to have everything from one source to put a table together,” she says. “When I go to Sri Lanka, I visit one of my favourite stores, Paradise Road, with their minimalistic design approach. In Goa, I found these cabbage leaf plates from an unbranded Portuguese creator that are beautiful. I have pieces from everywhere.”  The local advantage  At a personal level, she also wanted to do something rooted in Goa, where the changing seasons bring varied inspirations. “As I’m speaking to you, it’s all neon green around me,” she laughs. One of her favourite spots in her 110-year-old home (renovated by Goa-based architect Ini Chatterji) is the al fresco terrace, which faces a sparkling blue pool and green fields; it features in many of her photographs. She quickly brings the conversation back to her local collabs. “I’ve been working with this lovely potter, Neela, who lives in the neighbouring village of Carona. I am also working with the talented textile designer, Poonam Pandit, who used to work with [the late] Wendell Rodricks to develop the kunbi sari for him. So I challenged her: ‘Can we use this dying textile to make table covers’. There’s only one loom remaining now, and she is working with the weavers.” If TableCode picks up, Bhattacharya would love to open a small space close to home. “It is so much about a travelling experience. So whether it is through pop-ups or working with people in design, food, etc… it is going to be a very collaborative platform. And that’s going to be the fun of it.”  Shop what you see on @tablecodebysri (DM for pricing), or commission Bhattacharya to put a table together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/holiday-tables-from-goa/article38033072.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Have yourself a merry little Christmas||Omicron may have played party pooper across the world, but ‘tis the season to be jolly. There’s no reason that you can’t make Christmas a special occasion — one that celebrates family, friends, and all that’s really important. The Christian festival celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ goes by many names—Navidad in Spanish, Natale in Italian, Noël in French, Weihnachten in German — but it is synonymous with one theme: joy to the world. Modern holiday customs include completing an Advent calendar, Christmas music and carolling, church services, a special meal, and gift giving. Not to be forgotten are the many ways Christmas impacts homes — the plethora of decorations, including Christmas trees, lights, wreaths, garlands, mistletoe, holly, and nativity scenes, completely transform spaces into winter wonderlands. Try these ideas to add cheer to each and every corner of your home. Winterise the entryway Begin by clearing out the clutter — tip out all that you don’t need (donate things you haven’t used in a while), and bring in a bench so no one has to hop as they pull on their boots. Give a coir rug a Christmassy flavour by stamping simple white trees (paint and a potato block work well). Add other elements — a green garland, a set of pillar candles or pinecones nestled in a bed or tinsel, or a handmade wreath. A set of poinsettias standing guard by the doorway will hint that Christmas is here. Make way for the green What would the festival be without a Christmas tree? A tree works as the focal point of your living room, and decorating it is part of the tradition. Skip the routine decorations available in the market and invest in glass, mercury, or wood ornaments — they look much better and can be recycled year after year. The tree isn’t the only green that should be seen — bring in fresh greens and create garlands, wreaths, or simply clip up boughs to hangers/bannisters/curtain rods. If you’re short of fresh greens, DIYing your own paper garland — complete with holly berries — adds a quirky touch. Adding a metallic garland and glittery pillar candles to fresh greens create a glamorous tabletop setting. Bring out the red The bubbly, sure, but don’t forget to bring home the colour that’s synonymous with Santa Claus. There are numerous ways that you can use this bright colour — festive pillows, plaid throws, stockings, wreaths with berries, candles, Christmas tree decorations, rugs, and more. Incorporating pops of plaid helps boost the living room's cozy factor. Try wrapping books with leftover wrapping paper in shades of red and vibrant prints to add a novel touch. Other ways to sprinkle red through the home — candy canes, chocolates, ribbons, runners, flowers, banners, tableware, etc. If you want to make a really strong Christmas statement, how about painting the main door a bright red? Looking for simpler ideas? Light up the path to your home with DIY jars. All you need are mason jars and Epsom salt (for that snowy look). Pop in tealights and you’re all set.  Give your bar cart a seasonal makeover by adding tabletop trees, a customised chalkboard, plaid cups, and an assortment of coffee, cocoa, and chocolate.  Weave battery-operated fairy lights into fresh greens and tabletop installations for a twinkly glow.  Use a washable marker to add fluttery white snowflakes to a mirror or the window panes.  Hang mini wreaths on the kitchen cabinets to ensure that the heart of the home doesn’t get left out.  Display a mix of paper, metal, and wood stars in various sizes and shapes by a window to create a festive installation.  Bring out the reindeer from your child’s toy set and spray paint them gold. Dot them around the bookshelf or tables, or use as place card holders for your Christmas table.  No fireplace? Cloth wall hangings that duplicate the look are now available. Or else, freeze-frame a scene from a movie on the telly and enjoy the magic. Go in for a makeunder To most of the world, the days leading up to Christmas and the new year are an orgy of excess — and this tends to be reflected in the décor. Lights, candles, flowers, ceramics, mementoes, keepsakes... they insidiously make their way on every free table and countertop. In today’s super-busy and cluttered life, it makes sense to try and make sense of our lifestyle and take a slightly minimalist route. Minimalism does not need to be equated with Uncle Scrooge; you can start off small — reuse the ornaments, decrease the number of gifts, cook only as much as you serve, and “spark joy”. Merry Christmas!  Other ways to sprinkle red through the home — candy canes, chocolates, ribbons, runners, flowers, banners, tableware...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/have-yourself-a-merry-little-christmas/article38033132.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind the gates||By 2026, the demand for gated communities will increase by 2.5x reaching $500 billion, as reported by one of the leading management consulting firms, Redseer. It has also been projected that in the next five years, there will be at least 24 million households that reside in gated communities of India. Even though most of us must have noticed the mass construction of gated communities in both metros and small cities, these numbers are huge and unexpected. Though independent houses are still in existence, the surge in demand for a flat/ apartment in a gated community is quite significant. The pandemic has played a significant role here, with people recognising the importance of social interaction and community living. Work from home has allowed us more time to explore our interests and hobbies, making use of the amenities present on campus, be it for a quick jog or a workout. Moreover, higher disposable income, increased living standards, and in general demand for a healthy ecosystem for one’s family are the key drivers for this kind of surge in demand for residences in gated communities. Expensive deal With almost 32% of the total population living in big cities, gated communities are much lesser than the independent houses/ locality. The main reason behind this gap is the overall expenses to run a household. These additional expenses are due to the amenities provided like power backup, full-time security, recreational facilities, etc. Having said that, there seems to be a gradual increase in demand for gated communities due to bundled advantages offered by them. The first and foremost is the 24x7 security arrangement. Full-time surveillance that is non-intrusive with CCTV cameras and staff is a staple of such townships. Second, the beauty of the holistic living environment is created in every residential community or township. Outdoor amenities such as parks, jogging/ walking tracks ensure children don’t have to wander out for their evening playtime and elders can have their morning walk within a safe perimeter. It is an ecosystem of its own — a place for all age groups. Higher standards of living have created a huge demand for bigger houses, a better environment, and a lot of space with no compromise on safety and security. Such aspirations thus have contributed to the growth of community living in recent years. A lot of NRIs and HNI also consider investing in a gated community a wise decision. NRIs are motivated by economic uncertainties and HNIs from the prospects of future returns. It is reported that 82% of NRI’s investment is directed towards ready-to-move homes in gated communities. They also boast a much better ROI for resale and a promise of a better lifestyle, all within the campus.  Young buyers We have started seeing a trend in the younger generation, especially in Bengaluru, to move into a community that has good amenities. This ongoing quarter has seen considerable growth in sales — three times as much as compared to last year. Moreover, customers during this season are confident, displaying genuine interest in buying/ investing in the property, resulting in stronger numbers for genuine inquiries. The overall site visits have also doubled since last year. This surge in numbers is not limited just to our domestic market, as there’s been a 2x rise in sales for the same project in the NRI market compared to the last festive season. These numbers are a clear indication of what the future holds for gated communities. You can expect an increase in the number of buyers of gated community residences in the years to come. With increased demand, there would be better architecture, services, amenities, decor, sustainable design on display for the prospective investors. The concept of gated communities promotes a holistic vision that is ideal for the entire family and thus will be the ultimate choice for many homebuyers.  The writer is AVP, Sales and Marketing, Karle Infra Pvt. Ltd.   Full-time surveillance that is non-intrusive with CCTV cameras and staff is a staple of such townships||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/behind-the-gates/article38033124.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Dashing into a bright future||The demand for housing stands redefined post the COVID-19 pandemic. There has been a noticeable shift in the mindset of people and there is a rush to own a piece of residential real estate, at least in the urban centres. Several factors are seen to drive this changing trend. During the first phase of the pandemic, we noticed a severe wealth erosion across other investment classes, such as gold, equities, and mutual funds. It was only real estate that was strong and resilient to weather the storm. Many people who leased apartments were treated differently by the housing societies during the pandemic, and this was also instrumental in triggering the need to own a home. A combination of these factors has resulted in the rising demand for housing as evident from the trends across the major cities. While Q2 2020 was a total washout as the developers and buyers were clueless on how to deal with the crisis, the residential real estate market devised ways and means to steer clear of the crisis and pave the way for a new growth trajectory. Exemplary revival It is interesting to observe that since 2020 nearly 2.90 lakh units have been launched across the seven major cities in the country and sales recorded were approximately 2.83 lakh units. This indicates a steady demand for housing, despite the two waves of the pandemic that we went through. Post the first wave, the sales and launches have been on a continuous rise with a momentary pause in Q2 2021 owing to the second wave of the pandemic. The revival in Q3 2021 was exemplary with the sales volumes across each city doubling compared to the previous quarter. Despite rising sales and launches, the available inventory has risen marginally by 3% on year at 6.55 lakh units as of Q3 2021. Despite the highs and lows, the currently available inventory levels are in line with that of Q3 2019. However, the prices of residential real estate have been rising slowly and steadily. While the demand has gained momentum, the developers have been cautious to keep the prices in control. They are more focussed to ensure continuity of the construction and liquidating the available inventory. The rising prices of steel, cement, and raw materials have been continually pressurising the developers. Despite this, the prices appreciated modestly by 4% annually as of Q3 2021 as the developers are cognizant that abysmal price hikes will derail the demand cycle. The mega infrastructure developments across the country and within the cities have been instrumental in unlocking the real estate potential of many peripheral regions. Large projects such as DMIC, Bharatmala Pariyojna, Industrial parks and corridors, and several expressways being executed along with new roads, ports, and flyovers have been integral in creating new real estate markets across asset classes. Industrial, warehousing, and logistics are some of the asset classes which will witness development along with these projects, and will eventually catalyse the need for housing. Urban demand Within the metropolitan and major cities, there is a distinct rise in housing demand in the peripheral locations as the connectivity stands improved with the city centres and economic hubs. The metro rail network across the major cities is undergoing expansion and shall enable improving the connectivity of the peripheral markets. This has resulted in rising demand for housing in these newly evolved geographies and is evident from the rising share of residential launches. As of Q3 2021, nearly 68% of the total launches were in the peripheral regions and this share is anticipated to rise. During the last three years, the western markets comprising Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune have had the highest share of the market in terms of launches and sales. The diverse economic base and presence of many large and listed developers in these cities along with Maharashtra being the first state to successfully implement Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) have resulted in building the buyers’ confidence. The government’s stance to lower the stamp duty last year has also supported strong housing demand recovery. The effect of these policy changes can still be seen as evident from the continued momentum of housing sales even after the withdrawal of the benefits seven months ago. The West zone accounted for 46% of the launches and 48% of the sales, across the top seven cities of India for the period 2019 to Q3 2021. The developers are seen to be cautiously infusing supply to keep the demand-supply equation stable. The share of launches in the West zone has reduced from 52% in 2019 to 41% in 2021. Aided by the government’s incentives and low prevailing mortgage rates across the country, the sales share has risen from 47% to 50% during the same period. The South zone comprising Bengaluru, Chennai, and Hyderabad together are the second most active market. Together these cities accounted for 36% of the launches and 30% of the sales between 2019 and Q3 2021. While the share of sales has remained stable at 30% throughout the period, the share of launches has increased significantly. It has increased from 29% in 2019 to 42% in Q3 2021. This rise in the share of launches is mainly due to the increased supply in Hyderabad primarily in the last two quarters as many projects were awarded approvals. Focus on sales The National Capital Region (NCR) in the North zone accounts for nearly 14% share of the launches and 17% of sales. The share of sales and launches have reduced marginally during the period. NCR accounted for 15% of the launches in 2019, which has reduced to 12% in 2021. Sales have also reduced from 18% to 15% during the same period. As many large and listed developers make a foray into NCR the situation is likely to change in the future. It is evident that the residential real estate market is going to expand in the coming years. 2019 was the new peak for the residential segment post the reforms that were initiated in 2015-16. However, the COVID-19 pandemic temporarily paused the growth in 2020. The sharp V-shaped recovery that we have observed, makes it evident that the growth trajectory will continue into 2022 and beyond. However, there may be some slowdown if the interest rates increase. The prices are likely to increase in the future periods but the growth will be more rational. The growth of the residential segment across the country is now ensured given the robust demand, changing demographics, and realisation of the need to own a hard asset. Prices are likely to increase linearly as demand rises with the receding pandemic and improving economic situation.  The writer is MD & CEO, TRESPECT India.   The South zone comprising Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad together are the second most active market. Together these cities accounted for 36% of the launches and 30% of the sales between 2019 and Q3 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/dashing-into-a-bright-future/article38033125.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Boost funding, lower cost||The long-term view on India is one of uptrend on commercial absorption on the back of increasing pace of vaccination, return to office, robust pace of hiring, and gradual pick-up in international travel which will translate into a strong 2022. Vacancy levels which had been rising since the onset of COVID should start to decline from next year. Leasing discussions and site inspections have restarted pointing to a strong recovery in office market in 2022. Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are pooled investment vehicles that own and operate income-producing real estate assets. One can think of REITs like a mutual fund, where money is pooled from investors and in return, they get REIT units. Instead of shares of public companies, REIT units represent ownership of real estate assets. Like an IPO (Initial Public Offering), units in the portfolio are sold to investors through a public offer. Once the REIT lists, you can buy or sell units of REITs just like shares through regular trading accounts on BSE (Bombay Stock Exchange) and NSE (National Stock Exchange). Globally, REITs manage and invest in multiple real asset types including from residences, malls, office spaces, data centres, hospitality, medical facilities and warehousing and logistics assets. In India, we have started with REITs only a couple of years back and have just seen the office REITs come to the market so far. As we go forward, we will see REITs from the other assets come to market as well. Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) mandates that at least 80% of a REIT’s portfolio by value needs to be invested in completed and income generating properties. This decreases execution risk. The remaining 20% can be in under-construction properties, listed or unlisted debt of real estate companies, listed or unlisted equity shares of real estate companies, mortgage-backed securities, GSecs (Government Security) and money market instruments. SEBI also mandates that REITs must distribute at least 90% of the cash flows that they receive every year to the unit holders. These distributions are mandated at least once every six months. Some REITs like Embassy, however, have committed to quarterly distributions. When the REIT sells any property, it must reinvest the cash in other rent-generating properties within a year, failing which it must distribute 90% of the proceeds to unit holders. The three ways REITs make returns in three ways: First, they receive rents from the properties they’ve leased out. Second, when market prices for the properties they own increase, this is reflected in their Net Asset Value (NAV), but the market prices of REITs can run ahead or behind their NAV, based on the market’s estimate of their income and potential very similar to equities. Third is growth, where they acquire or build new assets which adds to their rents and contributes to increasing their capital values. RBI’s recent amendment to permit Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI) to invest in debt of REITs and InvITs (Infrastructure Investment Trust) will expand and diversify the potential capital pool for REITs and InvITs and further reduce the cost of capital for the asset class. This amendment will also improve the returns for the unit holders as the cost of debt becomes cheaper. The lenders will benefit from cross-collateralisation of multiple assets and cashflows. Also, the recent decreasing in the trading lots has enabled more liquidity in the markets.   The capital gains you make on your listed REIT units get treated as “long-term” capital gains if you held the units for more than 36 months Short term gains, where units are held for 36 months or less get taxed at a flat rate of 15% plus surcharge and cess. (Section 111A of IT Act)  Rental or interest income: applicable income tax slab rate Dividends: New Tax Regime: applicable income tax slab rate Old Tax Regime: exempt from tax Repayment of loans/ Other income: exempt from tax How to select a good REIT Occupancy/ Vacancy: The occupancy rate is the percentage of area of the portfolio of the REIT that is income generating. This is an important metric of its performance. The higher the occupancy, the stable are the cash flows. Weighted Average Lease Expiry (WALE): The biggest risk of running a commercial property is vacancy. WALE is used to calculate the time left for property to go vacant. It is measured in years. The higher the better. Distribution Yield: By law, REITs must pay 90% of distributable cash flows to the investors. Distribution yield is a metric to measure these payments. However, this is not guaranteed. It depends on the performance of the REIT. The higher the better. Loan To Value: Loan to Value (LTV) measures how much debt was borrowed compared to the underlying asset value. Just like any other business, the low leverage the better. Diversified portfolio: REITs having diversified portfolio across geographies & tenants are less prone to oversupply & concentration risk. Sponsor: A strong sponsor will have many advantages like brand recognition, trust factor, corporate governance. REITs will also have Right of first offer (ROFO) on properties owned by the sponsors.  Unlike India, where the listed REITs invests majorly in office spaces, globally one can build a diversified investment portfolio in residential, office, data centres, warehousing, retail, and hospitality. Globally, dividend yields in Asia are higher compared to developed markets.  The writer is Executive Director — Capital Markets, Knight Frank India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/boost-funding-lower-cost/article38033141.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Who owns the common area?||I purchased a flat about 20 years back, which consists of four blocks each of four apartments. I am the owner of one of the apartments. Should the patta of the UDS be transferred to the individual house owner’s name? Is it possible? The common areas or passage of the apartments comes to approximately 2,000 sq.ft. The patta is still in the name of the land owners/ power holders, where except one power holder all the others are no more. How is it possible to bring the common area’s patta to every individual apartment owner’s name? Kuttalaraj Ramalingam Chennai For undivided shares of land such as the common areas, no patta will be issued. However, all the owners can obtain a joint patta for the entire extent. If there is lack of clarity on ownership of any portion of land, you may have to approach the court for necessary directions or declaration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/who-owns-the-common-area/article38033127.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Property prices may rise by 10-15%||For the last few years, one of the major factors affecting the property prices is the raw material cost. The rise in prices of steel bars along with cement has added fuel to the construction budget crisis. Also the prices for plastics, man-made polymers and resins, used in everything from piping to insulation have been rising rapidly over the past few months. The pandemic-induced spike in prices of essential raw materials and the shortage of supply with traders have emerged as a challenge for many developers across the markets. Many housing projects, which were resumed after the second wave of the pandemic, are likely to slow down again owing to this new raw materials crisis. Here is what the real estate industry has to say about the price hike. Consumers at risk Pritam Chivukula, co-founder & director, Tridhaatu Realty, and hon. secretary, CREDAI MCHI, says, “After the pandemic, we have had a strong recovery in the real estate sector, thanks to the favourable government policies along with a record-breaking festive season supported by developer discounts and attractive payment plans. Now, the steep rise in raw material prices may impact the property prices in a big way, spoiling the home buyers’ dream of buying a property. Going forward, if the prices don’t drop, the developers will have no option but to pass the additional cost to the consumers as is happening in all other industries.” Sandeep Runwal, president-elect, NAREDCO Maharashtra and managing director, Runwal Group, has this to say. “Along with iron and cement prices, copper and aluminium prices have also increased, which has impacted the construction cost. If the prices do not reduce in future, there are high expectations of cost to upsurge around 10-12% unanimously. The burden might be shifted to the homebuyers resulting in a flunk in the sales of properties, and directly hitting the growth numbers of the industry. At the time when real estate industry has recorded good sales numbers, the rise in raw material prices will put brakes on the recovery of the sector.” Challenges & sentiments Kaushal Agarwal, chairman, The Guardians Real Estate Advisory, says, “The real estate prices have not gone up in the last couple of years, despite the sector being suppressed by a volcano of disruption resulting in sluggish market economics. The COVID-19 pandemic crisis brought real estate to a halt. Today, the developers are operating on a thin margin and despite the many challenges faced by them, the property prices across the segment are still rationalised because we don’t want to hurt the positive sentiments of the consumers. However, if the critical raw material price and construction cost continue to surge at a rocket pace, then the sector will be compelled to pass the burden on to home buyers. If the current trend continues in the steel, cement, and other key allied industries, then, there are chances that the property prices are likely to shoot-up 15-20% in the next six months.” Cherag Ramakrishnan, managing director, CR Realty, feels the cost of some of the raw materials has gone up significantly in the last few months, making it unrealistic to retain the pricing in real estate projects. “At the point when real estate in India had begun showing some strong signs of long-term recovery, a steep jump in the costs of key raw materials like concrete, and steel, and so forth, has intensified the issue further. There is an immediate requirement of government intervention to control the consistent upsurge, otherwise, the developers and eventually the homebuyers will face a massive burden of the rising costs leading to higher property prices,” he says. Vinay Kedia, director, Prescon Group, shares the view. He says, “Post pandemic has been challenging for the real estate sector but the industry has shown a strong recovery since the end of 2020 especially with record-breaking festive sales this year.”  Many housing projects, which were resumed after the second wave of the pandemic, are likely to slow down again owing to this new raw materials crisis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/property-prices-may-rise-by-10-15/article38033134.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Nestled in a nursery||ThinkCutieful is the brainchild of interior expert and space designer Romilla Tewari, who launched a children’s decor company in 2009. Her experience in education and paediatric design has played a key role in enhancing spaces from pre-schools to residences. Adding to Romilla’s fabulous portfolio is this neutral, colourful baby nursery. The mood board for this jungle safari nursery is not very loud. Muted tones, filled with animals and natural-looking hand-painted palms for the wallpaper create a serene sanctuary. Tewari has used a palette filled with greys, beiges, whites and creams. Keeping the basic requirements of a cot, a day bed and a feeding chair for the mother in mind, a functional pull-out bed has been placed. Storage compartments like a chest of drawers is also kept beside the bed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/nestled-in-a-nursery/article38033140.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||News for nose||American Standard, an international brand in sanitaryware, has introduced its all-new Acacia SupaSleek Square Wall Hung Toilet. It features the patented aqua ceramic technology that prevents dirt and dark ring stains from sticking to its ceramic surface, and a technology that effectively inhibits the growth of E. coli bacteria. The hygiene rim technology in the rimless bowl ensures better hygiene and ease of cleaning, while powering the double vortex flushing system. The comfort curve seat is an ergonomic fit that contours to the body. A premium design allows for quick and easy exterior cleaning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/news-for-nose/article38033138.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Design Cafe, now in Chennai||Bengaluru-based Design Cafe, the home interior solutions company, recently launched its experience centre in Anna Salai, Chennai. The 3,500 sq.ft showroom features six striking modular kitchens and living spaces inspired by global trends of modern, rustic, and industrial design themes. Reflecting on Design Cafe’s tagline ‘More room for joy’, the showroom features a complete 1BHK mockup that comprises a living room, open kitchen, master bedroom, kids room, and dedicated areas for study, office, and dining. From wooden false ceiling to brass ornaments, the space is an ode to everything that Chennai stands for. The experience centre will currently offer a special 30-day delivery exclusively for Chennai customers, which is the fastest in the market. It also provides 3D Designs that allows customers to have a detailed walkthrough of fully designed homes before they go into production. The company promises a 10-year warranty and after-sales service. Gita Ramanan, co-founder of Design Cafe, says, “We are excited to enter a new market like Chennai. We have arrived at a palette of warm and neutral finishes that are exclusive to the sunny city.” Design Cafe is a full-service, tech-enabled, modular home interiors’ solution brand, led by seasoned architects and focused on providing ‘affordable designer homes’ personalised to the client’s budget and requirements, taste and style. Shezaan Bhojani, co-founder of Design Cafe, says, “Design Cafe customers are people who care about the look and feel of their homes, no matter their size. We work alongside them to design beautifully-appointed residences, regardless of whether they are 1BHKs or 4BHKs.” Having designed and built 5,000 homes across the country, Design Cafe aims to bring premium design and quality to the average middle-class home buyer.  The experience centre will currently offer a special 30-day delivery exclusively for Chennai customers, which is the fastest in the market||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/design-cafe-now-in-chennai/article38033144.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES  Segment 2016 2021  (INR per sq.ft.)   Luxury NA 6,500 apartments  Premium 4,700 5,200 apartments   Budget 3,000 4,200 apartments  Strategic Consulting, JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/five-year-focus/article38033136.ece
25 December 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata counts down to a very festive Christmas||A festive air has gripped the ‘City of Joy’ as it celebrates Christmas with a spirit that matches that of the pre-pandemic days, even though doctors have advocated caution amidst fear of another wave of COVID-19 caused by the Omicron variant. Never has Kolkata looked this vibrant in the past two years — not even during Durga Puja — with Park Street, the home of Christmas celebrations, bathed in colourful lights, and giant billboards once again mushrooming all over the city, selling cakes, luxury homes and cough syrup in the same breath. At many places, decorations compete with the Trinamool Congress flags that have been put up to celebrate the party’s victory in the recently held elections for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The scene is in sharp contrast to that of Delhi, where Christmas and New Year celebrations have been restricted following a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. Kolkata, so far, has recorded two Omicron cases: both patients had returned from abroad and are admitted in city hospitals. It was last Monday that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated the Kolkata Christmas Festival at Allen Park on Park Street. Events here usually go on for ten days, with a two-day break on Christmas Eve and on Christmas Day. “The energy levels were unbelievable. I am really hoping that the worst is now behind us and that we enter the New Year happier and healthier,” said Deepa Chatterjee, a home maker from Ballygunge, who visited Allen Park with her husband on Thursday evening to listen to the St. Thomas’ church choir. One of the primary attractions of the festival is a performance by the Kolkata Police Band — their performance is scheduled on December 27. Among the local bands that will perform include Triangle M, Paridhi, Whale in the Pond, and Humsufi. The decorative lights over Park Street, which make a lively background for pictures and selfies, shall remain in place till January 10. Call for caution The West Bengal Doctors’ Forum (WBDF) has issued a public appeal, calling for caution and increased vaccination. “Many countries are experiencing a rapid surge in cases due to the Omicron variant. Though complications and mortality are very low, a large number of infected people may overburden the healthcare system… We appeal to the governments at the Centre and the State to ensure complete and rapid vaccine coverage and to consider vaccination for those below 18 years and booster doses for front-line workers and the vulnerable,” the WBDF said. Dr. Rahul Jain, an internal medicine specialist who has attended to over 3,000 COVID-19 cases, said: “The symptoms are likely to be milder but the chances of reinfection are much higher. There is also a chance of infection in people who are double-vaccinated. What we have learnt from the first two waves is that masks and social distancing can stop any variant of COVID-19. They are low cost and easy to implement.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kolkata-counts-down-to-a-very-festive-christmas/article38033573.ece
25 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Do not take action against anganwadi workers over English’||The Bombay High Court recently remarked “there is no logic or rationale on insisting that anganwadi workers fill an application used to monitor services to pregnant and lactating mothers in English” and directed the Maharashtra government to not initiate any action against them for failing to do so. A Division Bench of Justices Prasanna Varale and S.M. Modak was hearing a petition filed by Anganwadi Karmachari Sanghata. On January 13, 2021, the Director of Ministry of Women and Child Development had issued letters to all States and Union Territories about the Poshan Abhiyan to use technology for monitoring and improved service delivery for beneficiaries like pregnant women and lactating mothers and children below six months. ‘Poshan Tracker’ is the App developed by the Ministry to ensure real-time monitoring of providing supplementary nutrition for improving nutritional status of beneficiaries and providing real-time information for prompt supervisions and management of services. As per a circular issued on March 15, data could be entered in the App only in English and it could be done with the help of local students. Senior advocate Gayatri Singh representing the union told the court that the anganwadi workers are not well conversant with English and therefore are unable to make entries in the App. On August 9, another High Court Bench had passed an order stating, “Pending the hearing and final disposal of this petition, the court be pleased to issue directions to the Ministry and the Maharashtra government to refrain from withholding or deducting the remuneration of anganwadi workers on the basis of the functioning and use of Poshan Tracker Application.” The Central government had informed the court that this petition would not be treated as adversarial and an attempt would be made to find out a practical solution. On December 13, the Child Development Project Officer of Integrated Child Development Services, Ramtek, said failure to fill any necessary information in the App would be treated as personal failure of the anganwadi workers and not the failure of the beneficiaries. The court said, “We are unable to find any logic in insisting the anganwadi workers to fill the App in English.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/do-not-take-action-against-anganwadi-workers-over-english/article38033576.ece
25 December 2021||Gopalganj,||‘Prohibition won’t be relaxed for outsiders’||Demands for relaxing the stringent prohibition law in Bihar for those coming to the State from outside were on Friday dismissed outright by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. He also rubbished suggestions that an exception be made on medical grounds for certified alcoholics, asserting that people spoiled their health by drinking and not by being prevented from doing so. Mr. Kumar, who made the State dry in April 2016, made his views known at a gathering in this north Bihar district, which he visited as part of a State-wide social reform campaign. He also touched upon the need to eradicate illegal, but prevalent, social evils like child marriage and dowry. “Many people are angry with me... They say we should at least exempt those coming from other States. Do people come to Bihar to drink,” he asked. There have been fresh demands for exempting “outsiders” like in Gujarat in the aftermath of a police overkill to enforce the ban on liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prohibition-wont-be-relaxed-for-outsiders/article38033569.ece
25 December 2021||Mumbai,||Danish Siddiqui to get award posthumously||Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, who died while being on an assignment in Afghanistan, will be posthumously awarded the ‘Journalist of the Year’ for 2020 by the Mumbai Press Club, the journalists’ body announced on Friday. Siddiqui, who had a long stint of working in Mumbai before shifting base to New Delhi, was the chief photographer for the news agency Reuters. He is being awarded “for his spectrum of the investigative and impactful body of news photography ranging from the Rohingyas and anti-CAA protests to COVID-19 and the Afghanistan Civil War”, the Club said. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana will be presenting the annual ‘RedInk Awards for Excellence in Journalism’ in a virtual event on December 29 and also deliver a keynote address. Senior journalist and author Prem Shankar Jha will be bestowed with the RedInk Awards for lifetime achievement for his long and distinguished career of incisive and analytical writing, the Club said. Apart from Siddiqui and Mr. Jha, 24 other winners will be awarded in 12 categories as part of the 10th edition of the award event, the club said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/danish-siddiqui-to-get-award-posthumously/article38033570.ece
25 December 2021||December 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Yuletide spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/yuletide-spirit/article38033575.ece
