26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jabs for 15-18 group from Jan. 3; booster for seniors from Jan. 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday that teenagers in the 15-18 age group would be eligible for COVID-19 vaccination, and frontline and health workers and senior citizens above the age of 60 with co-morbidities would be eligible on the advice of doctors for what he termed a “precaution” or third dose. In a late-evening televised address to the nation, Mr. Modi announced the dates for the commencement of this vaccination process. January 3, 2022 will see the roll-out of vaccination for those 15 to 18, while January 10 will be the commencement date for “precaution dose” for frontline and health workers and the elderly with co-morbidities. “All our decisions with regard to vaccination, their research, approval and certification have been scientifically driven as has our vaccination drive and who is eligible to be vaccinated first, in that regard, these decisions today were made,” the Prime Minister said. Vaccinations for children aged 15 to 18, he said, will not only help protect them as schools have reopened in many places but also go a long way in assuring worried parents. In the course of his nearly 15-minute address, the Prime Minister urged caution without panic in dealing with the Omicron variant. He gave an overview of the ground-level preparations already made by the government with regard to healthcare systems in anticipation of Omicron and taking lessons from the second wave. Vaccine coverage “Currently, nearly 90% of all those eligible for vaccines have had at least one dose, and 61% of eligible population has had both doses. We have over 18 lakh hospital beds available, out of which five lakh beds are oxygen supported. Almost 90,000 intensive care unit (ICU) beds are for children alone, and over 30,000 PSA oxygen plants have been set up across the country,” Mr. Modi said on the healthcare infrastructure ramp-up after the second wave devastated India in the summer months. “I would ask that you do not panic, but maintain caution in the face of the new mutation of the coronavirus. Maintain use of masks, and frequently wash hands. As we have faced the coronavirus, our ability to fight it has also improved,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jabs-for-15-18-group-from-jan-3-booster-for-seniors-from-jan-10/article38039692.ece
26 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Home Minister says ANF will continue to function||The Anti-Naxal Force (ANF) will continue to operate till the BJP Government is convinced that Maoist activities have completely stopped in the State, said Home Minister Araga Jnanendra here on Saturday. Talking to reporters at the international airport, Mr. Jnanendra said that some Maoist activists have surrendered, while many have been arrested. Most of the Maoist leaders, who were active in the State, have come to the mainstream. “But we cannot close down the ANF now. The police should be convinced that the Maoist activity is zero. Till then ANF will continue to operate. This is what we are thinking,” Mr. Jnanendra said. On the opposition by a section of people to the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, which was passed in the Legislative Assembly recently, Mr. Jnanendra said that this was an obvious reaction to the Bill that intends to preserve the religious belief and culture that professes harmonious living. Forcible religious conversion was like a termite affecting this religious belief and also dividing families. The BJP Government is addressing this issue with this Bill. The BJP keeps the interest of the country foremost and is not like the other party which drags its feet on critical action fearing losing votes of a particular community. It is only the BJP that can bring in laws such as the Uniform Civil Code that are necessary, the Minister said. Commending Dakshina Kannada Police for acting with restraint in a case of an assault by protestors after a series of community clashes in Uppinangady, the Home Minister said that the State Police are effectively taking action on groups that are trying to divide communities and create tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-minister-says-anf-will-continue-to-function/article38040381.ece
26 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||22 farmer unions form front, to fight Punjab polls||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly election due early in 2022, 22 of the 32 State-based farmer unions that were at the forefront of the agitation against the now-repealed farm laws announced on Saturday they would contest the election under the banner of the Samyukt Samaj Morcha. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella farmers’ body that spearheaded the protests, however, said it would not contest the polls. The new political front, which announced it would contest all 117 Assembly seats, is being anchored by Balbir Singh Rajewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Rajewal. Harmeet Singh of the BKU (Kadiyan) said that after coming back from the Delhi borders, people in Punjab were pinning high hopes on farmers to resolve long-pending issues plaguing the State. “To fulfil the aspirations of the people, 22 unions have decided to jointly contest the election,” he said. The decision to contest polls saw divergent responses from the unions. The BKU(Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest outfits in Punjab, and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC), a prominent outfit at the forefront of the agitation, clearly said they would not be contesting the election. Both were not part of the 32 unions but were working in coordination with them to get the farm laws revoked. Not unanimous “We were with the other outfits only for the movement but not for the elections. If any harm comes to our struggle on farmers’ issue due to the decision of these [22 unions] to fight the election, they shall be directly responsible for the consequences. These unions have taken their own decision but we do not agree with it,” BKU(U) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Korikalan told The Hindu . Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, said the constitution of their outfits did not allow electoral politics. “We will continue to work as a pressure group,” he said. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, BKU(Ekta Dakonda), said it would not take the plunge into electoral politics, and a meeting had been convened on December 27 to decide whether or not to support the farmer unions which wanted to contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/22-farmer-unions-form-front-to-fight-punjab-polls/article38039697.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUCHI,||Clean Street Food Hub to come up in Tiruchi||A Clean Street Food Hub is likely to come up along VOC Road near the Central Bus Stand in the city within a month or two. The emphasis will be on hygiene and food safety to ensure a clean dining experience for consumers at the proposed hub. The department had initially toyed with the idea of promoting the hub near Chathiram Bus Stand but narrowed down on the surroundings of the Central Bus Stand subsequently. Vendors were too scattered around the Chathiram Bus Stand, explained R. Rameshbabu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi. The street food hub could have about 40 to 50 vendors. Currently, about 15 to 20 street food vendors were operating on VOC Road and some of those operating around the bus stand would form part of the hub, he indicated. Ensuring use of quality ingredients in preparation of food, enhancing personal hygiene of cooks and suppliers, ensuring preparation of food in a clean and hygienic environment and standard mechanism to dispose of food waste and leftovers will be key focus areas of the initiative. The Repurpose Used Cooking Oil’ (RUCO) programme of FSSAI, under which used cooking oil will be collected and converted into bio-diesel, will implemented at the hub. The vendors, cooks and suppliers would be required to wear aprons, masks and caps. Food products would be kept in uniform glass covered containers. Besides, the used plates would have to be washed properly as per specifications. The initiative spearhead by the Department of Food Safety and Drug Administration in association with the Tiruchi Corporation and other agencies would serve as a model for all street food vendors across the city. The department has already conducted awareness workshops for street food vendors in the district and about 100 of them have been issued registration certificates. Parikshan, an agency authorised by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), will conduct pre and post-audit of the street vendors operating along VOC Road and others around the Central Bus Stand as part of the initiative. Shortcomings pointed out in the pre-audit have to be rectified by the vendors. Sarathas has come forward to sponsor the audit charges of Rs. 1.15 lakhs, he said. On Friday, officials of the Food Safety Department, the Tiruchi Corporation and the police held a preliminary meeting to discuss the implementation of the initiative. The Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cantonment, Ajay Thangam, and City health Officer Yazhini were among those who attended the meeting. The police was requested to maintain a vigil on movement of anti-socials along the road where the hub is planned and ensure that it was not used as an open urinal. The corporation was requested to improve lighting and ensure regular clearance of garbage. The City Health Officer had assured that they would ensure that the garbage from the hub would be removed every three hours, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clean-street-food-hub-to-come-up-in-tiruchi/article38040269.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||CJI calls for legal awareness among people||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has stressed the need for constitutional and legal awareness among the people to address several problems plaguing the country even after 75 years of Independence. Justice Ramana was speaking after receiving the ‘Lifetime Achievement Award 2021’ presented by the Rotary Club of Vijayawada here on Saturday. “I would like to make a suggestion to the Rotary Club, which has been providing its services in various forms over the years. We are celebrating 75 years of Independence and, of late, across the country, and in Telugu States particularly, the Constitution is being discussed by all. It is a good sign. Such discussions are needed for a healthy society. Even after Independence and witnessing all this development, we still face issues like illiteracy, unemployment, public health, financial crimes and others. To address these, people need to be aware of their rights. We need to educate people and we have the legal services authority for the same reason,” Justice Ramana said appreciating the services of the Rotary Club. “Rotary Club should spend time to campaign for creating awareness on constitutional and legal rights among the public,” he said. “Like all the systems, the judiciary is also facing certain issues. The CJIs before me talked about these, I am talking about these, and they will be perennial problems even for the future CJIs. It’s because we are ignoring the legal system and not giving importance to it unless we are involved in some case,” he said. Justice Ramana said judicial proceedings should be simplified so that every person could understand and follow. Else, the litigants would take to alternative dispute resolution, he said. Infrastructure sought Justice Ramana said the judiciary needed infrastructure to function, and national and State-level judicial infrastructure had been sought. “India has over 4.60 crore cases. The number is small compared to the population size. The responsibility of solving these cases is on the advocates, judges, and also the government. According to some Articles of the Constitution, the responsibility of providing justice is also on the Legislature and Executive. If the Legislature and Executive work within their boundaries, there will be no need to move courts. When they go beyond the line, the judiciary has to intervene, and it will intervene. Only when the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary, the three parts of the Constitution, function without crossing their line, justice will be served and the trust on them among the public will be upheld. When human rights are violated, the judiciary will intervene, it is necessary,” he said. About Vijayawada and the surrounding areas where he grew up, Justice Ramana said that the city which was once the centre of cultural and political activities had now lost its glory. “I wish the city regains its lost glory,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cji-calls-for-legal-awareness-among-people/article38039700.ece
26 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Mob disrupts X-mas programme in school||A group of people raising pro-Hindu slogans disrupted a Christmas programme at a private school in Pataudi, Haryana, on Friday evening. The organisers, House of Hope, a social-cum-religious organisation, described the incident as “sad”, but did not register a police complaint. The “Christmas Milan” programme, including a small skit and singing of Christmas carols, was being held at a primary school when some men and women invaded the stage and took over the mike, raising slogans of “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”. One of the men then announced from the podium that they wanted the welfare of the entire world, but not through conversions. “The men and women were sitting inside when we started the programme. We asked them if they had any objection but they said we could continue. While the programme was going on, they took our mike and raised slogans. They did not allow us to continue our programme,” said one of the members of House of Hope, speaking to The Hindu over the phone. He said the programme was organised by a member of their group, a resident of Pataudi, on his own expenses. No FIR registered He said every religion had the right to celebrate their festival, but added that his group was not “much interested” in getting an FIR registered. “Such incidents are on the rise. It is sad,” he said. Videos of the incident have gone viral on social media, showing the men and women raising the slogans. The Gurugram police said they have not received any complaint in this regard. The incident comes amid an ongoing controversy in Gurugram over opposition to offering of Friday prayers in the open by the Muslim community. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal had also, earlier this month, said that offering of namaz at public places would not be tolerated. On July 4, a mahapanchayat was held in Pataudi where the speakers made provocative speeches targeting a religious minority. One person was arrested in this connection after an FIR was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mob-disrupts-x-mas-event-in-haryana-school/article38040231.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t underestimate Congress in Uttar Pradesh, says Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister and Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel says the party organisation in Uttar Pradesh is much improved now and no one should underestimate the party. In an interview with The Hindu , Mr. Baghel, a senior poll observer of the Congress for U.P., said voters had tried out parties whose politics was based on “caste and religious symbolism” and were now looking at a party that could address their “real issues”. “Uttar Pradesh always springs a surprise. In 2012, the BJP was in the fourth place but went to form the government in 2017 after doing well in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. People of the State have seen the politics of caste, be it Mayawatiji[Bahujan Samaj Party] or Akhilesh Yadavji[Samajwadi Party]. And for the past five years, they have seen the BJP seeking votes in the name of religion. Now, people are asking what have we gained? Who was standing with us during the time of crisis?” He said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s pratigya patra [promise document] seeks to address the issues of farmers, Dalits, women, traders and small entrepreneurs. “Whether it is the farming community, Dalits, or small entrepreneurs, each person wants to know who is going to address his or her issue. The condition of the people has worsened...whether it is because of the COVID lockdown, demonetisation or a flawed GST. That’s why people are intently listening to Priyanka ji ,” Mr. Baghel said. Asked about the perception that the Congress doesn’t have an organisation in U.P. that can mobilise voters on the ground and the notion that people don’t want to vote for a losing side. “This is negative thinking in politics. What Priyankajiis doing is positive politics. She is saying these are the things that we can do,” he said. Mr. Baghel didn’t give any assessment as to the number of seats the Congress can win but said, “Why do you have so much of doubt? If the BJP can become the number one party in 2017 from number four in 2012, why can’t we become number one?. The janta will bring to power whoever it likes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-underestimate-congress-in-up-baghel/article38039695.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Police gearing up to clamp down on cockfights||The police have stepped up vigil to prevent people from organising cockfights during the Sankranti festivities. East and West Godavari, Krishna, and Guntur districts are known for hosting rooster fights, which draw huge crowds. Bets by punters here run into high amounts. The High Court had issued orders against holding the bloodsport a few years ago. The police found that cockfights were conducted last year at about 4,522 places – 2,494 in West Godavari, 1,010 in Krishna, 466 in East Godavari and 400 in Guntur. About 3,228 cases were registered against the organisers and gamblers, and more than 7,100 persons were arrested, besides seizure of about 10,000 knives. “We have bound over habitual offenders. A special drive will be conducted in the next 15 days against the game,” West Godavari SP Rahul Dev Sharma said. Police had been conducting raids in Narsapuram, Kovvur, Jangareddygudem, Eluru and Polavaram divisions for the last few days to deter the organisers.  Krishna SP Siddharth Kaushal said DSPs and SHOs had been directed to intensify patrolling in villages and identify cockfight arenas. “More than 1,000 cockfight organisers, gamblers and those selling and tying knives have been bound over in the district,” Mr. Siddharth said. Police are planning to organise kabaddi, volleyball, rangoli, basketball and other events to wean away youth from cockfights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-gearing-up-to-clamp-down-on-cockfights/article38040481.ece
26 December 2021||New DelhI,||Covaxin cleared for those above 12||Covaxin has been approved for use in those aged 12 and above by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). This would make it the second vaccine approved for use in India for those below 18.  The Hindu has seen a letter by V. Somani, DCGI, according approval for the vaccine as two doses, four weeks apart. The DCGI in August granted emergency approval to Zycov-D, a three-dose DNA COVID-19 vaccine developed by the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadilla Group, making it the first vaccine in India that could be administered to adults and those aged 12 and above. The company has said it can make one crore vaccines a month. So far, Covaxin constitutes about 10% of the nearly 140 crore doses administered in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covaxin-cleared-for-those-above-12/article38039690.ece
26 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Ludhiana blast meant to sow panic: DGP||The Punjab Police have identified the person killed in the Ludhiana court complex blast as Gangandeep Singh, a dismissed policeman. The investigation revealed that the deceased was carrying the explosive, Punjab Director-General of Police (DGP) Siddharth Chattopadhyaya said at a press conference here on Saturday. Singh, 31, a resident of Khanna, was a police constable and dismissed in August 2019 after 385 g of heroin was recovered from his possession. “Preliminary investigations suggest that the accused Gagandeep [Singh] wanted to create fear and panic at the court premises,” he said. Not ruling out a Pakistan-based pro-Khalistan connection to the act, the DGP said the police were investigating the case from all angles. “Preliminary investigations suggest that the accused, Gagandeep, could have developed links with pro-Khalistan elements in the jail, who have used him to target the court premises with the intention to disturb the peace of the State,” he said. “During the course of post-mortem, the police were able to identify the deceased from his tattoo mark on the right arm. Separately, DNA samples of the body were also collected. The accused Gagandeep was working as a ‘munshi’ at the police station, Khanna, when he was arrested with heroin, and a NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) case was registered against him. The case is under trial at the prosecution evidence stage,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ludhiana-blast-victim-was-sacked-constable/article38039698.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||2 more cases of Omicron identified||Two more cases of Omicron were identified in the State on Saturday. The Health Department said that a 48-year-old man from Ongole who had returned from South Africa tested positive for COVID-19 on December 20. After genome sequencing, it was found that he had contracted Omicron. He had arrived in Hyderabad on December 16. In another case, a 51-year-old man from Anantapur had returned from the U.K. on December 18 and tested positive on December 21. Upon genome sequencing of his sample, he was found to have been infected with Omicron.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-more-cases-of-omicron-identified/article38040482.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘30 killed, bodies burnt in Myanmar’||More than 30 people, including women and children, were killed and their bodies burnt in Myanmar’s conflict-torn Kayah state on Friday, according to a local resident, media reports and a local human rights group. The Karenni Human Rights Group said they found the burnt bodies of internally displaced people killed by the military that rules Myanmar, near Mo So village of Hpruso town on Saturday. The Myanmar military said it had shot and killed an unspecified number of “terrorists with weapons” from the opposition armed forces in the village, state media said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-killed-bodies-burnt-in-myanmar/article38040108.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||White Christmas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/white-christmas/article38039705.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 249 infections, one death||Continuing the upward trend, 249 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital over 24 hours, the highest in more than six months, taking the total cases to 14,43,062, stated a health bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-reports-249-infections-one-death/article38040229.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Goraguntepalya flyover closed for traffic||Traffic on the busy Tumakuru Road was thrown out of gear on Saturday after the police barred entry of vehicles on Goraguntepalya Flyover. Traffic was not allowed on the flyover after NHAI found issues with cables of two spans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/goraguntepalya-flyover-closed-for-traffic/article38040110.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,||State has fourth highest number of active cases||With 7,271 active cases, Karnataka has the fourth highest number of COVID-19 cases still under treatment. Kerala tops the list with 26,265 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-has-fourth-highest-number-of-active-cases/article38040111.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Home quarantine for international travellers||Tamil Nadu has decided to enforce home quarantine from Sunday for all those coming from foreign countries, irrespective of whether they are classified as at-risk or not-at-risk nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-quarantine-for-international-travellers/article38040287.ece
26 December 2021||MANGALURU,||‘Socialism kept India economically poor’||National president of BJP’s Yuva Morcha and Member of Parliament Tejasvi Surya said on Saturday that socialism kept India economically poor and secularism made the country culturally poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/socialism-kept-india-economically-poor/article38040378.ece
26 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Lado Panchayat’ hails Bill to raise marriage age||A one of its kind ‘Lado Panchayat’ of girls was held in Meerut, which decided that women would not vote for candidates opposing the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lado-panchayat-hails-bill-to-raise-marriage-age/article38040232.ece
26 December 2021||Amritsar,||‘AAP will solve problems of anganwadi workers’||AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday met anganwadi and ASHA workers of Punjab and promised to resolve their issues if his party is voted to power in the State in the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-will-solve-problems-of-anganwadi-workers/article38040355.ece
26 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||There is no discussion on leadership, says Joshi||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi has clarified that there has been no discussion about change of leadership in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/there-is-no-discussion-on-leadership-says-joshi/article38040301.ece
26 December 2021||Chennai,||Good storage in most irrigation reservoirs||As many as 12 out of 15 irrigation reservoirs in Tamil Nadu are better placed than last year, thanks to the bountiful northeast monsoon. Among them are the State’s major reservoirs, Mettur and Bhavanisagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-storage-in-most-irrigation-reservoirs/article38039738.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Home quarantine for travellers from abroad||Following the increasing number of cases of Omicron variant of COVID-19, Tamil Nadu has decided to enforce home quarantine for all those coming from both “high-risk or non-risk” countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revenue-from-stamp-duty-registration-robust/article38039739.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A new front in the battle against the pandemic||The U.S. Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has given an Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) to two drugs: Paxlovid, a treatment regimen developed by Pfizer Inc for treating mild-to-moderate Covid-19 in adults and children 12 years and older, who are likely to be at greater risk for severe infection, and Molnupiravir, developed by Merck and Ridgeback Biotherapeutics to treat mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in adults who are at risk for severe disease. Paxlovid is a three-pill combination, this is widely believed to be the first treatment that can be administered outside hospital settings and therefore represents a significant advance in the management of the COVID-19 pandemic. “There are no adequate, approved and available alternatives to Paxlovid for the treatment of COVID-19,” the US FDA said in a statement. Molnupiravir is a medication that works by introducing errors into the SARS-CoV-2 virus’ genetic code, which prevents the virus from further replicating. It is administered as four, 200 milligram capsules taken orally every 12 hours for five days, for a total of 40 capsules. It will be available by prescription only and is intended to be used more restrictively, given its mechanism of action. In a statement, Pfizer said data from its clinical trial suggested that its regimen was nearly 90% effective in preventing hospitalisations and deaths in patients at high risk of severe illness. The drug remained effective against the Omicron variant. In the trial that consisted of about 2,200 people, some of whom got Paxlovid and some who didn’t — none who got the Pfizer treatment died, compared with 12 deaths among placebo recipients. The primary data supporting authorisation for Molnupiravir was from MOVe-OUT, a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. The main outcome measured in the trial was the percentage of people who were hospitalised or died due to any cause during 29 days of follow-up. Of the 709 people who received Molnupiravir, 6.8% were hospitalised or died within this time period compared to 9.7% of the 699 people who received a placebo. Paxlovid consists of nirmatrelvir, which inhibits a SARS-CoV-2 protein to stop the virus from replicating, and ritonavir, which slows down nirmatrelvir’s breakdown to help it remain in the body for a longer period at higher concentrations. Ritonavir is an anti-HIV drug and was made by Abbot Inc and is currently off-patent. Nirmatrelvir is yet to be patented though the company has set the process in motion. Paxlovid is administered as three tablets (two tablets of nirmatrelvir and one tablet of ritonavir) taken together orally twice daily for five days, for a total of 30 tablets. Paxlovid is not authorised for use for longer than five consecutive days. It can be administered at home unlike other treatments such as the Merck-made Molnupiravir that is a monoclonal antibody treatment and needs to be administered intravenously in hospital settings. The primary data supporting the EUA for Paxlovid is from EPIC-HR (Evaluation for Protease Inhibition), a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial studying Paxlovid for the treatment of non-hospitalised symptomatic adults with a laboratory confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Patients were 18 years of age and older with a prespecified risk factor for progression to severe disease or were 60 years and older regardless of prespecified chronic medical conditions. All patients had not received a COVID-19 vaccine and had not been previously infected with COVID-19. The patients who most benefited during the trial were those who'd begun treatment with the pills within three days. Side effects The approval comes with warnings of side effects. These include an impaired sense of taste, diarrhoea, high blood pressure and muscle aches. Using Paxlovid at the same time as certain other drugs could results in potentially significant drug interactions, according to the FDA. Using Paxlovid in people with uncontrolled or undiagnosed HIV-1 infection may lead to HIV-1 drug resistance. Ritonavir may cause liver damage, so caution needs to be exercised when giving Paxlovid to patients with pre-existing liver diseases, liver enzyme abnormalities or liver inflammation. During the MOVE-OUT trial, side effects observed included diarrhoea, nausea and dizziness. The safety and effectiveness of Molnupiravir for the treatment of COVID-19 is still being evaluated according to the FDA. Paxlovid is not recommended in patients with severe kidney or severe liver impairment. In patients with moderate renal impairment, a reduced Paxlovid dose is needed. Molnupiravir, the FDA warns, may cause foetal harm when administered to pregnant women. Therefore, Molnupiravir is not recommended for use during pregnancy. No retail price for the drug has been announced. Pfizer has an agreement with the U.S. government for the purchase of 10 million treatment courses for $5.29 billion — which amounts to around $529 per treatment course making it unaffordable for a large part of the world. In early November, and ahead of the drug’s approval, the U.K. purchased 250,000 courses of Paxlovid and Pfizer has claimed an agreement with Israel for supply. The U.S. government has ordered three million doses of Molnupiravir which is expected to be delivered by January end. Each treatment course will reportedly cost $700. The U.K. Government has committed to purchase a total of 2.23 million courses of Molnupiravir. Merck has entered into advance purchase and supply agreements for the drug with governments for over 30 countries worldwide, including Australia, Canada, South Korea, Japan and Thailand. The company claims that it has entered into agreements with manufacturers in several other countries and this may, therefore, mean lower prices. However, scaling and manufacturing of the medicine presents its own challenges and it could be months before the medicine is readily available in India. This is not accounting for the time regulatory authorities will take to clear it. The future course of the pandemic will determine demand for the drug. ‘Medical apartheid’ Several other medicines with antiviral properties have been explored earlier in the pandemic, including fapiravir and remdesivir. None have had a proven track record in reducing hospitalisation or saving lives. However, Paxlovid comes at a time when vaccines are widely available in several countries and it is these countries that are most likely to avail of the treatment when available. Organisations such as the Medicins Sans Frontiers have said inequitable availability of the pill would whet ‘medical apartheid’.  “With patent applications still pending, countries should stand firm and refuse to grant any patents on nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, while generic companies should start preparing to produce the medicine without waiting for Pfizer's permission. If Pfizer is really interested in ensuring global access to this treatment, it should make clear that it will not stand in the way of generic production and competition anywhere, and refrain from imposing intellectual property barriers everywhere for the duration of pandemic,” Mihir Mankad, senior global health advocacy and policy adviser at MSF-USA, said in a statement.  In Focus Paxlovid consists of nirmatrelvir, which inhibits a SARS-CoV-2 protein to stop the virus from replica- ting, and ritonavir, which slows down nirmatrelvir’s breakdown to help it remain in the body for a longer period  Molnupiravir is a medication that works by introducing errors into the virus’ genetic code, which prevents it from replicating The drugs come with side effects, including an impaired sense of taste, diarrhoea, high blood pressure and muscle aches   Pfizer has an agreement with the U.S. for the purchase of 10 mn treatment courses, while Merck has entered into purchase and supply agreements with over 30 countries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-new-front-in-the-battle-against-the-pandemic/article38039648.ece
26 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Mob disrupts ‘Christmas Milan’ programme in Haryana school||A group of people raising pro-Hindu slogans disrupted a Christmas programme at a private school in Pataudi in Haryana on Friday evening. The organisers, House of Hope, a social-cum-religious organisation, described the incident as “sad”, but did not register a formal police complaint. Slogans raised The “Christmas Milan” programme, including a small skit and singing of Christmas carols, was being held at a primary school in Pataudi when some men and women climbed invaded the stage and took over the mike, raising slogans of “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”. One of the men then announced from the podium that they wanted the welfare of the entire world, but not through conversions. “The men and women were sitting inside when we started the programme. We asked them if they had any objection, but they said that we could continue. But while the programme was going on, they took our mike and raised slogans. They did not allow us to continue our programme,” said one of the members of House of Hope, speaking to The Hindu over the phone. He said the programme was held by a member of their group, a local resident of Pataudi, with his own expenses. No FIR registered He described the incident as “sad” saying that every religion had the right to celebrate their festival, but added that the group was not “much interested” in getting a First Information Report registered. “Such incidents are on rise. It is sad,” he said. Videos of the incident have gone viral on social media showing the men and women raising the slogans. Gurugram Police said they had not received any complaint in this regard. Ongoing controversy The incident comes amid an ongoing controversy in Gurugram over opposition to offering of Jumma Namaz in the open by the Muslim community. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal had also, earlier this month, said that offering of Namaz at public places would not be tolerated. On July 4, a mahapanchayat was held at Pataudi with the speakers making provocative speeches targeting a religious minority. One person was arrested in this connection after a FIR was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mob-disrupts-christmas-milan-programme-in-haryana-school/article38039618.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Conspiracy to bring back farm laws: Cong.||A day after Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said the Union government had taken a step back with regard to the farm laws but will move forward again, the Congress on Saturday alleged that the Centre is making a “concerted conspiracy” to bring them back and the only way to stop it is to decisively defeat the BJP in the upcoming Assembly elections. At an event in Nagpur on Friday, Mr. Tomar had said, “We brought agriculture amendment laws. But some people did not like them which were a big reform brought about 70 years after Independence under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership”. “But the government is not disappointed. We moved a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India’s backbone.” Taking to Twitter, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said Mr. Tomar had “insulted” Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s apology. “It is condemnable. If anti-farmer steps are taken again, then satyagraha of the annadatas will take place again. Arrogance was defeated earlier, it will be defeated again,” Mr. Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag “FarmersProtest”. At a press conference, the party’s chief spokesperson and general secretary Randeep Surjewala claimed that the government had repealed the laws sensing defeat in the five poll-bound States, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. He said when the Prime Minister had apologised, “even then we had suspected the intent of the Prime Minister, the BJP, the RSS and the Modi government”. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj had earlier talked about bringing back the farm laws but Mr. Tomar’s latest remarks have “fortified the conspiracy that is being hatched”, alleged Mr. Surjewala. “We call upon the farmers, we call upon fellow Indians, that the only way to stop the diabolical conspiracy of the Modi government from bringing back the farm laws is to decisively defeat the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and other elections so that a lesson is taught to the crony capitalist-driven BJP government at the Centre that they cannot annihilate the rights of 62 crore farmers,” he said. General secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal tweeted, “Agri Minister’s statement today not only nullifies any farcical ‘apology’ by Modiji but exposes their ulterior motives — a step back to ease agitations during elections, many steps forward at a later time to favour their friends & attack annadatas . Shame!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conspiracy-to-bring-back-farm-laws-cong/article38039627.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||In the name of faith||“We aren’t in mourning; it’s a march of jubilation,” remarked the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI)’s State general secretary P.K. Usman, as the body of the party’s State secretary K.S. Shan was being taken in a procession from Ernakulam last week. Shan was hacked to death, allegedly by workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), and some SDPI activists now stand accused of carrying out a ‘revenge murder’ — that of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas — just 11 hours later. M.K. Faizy, the national president of the SDPI, later clarified to The Hindu that Mr. Usman was only reiterating the fact that the party cadres would not be cowed down by such attacks but instead would be more resolute in their “democratic fight against fascism”. The track-record of the SDPI and its ideological progenitor, the Popular Front of India (PFI), however, belie the claims of being secular and democratic. With its roots in the proscribed Students Islamic Movement in India (SIMI) and the National Democratic Front (NDF), which came into being in the aftermath of the demolition of the Babri Masjid, the PFI was formed following a merger of the NDF with the Karnataka Forum for Dignity and the Manitha Neethi Pasarai (Forum for Human Justice) in Tamil Nadu in 2006. While the PFI is an organisation of ultra-religious Muslims which draws heavily on the Muslim victimhood narrative, the SDPI, floated as its political arm in 2009, is a cadre-based party registered with the Election Commission of India with the stated aim of striving for social democracy, for equal representation and socio-economic empowerment of Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis. The party has a negligible number of non-Muslims, though. ‘Self defence’ While the PFI lays extra emphasis on legal activism, it has been accused of fomenting religious vigilantism and violence under the guise of ‘self-defence’, even citing blasphemy as in the palm-chopping case of 2010 in Kerala. While the Jharkhand government banned the PFI twice, the States of Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh have sought a national ban on the PFI and the SDPI. In a paper on the ‘Crisis of Secularism and Changing Contours of Minority Politics in India: Lessons from the Analysis of a Muslim Political Organisation’, published in Asian Survey , authors R. Santhosh and Dayal Paleri of IIT-Madras argue that the politics of the PFI is “characterised by a reconciliation of secular liberalism, including the use of extensive legal pragmatism and a politics of defensive ethnicisation, calibrated through an exclusivist, instrumental use of religion”. This reconciliation, they observe, is articulated through a language of self-defence, which “subsumes legal, political, and physical forms of protecting the community — and by extension, Islam, the religion, as a moral community — from Hindu nationalists, blasphemers, and those who violate its moral boundaries”. Critically, the advent of the SDPI and its brand of politics foregrounding a religious identity have posed a threat to traditional Muslim parties like the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in Kerala. While it has committees in 14 States and representation in local bodies in West Bengal, Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry and Andhra Pradesh, the SDPI puts social activism — the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests that saw several cases foisted on it, to name one — ahead of electoral performance. When the UP government denied it permission to hold a ‘democracy conference’ in Muzzafarnagar on December 19, it secured the permission of the High Court to conduct the event. In Karnataka, where it stands accused of rioting and revenge killings, the party improved its local body tally from 70 seats in 2015 to 225 in 2020, while in Kerala, it has about 125 local body seats. Observers, however, think that given its dichotomous nature, the SDPI’s ascent as a political alternative for Muslims is in tandem with the delegitimisation of secularism and the credibility crisis of conventional Muslim parties. “Ironically, it will provide fodder to the Hindutva campaign of othering Muslims and in turn, their clamour against Islamic extremism,” says Mr. Santhosh, a faculty member at IIT-Madras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-the-name-of-faith/article38039650.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The adventures of Ms. Holmes||It took just a few months for Elizabeth Holmes to go from topping the Forbes list of ‘America’s 50 Richest Self-Made Women’ to ending up on the Fortune list of ‘The World’s 19 Most Disappointing Leaders,’ alongside Martin Shkreli of Turing Pharmaceuticals and the then-president of Brazil, Dilma Rousseff. By this time, in 2016, the narrative about the revolutionary blood-testing technology of her company Theranos was coming apart. Theranos didn’t survive the fallout of the regulatory scrutiny that followed, and it wound up in 2018. But the jury is still out, quite literally, on Holmes’ fate. In recent weeks, a dozen jurors have been having deliberations in a case of criminal fraud against her. This case was brought against her and the company’s former COO Ramesh Balwani in 2018, with them being charged on “two counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and nine counts of wire fraud”. The allegation is that they defrauded doctors, patients, and investors. They are alleged to have made false claims about their blood-testing technology to doctors and patients, even though they “knew Theranos was not capable of consistently producing accurate and reliable results for certain blood tests”. They are also alleged to have “made numerous misrepresentations to potential investors” about the company’s financial condition and its prospects. For instance, the defendants “represented to investors that Theranos would generate over $100 million in revenues and break even in 2014 and that Theranos expected to generate approximately $1 billion in revenues in 2015; when, in truth, the defendants knew Theranos would generate only negligible or modest revenues in 2014 and 2015.” If found guilty, they could face 20 years in prison. In her legal defence, she has pleaded not guilty, and also blamed her former boyfriend Mr. Balwani for emotional and sexual abuse. He has reportedly denied the allegation. The rise It was in 2003 that Ms. Holmes, a Stanford dropout and just 19 at that time, started Theranos, reportedly a combination of ‘Therapy’ and ‘Diagnosis.’ “When Elizabeth Holmes emerged on the tech scene, around 2003,” Vanity Fair wrote, “she had a preternaturally good story”. It said, “She was a woman. She was building a company that really aimed to change the world. And, as a then dark-haired 19-year-old first-year at Stanford University’s School of Chemical Engineering, she already comported herself in a distinctly Jobsian fashion.” For instance, she always wore black turtlenecks and practised veganism. Theranos, at first, was hardly making any noise. In 2011, the former U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz joined its board. In the years that followed, a lot of people with experience in the government joined the board. The list included former Secretary of Defence William Perry, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, and four-star General James Mattis, who later became Secretary of Defence. In a video interview that was featured in the documentary The Inventor , Ms. Holmes recalls how she was “absolutely terrified” by the process of drawing blood for testing. The Theranos technology promised to revolutionise the process by needing just a finger prick to run hundreds of types of blood tests. Employees, who came out to talk to the makers of the documentary after the bubble had burst, recall a company that was extremely secretive in its operations and one that nurtured a culture of paranoia. The technology and its workings were out of bounds to the outside world. The employees also reveal the huge gap that existed between the promise and the real performance of its testing device, which was called Edison. The fact that Theranos had to depend on commercially available machines for testing, rather than its own technology, was finally exposed in a Wall Street Journal article. Until then, none of the big names who joined the Theranos board suspected anything amiss. Nor did investors such as Ruper Murdoch or the Walton family, who, along with other high-profile investors, put in $400 million into the company. At the age of 31, when she featured in the Forbes list, Ms. Holmes had a net worth of $4.5 billion. Her company was valued at $9 billion. That was as good as it got for Ms. Holmes and Theranos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-adventures-of-ms-holmes/article38039652.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hyderpora encounter probe over: official||The magisterial investigation ordered into the Hyderpora encounter last month has completed its inquiry and judicial approval is now awaited before it can be made public, a senior Jammu and Kashmir official said on condition of anonymity. “Because it is a magisterial inquiry, it needs judicial acceptance before it can be made public. There are some technicalities to be completed because of which the process is delayed,” the official said. The J&K Police had also ordered their own inquiry which has also been completed but it cannot be revealed before the magisterial inquiry is made public, the official stated. The official said it was unfortunate that the owner of the house Altaf Bhatt died under unfortunate circumstances caught in the crossfire, but it is yet to be confirmed if the bullets were those that were fired by the security forces or Bilal himself. Bilal is a foreign terrorist who has been residing in the house for the last four days and before that in Bandipora and his movements were confirmed by digital forensics, the official said. The encounter took place on November 15 and four persons were killed. After protests by the families alleging that three of the four killed were civilians and public outcry, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident on November 18. The police had claimed that four persons were killed, including a foreign terrorist, in a joint operation by the police, Army’s 2 Rashtriya Rifles and CRPF. Other than the civilian Altaf Bhatt, the police described Dr. Mudasir Gul, a dentist, and Muhammad Amir Magarey as militant associate and hybrid militant. The official stated that specific intelligence was received on the presence of terrorists in the house of Altaf Bhatt. “Magarey, a resident of Banihal, earlier worked as an over ground worker of an Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander, while Dr. Gul was running an illegal call centre from the rented apartment,” the official claimed. A thorough search was conducted of the three-storey building and moments before the search was called off, a member of the search party recollected that two locked rooms adjoining the attic were left unchecked and Altaf Bhatt was asked for the keys while Dr. Gul and Magarey were asked to move ahead and unlock the rooms. “Moments later, gunshots were heard at approximately 6 p.m. It was later found that the hidden terrorist named Bilal who hailed from Pakistan had shot Dr. Gul and Magarey suspecting that they had given him up to the security forces,” the official claimed. On hearing the gunshots, the security forces rushed into the house and in the ensuing gun fight Altaf Bhatt received fatal bullet injuries, which he later succumbed to, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inquiry-into-hyderpora-encounter-over/article38039615.ece
26 December 2021||Guwahati,||Manipur polls: BJP may see churn||The Bharatiya Janata Party may use the Assam formula in poll-bound Manipur — not project anyone as the Chief Minister for a possible change of leadership. Sarbananda Sonowal was the BJP’s face for the 2016 election campaign in Assam. But the party changed its strategy for the 2021 State polls to eventually hand over the baton to Himanta Biswa Sarma. A senior central leader of the party said the BJP’s approach to the 2022 polls in Manipur could follow a similar trajectory and one of the frontrunners is Minister Thongam Biswajit, whose portfolios include Panchayat and Rural Development. “There is a strong undercurrent within the party in Manipur for a change of leadership in view of a few crises the BJP-led alliance government faced in the State over the last three years,” the senior leader said on condition of anonymity. Mr. Biswajit, in the good books of the RSS, is considered a natural choice for the Chief Minister’s post if the BJP retains power on its own or in alliance with its current or new partners. This was because he was a strong contender for the top job when the BJP managed to form a coalition government in 2017. But the central leadership opted for incumbent Nongthombam Biren Singh, an import from Congress. Strengthening base Mr. Biswajit, who had played a major role in bringing Mr. Singh to the BJP fold, had taken this in his stride and chose to be the background operator for strengthening the party base, BJP workers in the State said. “BJP is a family and I value the faith the party has in me. I shall perform whatever role our central leadership decides for me,” Mr. Biswajit told The Hindu from State capital Imphal. “Right now, my objective is to ensure the BJP comes back to power with more than the 21 seats it won in 2017. Maintaining strategic relations with our current allies, who may not go for a pre-poll alliance, is also a major responsibility,” he said. Predicting less than 10 seats for Congress in the 60-member Assembly, Mr. Biswajit said the chances of its ally National People’s Party would depend on the BJP. “We have at least two ticket aspirants in each constituency and those who miss out are likely to go to NPP, which appears to be the most bankable party after BJP. This has made us more determined to field the best candidates,” he said. He trashed speculations about a BJP-NPP rift and said the other regional partner, the Naga People’s Front, is also expected to stay with the BJP in the event of a hung House. The NPP had withdrawn its support to the BJP during a power struggle in 2020 but returned to the government following the intervention of Home Minister Amit Shah. Mr. Biswajit said the BJP has been working on bridging the hill-valley divide besides fighting for Scheduled Tribe status for the Meitei people, who dominate the Imphal Valley that accounts for 40 of the 60 Assembly seats. “We are gaining the trust of the hill dwellers who are seeing through the Congress propaganda that the BJP is anti-Christian,” he said. Mr. Biswajit is a three-time MLA, having first won his pet Thongju constituency on a Trinamool Congress ticket in 2012. He was one of three Trinamool legislators who quit mid-term to join the BJP and won the seat in the 2015 bypoll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-polls-bjp-may-see-churn/article38039625.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We haven’t finished our mission, but large patches of Ganga are clean’||Rajeev Ranjan Mishra , Director-General, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), speaks on steering the organisation tasked with one of the largest clean-ups in history for close to a decade; the challenges in making the Ganga pollution-free; and his reasons for co-authoring the book, Ganga: Reimagining, Rejuvenating, Reconnecting. Since 2014, the government has made the cleaning of the Ganga one of its centrepiece missions and earmarked Rs. 20,000 crore towards it. How has the mission so far progressed? Today, we have close to 350 projects of various types and about 160 are sewage treatment plants. All the projects in Uttarakhand and Jharkhand are complete; 60% of the projects are complete in U.P. Bihar is slower as a lot of projects being made are brand new but in two years 70% of them should be over. In two years, the majority of the projects along the Ganga will be over. U.P., the most important State, will be over before that. We are also looking at several related aspects, such as improving wetlands, improving the ecological flow (e-flow), along with developing sewage treatment plants. The Clean Ganga Mission was billed as a Rs. 20,000-crore project. You have sanctioned projects worth Rs. 30,000 crore. Is the Ganga measurably cleaner than before? We have sanctioned projects worth Rs. 30,000 crore for 15 years. The outflow will be much less and people say that you have actually spent only Rs. 11,000 crore. In five years, we won’t be spending a lot. From 1985 to 2014, only about Rs. 4,000 crore was spent on Ganga cleaning and by those standards, our spending is a significant boost. We have not finished our mission but large patches of the river are clean. All projects in Uttarakhand are complete and there is an immediate change in the water quality of Haridwar. It’s a typical big city and not really a hill city. Its water quality is Class A (the highest grade of cleanliness according to India’s water quality monitoring standards). There is a visible difference in the water quality in Kanpur, which until a few years ago had deplorable water quality. You don’t need measurements; the change is there to see. And this is all through the year. However, this is just one aspect. You have to keep your urban and local bodies ready. Fifteen years is nothing in the life of a river and cities have to start owning their river. Lots of Municipal Commissioners typically focus on only their small stretch of the river and dump waste outside their jurisdictions. In the last few years, we have been focused on sensitising authorities in cities and Ganga riparian States to river planning. We have a river-city alliance to achieve this. Taking care of rivers has to be part of cities’ master plans. Do you have an independent monitoring system that measures aspects such as Dissolved Oxygen (DO) and Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) to ascertain water quality? The Central Pollution Control Board and a special cell has been created to monitor real-time water quality. In terms of DO, the entire stretch of Ganga meets the standards from Uttarakhand to West Bengal. These are measured at nearly 90 stretches. The BOD levels are met in at least 60. The Kanpur BOD used to be 10 at one point and now is three-four. So, there is significant improvement. We have made the ghats cleaner, [with] better crematoria facilities. The pandemic saw instances of bodies dumped into the Ganga in U.P., which even attracted notice from the National Human Rights Commission. What did you find, and did this affect the water quality? The pandemic created unforeseen challenges which led to unprecedented situations. It called for a series of meetings with the authorities concerned and the rolling out of measures to ensure that the health of the river as well as the lives of the people are safe and protected. We released a notification to all the States to ensure that the cremation of suspected COVID-19 patients were in line with the Government of India’s guidelines and that strict vigilance along the length of the river was maintained. We collaborated with a specialised virology testing institute, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and initiated the investigation of SARS-CoV-2 virus contamination and analysis of water quality due to disposal of dead bodies in the Ganga. The investigation concluded that SARS-CoV-2 was not detected in any of the tested sites. I have mentioned this incident in the book to emphasise the constant challenges being faced, and that river rejuvenation is a dynamic process. We faced a problem which did not have anything to do with the programme and yet had to be immediately tackled by the NMCG. You mentioned e-flow and a few years ago, this was a controversial issue with fasts organised by seers and activists such as G.D. Agrawal (who died after a 100-day fast) demanding a minimum flow of water, and protesting against hydroelectric projects. How does the NMCG ensure that adequate flows are maintained? To maintain ecological flow, it is necessary to maintain supply and demand of water and maintain minimum flows at all times for the health of the river. The primary problem is the enormous amounts of water from the Ganga diverted for agriculture. If you see the Haridwar to Kanpur belt, there are several barrages.In the lean season (non-monsoon), there is a paucity of water. In Uttarakhand, you have to deal with hydroelectric projects, and in other States and cities, it is irrigation projects. In Uttarakhand, hydropower project operators initially had reservations but by and large, most are adhering to the revised norms. In these respects, we have been helped by the National Green Tribunal, whose directions on conservation have been significant.  The pandemic created unforeseen challenges which led to unprecedented situations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-havent-finished-our-mission-but-large-patches-of-ganga-are-clean/article38039640.ece
26 December 2021||Srinagar,||Kashmiri apples face Iranian kiwi pests||The import of Iranian kiwis from Afghanistan to India has posed a major concern for apple dealers in Kashmir following a contagious quarantine pest threat found earlier this month in New Delhi. Majid Aslam Wafai, president of the J&K Processing and Integrated Cold Chain Association (JK-PICCA), has written to Sarafarz Ahmad Wad, Director-Research of the Sher-i-Kashmir University of Science and Technology, to initiate analysis of samples of Iranian kiwis flooding the Kashmiri market and infecting locally harvested apples with the pests. “We request an analysis report and supervision on whether the import of Iranian fruit may affect or destroy our horticultural produce and orchards, in order to enable us to follow up on the case for remedial measures,” Mr. Wafai said. Certificate invalid Alarm bells were set off in Kashmir, which produces 71% of the country’s apples, after the National Plant Protection Organisation (NPPO), a body under the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, wrote to Iran on December 7 about the incidence of two quarantine pests, Aspidiotus nerd and Aonidella aurantii , in many shipments of kiwis from Iran. The Indian government has already conveyed to Iran that “the phytosanitary certificates issued by the NPPO, Iran, for fresh kiwi fruits shall not be entertained from our end from December 8, 2021”. “Iran is also exporting apples to India from orchards which have been affected by these pests, along with others such as codling moth. We believe they have the potential of destroying and damaging our orchards too,” Mr. Wafai said in the letter. Experts in Kashmir say codling moth are highly dependent on fruits, rather than leaves, as a food source, and are among the major pest threats for fruits, especially apples and pears. The apple dealers of Kashmir have also written to Union Minister Narendra Singh and flagged the issue of “import of Iran’s fresh apple illegally and unlawfully under the trade name of Afghan apple and misusing the free trade agreement”. “Pests entering in the territory of any apple-producing State shall be a catastrophe for local farmers,” they warned. They have demanded a complete ban on import of apples from Iran “till the quarantine pest issue is resolved”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iranian-kiwi-pests-threaten-kashmiri-apples/article38039645.ece
26 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Marriage age at 21: Lado Panchayat puts U.P. parties on notice||The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) (PCMA) Bill, 2021, which seeks to increase the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, has begun to show its socio-political impact in western Uttar Pradesh. On Friday, in a one of its kind ‘Lado Panchayat’ of girls in Meerut, it was decided that women would not vote for candidates opposed to the Bill in the upcoming Assembly polls. “The Lado Panchayat was attended by hundreds of girls from different communities and after deliberations and speeches in which girls shared their experiences, the panchayat resolved that it would politically and socially boycott such candidates [who oppose the Bill],” said Sunil Jaglan, social activist and founder of Lado Panchayat. Mr. Jaglan, who is known for advocating the “Selfie with daughter” initiative, has been holding such panchayats in Haryana and Rajasthan, and said it was the resolutions passed in these meetings that pushed the government to increase the legal age of marriage for women to 21 years. “Western U.P. together with Haryana is often called ‘greater Haryana’ and is known for deep-seated patriarchy. I tried to introduce the participation of women in khap panchayats but when my repeated requests didn’t find any favour, I decided to hold parallel panchayats of girls in 2020,” he said, adding that the Lado Panchayats have been working on girls’ education, women’s health, property rights for women and financial independence. In the Meerut panchayat, 18-year-old Yukti presided over the panchayat and Mr. Jaglan worked as her secretary. As a mark of breaking the patriarchal hold over traditional decision-making bodies, a pagri (headgear) was placed on Ms. Yukti’s head. Alima, a graduate of science, said the legislation was necessary for better education and health for girls. “At 18, girls could complete only Intermediate [exam] and that is not enough these days. We need this constitutional right and would not vote for those who oppose it,” she said, adding that she didn’t see any political motive in the move but that the government should also make education for girls free. “When we don’t object to the boys getting married at 21, why should anybody object to our legal age of marriage being raised [to be] at par with the boys?” asked Aarfa, another girl at the “panchayat”. Mr. Jaglan admitted that legislation alone would not help unless the government worked on raising educational and health standards of the poor and marginalised. ‘Not progressive’ In a tweet last week, Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Singh said the legislation could not be termed as a “progressive reform”. “There could have been an argument to make the legal age of marriage gender-neutral but the idea that increasing the legal age of marriage would reduce maternal mortality is far-fetched,” he said. Zainus Sajidin Siddiqui, a prominent cleric and the ‘Sheher Qazi’ of Meerut said that according to Sharia law the girl should have attained puberty at the time of marriage. “But over the years, most Muslims have been marrying their daughters at 18 years or above because it is good from their health and education point of view. However, I feel there can’t be a universal law in social practices. If a poor father is unable to raise his daughter properly, it is better to marry her off at 18 years, provided he has found a suitable match for her. There are many instances in which girls have studied and excelled after marriage. I am not sure whether the government has a role here,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/girls-panchayat-in-up-welcomes-bill-to-raise-age-of-marriage/article38039609.ece
26 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Unity is collective responsibility: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday stressed the country’s unity while underlining that the dangers against which the Sikh gurus had warned existed even today. He exhorted the people to remain united and ensure that the country’s unity was not harmed. Addressing the Gurpurab celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev at Gurdwara Lakhpat Sahib in Kutch via videoconferencing, the Prime Minister detailed the contribution of the Sikh religion and the contribution of Sikh gurus, which went much beyond society and spirituality. “It is our collective responsibility to ensure that in such important time, nobody hurts our dreams and unity of the country. To achieve the dreams for which our gurus lived and sacrificed their lives, we should all remain united. Unity is essential for us all,” Mr. Modi said, just days after the incidents of attempted sacrilege and lynching in two gurdwaras in Punjab and the blast in a court complex. He added that in the past, Sikh gurus had never hesitated to put their lives at risk to protect India against foreign attackers. “Guru Tegh Bahadur’s valour and his sacrifice against Aurangzeb teaches us how the country fights against terror and religious fanaticism,” he said. “The dangers against which the gurus warned us remain the same even today, so we have to be cautious and ensure the security of the country. I am sure that with the blessings of Guru Nanak Dev ji, we will surely fulfil our commitment, and the country will reach new heights,” he said. Talking about Guru Nanak’s period, the Prime Minister said he and other gurus not only kept the consciousness of India ignited, but also made a way to keep the country safe from external attacks and atrocities that were breaking people’s morale during the the period under foreign rules. “The contribution of our gurus is not limited to society and spirituality alone. Rather, if our nation, its consciousness, faith and integrity are safe today, then at its core is the great penance of the Sikh gurus.” “Similarly, the life of the tenth guru, Guru Gobind Singh Sahib, is also a living example of tenacity and sacrifice at every step,” he said, adding that the gurus took on the strongest rulers of their times, and thousands of people sacrificed their lives to stop the attacks of Nadir Shah and Ahmad Shah Abdali. The PM also recalled the massacre of Jallianwala Bagh during the British rule and sacrifices made by the members of the Sikh community in the brutal act by the colonial regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unity-is-collective-responsibility-pm/article38040097.ece
26 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Call to give Tai Khamti resistance its due||The Sepoy Mutiny of 1857 may not be India’s first war of Independence. The first such war, not recognised by Indian history, took place in 1839 between the Tai Khamti people and the British. The theatre of this war was some 2,400 km east of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh where the mutiny began, Arunachal Pradesh’s Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein said. He said the Tai Khamtis resisted colonisation by the British. Some 80 British soldiers, including Col. Adam White, were killed in the resultant conflict. The Tai Khamti people, who follow Theravada Buddhism, number a little more than 1,00,000 today and live in areas straddling Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. “It is high time we rewrote our history from our own perspective, not that of the British. Who they viewed as traitors and punished were actually our freedom fighters and our war heroes,” Mr. Mein said, urging the Centre to recognise the Tai Khamti-British war as India’s first for independence from the United Kingdom. He also batted for recognition of battles between other communities of Arunachal Pradesh and the British. They include a series of Anglo-Abor wars from 1858 to 1911 and the Wancho-British war in Tirap district’s Ninu in 1875. The Abors, now called Adis, inhabit central Arunachal Pradesh, while the Wanchos live in the southern part of the State. Mr. Mein said the country needed to include the histories of the freedom struggles across the northeast in the books published by the NCERT. “Sadly, the battles fought by the tribal people for independence from the colonial rule are nowhere reflected in the books of Indian history,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-to-give-tai-khamti-resistance-its-due/article38039623.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Modi government has restored faith in democracy, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday that in future the country will not suffer from any oxygen shortage, however big a pandemic. The Minister said after the second wave of COVID-19 when there was a shortage of medical oxygen, steps were taken to turn the crisis into opportunity and hospitals that have more than 100 beds were asked to install oxygen plants. Mr. Shah said Modi government has taken decisions that are good for the people and not which people would like, even at the cost of political damage. Addressing a function organised on the occasion of Good Governance Day, Mr. Shah said people have long been waiting for good governance which was delivered by the Modi government in the last seven years. “People have kept saying that we have got Independence long ago but when will we get good governance,” the Minister said, adding that due to lack of good governance, people’s faith in the country’s democratic system was gradually eroding. “But Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought back people’s faith in democracy by taking the good governance up to the grassroots level... people have realised that Mr. Modi came to power in 2014 not to run the government but to provide a clean, transparent and welfare administration, thus changing the face of the country,” he said. He said people’s faith in democracy has enhanced since 2014 as they started getting benefits of development undertaken by the Modi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-government-has-restored-faith-in-democracy-says-shah/article38039629.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poverty key factor in determining institutional delivery: study||Poverty, education, and exposure to a community health worker are more important than age at marriage in determining whether a mother will be able to have a safe birth in a medical facility, according to a first-of-its-kind study on utilisation of institutional delivery in the country. The research comes at a time the government has proposed to raise the age of marriage for women to 21 in order to reduce maternal deaths — a decision that has come under heavy criticism for ignoring social realities such as poverty, education and access to health services that are said to play a bigger role in preventing child marriages. Published in the peer-reviewed journal Global Health Action , the study analyses data on State-level maternal mortality ratio (2016 to 2018), as well as the National Family Health Survey-4 (2015-16). The study is unique in its exploration of socio-demographic factors as well as barriers in low coverage of institutional deliveries, which is a key intervention in averting the risk of maternal mortality due to childbirth-related complications. The study has been authored by Ria Saha, a public health consultant in the U.K., and Pintu Paul, a Ph.D. candidate in Jawaharlal Nehru University. Low performers It focuses on nine low-performing States (LPS) with high burden of maternal mortality — Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. These States constitute about half of the country’s population and contribute 62% of maternal deaths, 71% of infant deaths, 72% of under-five (years) deaths, and 61% of births in the country. They also account for 12% of global maternal deaths. India has a maternal mortality rate of 113 per 100,000, and the rate remains “alarmingly high” in these nine States at 161 deaths per 100,000 . “As far as socio-demographic factors are concerned, poverty (1.4 to 3.5) is responsible more than twice as much as age at marriage (.78) in determining whether a woman will seek institutional delivery. Education (1.2 to 3.8) is 1.5 times more important than age at marriage. Among other factors, interaction with a community health worker (1.63) and awareness campaigns (1.1 to 1.3) had a greater impact than age at marriage. However, distance to the health facility (.79) and age at marriage had almost similar influences on institutional deliveries,” Pintu Paul told The Hindu in an e-mail. “The influence of educational attainment appeared to be strongest in Assam and Chhattisgarh, where women with a higher level of education were about five times more likely to deliver in a health facility than women who had no education. In Assam, women from the richest wealth index were almost 14 times more likely to deliver in a health institution than those from the poorest wealth index. Similarly, the odds of delivering in a health facility among the richest women were about five to six-fold higher in States such as Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttarakhand than the poorest women,” according to the study. Access barriers As far as barriers in accessing institutional deliveries were concerned, about 17% of women expressed distance or lack of transportation, and 16% cited costs, to be some of the challenges. Other reasons were facility closures (10%), poor service or trust issues (6%). The authors recommend State-specific interventions not only to increase the number of public health facilities but also to improve associated quality of care, underlining that inadequate clinical training and insufficient skilled human resources affected the quality of available maternity services resulting in low coverage of institutional deliveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poverty-key-in-deciding-institutional-delivery-study/article38039642.ece
26 December 2021||Kolkata,||Unvaccinated at 100% risk: expert||India will see a surge in Omicron-driven COVID-19 cases and a high positivity rate, but the infection will hopefully be mild in most people as is being seen in South Africa, says Dr. Angelique Coetzee, who first identified the variant. In a phone interview, the chairperson of the South African Medical Association also said existing vaccines would definitely control the contagion but those unvaccinated are at 100% “risk”. “Existing vaccines will greatly help reduce the spread of the Omicron variant,” she said. In the case of a vaccinated person or one who has had a history of being infected by COVID-19, it will spread to fewer people, she said, adding that unvaccinated people will potentially spread the virus 100%. “Existing vaccines would greatly help to reduce the spreading, as we know that you would spread only about one-third if vaccinated or had previous history of being infected by COVID, while unvaccinated people will potentially spread the virus 100 per cent,” she said. She disagreed with the opinion of some experts that COVID is heading towards an end with the advent of Omicron, which as of now is comparatively a weaker variant. “I do not think so. I believe it will be difficult (for the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic to end soon). I presume it will become endemic,” she said. “India will see a surge in Omicron-driven COVID-19 cases and simultaneously there will be a high-positivity rate. But hopefully the majority of the cases will be as mild as what we are seeing here in South Africa,” she added as India on Saturday reported 415 cases of the Omicron variant. Discussing the character of the Omicron strain of COVID that is spreading fast across the world and has dampened year-end festivities in many parts of the country, Dr. Coetzee said it attacked “warm bodies” and was also infecting children. Can the Omicron variant again mutate and change its character? “Yes, it might mutate in the future to be more deadly, or it might not,” she said. The 61-year-old medical practitioner also held that human behaviour such as wearing masks as well as following safety protocols for COVID-19 will play a huge role in controlling the transmission of Omicron.  Existing vaccines will greatly help reduce the spread of the Omicron variant Angelique CoetzeeChairperson, South African Medical Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unvaccinated-at-100-risk-expert/article38039646.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP launches special micro-donation campaign||The BJP launched a “special micro-donation campaign” on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on Saturday, seeking to raise funds through small contributions from its members and others. Donors can choose from the contribution options of Rs. 5, Rs. 50, Rs. 100, Rs. 500 or Rs. 1,000. Several BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, made donations and urged others to contribute. “I have donated Rs. 1,000 towards the party fund of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Our ideal of always putting Nation First and the culture of lifelong selfless service by our cadre will be further strengthened by your micro-donation. Help make BJP strong. Help make India strong,” Mr. Modi tweeted. BJP president J.P. Nadda said, “Our karyakartas will connect with millions of people through this micro-donation campaign. ‘Donation’ module in the NaMo App will be the medium through which we will collect these donations. I seek the blessings of people to strengthen the world’s largest nationalist movement.” The campaign will continue till February 11, the death anniversary of the party’s ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-launches-special-micro-donation-campaign/article38039631.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||4 militants killed in two Kashmir encounters||Four militants, including an expert in preparing Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), were killed in two counter-militancy operations in south Kashmir on Saturday, as the security forces stepped up operations in the Valley. Two of them were affiliated to the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the others were linked to the Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, said Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar. In the first operation, two militants were killed in a gunfight in the Chowgam village area of Shopian, during a joint cordon and search operation of the police, the Army’s 44 Rashtriya Rifles and CRPF’s 14 Battalion. The slain militants were identified as Sajad Ahmad Chak from Braripora, Shopian, and Raja Basit Yaqoob from Achan Litter, Pulwama. In the second operation launched on Saturday afternoon, security forces engaged two more militants in a gunfight in Tral area of Pulwama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-militants-killed-in-two-kashmir-encounters/article38039613.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t underestimate Congress in U.P.: Baghel||Asked about the perception that the Congress does not have an organisation in U.P. that can mobilise voters on the ground and the notion that people don’t want to vote for a losing side, he said: “This is negative thinking in politics. What Priyankajiis doing is positive politics. She is saying these are the things that we can do.” “If you look at our rallies in Varanasi or Gorakhpur, the crowds were massive. Rahulji padyatra in Amethi was also impressive. This is because of our organisational strength.” Mr. Baghel didn’t give any assessment as to the number of seats the Congress can win but said, “Why do you have so much of doubt? If the BJP can become the number one party in 2017 from number four in 2012, why can’t we become number one?.” When pointed out that Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav predicted zero seats for the Congress in the upcoming Assembly elections, Mr. Baghel said, “I think Akhileshjishouldn’t have said so. You should neither underestimate someone nor speak with such arrogance.” Talking about the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance in the 2017 Assembly elections, advocated by election strategist Prashant Kishor, the Chhattisgarh Chief Minister claimed that his party “had to bear the brunt of SP’s anti-incumbency”. The Congress leader said Mr. Yadav didn’t step out for four-and-a half years while Ms. Vadra has been “fighting” for people’s issue, whether it was trying to provide transport to migrant workers during the lockdown or ensuring justice to the Dalit girl who was allegedly allegedly raped and murdered at Hathras or the families of the farmers and the journalist killed at Lakhimpur Kheri. “We are contesting the elections under Priyankaji’s leadership. Whether she would contest the elections or not, the high command and she herself will decide,” Mr. Baghel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-underestimate-congress-in-up-baghel/article38039616.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ludhiana blast meant to sow panic,says DGP||Not ruling out a Pakistan-based pro-Khalistan connection to the act, the DGP said the police were investigating the case from all angles. “Preliminary investigations suggest that the accused, Gagandeep, could have developed links with pro-Khalistan elements in the jail, who have used him to target the court premises with the intention to disturb the peace of the State,” he said. “Within 24 hours, we could trace the main accused,” said Mr. Chattopadhyaya.“During the course of post-mortem, the police were able to identify the deceased from his tattoo mark on the right arm. Separately, DNA samples of the body were also collected. The accused Gagandeep was working as a ‘munshi’ at the police station, Khanna, when he was arrested with heroin, and a NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) case was registered against him. The case is under trial at the prosecution evidence stage,” Mr. Chattopadhyaya added. “Most probably in the jail, he [Singh] came in touch with others [criminals] and his transition from narcotics to mafia to drugs, which has come to the fore, is a very dangerous combination. It’s going to be a major challenge for us. We have traced people associated with him. The investigation revealed that there are links within the jail, across Punjab and from abroad with Khalistani elements, terror outfits, mafias and narcotic smugglers,” the DGP said. The DGP said that the material used for the explosion was yet to be ascertained as samples have been sent to the forensic lab. “A team of NSG (National Security Guard) and that of the State forensic experts were called for a post-blast investigation,” he said. During the course of systematic clearing of debris at the blast site, the forensic team collected some vital clues like a damaged mobile set and burnt clothes on the body of the deceased besides other material evidence, the DGP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ludhiana-blast-victim-was-sacked-constable/article38039619.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Covaxin cleared for those aged 12 and above||A company spokesperson told The Hindu that about 5.5 crore doses were produced in November and the company was on track to make 100 crore doses annually in 2022. Welcoming the clearance, Bharat Biotech, the makers of Covaxin, said the vaccine Covaxin was “formulated uniquely” so that the same dosage administered to adults could be used in children as well. Their statement noted: “COVAXIN has established a proven record for safety and efficacy in adults for the original variant and subsequent. We look forward for COVAXIN to provide similar levels of protection for adults and children alike.” Chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech International Limited, Krishna Ella, had said on September 21 that trials for “paediatric Covaxin” had been completed in about 1,000 volunteers aged 2-18 years and the data submitted to the Drugs Controller for evaluation. There is no efficacy data made public yet for the vaccine and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has not clarified on why only those above 12 years have been approved for the vaccine despite trials including those below 12 years. There is debate among vaccinologists and public health experts on the use of the vaccine in those below 18 years because have been concerns that the vaccines, if approved for them, would be diverted away from adults who are yet to receive their first and second doses. “The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation are deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to vaccination of children below 18 years of age,” the Rajya Sabha was told by the Centre on December 21. India has inoculated about 89% of the adults with at least one dose. Those below 18 years form a sizeable 40 crore population and while the current evidence suggests that children are less likely to be ill with the infection, they can be as easily infected and are as contagious as adults. The rapid rise in instances of the Omicron variant in India has led to the worry that a future wave is imminent and several States have imposed movement restrictions. All vaccines globally have shown to produce fewer antibodies against the Omicron variant, seeding the demand for booster doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-cleared-for-12-years-and-above/article38039620.ece
26 December 2021||Srinagar,||Four terrorists killed in encounters in J&K||Four militants, including an expert in making Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), were killed in two counter-militancy operations in south Kashmir on Saturday, as the security forces stepped up operations in the Valley. Two of them were affiliated to the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the others were linked to the Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, said Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar. In the first operation, two militants were killed in a gunfight in the Chowgam village area of Shopian, during a joint cordon and search operation of the police, the Army’s 44 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF’s 14 Battalion. The slain LeT militants were identified as Sajad Ahmad Chak from Braripora, Shopian, and Raja Basit Yaqoob from Achan Litter, Pulwama. Sajad was instrumental in recruiting youth to join terror organisations, police said. Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including two AK series rifles, four AK magazines and 32 rounds were recovered from their possession, the police said. In the second anti-militancy operation launched on Saturday afternoon, security forces engaged two more militants in a gunfight in Tral area of Pulwama. The slain militants were identified as Nadeem Nazir Bhat from Koil Shikargah, Tral, and Rahi Rasool Bhat alias Adil from Kanipora Dadsara, Tral. “They were linked to the Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind. Adil was an IED expert and behind grenade attacks on security forces,” Mr. Kumar said. Two AK series rifles were recovered from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-terrorists-killed-in-2-jk-encounters/article38039693.ece
26 December 2021||Chandigarh,||SKM says demands to be finalised on Jan. 15||Following a decision by 22 Punjab farmer unions to form a political front, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has stated that it will not contest elections. Jagjit Singh Dallewal and Darshan Pal, members of the coordination committee of the SKM, said the platform of more than 400 different ideological organisations across the country has been formed for issues concerning farmers. Disciplinary action “There is no call for the boycott of elections and no consensus on going ‘jointly’ to contest them. After the repeal of the three agricultural laws, the struggle has been postponed and the remaining demands will be decided in the meeting to be held on January 15,” they said in statement. “It has been decided that the individuals or organisations participating in the elections cannot use the names of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha or the 32 organisations. Doing so will result in disciplinary action,” they added. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakonda), said they will not take the plunge into electoral politics and a meeting has been convened on December 27 to decide whether or not to support the farmer unions which want to contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skm-says-demands-to-be-finalised-on-jan-15/article38039630.ece
26 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Migratory birds found dead near Chilika lake; poaching suspected||Lakhs of migratory birds fly down from other parts of the globe to Odisha’s Chilika lake, the largest wintering ground for birds in the Indian subcontinent around this time every year, but many of them end up being served on lunch and dinner plates in roadside eateries near the lake. This is what the Odisha Forest Department suspects happened when it came across carcasses of 29 migratory birds on Saturday. However, unofficial sources put the number of carcasses at above 100. “During regular patrolling, our staff detected carcasses of 29 migratory birds dumped at Ratamati near Badapokhria. We suspect that poachers were on their way to supply the birds to hotels. They abandoned the dead birds in a hurry on being tipped off about the movement of our patrolling teams,” said Chudamani Murmu, Forest Range Officer of Tangi. Asked if it was case of bird flu, Ms. Murmu said the circumstances did not indicate this. In 2020, the Chilika lake hosted over a million birds, and the area around it recorded more than 12 lakh migratory birds. “Despite regular awareness about birds’ protection organised by the department, some unscrupulous elements are involved in poaching. In the winter months, we intensify our patrolling by conducting raids in hotels, boats and poaching-prone pockets,” she added. In 2020, for the third successive year, the Chilika lake hosted over a million birds, and the area around it recorded more than 12 lakh mostly migratory birds. The lake hosts birds migrating from thousands miles away, including from the Caspian Sea, Lake Baikal, the Aral Sea, remote parts of Russia, the Kirghiz steppes of Mongolia, Central and Southeast Asia, and Ladakh and the Himalayas. The winged guests are drawn to the vast mud fields and abundant fish stock in Chilika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/carcasses-of-migratory-birds-seized-near-chilika-lake-poaching-suspected/article38039637.ece
26 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan steps up vigil to control Omicron||With 21 cases of Omicron reported on a single day, the Rajasthan government on Saturday decided to step up the vigil and take stringent measures to control the spread of infection. A diagnostic report from Pune’s National Institute of Virology confirmed the new cases, taking the tally in the State to 43. The State government decided to make the COVID-19 vaccination compulsory for entering the public places and getting the benefits of various schemes from February 1 and strictly implement the curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. New guidelines will be notified shortly. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said at a COVID review meeting here that legal action would be taken against those not wearing face masks and not following appropriate behaviour from the New Year’s first week. Besides, a list of those not fully vaccinated will be prepared and action initiated for complete vaccination in all districts. Mr. Gehlot also reiterated his demand that the Centre give booster doses of COVID-19 vaccine to the people above 60 years and the frontline health workers and allow vaccination for children. “The third and fourth doses of vaccines are being administered in several countries. The Centre should allow booster dose without delay,” he said. He said it was necessary to complete 100% vaccination of eligible persons to protect the State’s population against a third wave of infection. He directed the health officials to increase the number of RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-steps-up-vigil-to-control-omicron/article38039638.ece
26 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Panchayat laws amended in Odisha||The Odisha government has promulgated an ordinance making participation of Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) representatives in disaster management activities obligatory. Until now, PRI members had been governed by executive instructions during disasters. The clause — the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, preparation of disaster management plan at village and Grama Panchayat level, integration with development plan, capacity building of stakeholders, carrying out and facilitation of relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction activities in disaster affected areas in accordance with State plan and district plan, and to undertake other measures as may be necessary for disaster management — has been inserted under Section 44 of OGP Act 1964. Another major amendment says “a candidate who himself or through his proposer, with intent to be elected in an election gives false information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false or conceals any information in his nomination paper or in his affidavit which is required to be delivered under clause (w) of subsection (I) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.” Elections to Odisha’s gram panchayats and civic bodies will be held early next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panchayat-laws-amended-in-odisha/article38039621.ece
26 December 2021||Mumbai,||Sena MLA seeks dole for unemployed||Shiv Sena MLA Prakash Abitkar has moved a Private Member’s Bill in Maharashtra Assembly recommending Rs. 5,000 allowance per month to unemployed youth of the State. “All political parties had promised unemployment allowance in their respective manifestos in 2019 polls. I am not doing anything different. Just taking forward the issue which is the most pressing one in today’s time,” Mr. Abitkar told The Hindu . The Bill has defined an unemployed individual as a resident of Maharashtra who is physically and mentally fit, and wishes to work but has no job. The eligible individual must be more than 18 years of age but not above 40 years. The individual must be registered in the employment exchange in the State and must not received any employment after three months of registration. The minimum educational qualification should be Class 10 and family income should not be more than Rs. 1 lakh. According to the Bill, the scheme for the unemployment allowance will be prepared by the State’s employment and self-employment department. There will be one State-level centre and one at each district headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-mla-seeks-dole-for-unemployed/article38039632.ece
26 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJD to field 40% OBC candidates||After the Orissa High Court directed the State government to rework the draft notification on reservation to offices of Panchayati Raj Institution members upon finding that the Supreme Court guidelines were not followed, the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) announced that 40% of its candidates in the upcoming panchayat and civic body polls would be from the backward classes. BJD Supremo and Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik approved the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjd-to-field-40-obc-candidates/article38039610.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nepal PM may attend summit in Gujarat||Prime Minister of Nepal Sher Bahadur Deuba is likely to attend the annual Vibrant Gujarat Summit in January, diplomatic sources in Kathmandu have said. Mr. Deuba, who was re-elected to the presidency of the ruling Nepali Congress party on December 15, replaced Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli in last July. The Ministry of External Affairs here had earlier announced that the summit to begin on January 10 will have a large segment where the focus will be on business and collaboration with foreign countries. Though the Russian Far East is expected to be in focus, Sri Lanka, Denmark and Canada will also be promoted during the event. India had been observing the internal elections of the Nepali Congress. It was understood that high-level visits between the two sides would take place after Mr. Deuba consolidates his position as the Prime Minister and the president of his party. Nepal is likely to go into election mode in spring with local polls followed by general elections. The Deuba-led coalition is facing a tough challenge from Mr. Sharma Oli. India and Nepal have established communication at the highest level following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with Mr. Deuba on the sidelines of the COP26 summit in Glasgow where the latter announced that Nepal will attain carbon negative status by 2045.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deuba-likely-to-attend-vibrant-gujarat-summit/article38039612.ece
26 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot flags dangers of hate speech||Taking strong exception to the reluctance of the Uttarakhand police to arrest those who delivered hate speeches at a religious conclave in Haridwar recently, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said wherever a genocide had taken place in the world, there were similar inflammatory speeches made before and no action had been taken. “The way no action is being initiated against the unruly elements who gave an open call for genocide of a community, it appears that a Jungle Raj is prevailing in the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled States,” Mr. Gehlot said. He asked if the governments that are reluctant to act against the miscreants had a right to remain in power. Mr. Gehlot said it was shameful that no arrests had been made so far despite the videos of incitement to violence in Haridwar’s “dharam sansad” held from December 17 to 19, having gone viral. “The Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the Uttarakhand Chief Minister are sitting silent,” he tweeted. The Chief Minister said the citizens would have to decide whether such “violent and murderous” people could be the representatives of any religion. “In which direction do they want to take the country?” Mr. Gehlot asked and urged the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and take stringent action against the miscreants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-flags-dangers-of-hate-speech/article38040098.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||AIMIM files complaint in Uttarakhand||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi said that he had directed his party’s Uttarakhand team to lodge a complaint at the local police station about the reported hate speeches against religious minorities in Haridwar by individuals belonging to Hindutva outfits. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Owaisi shared an image of a complaint given by AIMIM Uttarakhand State President Nayyar Kazmi to Civil Lines Roorkee police station. “If strict action isn’t taken, then we’ll launch a state-wide agitation demanding arrest & exemplary punishment. The calls for genocide & ethnic cleansing against Muslims are culmination of 60yrs of dehumanising speech by Sangh Parivar against Muslims & Christians,” Mr. Owaisi tweeted. Mr. Owaisi claimed that several speakers at the event were “repeat offenders”, and alleged that they were close to the ruling dispensation. “BJP govts at Centre & State are complicit in this call for genocide This is why there have been no arrests, no condemnation from govt & not even a whisper from moderate Hindus,” he tweeted. Mr. Owaisi said, “Incitement to genocide is a crime under Genocide Convention 1948. India is party to the Convention but has failed to punish criminals. Is it time to join@IntlCrimCourtso that crimes against humanity like genocide, ethnic cleansing & their incitement don’t go unpunished?”  Incitement to genocide is a crime under Genocide Convention 1948. India is party to the Convention but has failed to punish criminals Asaduddin Owaisi AIMIM president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aimim-files-complaint-against-hate-speech/article38039634.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Digital Yojana||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digital-yojana/article38039636.ece
26 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Give up VIP culture, Assam CM to leaders||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has advised the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party to give up VIP culture, usually associated with keeping personal security officers (PSO). He said, however, the State BJP president Bhabesh Kalita has to take a decision on party leaders forgoing this culture. “Why are PSOs needed where there is no threat to the life of any BJP member? Who will kill us when we have not done anything wrong?” Mr. Sarma said at a programme in Guwahati on Saturday. He said he could withdraw the PSOs attached to the BJP leaders if the State party president made a proposal. Mr. Kalita said a step would be taken in this regard. The Chief Minister said he was associated with Congress long enough to assert keeping PSOs was a culture typical of the grand old party. “We, the BJP workers, have to have a culture different from that of Congress and that means forgoing 30 cultures, including the VIP culture,” he said. He also urged the BJP workers to read a speech that former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee delivered every day in 1980 and pinch themselves to know if they are different from members of other political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-up-vip-culture-assam-cm-to-leaders/article38039643.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arunachaleswarar temple becomes self-sufficient in rice production||Over the last two years, the Arunachaleswarar temple in Tiruvannamalai has not purchased any rice for its use — it has become self-sufficient thanks to the staff taking up cultivation on a piece of land belonging to the temple in Dhanakotipuram village in Porkunam. This is also a change from the usual practice of temples letting out their lands on lease. The temple has, however, leased out other lands to private parties, after retaining a 40-acre portion for its own use. Agricultural activities are taken up only once a year on most lands in the district. The presence of three open wells, three bore wells and a large irrigation tank on their land has encouraged the temple staff to look at this option. “Over the last 10-15 years, various executive officers/joint commissioners encouraged us and what began with just 2-3 acres has now touched 32 acres of paddy cultivation. Our former superintendent Badrachalam guided us. Most of us are from agricultural background and manage the farm. We employ labourers for various operations like planting, weeding and harvesting,” said a staff, who has been with the temple for over 32 years. This year, despite the heavy rain, the crops on this land and another 400 acres of private lands were saved by strengthening the bund of the tank using donor funds. Several years ago, the temple used to sell the paddy it cultivated to the Civil Supplies Corporation and buy rice from the proceeds of that sale. However, that practice was changed a few years ago and the staff now grow white Ponni and CO 51 varieties of paddy. The temple requires rice for annadhanam (free food for devotees), to make offerings to the deities (neivedhyam or amudhu padaithal ), to make prasadams and also for annadhanam in Aadhi Arunachaleswarar and Balasubramaniaswamy temples. In the last two Fasli years, the temple used 14,450 kg of rice for neivedhyam , 21,146 kg for use in making prasadam , 24,089 kg in annadhanam . It used to buy all this rice at Rs. 50- Rs. 55/kg. Apart from these, the cattle in the goshala are given rice bran and broken rice as part of their feed. Since there is an abundance of straw, the temple also makes a saving on this count. The cow dung is used in the field as manure, which helps them reduce the amount spent on farming. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, who visited the lands recently, said he was delighted to witness such an effort. “The staff do it as a labour of love. If needed, we can dig more open wells and sink borewells on agricultural lands belonging to the temple,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-staffs-labour-of-love-wins-ministers-appreciation/article38040177.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police to form NCC-like units in 100 schools||The Greater Chennai Police are forming Student In Responsible Police Initiatives (SIRPI) units on the lines of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in 100 schools. An initiative of Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal, the project is aimed at addressing the issue of juvenile delinquency, driven by factors such as socio-economic status, peer pressure, lack of family support and unemployment. The SIRPI is aimed at identifying vulnerable children and guide them so that they do not get into conflict with the law. “We are in the process of launching it and have identified schools and uniforms to be given to them. About 5,000 boys and girls will be inducted from at least 100 schools possibly by the first week of January,” Mr. Jiwal told The Hindu . “We are putting in a lot of effort into designing the uniform, shoes and drawing up the curriculum. For Corporation schoolchildren, even small things matter,” Mr. Jiwal said. 40-week curriculum A 40-week curriculum is being framed. Under the programme, the cadets can spend time with the police personnel. It is a voluntary programme and books and study material, with the uniform, would be given to enrolled children. “We will organise tours for them every second or third week to premier educational institutions or labs. The idea is to take them on board to make them understand the laws of the land and the role of the police in enforcing the laws. We will conduct a one-year training programme and personality development- drill, sports, visits to institutions and classroom sessions to enable students evolve as a responsible and capable citizens,” he said. The attempt would be to inculcate self-discipline, civic sense and develop empathy for vulnerable sections of society and resistance to social evils. This would lead to improved relationship between the police and the vulnerable sections of society, said the Commissioner of Police. Liaison officer An officer not below the rank of inspector of police will be assigned to act as police-student liaison officer. The officer would deploy sufficient personnel for the training and strive to maintain good relationship between the police and the schools. Mr. Jiwal said 50 students each would be chosen from 100 “vulnerable schools” from Class VIII and above for the “SIRPI Wing”. Legal literacy programmes, in collaboration with government and non-governmental organisations, would be conducted. They would be made to understand the value of following traffic laws and would inculcate right habits. The other activities would include staging short plays, mono act, film show and organising campaign against drugs, alcoholism, terrorism and to celebrate national festivals, salute national symbols and develop a sense of pride about the progress and prosperity of the State. Plans are on to popularise phone numbers of police helpline, Kavalan, elders helpline and Kaval Karangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-form-ncc-like-units-in-100-schools/article38040149.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors told to be on guard against Omicron||Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Saturday wrote to all Collectors, senior health officials, airport directors and heads of all departments, expressing concern over the widespread lack of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and warning against the “extremely” infectious Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. He highlighted, in particular, the lack of enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour at many hospitals and medical colleges. He said that at many places, faculty and staff members, students and predominantly visitors neither wore masks nor followed social distancing. Implementation of the perimeter control and demarcation of COVID-19 suspect wards were ineffective at a few places. His observations came against the backdrop of a cluster of 54 cases that were identified after a few persons tested positive at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. He said that preliminary data based on contact-tracing showed that the spread among close contacts and in closed and unventilated rooms was extremely high in the case of the Omicron variant. Since persons infected with the Omicron variant largely remained mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic, there was a high risk of their unknowingly spreading it to a large number of people. Though patients infected with the Omicron variant so far largely seemed to remain clinically stable, the validation of clinical progress would take more time, while in the meanwhile high transmissibility might lead to an increased caseload. “We cannot and should not let down our guard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-told-to-be-on-guard-against-omicron/article38040159.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform if COVID-19 patients end quarantine early’||The Greater Chennai Corporation has instructed all hospitals in the city to inform the civic body in advance if a person, who tested positive for COVID-19, is being discharged before the end of the mandatory quarantine period of 14 days. “We are sending a letter to all hospitals. Our point is that in case they are discharged before the 14-day quarantine period ends, they should intimate the Corporation so that it can monitor them,” Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said. Civic officials would ensure that the person remained in isolation for the rest of the period, he said. Outpatient department While all hospitals must inform the Corporation of cases with influenza-like illnesses (ILIs), institutions must inform the civic body of those who come in for CT scans or are being treated in the outpatient department. “In Chennai, 20,000 tests were done on Thursday. All private hospitals with CT scan facility have been instructed to inform the civic body, so that we can follow up and get the COVID-19 test done for those yet to take it,” Mr. Bedi said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the norm when a person is tested for COVID-19, even if it is just a suspected case, is that they should be isolated till the results come. When a S-gene dropout is detected in a person, as is the case with the Omicron variant, they cannot be sent home, he said. Mr. Radhakrishnan said hospitals should admit patients suspected to have COVID-19 and not turn them away because there were no government guidelines making admittance mandatory in such cases. Fresh guidelines Meanwhile, the Directorate of Public Health has issued fresh guidelines regarding protocols to be followed. The guidelines detail protocols for the testing, isolation and quarantine of people including passengers arriving from at-risk countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inform-if-covid-19-patients-end-quarantine-early/article38040182.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Margazhi Music Contest judges announced||If you are among the under-40 musicians sending in online entries for The Hindu Margazhi Music Contest, don’t you want to know who the judges are? They will review your online entries that should be under five minutes duration under the krithi and thukkada categories. Marks will be given based on the raga and song chosen, the way they are rendered, including tala control and diction. The last date for sending in entries for the competition is December 31. The judges for the competition are musician, dance scholar and writer Sujatha Vijayaraghavan, vocalist and an associate professor of French Varalakshmi Anandakumar, violinists LN Sisters and gurus M. Lalitha and M. Nandhini, Mridangist and guru Erode Nagaraj and Hindustani vocalist and guru Lalita Sharma. Ms. Vijayaraghavan is founder-organising committee member of the Natyarangam, Narada Gana Sabha Trust, and executive committee member of The Music Academy. As a musician, she has provided vocal support to her mother and vocalist Ananthalakshmi Sadagopan for over three decades. She has composed kritis and nursery rhymes in Carnatic music. Ms. Anandakumar, a senior disciple of D.K. Jayaraman and Vidwan Srimushnam Rajarao, is an A-grade artiste of AIR Chennai, and regular concert performer. She has brought out a book Janaranjakam , which was a notated set of 50 songs popularised by Mr. Jayaraman and published by the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan. Ms. Lalitha and Ms. Nandini are internationally acclaimed violinists and composers. The sisters began singing and playing the violin at an early age having grown up as the fourth generation in a family of musicians. Mr. Nagaraj is the prime disciple of mridangam maestro and guru Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman. He served as lecturer in the Thanjavur Vaidyanatha Iyer School for Percussion, The Music Academy, Chennai, for several years. He is an A-Grade artiste of All India Radio and Doordarshan. Chennai-based Ms. Sharma, an exponent of the Mewati Gharana of Hindustani Classical music, has trained under the great maestro Pandit Jasraj. She has trained in Carnatic classical music and has a B.A. (Music) from the University of Madras. She runs Swaraangan School for Hindustani Music in the city. Three categories  The Hindu Margazhi Music Competition is for students of Carnatic and Hindustani styles. It will be held for three categories — children (aged below 12), juniors (13-19 years) and seniors (20-40 years). In the ‘vocal/instrumental: krithi’ category, participants can send a solo rendition of any krithi of a well-known composer. For the “vocal/instrumental: thukkada” category, they can send a solo rendition of compositions of Annamacharya, Purandara Dasa, Bhadrachala Ramadas, Sadasiva Brahmendra, Meera, Kabir, Surdas, Tulsidas, Jayadeva and others; Tamil pieces like Thevaram , Thiruppavai , Thiruppugazh and compositions of Subramanya Bharathi and others; tillana s, padam s, javalis , bhajan s, abhang s and similar semi-classical compositions. Those participating in the “percussion: solo” category should send a one tala performance. Participants can upload their videos to their Google Drive or DropBox account and register athttps://bit.ly/THMSC2 The event is co-sponsored by Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-margazhi-music-contest-judges-announced/article38040172.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow two-way traffic on Pallavaram flyover’||With traffic jams becoming a norm every evening at Pallavaram, motorists bound for Tambaram on the GST Road have urged the government to allow two-way traffic on the flyover. P.T. Ramakrishnan, a long-time resident, said that vehicles proceeding to the south were unable to take the flyover, causing traffic snarls on the road. “They have closed traffic signals at Old Police Station and at Areva, which adds to the congestion on the road. Motorists proceeding to Pozhichalur, Anakaputhur and Kundrathur are forced to join the south-bound traffic for about 2 km, which is unnecessary,” he said. Activist V. Santhanam said that Fridays were even worse as the weekly market at Pallavaram with around 1,000 shops attracted a large crowd. “Shops that were at the old Moore Market have been moved here, which has led to hundreds of temporary outlets selling literally everything under the sun. It is a very popular weekly market and steps must be taken to regulate traffic since it involves the livelihood of the traders. With a history of 200 years, it is part of the heritage of the locality,” he said. CITU Pallavaram Shanty Traders’ Union president Y. Ismail said they had been petitioning the government to make it a two-lane flyover and allow two-way traffic. Originally meant to trade cattle and started by the British, he explained that the weekly market had been shifted to several locations in Pallavaram. “It is after great efforts that it is at its present location. It serves the poorest of the poor who can buy a week’s provisions and vegetables at very low prices,” he added. A traffic expert said that ideally, the flyover should have been a two-way facility. “Even now the Highways Department can change its use. It need not allow buses and heavy vehicles on it,” he said. A source in the traffic police said they had received requests from local residents. “We will get a proposal ready and send it to the State Highways department, which will have to take the final call,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-two-way-traffic-on-pallavaram-flyover/article38040147.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All travellers from abroad must undergo home quarantine for a week from today||Following the increasing number of the Omicron variant cases of the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19, Tamil Nadu has decided to enforce home quarantine from Sunday for all those coming from foreign countries, irrespective of whether they are classified as “high-risk or non-risk” nations. Addressing journalists on Saturday, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said passengers arriving from any country to Tamil Nadu would have to undergo home quarantine for one week. “Thereafter, they can take an RT-PCR test. If it returns negative, they can venture out.” The decision was made as Omicron infections were observed in almost similar numbers from both high-risk and non-risk countries. Tamil Nadu has so far been performing RT-PCR tests on all passengers coming from high-risk countries, while only 2% of the passengers from other countries were tested. Until now, only those arriving from high-risk countries were asked to undergo home quarantine. “We requested the Union government to issue guidelines to extend this to all countries. However, we have not received any response yet. Hence, to contain the spread of Omicron infections, we have decided to implement this from tomorrow [Sunday].” He said 10% of those coming from non-risk countries would be put through RT-PCR tests. Details of passengers coming from abroad will be shared with the Police and Revenue and Municipal Administration Departments for effective monitoring of home quarantine. More Omicron infections Mr. Subramanian said that while the State had 22 active Omicron cases, the number was likely to go up because more samples with the S-gene dropout (an indication of the Omicron variant) had been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune. These included 39 samples of COVID-19 patients who were identified through an extensive contact-tracing following an outbreak at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. He said 3,038 people were traced and tested after a few doctors, nurses and other staff members tested positive. They were the primary contacts of a diabetic patient who tested positive before undergoing surgery at the hospital. Of all those tested, 54 persons were positive. Among them, 39 samples that were found to have the S-gene dropout have been sent to the NIV. He added that all those who tested positive remained largely asymptomatic. The Minister appealed to all hotels to avoid New Year gatherings and parties in view of the threat from the new variant. He insisted that it was not an order but a kind appeal. He also appealed to members of the public to stay indoors and celebrate New Year with their families. He stressed the need for adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and avoiding gatherings during the Pongal celebrations in January. He said the government would ask the Booksellers and Publishers Association of South India to enforce testing of temperature and personal distancing during the Chennai Book Fair scheduled for next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-travellers-from-abroad-must-undergo-home-quarantine-for-a-week-from-today/article38039736.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s revenue from stamp duty, registration fee robust||Tamil Nadu’s revenue from stamp duty and registration fee remains robust in 2021-22 and is back to pre-COVID-19 levels, according to data from the State’s Registration Department. Stamp duty and registration fee, one of the key components of the State’s own tax revenue, stood at Rs. 8,448.42 crore in April-November 2021, when compared to Rs. 5,687.64 crore in the comparable period last year. A senior State Government official said the robust revenue collections were driven by property registration, and in a few days time, the collections will touch Rs. 10,000 crore for this fiscal year. The revised Budget presented by the DMK government after coming to power has estimated revenue from stamp duty and registration charges at Rs. 13,252.67 crore in 2021-22, as against Rs. 14,879.37 crore projected in the Interim Budget for 2021-22. Across States, revenue from stamp duties more than doubled in first quarter of 2021-22 and recorded a growth of 53.4% in the second quarter of 2021-22 when compared to previous years, a half-yearly review of government finances by the Department of Economic and Policy Research, Reserve Bank of India, said. Suresh Krishn, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), Tamil Nadu, said the revenue collection pointed to healthy signs of recovery in the real estate sector. However, he pointed out that Tamil Nadu had one of the highest rates of stamp duty and registration fees (7% plus 4%) across States. Noting that reduction in stamp duty rates by States like Maharashtra and Karnataka had yielded good results, Mr. Krishn said a similar move in the State, even for a smaller window of one year, could boost the revenue further. “People had cut discretionary spending during the pandemic due to fear of job loss. However, things have recovered, enabling people to use their savings to buy homes,” Mr. Krishn said. Munuswamy Anandan, chairman and managing director, Aptus Value Housing Finance India, said at least the reduction should be considered for affordable housing, where the demand is higher, and it would boost construction in smaller cities. He said the property demand was also driven by lower interest rates so far, but there were indications of that it might move higher in coming months amid inflationary pressures. Mr. Anandan said a faster move towards digitisation of land records would help in improving efficiency of the property buying and registration process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-revenue-from-stamp-duty-registration-fee-robust/article38040154.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Irrigation reservoirs boast good water level||As many as 12 out of 15 irrigation reservoirs in Tamil Nadu are better placed than last year, thanks to the bountiful northeast monsoon. Among them are the Mettur and Bhavanisagar, both belonging to the Cauvery basin, and the State’s two top reservoirs in terms of storage. While the former is full with a storage of 93.47 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft), the latter is almost full with 32.06 tmcft. During the most recent northeast monsoon, the State received 70.4 cm of rainfall against the normal 43.4 cm, an excess of 62%. Other than Mettur, Sholayar, coming under the Parambikulam-Aliyar network of reservoirs, is also full. Parambikulam, which comes third in terms of storage, is nearly filled. Its storage is around 12.675 tmcft against a capacity of 13.408 tmcft. There are six more reservoirs whose water level are less than a foot of their full level, according to the readings taken on December 24. Almost for a month, the water level of the Mullaperiyar dam, which has been in the news for the past several months, is hovering around the permitted 142-ft mark. Its storage is 7.612 tmcft. As for the realisation of the State’s share of Cauvery water, the realisation this month was 22.35 tmcft as on December 22. Around 233.6 tmcft of water has been received, approximately 71.3 tmcft higher than the stipulated quantity for the elapsed period (June 1 to December 22). Chennai’s reservoirs With regard to the reservoirs that cater to the drinking water requirement of Chennai, the combined storage of Satyamurti Sagari in Poondi, Cholavaram, Red Hills, Chembarambakkam, Veeranam and Thervoy Kandigai is around 12.43 tmcft, against the total capacity of 13.213 tmcft. Barring Cholavaram and Veeranam the other reservoirs have a storage of above 90% of their capacity. Thervoy-Kandigai is full.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irrigation-reservoirs-boast-good-water-level/article38040157.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 606 new cases of COVID-19, 11 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 606 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases reported in the State so far to 27,43,427. The new cases included three people who had travelled from abroad and were tested at the airport. One of them had returned from an African country, another from the United Kingdom and the third was from another European country, the medical bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department said. New infections reported by Chennai crossed the 150 mark after more than two months. The city reported 165 cases on Saturday. The State also reported 11 deaths, taking the total toll to 36,725. A total of 685 persons recovered from COVID-19 on Saturday. The total number of recoveries stood at 26,99,994. The State had a total of 6,708 active cases on Saturday. Apart from Chennai, Coimbatore with 87 new infections was the only other district to report more than 50 cases. Tiruppur, Erode and Salem, respectively reported 42, 41 and 27 cases respectively. Another 29 districts reported less than 25 cases, of which 21 had reported less than 10 cases. Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam and Ranipet did not report any fresh infections. Co-morbidities All the 11 persons who died had co-morbidities, according to the bulletin. The oldest among the deceased was an 85-year-old man from Chennai, who had diabetes and hypertension. He was admitted in a private hospital on Wednesday after testing positive for COVID-19. He died on Friday. Except two persons, who were aged 59 and 48, all the remaining nine persons were more than 60 years old. The State tested a total of 1,00,957 persons in the 24-hour period ending on Saturday. The test positivity stood at 0.6 %.  The State tested a total of 1,00,957 persons in the 24-hour period ending on Saturday. The test positivity stood at 0.6 %||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-606-new-cases-of-covid-19-11-deaths/article38040161.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Government urges Foxconn to improve facilities for workers||The State government on Saturday asked the management of Foxconn Private Ltd. in Sriperumbudur to improve amenities for its workers. At a meeting chaired by Industries Secretary S. Krishnan and attended by representatives of the company in the wake of the protests against substandard food being served to women workers, the government wanted the management to improve basic amenities, including providing adequate number of bathrooms, toilets and well-ventilated rooms. The government made it clear that the Collector would certify the condition of the hostels where workers stayed and there should be a kitchen in the hostel so that workers were served food on time. The company has been advised to grant leave to contract workers if they sought it. The manpower agency should ensure adequate workforce to compensate for those on leave. An official release said the representatives of the company had agreed to comply with the instructions of the government. Company’s assurance The company had informed the government that it would provide adequate facilities to women workers and advise the contractors to provide quality food to 15,000-odd workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-government-urges-foxconn-to-improve-facilities-for-workers/article38040152.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theradi Metro station in Chennai likely to be opened in January||Ten months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi opened the Phase I extension line of Metro Rail from Washermanpet to Wimco Nagar, the residents of Tiruvottiyur Theradi are unable to make use of the facility. They just watch trains pass through their locality without stopping and instead have to travel for nearly a km to the next station to board a train. This is because, even 10 months after the opening of the 9-km stretch, the construction of this station has not been completed. According to sources in Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the station — which is located between Kaladipet and Tiruvottiyur — may be opened next month. “The construction work is nearing completion. The contractor has to put up signage, finish some civil and some interior work. This can be completed within two or three weeks. But before that, the most important step is to send the station’s technical details and other parameters for approval from the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety. As they do before the opening of every project, they will come down to Chennai to inspect the station to check if facilities required for passengers were available in this station. This is likely to happen by mid-January. The signalling software too has arrived and the testing too has been completed,” an official said. No concourse level Theradi Metro station has been designed in such a way as to have only the platform level unlike the other stations where both concourse level to buy tickets and a platform level are separately built; this had to be done owing to lack of land availability. So, a passenger who takes a staircase or lift will head directly to the platform level, like suburban stations, get a ticket and board at the same level. “But when there is a rush, just before a weekend or holidays, it can be difficult for the staff to handle the crowd at the same level. Instead, they could have an alternative to have a ticket counter on the ground floor when the passenger traffic goes up,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theradi-metro-station-in-chennai-likely-to-be-opened-in-january/article38040450.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former champion boxer, now a load man, trains poor kids||A decade ago, V. Saranraj dreamt of boxing in the Olympics. A bronze medal-winner at the nationals, his dream ended six years ago. Today, he works as a load man at Chennai Central railway station but keeps alive his boxing dreams by teaching the sport to poor children in north Chennai, the cradle of the city’s boxers. Although he was introduced to boxing early in life, not until his first gold medal at the State-level sub junior match, did he realise that he could make it big in the sport. He won gold in boxing in junior and senior category in the State-level matches and bronze at the national-level but later had to give up the sport to feed his family. Now, he earns Rs. 400 to Rs. 500 a day as a load man — similar to the protagonist of the boxing movie Sarpatta Parambarai — to support his family. After finishing his shift, he rushes to the Corporation playground on Basin Water Works Street near Elephant Gate Police station to train about two dozen “million dollar babies”. From 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., six days a week, he teaches these poor children boxing for free. “It has been truly satisfying. It is an absolute joy to play and teach the sport. The children living here certainly cannot afford to pay for boxing. I have no money to give but I am passing on everything I have learnt,” he says. In what is considered a sport dominated by men, he says, he persuaded many parents in this neighbourhood to get their girls to learn boxing. “I tell the parents that if the kids can get into national-level bouts, they can get a job with the government when they finish schooling,” he says. The youngest of the lot, seven-year-old M. Varsha finds boxing fun and refreshing. M. Darshini, a 12-year-old and a gold medallist already, plans to pursue boxing seriously. “I want to be a successful boxer and then join the police force,” she says, about her twin dreams. Even if nothing else comes of it, Mr. Saranraj thinks boxing will keep the children away from other distractions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-champion-boxer-now-a-load-man-trains-poor-kids/article38040180.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BIS conducts workshops to create awareness on certified products||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Chennai region, is organising workshops for different sectors like women Self-Help Groups (SHGs), entrepreneurs and farmers to create awareness on the use of BIS certified products. BIS is also coordinating with district collectorates to create awareness about products with ISI mark, ISO certification and Indian standards. Officials said the standard body also coordinated with government departments and insisted them to procure ISI-mark products during tenders. Several district industries centres have come forward to get ISO certification after the training programmes. G. Bhavani, Scientist-E and Head, Chennai branch office, said standards clubs were being launched in educational institutions to help students recognise quality products. “We are targeting government schools and nearly 27 schools and colleges in and around Chennai region, including Vellore, have already come forward to start standards clubs. Students are encouraged to take part in writing, debate and poster contests,” she said. BIS is roping in non-governmental organisations and consumer organisations to conduct workshops and competitions. The standards body is also approaching colleges and universities to introduce standardisation in their curriculum. This would help them apply standardisation in daily life and their careers. “We wanted to reach out to stakeholders at the grassroots levels and hold workshops. We are getting enquiries from several SHGs to have their products certified. BIS has simplified and digitised the procedure of certification for nearly 700 products. Applicants can get their licences in 30 days,” Ms. Bhavani said. Farmers in Vellore and Chengalpattu were recently sensitised to the ISI mark and various standards available for irrigation methods, fertilisers and equipment. The BIS also circulated awareness videos to a government online channel handled by the Anna Institute of Management, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bis-conducts-workshops-to-create-awareness-on-certified-products/article38040174.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trial run conducted on ECR cycling path||A trial run was conducted on the newly created cycling path on East Coast Road (ECR) with the participation of police personnel and the public on Saturday. The City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal had ordered that a separate path be earmarked on the ECR for people from Adyar and surrounding areas for safe morning stroll and cycling. A 12-km path has been created from Akkarai junction to Muttukadu with the coordination of police personnel. From 5 a.m. till 8 a.m., the trial run was conducted on the path and over 40 police personnel from Armed Reserve Unit and 150 members of the public took part in the event. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, and DC, Traffic-South, oversaw the trial which would be conducted on Sunday too, said a press release.   A 12-km path has been created from Akkarai junction to Muttukadu with the coordination of police personnel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trial-run-conducted-on-ecr-cycling-path/article38040184.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for cheating Sri Lankan national in Cyprus||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Saturday arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly cheating a Sri Lankan woman living in Cyprus after befriending her on social media and collecting money on the promise of marriage. The police gave the name of the accused as Arun Prakash, a pastor living in Thiruvanmiyur. In her complaint to the Commissioner of Police, the woman said she fell in love with Prakash after a WhatsApp chat. He allegedly made her transfer Rs. 10 lakh with a promise to marry her. On her complaint, the police investigated and arrested Prakash and booked him for cheating under the Indian Penal Code and for other offences under the IT Act and Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. Police claimed the investigation revealed that he had cheated five other women in similar manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-cheating-sri-lankan-national-in-cyprus/article38040151.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Hold all-party meet on NEET Exemption Bill’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday urged the State Government to call for an all-party meeting to discuss about the steps to be taken to get approval for the NEET Exemption Bill, before the start of the next academic year. In a statement, he pointed out there was no hint of progress on the issue. “The students should not be made scapegoats for the NEET exemption issue, and the dreams of students from the poorer sections must not be shattered,” he said. The Governor had yet to give his assent for the NEET Exemption Bill passed in the Assembly [or forward it to the President], and there was no clarity about when it would be done, Mr. Ramadoss said. He added that no more students should lose their lives because of NEET, and the only way forward was to get the Bill approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hold-all-party-meet-on-neet-exemption-bill-pmk/article38040175.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for wife’s murder||A 62-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly stabbing his wife to death following a quarrel, in Kannagi Nagar police station limits. After the murder, M. Arumugam surrendered at the police station on Friday evening. The body of the victim, Kasturi, 54, was sent to the Government Royapettah Hospital for post-mortem. Arumugam, a resident of the tenements in Kannagi Nagar, used to sell porridge for a living. He and his wife had frequent quarrels. In a fit of anger on Friday evening, he allegedly hit her with a log and stabbed her to death with a knife. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-turns-himself-in-after-murder/article38040150.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC cleans temple tank at Vyasarpadi||The Greater Chennai Corporation has taken up the work to clean the tank of the Maragadhambal Sametha Raveeswarar Temple in Vyasarpadi. The 15,400 square feet tank, which had filled to the brim after recent rain, was covered with a layer of duckweeds. “It took an amphibian vehicle three days to remove the plants. The workers tied a long cloth to the front of the vehicle and slowly but steadily removed the weeds. It is not possible even to manually remove the duckweed,” said a source in the temple. The cleaning was done after Perambur MLA R.D. Sekar inspected the temple and instructed the civic body to take action. The Surya Theertham tank of this 800-year-old temple is rich in nutrients because of devotees offering navadhanyam (a mix of nine pulses) in the water. “We are constructing a separate enclosure for devotees to do thithi (ceremonies) so that they don’t pour navadhanyam into the water, said another temple official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-cleans-temple-tank-at-vyasarpadi/article38040451.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay ex-gratia to COVID-19 victims’ kin’||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday demanded immediate payment of ex-gratia relief of Rs. 50,000 each to the families of those who died of COVID-19. Accusing the DMK regime of indulging in “ostentatious expenditure and unnecessary publicity,” Mr. Palaniswami, in a statement, recalled that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, while in the Opposition, had wanted Rs. 1 crore to be paid to the kin of COVID-19 victims. “Who is stopping the payment to the families of COVID-19 victims? If financial crunch is the problem for the State Government, who is compelling them [the Government] to indulge in unnecessary expenditure,” he said. If the Government was unable to pay the amount advised by the Supreme Court, the Chief Minister should openly acknowledge it, Mr. Palaniswami added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-ex-gratia-to-covid-19-victims-kin/article38040155.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation stares at space shortage in Vellalore dump yard||In six months the Coimbatore Corporation will be left with no space in the Vellalore dump yard to store waste if residents do not start segregating. “In my estimate the civic body has only around six months’ space left to dump waste as the unsegregated waste that the residents handover to the Corporation has turned a challenge of monstrous proportion,” Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara says. “From my first visit to the Vellalore dump yard to the latest visit a few days ago, I can see a lot of space is filled with waste. It is based on this visual assessment that I have estimated six months.” There is only one way to avoid the crisis and that is for the residents to start segregating waste into wet, organic and dry, inorganic waste, Mr. Sunkara says. For, if the Corporation starts getting more organic waste, it will be able to process it at the Coimbatore Integrated Waste Management Company Pvt. Ltd.’s facility in Vellalore, its vermin compost plant and micro compost centres spread across the city. This will almost halve the waste going to Vellalore as the three means of managing organic waste will take care of 450-500 tonne waste a day. The remaining waste will only be dry, inorganic waste which the Corporation will manage at material recovery facilities to be either sold to recyclers or turned into refuse derived fuel. It was with an eye on the ensuing problem in Vellalore he had asked all sanitary inspectors to improve organic waste collection from each of the 100 wards, Mr. Sunkara says and adds that the drive has yielded results as the quantity of organic waste collected has increased from 90 tonne to 175 tonne a day. In the coming days, the Corporation will ask all bulk waste generators – those apartments and other establishments generating over 100 tonne waste a day – to manage their waste. The bulk waste generators can either tie-up with a third-party service provider or process the waste they generate. The next on the list is increasing the number of auto rickshaws or small goods carriers for waste collection and slowly phase out lorries. Mr. Sunkara says a Corporation study shows that waste collection using the 200 lorries and transporting the waste to either the micro compost centres or Vellalore dump yard helped Corporation save on fuel. This also minimised the number of times the Corporation transferred waste from one vehicle to another. If the Corporation were to use the lorries it had hired, it cost Rs. 1 crore a month on waste transportation. If it uses only the auto rickshaws the Corporation will be spending less than one-tenth of the money. Therefore, the Coimbator Corporation has started phasing out lorries and it has recently reduced the number of hired vehicles from 71 to 44.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-stares-at-space-shortage-in-vellalore-dump-yard/article38040194.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Former govt. teacher held for sexual assault in Coimbatore||The Coimbatore City Police on Saturday arrested a former computer instructor in a government school, who has been placed under suspension, on charges of sexually assaulting the girl students. According to the police, C. Vijay Anand, 41, was employed at the Government Higher Secondary School in Vellalore. He was suspended by Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha on Friday after the students staged a demonstration demanding action against him. Formal complaint Following this, a 17-year-old girl, studying in Class XI at the school, lodged a complaint at the all-women police station, Coimbatore East, on Friday, the police said. The accused was subsequently booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, namely Sections 7 (Sexual assault), 8 (Punishment for sexual assault), 9 (f) (whoever being on the management or staff of an educational institution or religious institution, commits sexual assault on a child in that institution), 9 (l) (whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly) and 10 (Punishment for aggravated sexual assault). The accused allegedly sent obscene text messages and images via WhatsApp to the girl students in Classes XI and XII and allegedly touched the girls inappropriately on the school premises. Multiple instances A police officer said the students had previously lodged a complaint against Vijay Anand to the school’s headmaster on December 15 regarding his inappropriate behaviour, and had also reported him to Childline helpline 1098 on December 18. On Friday, nearly 80 persons, including 40 schoolchildren, staged a demonstration outside the school, demanding action against the teacher.  The accused allegedly sent obscene text messages and images via WhatsApp to the girl students in Classes XI and XII and allegedly touched the girls inappropriately on the school premises||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-govt-teacher-held-for-sexual-assault-in-coimbatore/article38040166.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||District Industries Centre urges MSMEs to apply for subsidies under various govt. schemes||The District Industries Centre (DIC) here has urged the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) to apply for subsidies available under schemes for upscaling, fund raising, stamp duty and registration and pay roll. DIC general manager B. Karthigaivasan said since July this year, the State government is giving subsidies under different categories to MSMEs for starting new units, for expansion, scaling up production and raising funds. While the response in the district is high for capital and additional capital subsidies, awareness needs to improve on the financial support available under other categories. These are available for MSMEs started after February 16 this year. The district has targets for all the schemes, the general manager said. The subsidy for scaling up is available to units that want to move from the micro to the small category or from the small to large category by investing in machinery. The applicants will get 5 % additional capital subsidy or a maximum of Rs. 25 lakh. All micro units set up anywhere in the State or small and medium-scale enterprises in backward areas (Annur, Sultanpet or Kinathukadavu blocks) or those in the food processing sector can apply for the payroll subsidy scheme. They should submit the application within three months after the completion of the financial year for the claim for the previous year. For the stamp duty and registration charges subsidy, any new micro or small-scale unit in the declared backward blocks can apply. The units will get 50 % rebate on the actual value of stamp duty and registration charges paid to the Registration Department. SMEs that want to raise funds by listing on stock exchanges can apply for financial assistance. One-time assistance of 20% of the expenditure incurred for listing, subject to a maximum of Rs. 5 lakh can be availed of by the unit within six months from listing on the SME exchange. A couple of units have evinced interest in this scheme, he said. Subsidy on the cost of trade mark registration or Geographical Indication is available to new and existing MSMEs. The units will get 75% subsidy on the cost of filing of the application for patent registration, including the cost of first-time maintenance fee of the granted application, subject to a maximum of Rs. 3 lakh per patent registered. In the case of trade mark registration or Geographical Indication, 50 % subsidy on the cost of filing application for Trade Mark Registration including the cost of first-time maintenance fee of the granted application is available, subject to a maximum of Rs. 25, 000 per trade mark or Geographical Indications registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dic-urges-msmes-to-avail-of-subsidies-under-various-schemes/article38040195.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kovai.co to recruit more people||Kovai.co, a multi-product SaaS company based out of Coimbatore, is looking at increasing its employee strength here to 300 - 320 by the end of next year. The bootstrapped company, which inaugurated a 40,000 sq.ft office here recently, employs 240 people now and is looking at adding 60 to 80 people by the end of 2022. Saravana Kumar, founder and CEO of Kovai.co, said the company was also targetting an annual revenue of $ 30 million by the end of 2024 from $ 10 million in 2020. As Kovai.co aimed at becoming a SaaS-Unicorn by 2030 and build markets in India and globally, it would launch one new product in 2022. With that, it would have five products and would look at scaling these up. Customer base It would get into building more new products in 2023. It had a customer base in 60 to 70 countries now and had so far invested nearly $ 25 million. Secretary for Information Technology for Tamil Nadu government, Neeraj Mittal, said, “In the recent years, start-up and product ecosystem in the country has picked up steam, with software companies spearheading the growth - especially in our state of Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovaico-to-recruit-more-people/article38040187.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Photographer held on rape charge||A photographer was arrested by the police for allegedly raping a woman and taking lewd photographs of her. Police sources said the accused Ganesh Anand called the 25-year-old woman to his residence at Ganapathy on December 3 for a photo shoot session promising her a career in films. The accused photographed her in an obscene fashion and raped her, the sources said. He also allegedly threatened to uploaded the photographs online. Boy arrested A 17-year-old boy from Thoothukudi district was arrested on Friday by the police on charges of sending obscene content to two minor girls in Coimbatore through social media platforms. Based on their complaint, a police team traced the boy to Thoothukudi district on Friday and arrested him. He was sent to the Juvenile Observation Home in Coimbatore, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photographer-held-on-rape-charge/article38040199.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Suspended govt. school headmistress booked under SC/ST Act||The Tiruppur District Police on Friday registered a case against the former headmistress of a government school,who was suspended last weekon charges of discriminating against Scheduled Caste (SC) students, under provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The Mangalam police had booked Geetha, who was the headmistress of Government High School in Iduvai, under sections 3 (1) (r) (intentionally insulting or intimidating with intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view) and 3 (1) (s) (abusing any member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe by caste name in any place within public view) of the Act. The case was registered based on a complaint lodged by B. Saravanakumar, a member of the Vigilance and Monitoring Committee of the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department. He told The Hindu on Saturday that he lodged the complaint after conducting an inquiry at the Government High School in Iduvai on Thursday. He alleged that Geetha, during her tenure as the headmistress, had insulted several SC girls studying in Classes IX and X using casteist slurs and allegedly forced them to clean the toilets in the school. On December 17, R. Ramesh, Chief Educational Officer for Tiruppur district, received a complaint from a group of Class IX and Class X students from the school, based on which he conducted an inquiry and placed Geetha under suspension till further notice. As the case has been registered under the SC/ST Act, the Deputy Superintendent of Police – Palladam will conduct further inquiry into the case and initiate action against the accused, the police said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-govt-school-headmistress-booked-under-scst-act/article38040202.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Library inaugurated at DIG’s office||A library for police personnel at the Office of the Deputy Inspector General of Police – Coimbatore Range here recently. Deputy Inspector General of Police – Coimbatore Range M.S. Muthusamy and former Governor of District 324 C of Lions Club International S. Motilal Kataria participated in the event. According to Suba N. Subramanian, secretary of Lions Club of Coimbatore K.R. Puram and the chairman of Lions Police Library, said the library will contain reference books on subjects pertinent to the police as well as works of literature and motivational books. “These books will be useful to the police as well as the public,” Mr. Subramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/library-inaugurated-at-digs-office/article38040207.ece
26 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||S-gene dropout detected in Sweden returnees||The Health Department has sent the samples of a couple, who recently arrived at the Coimbatore International Airport from Sweden and were found to be COVID-19 positive, to the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai to confirm whether they had contracted the Omicron variant. Sources in the Health Department said on Saturday, the woman and her husband arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi from Sweden on December 13. After their swab samples were lifted, they boarded a flight to Coimbatore from Delhi and arrived on the same day. However, the samples lifted in New Delhi returned negative, the sources said. As per the Health Department’s protocol for international travellers, the couple’s samples were tested on December 20, the eighth day of their return using the TaqPath ‘S’ gene diagnostic kit at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, to detect the Omicron variant of the virus. Following this test, the man had left to Kerala due to personal reasons. However, the diagnostic kit detected the S-gene dropout in both their samples, indicating that they might have been infected with the Omicron variant. While the woman was sent for isolation at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, the husband was informed of the test results and isolated himself at an hospital in Idukki, according to the sources. On December 22, their samples were sent to the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai for whole genomic sequencing. The results are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/s-gene-dropout-detected-in-sweden-returnees/article38040165.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NCF wins grant for human-elephant conflict mitigation project||The Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF) has received the strategic partnership grant of Rs. 35 lakh from the Habitats Trust for its project to apply technology to mitigate human-elephant conflict in Valparai region of Coimbatore district. A release from the Habitats Trust said human-elephant conflict was a serious conservation issue with regard to the conservation of Asian elephants. Warning systems The release said the inevitable dependency of 70,000 people and 120 elephants over space and resources in the Valparai had led to frequent incidents of conflict. “NCF has been researching this scenario and with the help of relevant stakeholders, they have implemented simple, unique and participative mobile-based early warning systems - bulk SMS, voice call alerts and GSM based alert system - to facilitate people to avoid fatal encounters with elephants. The technology along with awareness and sensitisation programmes aims to create a win-win situation for elephants and people and facilitate co-existence in the region,” the release said. Roshni Nadar Malhotra, chairperson of HCL Technologies and founder of the Habitats Trust, announced the recipients of the Habitats Trust Grants 2021 recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncf-wins-grant-for-human-elephant-conflict-mitigation-project/article38040191.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Malpractices by CBSE schools in Term-I exam alleged||CBSE Schools Management Association (CSMA) has alleged malpractices committed by some schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in the State in the recent Term-I examinations and demanded its cancellation. In a letter to Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, the association said: “we regret to inform that there was a huge lapse in the examination framework, which has compromised the total integrity and discipline in the way the Term I examinations were conducted for the year 2022.” It alleged that due to the allotment of self-centres for the examinations, which allegedly led to leaking of question papers to the school students before the examination commenced. Invigilators and evaluators were the same faculty members in many of the schools, it claimed. These schools allegedly awarded full marks to only a select group of students and ensured that none of the students failed, the letter alleged. These malpractices have led to the student community becoming disappointed and demotivated, according to the letter. “We request you cancel these wrongful examinations with immediate effect and kindly not to consider these forged marks for any validation or consideration in their Grade X or Grade XII results,” the CSMA appealed to Mr. Pradhan. Schools that allegedly indulged in these malpractices must be de-affiliated from the CBSE and the students must not be allotted self-centres for the Term-II examinations, the letter urged. The letter was signed by CSMA's president C.S. Manoharan, secretary P. Ashok Shankar and treasurer P. Sathiyanarayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/malpractices-by-cbse-schools-in-term-i-exam-alleged/article38040210.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for murder||The Thudiyalur police on Saturday arrested a woman and a man on charges of murdering the woman’s husband and staging it as suicide at Kavundampalayam. The police said Reena (36) reported to the police that her husband Raja (36) died of suicide on December 23. Upon registering a case for suspicious death, the Thudiyalur police sent the body for autopsy, which revealed that the deceased was strangled to death. The police interrogated Reena and she allegedly confessed that she had an extramarital affair with Sathish (39). The two conspired to kill Raja and inform others that he died by suicide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-murder/article38040190.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held on rape charge||A photographer was arrested by the police for allegedly raping a woman and taking her lewd photos. Police sources said Ganesh Anand called the 25-year-old woman to his residence at Ganapathy for a photo shoot session promising her a career in films. He photographed her in an obscene fashion and raped her. He was remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-on-rape-charge/article38040299.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online real estate platform launched||Housing.com, online real estate platform, has launched its operations in Coimbatore as part of its efforts to expand to tier-two cities in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-real-estate-platform-launched/article38040192.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 87 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 87 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department reported two new deaths and the toll increased to 2,506. As many as 106 persons recovered on Saturday and the district had 1,037 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 42 new cases on Saturday. The district had 469 active cases and 52 persons recovered. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll went up to 1,021. The Nilgiris district reported five new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-87-new-covid-19-cases/article38040200.ece
26 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||C.R. Swaminathan remembered||Trade and industry associations and voluntary organisations in which C.R. Swaminathan was involved organised events here on Satuday to commemorate his birth anniversary at the Gandhi Centenary Memorial School in Singanallur. Vanitha Mohan, Managing Trustee of Siruthuli, said Siruthuli had planted 160 saplings on the school premises and Swaminathan always wanted to take up projects at the school. Hence, 85 saplings, including flowering plants, were planted. On Saturday evening, a memorial meeting was organised by the industry associations. M.M. Murugappan of Murugappa Group, B.K. Krishnaraj Vanavarayar, Chairman of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, and A.V. Varadharajan, Chairman of AVV Group, spoke at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cr-swaminathan-remembered/article38040197.ece
26 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Municipal-level bala sabha held||A municipal-level ‘Bala Sabha’ was conducted by Dindigul District Child Protection Unit and the Palani Municipality as per the direction of the Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The event was held following the State government’s announcement of the Tamil Nadu State Policy for Children, 2021. Over 300 children from various wards in Palani municipality, along with teachers and parents, attended the event. The programme aimed at creating an awareness of various important issues. The participants welcomed the State Policy for Children and also passed a few resolutions. They agreed to conduct the event at least twice a year. The Social Welfare Department was urged to create a database on different age categories of children, from 1 to 5 years, 6 to 12 years and 12 to 18 years in order to protect them and prevent child marriages, child labour, teenage pregnancy and school dropouts. Bala Sabhas should be given legal status and monitored for effective functioning, said Member of the Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights V. Ramaraj. The Child Welfare Police Officers and the Extension Officers of the Social Welfare Department should monitor the functioning at various levels, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/municipal-level-bala-sabha-held/article38040275.ece
26 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water stagnation at railway underpass in Erode irks motorists||Stagnation of sewage mixed with water at the railway underpass at Vendipalayam here is causing inconvenience to motorists and pedestrians. Vehicles from Namakkal district cross the underpass to reach Solar in the district while other vehicles use the underpass to reach Old Railway Station in the city. But, stagnation of sewage, rainwater and seepage from streams under the pass is a permanent problem that causes hardship to pedestrians, two-wheeler riders and other motorists. Since the manned level crossing between Lakkapuram and Parisalthurai has been closed for maintenance works, vehicles in Namakkal and Erode districts use the underpass to reach either side. “But water stagnation has been a major issue for all,” said P. Udhayakumar of Kokkarayanpettai. He said workers in large numbers on two-wheelers, vehicles of educational institutions and companies used the underpass every day. The most hit are the pedestrians who have to cross the sewage water and endure foul odour every day. “The Corporation pumps the stagnated water once a week,” said a pedestrian. Local residents and motorists wanted the civic body to prevent sewage water entering the underpass besides widening it and increasing its height so that heavy vehicles could use it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-stagnation-at-railway-underpass-in-erode-irks-motorists/article38040296.ece
26 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water released into Kalingarayan Canal to raise second crop||Water was released from Bhavanisagar dam into the Kalingarayan canal to enable farmers to raise a second crop on 15,743 acre here on Saturday. Officials of the Water Resources Department said that water will be released for 120 days till April 24, 2022 for cultivation spread across Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi taluks. The canal runs for 91.10 km and farmers would prepare their land to cultivate turmeric, paddy and sugarcane. Meanwhile, the water level at the Bhavanisagar dam stood at 103.95 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 409 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal, 500 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani for drinking water purpose. The storage was 31.91 tmcft. against the capacity of 32.80 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-into-kalingarayan-canal-to-raise-second-crop/article38040294.ece
26 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special prayers mark Christmas celebrations in Erode, Salem||Religious fervour and gaiety marked Christmas celebrations here as people attended carols, masses and special prayers in churches adhering to the COVID-19 norms on Friday midnight and Saturday morning. Special masses were conducted at CSI Brough Memorial Church at the Panneerselvam Junction. Also, masses were conducted on Saturday morning in churches across the district. People celebrated the birth of Jesus Christ by exchanging cakes and sweets. Churches, educational institutions, hotels, restaurants, bakeries, shops and establishments were decorated with lights. People were wearing masks and hand sanitisers were given to them before entering churches. In Salem, Christmas trees and cribs were seen at churches and establishments as mass prayers began just before the midnight on Friday and continued on Saturday morning. Stars, lights and candles lit up the churches here as the festive spirit continued not only among Christians, but also among the common public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-prayers-mark-christmas-celebrations-in-erode-salem/article38040292.ece
26 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 41 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district, on Saturday reported 41 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,07,563. While 54 persons were discharged, 524 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 27 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,02,340. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 1,725. Namakkal district reported 23 cases, taking the tally to 54,452. While 34 persons were discharged, 382 continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-41-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38040293.ece
26 December 2021||HUBBALLI,TAMIL NADU||No change in Karnataka leadership: Pralhad Joshi||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has clarified that there has been no discussion about change of leadership in Karnataka at the party central leadership level, while some were unnecessarily spreading canards [about it]. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Saturday, Mr. Joshi further appealed to the public not to pay heed to rumours about change of Chief Minister in the State. On Congress opposition to some of the decisions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Joshi said that the Congress has made it a habit to oppose anything that was being done by Mr. Modi. “They have Modi phobia now,” he said. On the opposition to amendments to election laws, he pointed out that when the amendment Bill was being deliberated upon by the Parliamentary Standing Committee, nobody submitted objections to it. “Subsequently, the Election Commission discussed the amendments with all political parties. Then also the Congress did not oppose it. But when the amendment Bill was tabled in the Lok Sabha, the Congress began opposing it,” he said. Mr. Joshi said that the Congress was yet to accept the mandate given to the BJP by the people of the country. Although the BJP was giving pro-people governance and taking the requisite decisions, the Congress leaders have begun thinking that the Prime Minister has begun snatching their rights, he said. Regarding the suspension of Rajya Sabha members, he said that during the last Parliamentary session, Opposition members had indulged in unruly behaviour and even assaulted marshals. “That was the reason for their suspension. Although they were requested to apologise for their behaviour on the floor of the House, they did not relent,” he said. Mr. Joshi said that the Congress had been showing disrespect to B.R. Ambedkar from the beginning. “The then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru himself had gone to canvass against B.R. Ambekdar. The Congress showed disrespect to him earlier and now it has continued to do the same,” he said. Regarding the anti-conversion Bill, he said that as the ruling party did not have a clear majority in the Legislative Council, the Bill was not tabled. But it will be tabled in the next session of the Legislative Council, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-change-in-karnataka-leadership-pralhad-joshi/article38039673.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Telangana tops in Rurban Mission||Telangana stood first in the implementation of the Shyama Prasad Mukherji Rurban Mission (SPMRM) that was launched four years ago to stimulate local economic development, enhance basic services and create well planned clusters. Sangareddy and Kamareddy districts stood in the first two positions among the 300 clusters across the country where the programme was being implemented. Tamil Nadu and Gujarat took the second and third positions respectively. In Telangana, in as many as 17 clusters (12 non-tribal and five tribal), the programme was being implemented at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,885.12 crore. “The establishment of a bulk milk chilling unit at Narayanakhed had benefited about 3,500 farmers, income ranging between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 2.5 lakh per annum, depending on the number of milch animals. A plastic waste treatment unit and millet processing unit are also coming up at Ryakal cluster,” said joint commissioner of rural development, Rurban Mission, K. Narasimhulu. Some success stories included that of A. Pandari, a resident of Kamalapur village in Manoor mandal of Sangareddy district. About three years ago, he used to have only three milch animals and now, he has five. His monthly income from this programme has touched Rs. 14,000 in addition to his farming activity. P. Machender Reddy of Kodur village enjoys a monthly income of Rs. 25,000 by increasing the number of milch animals. These two farmers are among the 3,500 in Narayanakhed, who had benefited from the bulk milk chilling unit under Rurban Mission. “The provision of urban infrastructure in rural areas is the main purpose of Rurban Mission with Telangana having the highest points due to the outstanding performance of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development. Very feasible and need-based works were taken up, executed with top speed and helped all sections,” said commissioner of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development A. Sharath, adding that this has also enhanced economic activity in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/telangana-tops-in-rurban-mission/article38039670.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||TRS leader fumes over tweets involving his teenage son||Body shaming of teenaged son of IT Minister and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president K.T. Rama Rao in a Twitter poll run by YouTuber Teenmar Mallanna, who recently joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has created a storm with leaders from various political parties and Twitterati objecting to the language. Mr. Rama Rao took to Twitter to ask BJP president J.P. Nadda whether the party teaches such behaviour to its leaders in Telangana. Sharing the screenshot, he asked Is that the culture the BJP preaches to body shame a young boy through ugly political comments. “You don’t think we could reciprocate in the same coin against Amit Shah Ji’s or Modi Ji’s family?” the Minster asked in the tweet. In another tweet he warned that they would be compelled to take legal action and they should not be blamed when they were forced to respond with equal vigour. Getting little philosophical, he said: “At times I wonder whether it’s worth being in public life when kids are drawn into this cesspool of YouTube channels that dish out 24/7 nonsense in the guise of journalism.” Mr. Rama Rao was enraged by a Twitter poll on Q News Youtube channel run by Mr. Mallanna where he asked whether development happened in the temple of Bhadrachalam or inside the body of KTR’s son sharing a picture of the boy and relating it to development promise of the historic Ram temple in Bhadrachalam. Telangana Rashtra Samithi followers and others widely shared the tweets seeking action against Mr. Mallanna. Later, in the night a group of youngsters stormed Mr. Mallanna’s office and damaged the computers and furniture apart from manhandling him with threatening gestures. Meanwhile, political opponents and family members extended their support to KTR and derided the mindset of drawing children to settle their political and personal grudge. KTR’s sister and Member of Legislative Council Kalvakuntla Kavitha tweeted saying: “You know when they run out of reasons to tarnish you, they target your family.” TRS Minister and KTR’s cousin T Harish Rao said: “Dragging families and finding ways to humiliate them and now oiling their social media machinery is a well known strategy of the BJP.” Support also came from political opponents like Chief of YSR Telangana Party Y.S. Sharmila who said whether it is belittling women or body-shaming kids all must come together to call out such statements irrespective of political affiliations. Former IPS officer and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Praveen Kumar also condemned the derogatory remarks. Meanwhile, the BJP leaders remained silent on Mallanna’s tweet but tweeted condemning the attack on Mallanna and his office. Amidst this controversy, KTR left for Goa to celebrate his daughter’s birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trs-leader-fumes-over-tweets-involving-his-teenage-son/article38039674.ece
26 December 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Rotten eggs in kitchen: headmistress suspended||Three persons, including a headmistress of Government Primary School at Naganur, have been placed under suspension. Collector T. Prabhu Shankar on Saturday said that he had recently visited the school. He tested the quality of food, including eggs, and the method of cooking. Food is good The food and the cooked eggs were good. But some rotten eggs, which should have been destroyed, were kept in the kitchen. So, Headmistress Dhanalakshmi, Thenmozhi, noon meal organiser, and Lakshmi, cook, were suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headmistress-suspended/article38040286.ece
26 December 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) helped murder accused flee: Minister||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Saturday alleged that the Socialist Democratic Party of India (SDPI) used its good equation with the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to help the accused in the murder of Ranjith Sreenivas, leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, escape from Kerala. The SDPI and the CPI(M) are an alliance in various parts of the State and the former may have used this ‘friendship’ to help the accused, he said. Mr. Muraleedharan accused the Kerala Police of having failed to nab the culprits. “How did the accused cross various districts without coming under the lens of the police?” he asked in response to the police claim that the accused had left the State. SDPI State secretary K.S. Shan was killed by a group at Kuppezham Junction at Mannancherry in Alappuzha on December 18. Following the murder, Sreenivas, BJP leader and OBC Morcha State Secretary, was allegedly killed by SDPI workers at Alappuzha on December 19. The police suspect the killing was a retaliatory strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-helped-murder-accused-flee-minister/article38039665.ece
26 December 2021||Kumbakonam,TAMIL NADU||A temple marking the emergence of the Cholas in neglect||Amid paddy fields and on an elevated area covered with impenetrable vegetation in Thirupurambiyam village, near Kumbakonam, stands a pallipadai temple where Prithivipati I, the king of the Ganga Dynasty, was buried. Though the war at Thirupurambiyam in 879 CE proved a turning point in the history of the Tamil land, as it led to the emergence of the Cholas, the pallipadai temple — a monument where kings are buried — is in a derelict state. There is no approach road and anyone interested in visiting the temple, surrounded by hero stones, have to wade through paddy fields, muddy brooks and groves. The temple was without a roof till a year ago and is now covered with a tin sheet. “I visited the temple when I was a student of Annamalai University. Ganga king Prithivipati is believed to be buried there. Even today people who are interested in Chola history regularly visit Thirupurambiyam and the pallipadai temple,” said Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, an avid reader of history. Thirupurambiyam is one of the abodes of Lord Siva, and the deity here is known as Sathchinatheswarar. Saivaite saint Thirugnanasambandar had sung in praise of the deity. History buffs regularly visit the village but struggle to reach the pallipadi temple as there is no proper road. Local people said the government’s efforts to secure a path failed as owners of the land were not coming forward to share a portion for the purpose. The monsoon and copious rain contributed to the growth of vegetation and thorny bushes. The temple is now known as Bhagavathi Ayyanar temple. According to historian T.V. Sathasiva Pandarathar, the elevated area is known asUthirapatti, where there is a temple with the hero stone of Prithivipati I, who was killed in the war. “In Thirupurambiyam, there is also a pallipadai temple called Katchiandavar temple and a place ( paranthalai ) where the war took place,” said Pandarathar, a native of Thirupurambiyam. Another historian Rajamanickanar also attested to the significance of the pallipadai temple in Thirupurambiyam in the memory of Prithivipati “who ensured victory for the Pallavas through his valor”. The war at Thirupurambiyam heralded the emergence of Cholas as an imperial power since the Pallavas were not able to utilise the victory to retain their supremacy after the defeat of the Pandiyas. First imperial line Historian K.A. Nilakanta Sastri had described Vijayalaya, the father of Aditya I “the first of the imperial line of Cholas” and called “the Thirupurambiyar war as a turning point in the history of South India”. “Among the allies of the Pallavas were, besides the Ganga feudatory, the Chola ruler Aditya I, who though must have taken a subordinate place in the battle of Sri Purambiyam, very soon discovered his advantage and commanded the strength to pursue it,” according to Sastri, the author of the book Cholas. As per the Thiruvalangadu plates, Aditya I, subsequently overthrew the Pallava king Aparajita and deprived him of his territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-temple-marking-the-emergence-of-the-cholas-in-neglect/article38040163.ece
26 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Occupants of overloaded autos not eligible for accident compensation’||Divers or passengers of overloaded autorickshaws could not claim compensation from insurance companies if the vehicles, which violated the Motor Vehicle Act, got involved in accidents, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S. Arumugasamy. Addressing auto drivers and owners at a meeting organised to create awareness of road safety here on Saturday, he said auto drivers should not alter seating arrangements to overload their vehicles. Stating that the three-wheelers, upon overloading, lost their stability and faced the danger of meeting with accidents. The Deputy Commissioner warned the auto drivers that Madurai City Police would issue show-cause notices to the auto drivers if they altered the seating arrangements and permitted more than three persons in their vehicles. ‘RTOs will take action’ The drivers would have to appear before the Regional Transport Officer concerned, who would suspend the permit of the vehicles for violation of the MV Act. The drivers were also warned of stringent action if they parked their vehicles in such a way that it caused inconvenience to the public and road users. All auto drivers should wear proper uniform, he added. Assistant Commissioners of Police (Traffic) A. Tirumalai and Mariappan, and Regional Transport Officers Singaravelan, Selvam and Chithra spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/occupants-of-overloaded-autos-not-eligible-for-accident-compensation/article38040376.ece
26 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Chamber shocked over Minister’s refusal of nod for airport upgrade||The refusal by Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia to upgrade Madurai airport, which was a customs airport, as an international airport had shocked the people of south Tamil Nadu as well as trade and industry, said N. Jegatheesan, president of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said if it was declared an international airport, trade and industrial activities would increase and open more avenues for employment. Economy of the region would grow, enhancing the livelihood of people. Though there were only three international services, Madurai airport handled 15,32,071 passengers – 11,78,738 domestic and, 3,53,333 international passengers – in 2018-19, an increase of 6.1% over the previous year’s figures. He said international passenger segment at Madurai airport grew by 16.29%, and the domestic segment by 3.33%. Though Coimbatore airport, with an international passenger traffic figure of 1,81,802 in in 2018-19, had been included in the BASA with several other countries, Madurai airport had been left out. International passenger traffic for the said period at Vijayawada airport was 2,102 and no one departed to any international destination from Tirupati airport. However, Coimbatore, Vijayawada and Tirupati airports were declared international airports. Upgrading of Madurai airport as an international airport would bring several additional infrastructures too, Mr. Jegatheesan added. Foreign airliners ready Despite the willingness expressed by foreign airliners to operate direct flights to Madurai, the Ministry’s refusal to grant them permission had deprived the trade and industry of an opportunity for growth, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-shocked-over-refusal-of-nod-for-airport-upgrade/article38040284.ece
26 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Order for compensation to victims of sexual assault welcomed||People’s Watch, a Madurai-based human rights organisation, has welcomed the Tamil Nadu State Human Rights Commission’s (SHRC) order that recommended to the State government payment of compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to 15 victims in an alleged case of sexual assault on four women by four policemen attached to Tirukoilur station in November 2011. The SHRC also recommended departmental action against the policemen. “It is appreciated that not only compensation was recommended but the Commission also directed speedy departmental action against the police officials in three months and the immediate filing of a final report in the criminal case registered against the policemen,” said People’s Watch Executive Director Henri Tiphagne. People’s Watch demanded that the government should not only pay the SHRC-ordered compensation of Rs. 75,00,000 but also ensure that disciplinary action was completed within the stipulated time, the chargesheet against the policemen was laid immediately and trial was completed as contemplated under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities Act, 2016) within the next three months. The case needed a public condemnation of such continuing atrocities and should serve as a wake-up call to all IGs and the ADGP (L&O) so that these acts of violence were not continued, he said. However, he said, it was appalling to note that it had taken 10 years for such an important complaint to be completed by the SHRC. Pointing out that there were more than 30 vacancies in the staff members, People’s Watch appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to consider the urgent need for a robust, well-staffed, well-funded, well-trained and financially well-supported State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), State Commission for Women (SCW), State Commission for Minorities (SCM), Tamil Nadu State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR), State Commission for SC/STs, State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities (SCPwDs) and State Information Commission (SIC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/order-for-compensation-to-victims-of-sexual-assault-welcomed/article38040372.ece
26 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Jallikattu committee: HC dismisses petition||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition that sought a direction to authorities to ensure inclusion of the members of the Scheduled Castes in Palamedu jallikattu organising committee. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan observed that it was the Collector who could form the committee for jallikattu as per rules. The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2017, defined ‘jallikattu’. It mentioned that the conduct of ‘jallikattu’ was with a view to following and promoting tradition and culture and ensuring preservation of native breeds of bulls as also their safety, security and well-being, the court said. In consonance with the Amendment Act, Rules were also framed, which were known as the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Conduct of Jallikattu) Rules, 2017. They prescribed the Procedure for Conduct of Jallikattu. Rule 3(4) of the Rules read that the Collector should form a ‘Committee on Jallikattu’, comprising officials from Revenue, Animal Husbandry, Police and Health Departments, to monitor the conduct of jallikattu and ensure that it was conducted in conformity with these Rules. The Rules also provided for an organising committee. The organisers should obtain prior permission from the Collector for the persons and the bulls for participating in jallikattu. The petitioner could approach the Collector to participate in the event, the court said, and dismissed the petition filed by K. Alagu of Palamedu in Madurai district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jallikattu-panel-high-court-dismisses-plea/article38040185.ece
26 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC confirms life sentence||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has confirmed the life sentence awarded to a man by Tirunelveli Additional Sessions Court IV in 2018 for the murder of his wife in 2015. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed that there was no illegality or error in the judgment of the trial court and confirmed the conviction and the sentence awarded by the trial court. The court was hearing the criminal appeal filed by the convict, Avudaiyappan alias Raj, challenging the trial court judgment. The case of the prosecution was that the matrimonial relationship between Avudaiyappan and his wife Ramalakshmi was not cordial. There were frequent quarrels between them since Avudaiyappan was an alcoholic and was irregular to work. The couple were living in Thoothukudi. Later, Ramalakshmi moved to her parents’ house in Tirunelveli along with her two children. For nearly three years, Ramalakshmi lived with her parents. In 2015, a few months before the occurrence of the crime, Avudaiyappan approached Ramalakshmi’s parents and promised them that he would take proper care of his wife and children. He requested them to reunite his wife with him. Ramalakshmi’s parents conceded his request and the couple moved into a house near her parents’ house. But, on the fateful day, the couple quarrelled again, and the children ran to their grandparents’ house to alert them. When they rushed to Ramalakshmi’s house, her parents found Avudaiyappan hitting her with an iron rod. When they tried to intervene, he threatened them and ran away with the iron rod. Ramalakshmi succumbed to her injuries. Tirunelveli police had booked a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-confirms-life-sentence/article38040267.ece
26 December 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Massacre anniversary||The 53rd anniversary of Keezhvenmani massacre, where 44 Dalits were murdered in 1968, was observed here on Saturday. A large number of people, including cadre of the Communist Party of India (M) and the Communist Party of India, visited the village and placed wreath on the memorial raised in the memory of those murdered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/massacre-anniversary/article38040281.ece
26 December 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camp in Namakkal today||The 16th mega vaccination camp will be held at 469 static camps and 36 mobile camps from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. across the district on Sunday. District Revenue Officer N. Kadiresan said that a total of 11,06,480 persons (79.93%) have received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while 7,30,912 (52.80%) persons have received their second dose of vaccine. He said that 8,712 pregnant women had received their first dose, while 1,595 pregnant women had received their second dose. A total of 10,309 lactating women had received their first dose, while 1,606 lactating women had received their second dose. Mr. Kadiresan said that a total of 505 camps will be held across the district in which 210 doctors, 430 nurses, 1,600 anganwadi workers, 1,400 volunteers, 415 trainee nurses and 265 trainee sanitary inspectors and 1,400 teachers will be involved to vaccinate one lakh people. Hence, he requested people above 18 years to get vaccinated and stay protected against the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-camp-in-namakkal-today/article38040297.ece
26 December 2021||Palani,TAMIL NADU||Temple hundial collection stands at Rs. 2.36 crore||The officials of the HR & CE opened the hundials at Sri Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple here on Saturday. According to a press release, the hundial collection during the last month was Rs. 2.36 crore which included 59 currencies in different denominations from countries, including Singapore, Malaysia, Sri Lanka among others. The counting revealed that 764 grams of gold and 12.75 kgs of silver were also in the hundials. Apart from the temple staff, officials from the bank, college students and social workers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-hundial-collection-stands-at-rs-236-crore/article38040277.ece
26 December 2021||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Hundial collection at Rs. 2.36 crore||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department officials opened the hundials at Dhandayuthapaniswami Temple here on Saturday. According to a press release, the hundial collection during the last month was Rs. 2.36 crore, which included 59 currencies in different denominations from other countries. The offerings also included 764 grams of gold and 12.75 kgs of silver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-hundial-opened/article38040273.ece
26 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Take up work to lay railway line, says MP Selvaganabathy||Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) V. Selvaganabathy has urged the Union Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw to take up the work to lay a rail line, connecting Puducherry and Cuddalore, at the earliest. In a memorandum to the Union Minister on Friday, the MP said the final land survey for the construction of the rail line had been completed. The project has been kept on hold as it was part of the Chennai-Cuddalore via Mahabalipuram rail corridor project, the memorandum said. “I request you to take up the matter before the Railway Board for early approval to connect Puducherry and Cuddalore in the first phase, which only covers a distance of 22 km,” the MP said. After the Centre’s decision to include Puducherry Railway Station for development under “World Class Stations, Multi-functional Complexes, “Adarsh Stations,” and “Touch and Feel,” scheme, the Railways should consider starting more trains from Puducherry. The Railways should also consider setting up a new station considering the traffic volume and because Puducherry had become a major tourist destination. Mr. Selvaganabathy urged the Minister to consider starting new trains from here to Madurai, Coimbatore and Tiruchendur. The Railways should also speed up the gauge conversion work between Karaikal and Peralam, The amenities in long distance trains plying to Puducherry should be improved, he added. The MP requested the Union Minister to improve the condition of Villianur station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-up-work-to-lay-railway-line-says-mp/article38040448.ece
26 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. celebrates Christmas with strict COVID-19 protocol||Christmas was celebrated with gaiety and religious fervour in Puducherry on Saturday. Churches belonging to various congregations were decked up from Thursday evening. Their premises were adorned with trees and cribs, depicting the place of birth of Jesus as part of the celebrations. Special services were held, following COVID-19 protocol at churches, across the region on Friday night and Saturday morning. Hundreds attend mass Hundreds of Christians thronged the midnight mass held at Immaculate Conception Cathedral on Mission Street, Basilicas of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Our Lady of Assumption Church in Nellithope and Our Lady of Lourdes in Villianur. Apostolic administrator of Archdiocese Puducherry-Cuddalore Peter Abir Antonysamy led the mass at the famous Immaculate Cathedral. Priests in Eglise de Notre Dame des Anges on Dumas Street offered mass in Tamil, French and English. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy attended the mass at Fatima Matha Church, Thattanchavady. Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy attended the services at Immaculate Church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-celebrates-christmas-with-strict-covid-norms/article38040443.ece
26 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Municipality invites entries for contest||The Pondicherry Municipality has invited entries from residents and non-governmental organisations for Swachh Innovative Technology Challenge under the Swachh Survekshan 2022 competition. The Centre’s Swachh Survekashan competition is held annually in urban localities to improve garbage management. The participants could come up with innovative solutions for solid waste management, monitoring of garbage management in real time and App for public grievances, a release from Pondicherry Municipality said on Saturday. Interested persons should submit their innovative solutions, addressed to “The Commissioner, Pondicherry Municipality, Kamban Kalaiarangam (first floor), Lal Bahadur Shastri Street, Pondicherry- 605001 on or before January 6. The entries could also be mailed at comrpm.pon@nic.in. The release said the present collection and disposal of waste was done by Swachatha Corporation. It was taking steps to encourage source segregation by keeping separate bins for degradable and non-degradable waste at home for handing over to the conservancy workers. Door-to-door campaigns and announcements through FM radio, cable television and banners were being carried out. However, response from members of the public has been poor, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/municipality-invites-entries-for-contest/article38040444.ece
26 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 12 fresh COVID-19 infections||The Union Territory has registered 12 fresh COVID-19 cases from 1,700 tests during the last 24 hours, ending 10 a.m. on Saturday. Of the total cases, seven were from Puducherry, two were from Karaikal and Mahe each and one from Yanam. Currently, there are 145 active cases, including 111 under home isolation, data released by the Health Department said. So far, 1,880 persons succumbed to the virus in the Union Territory. Also, 1, 29,4 06 persons were infected and 1,27,379 recovered. As on Saturday, 8, 26,345 received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and 5, 45,841 got both.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-12-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38040446.ece
26 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||NCSC assures help to family of murdered sanitary worker, daughter||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Vice-Chairman Arun Halder has given an assurance of help to the family of a railway sanitary worker who, along with her daughter, was found murdered at her house in Mandapam on December 9. The NCSC had taken note of the issue based on media reports and decided to visit the place. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Halder said he had held a meeting with Superintendent of Police E. Karthik and Ramanathapuram Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat on the steps taken in this heinous crime. The officers briefed him on the arrest of two persons and recovery of properties, which were allegedly missing from the scene of crime. When asked about the compensation being given to the family of the deceased, the officers said it was yet to be released. Mr. Halder said that it would be given in a week or 10 days upon receipt of a few more documents. On December 9, the charred bodies of Kaliammal and her younger daughter Manimegalai were found. To give an impression of a case of suicide, the killers had locked the house from inside. However, investigations revealed that Sasikumar, 35, and Rajkumar, 30, of Mandapam Camp had murdered them and burnt their bodies. They had visited the house two days ago to carry out civil work, police said. Later, when pointed to another case of a girl belonging to the SC community who had committed suicide in the coastal district recently, Mr. Halder said the family would get compensation. When a boy from a minority community, who had promised to marry the girl went back on his promise, the dejected girl ended her life. The Vice-Chairman said the the NCSC had been conducting awareness programmes and educating the SC community people about the policies of the government. The government, he said, would initiate stern action against those who victimised the minority sections. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncsc-assures-help-to-family-of-murdered-sanitary-worker-daughter/article38040283.ece
26 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Friend of former CM’s personal assistant held||The personnel of the District Crime Branch (DCB) on Saturday arrested K. Selvakumar, a friend of the personal assistant (PA) of former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on charges of promising a youth a government job and duping him. G. Tamilsevan, from Neyveli, lodged a complaint with the DCB, alleging that G. Mani alias Nadupatty Mani, who was the PA to the former Chief Minister, and his friend Selvakumar, received Rs. 17 lakh from him and assured him of a job in the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation. However, they failed to get him the job and did not return the money. Selvakumar was arrested in Kondalampatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/friend-of-former-cms-personal-assistant-held/article38040164.ece
26 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two persons end life||A married woman and her paramour jumped in front of a moving train and ended their life on Saturday. Train No. 16573 Yesvantpur – Puducherry weekly express was nearing Ponammapet railway station when the incident happened. The locomotive pilot informed the station master at Minnampalli railway station. The railway police found the bodies near the track. The victims were identified as M. Sathya (23) of Ammapettai and R. Vishnu (27) of Sanikuttai Street. Inquiries revealed that Sathya was married to Satheesh Kumar for four years and had a two-year-old son. The police said she developed a relationship with Vishnu and Satheesh Kumar warned them after which she left home and was living with her parents. As Vishnu’s parents started looking for an alliance, he and Sathya decided to end their life, the police said. The bodies were shifted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-end-life/article38040272.ece
26 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Two held for murder||A woman and her paramour have been arrested for allegedly murdering her husband here on Saturday. During interrogation, it came to light that Priya was in illicit relationship with Satheesh Kumar, which her husand Sethupathi (33) of S.M.C. Colony in Kitchipalayam came to know about it. Sethupathi working at a mutton stall in the area. Since he is an alcoholic, a dispute prevailed between the couple. On Friday, Priya along with Satheesh Kumar was moving a water barrel from her house from which bad odour emanated. Neighbours alerted Kitchipalayam police who found the body of Sethupathi in it. On December 17, both murdered Sethupathi and dumped the body in the barrel and kept it in her home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-murder/article38040298.ece
26 December 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Trade body welcomes decision to set up agricultural college||Karaikudi Chamber of Commerce has welcomed the State government’s decision to set up an Agricultural College and Research Institute at Kanadukathan in Sivaganga district. The long pending demand of the people of the district had been fulfilled, the members said. In August this year, the government announced agricultural colleges for Karur, Nagapattinam and Sivaganga districts. In Sivaganga, the Agricultural and Research Institute would be established in the Chettinad region. The members said that an Agricultural Research Centre was already established in Sivaganga district over 10 years ago. As the research centre was already functioning, the local people and various other organisations demanded the establishment of an Agricultural College in Sivaganga. A representation was made in 2015. Now, the district is getting the agricultural college which was welcome. This would help in the development of the agricultural pockets in Sivaganga district and also provide new opportunities to the people, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-body-welcomes-decision-to-set-up-agricultural-college/article38040274.ece
26 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Procure jaggery from cottage units’||Cottage units engaged in manufacturing jaggery in Tamil Nadu have urged the State government to give preference to their products while procuring jaggery required for distribution along with other Pongal gift items. While thanking the State government for conceding their demand to replace sgar with jaggery in the list of Pongal gift items, they said local sourcing of jaggery would be of immense help to the cottage industries. It would help cut transport cost of jaggery under the centralised procurement and subsequent movement to districts, they said. Stating that farmers in several districts were running jaggery manufacturing units, a progressive farmer, G.Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam said at present 30,000 to 50,000 bags of jaggery being produced in State and a kg of jaggery being purchased at a rate of Rs. 30 from the producers. Though the sale price was not encouraging, he said if the State government comes forward to procure the jaggery from the local producers to meet the demand of 5 lakh bags (30 kg each) required to meet the Pongal gift distribution, it would be of immense help to the cottage industries. It was disheartening to note that it had been proposed to procure the jaggery from other State manufacturers/traders, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procure-jaggery-from-cottage-units/article38040219.ece
26 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Girl ends life in Thanjavur||Thulasi (18) of Oomathanadu near Peravurani reportedly ended her life at her home here on Saturday while her parents were away. She had passed the Higher Secondary School Leaving Certificate examination in 2020 by scoring 421 out of 600 marks. She took up the National Entrance and Eligibility Test in the same year. As she was not able to score the required marks to secure a medical seat, she joined a private NEET training institute at Thuraiyur near Tiruchi and appeared for the NEET second time this year. However, she could not improve her NEET score. Subsequently she decided to join either an engineering or agriculture course. When she approached a private institute to get back her mark sheets and other certificates, the institute management directed her to remit some amount though she had paid Rs. 40,000 for the training. Annoyed by the demand, she reportedly ended her life. The Peravurani police have registered a case and are investigating, sources said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-ends-life/article38040220.ece
26 December 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Major land scam unearthed||After a major scam was unearthed by revenue officials, pattas illegally issued for government lands measuring 182 acres in Tamaraikulam, Ganguvarpatti and Vadaveera Naickenpatti in Theni district, valued at approximately Rs. 10 crore, have been cancelled. Following a complaint from Periakulam Sub-Collector S.A. Rishabh, Theni Superintendent of Police Praveen Umesh Dongre directed the District Crime Branch police to register a case. Based on three separate complaints, the police registered three cases under Sections 409, 465, 466, 477 (A), 468, 471, 472 and 109, read with 13 (2), of the IPC, r/w 13 (1) (c), 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. According to the complainant, the irregularities had taken place from January 2017 to October 2019. The names of the accused included Revenue Divisional Officers Jayapreetha and Anandi, who were working in Periakulam then, Tahsildars Ratnamala and Krishnakumar, Divisional Deputy Tahsildars Mohanram and Sanjeev Gandhi, Land Surveyors Pichaimani and Saktivel, VAO Suresh, assistants to Land Surveyor and Divisional Deputy Tahsildars Alagar and Rajesh Kannan. Initial inquiries revealed that three persons – former AIADMK union secretary Anna Prakash, Bose and Muthuvelpandian – were the beneficiaries in the scam. The pattas issued online in their names were cancelled. Land parcels claimed A senior officer, who was part of the investigations, said the huge land parcels were allegedly claimed by the beneficiaries in connivance with the officials at different levels in revenue and survey departments. Entries in the ‘A’ register and other land records were created by subordinate staff and cleared by the superiors for issuance of pattas. A land measuring 13 acres, falling under survey numbers in Ganguvarpatti, alone was estimated at Rs. 8 crore, according to the complaint. Another land in Vadaveera Naickenpatti was worth around Rs. 1.45 crore and in Tamaraikulam, a land stretch of 60 acres was valued at about Rs. 60 lakh. The police said Anandi, now posted in Palani as RDO, Jayapreetha working at Tiruchi Collectorate as Deputy Collector, and other revenue and land survey officials were placed under suspension. The police officers said special teams would interrogate the accused.  Initial inquiries revealed that three persons – former AIADMK union secretary Anna Prakash, Bose and Muthuvelpandian – were the beneficiaries in the scam. The pattas issued online in their names were cancelled||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-officials-unearth-major-land-scam-in-theni/article38040178.ece
26 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Expansion of Thoothukudi airport to be over by 2023’||The Rs. 380-crore expansion works under way at Thoothukudi airport should, in all probability, get over by 2023, according to Airport Director N. Subramanian. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he said that senior officials from the AAI, led by Southern Regional General Manager Srikrishna, inspected the works. Replying to queries, he said a 600-seating capacity passenger terminal was under construction. The expansion works included a 1400-metre-long and spacious fire station on the airport premises and an Air Traffic Control (ATC) room. When asked about the likely completion of all the expansion works, he said, in all probabilities, they should get over by 2023. The width of the 1,349-metre-long runway would be increased from the present 30 metres to 45 metres, which would enable wide-bodied aircraft like A 321 to land and take off with ease. The Airport Director said they had got clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for setting up a signal at Vallanadu and hoped that the works would be completed by February 2022. Mr. Subramanian said once the runway expansion was completed, passengers could directly reach out to destinations such as New Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai. He also said airlines, which were operating now in the existing infrastructure, would be able to operate night flights. He said prior to COVID-19 pandemic, the use of the airport by general public and by passengers was high. However, in the present scenario, the numbers had dropped. When the COVID-19 regulations imposed by the governments eased, he hoped that the number of passengers using the airport would rise gradually. All the guidelines issued by the governments were strictly adhered to and people without masks were fined Rs. 200, and steps were being taken to install RT-PCR counter at the airport soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expansion-of-thoothukudi-airport-to-be-over-by-2023/article38040266.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Renovated bus stand to be inaugurated||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would inaugurate the Chathiram Bus Stand, refurbished at a cost of Rs. 17.34 crore with 30 bays, on Thursday and lay the foundation stone for the new integrated bus terminus at Panchapur in the city. A park lot to accommodate about 350 two-wheelers has been created at the bus stand. It has facilities for the passengers to wait till the arrival of buses, luggage safety room, a feeding room for children, toilets for men and women and a food court. A total of 54 shops have been constructed. All works have been completed and it was ready for public use, Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru said here on Saturday after inspecting the bus stand along with Collector S.Sivarasu. A wholesale market for vegetables and fruits, similar to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, would come up at Panchapur and Rs. 400 crore would be allotted in the first phase. A Government Order on allotting the sum would be issued shortly to enable foundation stone laying ceremony. Preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the new terminus was on. A clear picture on all infrastructure to be established at Panchapur would emerge once it is ready. Later, the minister inspected the arrangements being made at CARE college campus where a function would be held when the Chief Minister will distribute welfare assistance also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renovated-bus-stand-to-be-inaugurated/article38040264.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Building expo shows resurgence||Rising material costs have forced new homeowners to downsize their dreams to fit the budget, said construction industry players at the ongoing Buildrock-2021 exhibition in the city. “Prices of building materials like steel and cement have risen by at least 60% in the pandemic, which has pushed up the cost of labour. A house that could be constructed for Rs. 1800 per sq ft now costs Rs. 2200 per sq ft. Naturally people have started cutting corners to stay within the budget, even if they desire something better,” Jayant Kumar M. Mehta, chairman of Buildrock – 2021 said. Organised by the Builders’ Association of India, the three-day expo was inaugurated at Kalaignar Arivalayam on Friday by Minister of Municipal Administration, K. N. Nehru, and features stalls from 31 exhibitors. “Despite inflation and COVID-19, which forced us to cancel the annual exhibition in 2020, there is a significant interest from the public this year, with nearly 5,000 footfalls a day. We have tried to bring a wide range of home-related services under one roof, for easy review by customers,” he said. One silver lining of the price turbulence was a growing acceptance of new and eco-friendly materials by homeowners, said A. Karthikeyan, engineer and expo coordinator. “There is a greater awareness about fly-ash bricks, for instance, and people are more willing to try them out for construction than before. Though good quality chamber bricks are expensive, I feel this trend will help us to reduce quarrying and protect the environment,” he said. Stalls at the exhibition cover building equipment, paints, electrical fittings, hardware and interior decoration, among others. Home finance and real estate promoters are also part of the industrial showcase. Buildrock-2021 is open to the public from 9 a.m. until 9 p.m., and scheduled to end on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/building-expo-shows-resurgence-despite-price-rise/article38040271.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||39 persons test positive in central region||Thirty-nine persons tested positive for COVID 19 in the central region on Saturday. Three more patients, two from Thanjavur and one from Tiruchi district, succumbed to the viral infection as per the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Tiruchi reported the maximum number of 11 fresh cases on Saturday followed by 10 each in Thanjavur and Karur districts. Three persons tested positive in Tiruvarur and two each in Pudukottai and Perambalur district. One fresh case was reported in Ariyalur. Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai reported no fresh case. Thanjavur had the maximum number of active cases with 138 persons under treatment, including those under home treatment, for the infection. Karur had 135 active cases, Tiruchi 132, Tiruvarur 42, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam 23 each, Perambalur 17, Mayiladuthurai 15 and Ariyalur 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/39-persons-test-positive-in-central-region/article38040260.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||610 tonnes of tobacco products seized||The police seized over 610 tonnes of banned tobacco products and arrested 40 persons in the last one week on the charge of selling them. Thirty-six cases were booked against those found selling the products. A couple of vehicles used for transport of the products were seized, City Police Commissioner G.Karthikeyan said. Acting on information that banned tobacco products were being transported from a lorry parcel shed on East Boulevard Road, a team of police and Food Safety officials intercepted an autorickshaw near the Vazhakkai Mandi and the vehicle was found transporting about 10 boxes of gutkha. The driver of the auto was arrested. Further investigations led to the seized of another nine boxes of such products from a couple of lorry and parcel service establishments around Gandhi Market. The total seizure of 547 kg of banned tobacco products was worth Rs. 5.50 lakhs. Three persons were arrested by the Fort Police and remanded in judicial custody. In another operation, about 48 kg of the pan masala and gutkha products valued at around Rs. 50,000 were seized from a shop at Nadukallukara Street. The owner of the shop was arrested and remanded. Mr.Karthikeyan said that the drive would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/610-tonnes-of-tobacco-products-seized/article38040261.ece
26 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 138.60 feet (max level 143 ft) with an inflow of 473.26 cusecs and a discharge of 1,104.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 117.20 ft (118 ft) with an inflow of 61 cusecs and a discharge of 235 cusecs. There was no rainfall in the region during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38040476.ece
26 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing on Dec.28||The Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission will conduct a public hearing on the delimitation of wards in Dhali town panchayat at the District Collectorate in Tiruppur on December 28. Representatives of political parties and the general public can participate in the public hearing, a release said. The public shall also submit their grievances regarding delimitation of wards to the delimitation authorities or the District Collector till December 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-hearing-on-dec28/article38040198.ece
26 December 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||‘Garbage drawing sloth bears to human habitations’||Improper disposal of garbage waste in the town panchayats and municipalities in the Nilgiris is enticing sloth bears into human habitations, leading to a risk of problematic interactions with humans. In recent years, sloth bears have been seen with increasing regularity in towns across the Nilgiris, especially in Kotagiri. Due to regular interactions with humans, the Forest Department has been forced to lay cages to try and trap the animals and relocate them into reserve forests. However, this strategy is untenable in the long-run, said N.Sadiq Ali, founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT). “Relocation is essentially a death sentence for territorial animals like sloth bears, who run a high chance of having to fight for territory with other sloth bears, leopards and tigers in their new habitat,” he said, adding that acclimatising to new habitats is also difficult for relocated animals. The conservationist also highlighted one particular capture operation earlier this year in Kotagiri, when an adult sloth bear was captured in a cage kept to trap it, while two other juveniles – the animal’s cubs escaped. “There is a chance that the two cubs died due to being separated from their mother. The Forest Department, instead of looking to mitigate these conflicts, rushing in to capture these animals without understanding the long-term consequences,” he added. Kartiki Gonsalves, a documentary filmmaker from the Nilgiris, is working with the WNCT and the Forest department to photograph the sloth bears which venture out from the forests and into human habitations. “As the Nilgiris is a biosphere reserve, steps must be taken to ensure that open dumping of garbage does not occur, and that all waste is managed effectively. Relocation of sloth bears should also be only used as a last resort, and people must be sensitized about how their actions also contribute to problematic interactions,” said Mr. Sadiq Ali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-drawing-sloth-bears-to-human-habitations/article38040189.ece
26 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 13 fresh COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,437 with 13 fresh cases reported on December 25. With a total of 49,184 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 112. The district's toll is 1,141. No cases were reported in Ranipet and the total tally stood at 43,667. In Tirupattur district, three fresh cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,458. Tiruvannamalai district reported three fresh cases, which took the total to 55,336. Out of these, 54,605 have been discharged and the number of active cases stood at 58.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-13-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38040441.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Charge of tardy probe||Jayaram Venkatesan , convener of Arappor Iyakkam, an anti-corruption organisation, which had flagged numerous instances of corruption during the 10-year AIADMK rule [2011-21], is unhappy at the pace of investigations. Edited excerpts from an interview the 40-year-old engineer-turned activist gave The Hindu .  What is the status of the complaints filed by your organisation against AIADMK Ministers? We filed 14 complaints with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), including those against the then Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, former Ministers Kamaraj, S.P. Velumani, K.C. Veeramani, P. Thangamani and Natham Viswanathan. So far, the FIR has been filed only against Mr. Velumani for tender-related corruption and Mr. Veeramani for [amassing] disproportionate assets. We are told most other complaints are in the preliminary inquiry or detailed inquiry stage. How do you see the progress of investigations? We collected hard evidence through the RTI Act and online research that prima facie shows the occurrence of cognisable offence, which is enough for filing of a FIR straight away. However, the DVAC has been going in for preliminary and detailed inquiries as a routine affair. These inquiries are going at a slow pace, and is delaying the filing of a regular case. What were the major cases you flagged in the recent past? We filed a complaint in March on [suspected] corruption in Tangedco to the tune of Rs. 54,000 crore in the procurement of electricity at double the market rates over the last seven years. A complaint on corruption involving Rs. 2,028 crore in the procurement of palm oil, dhal and sugar in the Department of Civil Supplies was filed in June, and the complaint on the corruption in the construction of KP Park Building was filed on November 2. The inquiry is on only in the ration scam. The status of the other two complaints is unknown.  Cases against senior DMK leaders, some of who are Ministers now, are pending for years... Yes, the delay in trial is a huge cause for concern. The Supreme Court has said corruption cases must be given top priority in trial. Special courts were also set up for a speedy trial of MPs and MLAs. Theoretically, a trial against an MLA or an MP should be conducted daily and completed within a year. However, there are huge delays, which is not serving any purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/charge-of-tardy-probe/article38040143.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||All travellers from abroad must quarantine at home||These included 39 samples of COVID-19 patients who were identified through an extensive contact-tracing following an outbreak at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. He said 3,038 people were traced and tested after a few doctors, nurses and other staff members tested positive. They were the primary contacts of a diabetic patient who tested positive before undergoing a surgery at the hospital. Of all those tested, 54 persons were positive. Among them, 39 samples that were found to have the S-gene dropout have been sent to the NIV. He added that all those who tested positive remained largely asymptomatic. The Minister appealed to all hotels to avoid New Year gatherings and parties in view of the threat from the new variant. He insisted that it was not an order but a kind appeal. ‘Stay indoors’ He also appealed to members of the public to stay indoors and celebrate New Year with their families. He stressed the need for adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and avoiding gatherings during the Pongal celebrations in January. He said the government would ask the Booksellers and Publishers Association of South India to enforce testing of temperature and personal distancing during the Chennai Book Fair scheduled for next month.  The Health Minister appealed to all hotels to avoid New Year gatherings and parties in view of the threat from the new variant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-travellers-from-abroad-must-quarantine-at-home/article38040167.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The Lord is born||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-lord-is-born/article38040280.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gift from Santa||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gift-from-santa/article38039677.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The Lord is born||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-lord-is-born/article38040478.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Under fire from DVAC||It is once again the season of raids in Tamil Nadu. Seven months since the change in regime at Fort St George, the seat of power, five former Ministers of the AIADMK have been booked by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC). Sleuths have so far searched the residential and business premises linked to former Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and former Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, both considered extremely powerful members of the erstwhile Edappadi K. Palaniswami Cabinet. C. Vijayabaskar, the controversial Health Minister who had faced Income Tax as well as CBI action while in office, former Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar and former Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani are the others who have come under the DVAC scanner. While the AIADMK has called the searches a political vendetta, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has said the government is fulfilling the DMK’s Assembly election promise to bring the corrupt members of the erstwhile government to book. In recent decades, Tamil Nadu first witnessed the arrest of high-profile politicians during 1996, when the DMK government under M. Karunanidhi jailed former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and many of her colleagues in the 1991-96 Cabinet, besides booking senior civil servants, on corruption charges. For the first time, Karunanidhi set up three special courts to try 46 cases of corruption. The most high-profile of them was the disproportionate assets case against Jayalalithaa, in which [following her death] her close aide V.K. Sasikala, the latter’s sister-in-law Ilavarasi and disowned foster son V.N. Sudhakaran were convicted by the Supreme Court under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Incidentally, two former AIADMK Ministers — T.M. Selvaganapathy and Indira Kumari — were convicted years after they switched to the DMK. A change in government in 2001 saw Jayalalithaa’s police going after the former Ministers of the DMK. Similar raids were seen a decade later. The DMK, which has returned to power after 10 years in opposition, has chosen to target the regional satraps of the AIADMK, a party that is shorn of a unitary leadership. Dual challenge The DMK has a dual challenge — to prove the corruption charges and to handle the corruption cases booked by the AIADMK in 2011 against its leaders, some of whom are Ministers now. The DMK leaders were charge-sheeted many years ago, and the cases are in different stages of trial. Sources in the investigating agency say some of the charge-sheeted cases may be “re-investigated” with the trial court’s permission. Incidentally, in the past, re-investigation of cases against VIPs had seen prosecution witnesses turn hostile in their depositions. Most cases relate to amassing of wealth. The agencies that enforce the anti-corruption law book a disproportionate assets case when a prima facie offence is made out against a public servant that he/she amassed wealth disproportionate to his/her known sources of income. The case can be registered based on a specific complaint, source information and income tax returns. Open source documents Disproportionate assets cases have been registered against Mr. Veeramani, Mr. M.R. Vijayabhaskar, Mr. C. Vijayabaskar and Mr. Thangamani. Mr. Velumani has been booked for alleged corruption in the award of civil contracts. The disproportionate assets cases rely on open source documents like affidavits filed by the accused persons during elections. “Such affidavits are filed by candidates in consultation with auditors, and they are also aware that they could go against them during a regime change. The investigating agency takes into account the assets and not liabilities declared in such affidavits. These cases can be easily contested since the family members of the elected representatives have a well-established business income that is accounted for,” says a senior police officer. However, for a foolproof case, the larger conspiracy and the proceeds of crime have to be the focus of the investigation. “Investigators should do their homework before conducting searches or registering cases by going into ‘benami’ assets, foreign investments etc.,...” the officer said. In many complaints, the inquiry is still at the stage of preliminary inquiry or detailed inquiry, though the complainants provided sufficient material where prima facie offence was established. The DVAC could have straight away registered a regular case. The progress is also slow. In half-a-dozen cases against senior DMK leaders, including Ministers, the DVAC charge-sheeted them in 2013 but the trial is still on. After the Supreme Court ruled that special courts be formed to try corruption cases against elected representatives, the government issued orders forming the same. “Though the trial was to have been conducted on a day-to-day basis, the cases are pending. While such delays create an impression that disproportionate assets cases are an eyewash, one also has to remember the eventual conviction in Jayalalithaa’s case,” the officer adds. Explaining the role of other agencies in the DVAC cases, senior investigators say that in case of major cash seizures, the Income Tax Department would step in. The Enforcement Directorate can register a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act if prima facie offence of proceeds of crime is made out and even attach properties of the accused. The sensational gutkha scam, exposed by The Hindu in June 2017, is one interesting case that was investigated by multiple agencies. After the case was probed by the DVAC, the court transferred it to the CBI. It was the Income Tax Department that initially found incriminating material pointing to corruption involving persons holding top positions in the government. The CBI conducted searches on the premises of the then Health Minister and some senior officials. But the agency is yet to file the second charge sheet. Sometimes, such actions turn tragic. After the DVAC recently searched the premises of former Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board chairman A.V. Venkatachalam for his alleged criminal misconduct and misappropriation, it found 10 kg of sandalwood articles, besides cash and gold. The seizure of sandalwood was referred to the Forest Department. However, the former Indian Forest Service official allegedly died by suicide on December 2. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )  The investigating agency takes into account the assets and not liabilities declared in election affidavits. These cases can be easily contested since their family members have a well-established business income that is accounted for Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/under-fire-from-dvac/article38040145.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held||Care T and Best Textile Model Programme organised here recently a multi-stakeholder dialogue to improve safety measures for women employees in the textile supply chain. “Single window system in registration of hostels of textile and garment factories should be adopted,” a press release from Care T said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held/article38040203.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Markazhi Mahotsavam, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m.    Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: Painting expo, Art Gallery premises, Avanashi Road, 10 a.m.  Sthaayi Theatre : Workshop on voice modulation and body language, peace and quiet, Anna Nagar, 2 p.m.    Vishnupuram Literary Circle: Vishnupuram awards ceremony, former Minister Jairam Ramesh takes part, Rajasthani Sangh auditorium, 5.30 p.m.  POLLACHI   Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Alumni meet, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38040201.ece
26 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CM to soon take a call on increase in milk prices||Milk producers in the State have yet again approached the Government to allow the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) to increase the retail price of milk, which has not been increased in the last two-and-a-half years. “The issue has been discussed in the Cabinet. A decision on the petition will be taken after the approval of the Chief Minister in the coming days,” Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar told The Hindu. “A hike of Rs. 3 has been sought, of which farmers will receive Rs. 2.50 and the unions will retain 50 paise. The contention is that milk price has not increased in the last two-and-a-half years,” he added. Delegation meets A KMF delegation, led by chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi petitioned Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Mr. Somashekar in Belagavi while the legislature session was on, seeking hike. Based on the petition, Mr. Somashekar on December 20 wrote to the Chief Minister to allow a hike in the milk price and pass it on to the farmers. Currently, the retail price of Nandini milk is Rs. 37 a litre and it is lowest compared with other States where the price ranges from Rs. 40 to Rs. 48 a litre. Bengaluru Milk Union president Narasimhamurthy said that since the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, milk unions have suffered huge losses since the market for milk and milk products had shrunk drastically. “We are saddled with unsold stock of 6,000 tonnes of skimmed milk powder and 2,000 tonnes of butter. To prevent unions from collapsing owing to losses, unions in the last two years have resorted to reduction in procurement price for the farmers,” he said. Reducing income In the last two years, milk producers in the State, who were receiving between Rs. 29 and Rs. 31 per litre from their respective unions as procurement price, have seen their income decline between Rs. 24 and Rs. 26 a litre. Besides, farmers also get Rs. 5 as incentive from the State Government. “While the production cost has gone up 30% to 40 % in recent years, farmers’ income has declined. Milk producers are in distress. Any further reduction in procurement price would severely affect the dairy industry,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-soon-take-a-call-on-increase-in-milk-prices/article38040130.ece
26 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||MoU for knowledge sharing, research||Angadi Institute of Technology and Management has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Horiba India, a Japan-based multi-national company, for knowledge sharing, research and development. The memorandum will cover areas such as automotive engineering, semiconductors, environment science, medical and other sciences. Institute principal A.B. Deshpande and Rajiv Gautam of Horiba India signed the memorandum recently, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-for-knowledge-sharing-research/article38040304.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Goraguntepalya flyover closed for traffic||Traffic on the busy Tumakuru Road was thrown out of gear on Saturday after the police barred entry of vehicles on Goraguntepalya Flyover (Dr. Shivakumara Swamiji Flyover). Traffic was not allowed on the flyover after the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) found issues with the cables of two spans during a routine inspection. To facilitate the maintenance work, the NHAI has asked the police to close traffic on the flyover from December 25 to January 3, 2022. Pile-up The flyover was closed for traffic from 3 p.m. on Saturday, and immediately traffic began piling up in the area. The impact was seen on the ORR connecting Tumakuru Road and other roads. Officials of the NHAI informed the police that during a routine inspection, in two spans of the elevated highway, “slippage of three prestressed cables in one span and one in another span” have been identified. ‘No major concern’ Akil Ahmad, regional officer of NHAI, said, “During the routine inspection rusting was found in the prestressed cable. This has happened due to heavy rain. There are no major concerns. As a precautionary measure, we have decided to close the flyover for traffic. Experts will come and inspect the flyover on Sunday and thereafter necessary action will be taken.” According to the police, the problem was detected between pillar number 102 and 103 near Eight Mile. Till maintenance work is complete, the traffic on the flyover from Goraguntepalya to Parle G. toll gate will not be allowed. After the closure of the flyover, traffic was regulated in the area. As per a press release from the traffic police, the traffic coming from Tumakuru side will hit NICE near Madavara to enter the city. The outbound traffic towards Tumakuru Road will take a left turn near CMTI junction then move on Ring Road to reach Sumanahalli from there using Magadi Road traffic will be directed to NICE Road to leave the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/goraguntepalya-flyover-closed-for-traffic/article38040122.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Divergent views on call for Karnataka bandh||Ahead of the proposed Karnataka bandh call given by some Kannada organisations on December 31, demanding a ban on the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), discordant voices against it are growing louder. Protests instead Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV), with the largest activist base among Kannada organisations, has announced that it would not support the bandh call, but would instead hold protests making the same demand on December 28 and 30. “People and businesses have suffered enough for the last two years because of the pandemic and a bandh call was neither fair nor would get support. The last three bandh calls have failed to get a favourable response from the people and such repeated failures will send a wrong message, especially when inter-State disputes are involved,” said T. A. Narayana Gowda, KRV president. The Kannada film industry that is usually supportive of bandhs and protests for the Kannada cause has also said it would not participate. December 31 being a Friday, at least three Kannada films are slated for release. Lead actors Shivarajkumar and Yash have voiced their opposition. Hotels and restaurants’ association has also said while it would morally support the protest and would not shut shop. Janata Dal (S) leader and former Chief Minister H. D. Kumaraswamy has said Kannadigas would only suffer due to the bandh and those who have called for the bandh should rethink their decision. “We need to pressurise the State Government to take legal action against MES and ban it. But a bandh would only lead to more suffering for Kannadigas,” he said. Vatal unhappy However, Kannada Chaluvaligar leader Vatal Nagaraj, who has given the bandh call, has expressed outrage against those offering “only moral support but not participating [in it]”. “This is for the Kannada cause and we will not change our plans for protests. The bandh call will not be withdrawn,” he said. Meanwhile, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Saturday warned of strict action against those who forced people and businesses to participate in the bandh. “No organisation has approached us or sought permission to hold any protests as part of the bandh on December 31. We cannot give permission for any bandh. If people observe bandh voluntarily, there will be no problem. But if we come across anyone forcing shopkeepers to shut shops or obstructing traffic, such persons will be dealt with strictly,” Mr. Pant warned while giving his statement.  “This is for the Kannada cause and we will not change our plans for protests. The bandh call will not be withdrawn,” says Vatal Nagaraj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/divergent-views-on-karnataka-bandh-call/article38040107.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools reopened, but learning continued to be a struggle||Shrihitha K.N., a class X student of a private school in the city, says she has been unable to understand concepts in mathematics and science despite attending offline classes for a few months. This, she says, is because she did not understand the basics in classes VIII and IX, when all the classes were largely online. Though schools reopened in a phased manner from August this year, students have been unable to grasp lessons taught in the offline classes as they have forgotten basic foundational skills or have not picked up the basic concepts in many core subjects. Shrihitha says she and her friends are extremely tensed as they have to appear for the board examination in March 2022. Most students have not had year-end examinations for the past two academic years as the exams were cancelled due to the pandemic. Some private school students, however, had online examinations this March. The State Government, in 2021, cancelled the second year pre-university examination and had conducted a multiple-choice examination for class X students. However, they had promoted all freshers of classes X and II PU. Many experts pointed out that the pandemic was an opportunity for State Governments to break away from focussing on assessments and wanted them to focus on teaching-learning. However, most governments, including the Karnataka Government, have failed to chalk out a concrete academic plan during the pandemic, they say. Schemes like Vidyagama, where teachers went to their student’s neighbourhood to teach, had to be discontinued to protect the “health interest” of the students in mind. B.S. Rishikesh, faculty at the Azim Premji University, said it has been a “learning tragedy” the past two academic years and only teachers can find out who escaped the tragedy. “We should ask teachers to assess students within her classroom. A teacher needs to know what is the spread of students in her classroom and can lead a classroom-based assessment,” he said. He added that students are not in a position to appear for a summative assessment and the focus the coming year needs to be on “education recovery.” “Merely conducting bridge courses is not an option and there is a need for reimagination of how students can learn, which most States are unwilling to do. Proper planning to ensure that students need to reach the grade-appropriate level by March 2023 should be the goal,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, General Secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools, said this academic year, students’ learning and assessments revealed that they were not on a par with their grade-appropriate level. According to school managements, the performance of the students has shown that there is a vast digital divide among students. Students who had access to gadgets and internet connectivity performed much better than their counterparts who did not have access to them. Many government schools in fact did not even conduct online classes as a majority of their students did not have access to a gadget to login to their classes. While many of them were given worksheets and assignments, they were unable to learn as in many families the students belonged to were first-generation learners and could not bank on support from their parents. B.R. Supreeth, Secretary, Oxford Institutions, Nagharbhavi, said there was a huge digital divide, particularly in rural areas, which was making it difficult for students to cope with their lessons. Keeping this in mind, Niranjanaradhya V.P., educationist said this academic year, there was a need for assessment at the school level so that teachers can evaluate the duration of the bridge course for the 2022-23 academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-reopened-but-learning-continued-to-be-a-struggle/article38040120.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RBI: State spending on public health up from 2005 till now||Karnataka’s expenditure on public health, as ratio to aggregate expenditure, increased by two percentage points, from 3% in 2004-05 to 5% in 2021-22 (budgetary estimates), according to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) latest report on “State Finances - A study of Budgets (2021)”. The State’s expenditure on medical and public health and family welfare was less than 4% till 2011-12 and less than 5% till the onset of COVID-19. The expenditure reached 5.2% in 2020-21 (revised estimates) largely owing to spending on development of health infrastructure for management of the pandemic, the report noted. Lower than target The national average expenditure percentage on health is 5.5% in 2021-22 (budgetary estimates). Despite a sharp increase compared to pre-COVID years, it remained significantly lower than the 8% target set by the National Health Policy 2017. Among 31 States and Union Territories (UTs), 21 States and UTs expenditure was higher than the national average. NCR Delhi’s expenditure percentage (14.4%) is highest among all States/UTs while the expenditure percentage of Telangana (2.5%) is the lowest among States/UTs. Punjab (3.5%) too spends less on public health. As most of the States, Karnataka too had released its Budgets for 2020-21 before the outbreak of the first wave of COVID-19. There were large deviations between Budget estimates for the year and the revised estimates (RE) as well as provisional accounts (PA). Karnataka borrowed Rs. 96,000 crore in 2020-21 to meet increased expenditure on health infrastructure owing to pandemic. It proposed to borrow over Rs. 70,000 crore in 2021-22. In 2021-22 too, most States presented their Budgets before the spread of the second wave. However, deviations from BE are expected to be smaller than in 2020-21 because of less stringent and State-specific restrictions than the nationwide lockdown imposed a year ago. However, the impact of the pandemic on the State finances turned out to be more severe than anticipated, the report said. Relief expenditure Karnataka’s revenue expenditure increased sharply owing to the measures taken to support life and livelihood. For instance, Odisha, Kerala, and Karnataka, have explicitly announced relief packages amounting to around Rs. 22,000 crore (0.1% of GDP). The Tamil Nadu Government incurred additional expenditure of Rs. 17,618.8 crore on COVID-related relief, RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rbi-state-spending-on-public-health-up-from-2005-till-now/article38040128.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State has fourth highest number of active cases in the country||With 7,271 active cases, Karnataka has the fourth highest number of COVID-19 cases still under treatment. While Kerala tops the list with 26,265 active cases, Maharashtra and West Bengal follow with 12,108 and 7,446 active cases respectively, according to data from the Union Health Ministry. Together these four States contribute nearly 69% of the country’s total 77,032 active cases. While seven other States including Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, and Odisha have an active caseload of above 1,200, all other States have cases less than 1,000. Karnataka had been consistently reporting around 2,000 new cases and around 3,000 recoveries since July 10. By July end, after five months, active cases went below the 25,000 mark. From 2,62,162 active cases on April 25, the number of active cases crossed four lakh and touched 4,05,068 on May 1 registering over a three-fold rise than the highest active cases (1,20,270) reported in October 2020 during the first outbreak. In mid-May, the State’s active caseload peaked and exploded beyond expectations touching 6,05,494. However, cases started falling after that and had reduced by nearly half by May 31. By June 30, active cases plummeted to 76,505 and further dipped by half by July 15. From October 1, cases went below the 10,000 mark touching 6,416 by November 30. The drastic fall in active cases indicated a robust recovery rate of 98% in the State. However, with a slight increase in the number of new COVID cases from December 4 onwards, active cases too increased and crossed the 7,000 mark. Among districts, Bengaluru Urban has the highest burden (with 5,890 active cases as of Saturday) contributing 81% of the total 7,271 active cases in the State. While Yadgir and Gadag do not zero active cases, eight districts have cases in single digits. Six districts - Ballari, Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru, Tumakuru, and Uttara Kannada - have a caseload of above 100 while the others have less than 100. Although Karnataka had overtaken Maharashtra during May-June with the highest caseload in the country, the situation eased significantly in the first week of July. After that the State’s position on the national COVID-19 graph improved from first to third. Although the situation has further improved now, taking it to fourth place, experts said it is essential that the momentum is sustained. K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), said Bengaluru Urban has the highest active cases because it has been reporting the maximum number of daily cases. “On an average, around 180 cases are being reported on a daily basis of which over 10 are requiring hospitalisations. However, the good thing is that all those who are admitted are in the general ward and ICU admissions are very few,” he said, adding that disease severity is low in new cases mainly due to vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-has-fourth-highest-number-of-active-cases-in-the-country/article38040137.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bitcoin scam hardly got attention in just-concluded session||The alleged bitcoin scam, which made big news and embarrassed Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai last month, was expected to rock the Assembly session in Belagavi. However, it hardly came up for discussion. With this, the entire epidose is likely to quietly disappear from public discourse. In the run-up to the session Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and former Information Technology Minister Priyank Kharge held press conferences and accused the Government of a “cover-up” of the scam, alleging that hacker Srikrishna had hacked thousands of bitcoins which had gone “missing.” Mr. Bommai had been Home Minister under B.S. Yediyurappa when the scam occurred and it was alleged that some senior leaders and officers were involved. However, the Congress did not take up the issue in the Assembly. Evidence issues While a section of the MLAs said the issue was not taken up due to lack of time, a senior Congress MLA said the party dithered from raising the bitcoin scam as they did not have adequate documentary evidence. “Except Srikrishna’s voluntary statement in which he confessed to hacking Bitfinex coins, which is not legally admissible, there is no evidence available,” said the MLA, who served as a Minister. However, AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala had held a press conference in Delhi in which he demanded that the movement of hacked and blacklisted Bitfinex coins (in December 2020 and April 2021), be probed, a demand the party did not make in the session. Sources said at the peak of allegations a month ago, the city police had proposed a judicial inquiry into the alleged scam but the Government stalled it, saying they would opt for it only if it was inevitable, during the Winter session. Another senior Congress MLA said the ruling party had alleged that Mohammed Nalpad, president-elect of Youth Congress unit in the State, and the son of another Congress leader Rudrappa Lamani, who was arrested in the narcotics case, were linked to the hacker. Some in the party feared that the BJP would use this to turn the tables on them. “But the voluntary statement of Srikrishna only said he knew Nalpad before 2018 and later lost all contact. The police have not called him even for questioning in the bitcoin scam. The party I feel unnecessarily became wary of raising the issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bitcoin-scam-hardly-gets-attention-in-just-concluded-session/article38040126.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Begin conversion of transformers on footpaths to safe design’||The High Court of Karnataka has directed Bangalore Electricity Supply Company to submit an action plan for executing the process initiated for conversion of around 5,200 transformers existing on footpath/storm-water drain into a special design transformer centre. This is to be done by erecting transformers on pre-fabricated structures in a phased manner across Bengaluru metropolitan area zone. A Division Bench issued the direction after the court was informed on behalf of Bescom that tender has been invited for conversion of these transformers into new standard design and two eligible bidders have been identified for evaluation of financial and technical qualification by the tender scrutiny committee. While giving time till February 4, 2022, for Bescom to submit a detailed action plan along with the locality and time period required for shifting the transformers, the Bench made it clear that the work of shifting of transformers should be commenced even before the next date. In its response to the court’s earlier directions for shifting transformers from footpaths, Bescom said that a high-level coordination committee consisting of officials of Bescom and the Bangalore Mahanagara Palike has identified around 5,200 transformer that obstruct pedestrian movement on footpath for converting them to special design transformer centres. Bescom has also brought to the notice of the court that it would take around one year for completing the process of shifting transformers to identified locations after the award of contract to the successful bidder. The court, acting on a PIL petition filed by G.B. Athri, a retired Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force, last year had directed both the BBMP and the Bescom to coordinate with each other to ensure that pedestrians are not put to danger from transformers existing on footpath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/begin-conversion-of-transformers-on-footpaths-to-safe-design/article38040117.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Omicron: 7 new cases in State||Seven new cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 have been reported in Karnataka, taking the total number to 38. Confirming this in a tweet on Saturday, Health Minister K. Sudhakar said out of the seven cases, four have a history of international history from UAE, Zambia, UK, and USA. One is the primary contact of an international traveller and two others had arrived from Delhi. According to a note from the Health Department, six are fully vaccinated and one is a 15-year-old who travelled from the U.S. and was not vaccinated. Of the seven, six are under isolation at private hospitals, while one person has been discharged for home isolation after 10 days at a primary hospital. COVID-19 cases Karnataka on Saturday reported 270 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,04,239. Bengaluru Urban reported 152 cases and two deaths. With four deaths, the State's toll rose to 38,309. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 246 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,58,630. The State now has 7,271 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.27%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.48%. As many as 97,782 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 84,336 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,59,24,486.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-7-new-cases-in-state/article38040133.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FKCCI urges Centre to frame regulations for crowdfunding||The Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) has urged the Centre to frame regulations for crowdfunding as the sector is currently unregulated. In a memorandum to a meeting called to provide suggestions on pre-Union Budget 2022-23 by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, FKCCI president I.S. Prasad said the crowdfunding sector currently is not guided by rules which makes it easier for platforms to exploit public money. Not a prevalent mode Currently, SEBI has framed regulations for Equity Crowdfunding, which is not a prevalent mode of raising finance in the country. “There are multiple platforms undertaking donation crowdfunding. With the rising count of such platforms and involvement of public money, it is the need of the hour to bring in regulations around donation crowdfunding,” he said. Crowdfunding in India has changed the way the social sector operates, be it a non-profit or a social enterprise. Over the years, there have been several scams and money laundering activities that have taken place under the guise of charity and social work, FKCCI said. FKCCI also urged the Centre to introduce COVID-19 relief for medical reimbursement up to Rs. 20,000 under the Income Tax Act. Any cost reimbursed to the employee is taxed and will be an additional burden, the FKCCI said. The trade body has recommended to the Centre to levy zero income tax on individuals earning annual income upto Rs. 5 lakh, 5% tax on income between Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 15 lakh, 10% tax on income between Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 25 lakh and 22% tax on income beyond Rs. 25 lakh. Currently, the peak tax rate of 30% is made applicable over an income of Rs. 10 lakh for individual taxpayers. Further, levy of surcharge on individuals should be completely abolished, said FKCCI, which can “distort equity and tends to discourage entrepreneurship.” Mr. Prasad said MSMEs contribute about 60% of the employment and 40% of the exports. But the sector has been struggling due to the price rise of raw materials to meet the customers demands and fluctuation of price. The government should come out with solutions to regulate the price rise. He also suggested to the Centre to bring back interest subvention schemes to support the MSMEs during the critical condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fkcci-urges-centre-to-frame-regulations-for-crowdfunding/article38040134.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industry automation prompts Visvesvaraya Technological University to tweak courses||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has decided to take steps to stem the decline in demand for mechanical engineering courses. It is set to revamp the courses to make them more relevant to the demands of the industry where automation is on the rise. Karisiddappa, vice-chancellor of VTU, said they were redesigning curriculum and introducing computer-integrated courses with the aim of teaching students the latest technologies. “We want students to have knowledge in more than one discipline so that they can get placed easily,” he said. The changes in the curriculum for this stream is the need of the hour as many engineering colleges have opted to not offer it any longer citing lack of students. G.B. Krishnappa, dean (research and development), mechanical department, Vidyavardhaka College of Engineering, Mysuru, said mechanical engineers need to adapt to the digital era failing which they will find it difficult to get jobs. “With automation, there is a need for mechanical engineers to know applications of all branches of engineers,” he said. M. Brindha, vice-principal, MVJ College of Engineering, said in accordance with the New Education Policy, their college has included artificial intelligence and machine learning related optionals in the mechanical engineering syllabus. “This will give our students an edge,” she said. She added that the college has also introduced subjects such as 3D printing and drone manufacturing to create a balanced curriculum. “With such concepts under their belt, our students have the whole world open to them. They can seek traditional jobs in the manufacturing sector, pursue research, or incubate in a startup. They are no longer restricted to limited opportunities pertaining to their core jobs,” Ms. Brindha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industry-automation-prompts-visvesvaraya-technological-university-to-tweak-courses/article38040140.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Expenditure on education declines||Karnataka’s expenditure on education, as a ratio to aggregate expenditure, declined by nearly 1 percentage point, from 12.7% in 2004-05 to 11.8% in 2021-22 (budgetary estimates), according to the RBI’s latest report in 2021. The country’s average expenditure percentage on education is 13.9%. While NCR Delhi’s expenditure of 22.8% is highest among all States and UTs, Telangana recorded the lowest aggregate expenditure of 5.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/expenditure-on-education-declines/article38040131.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No public NY celebrations’||City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Saturday said no public celebration of New Year will be allowed in the city as per the instructions of the State Government. “The police will enforce the guidelines issued by the State Government on the celebration of the New Year. I would like to specify that no public celebration is allowed, even at the Brigade Road. Pubs, bars, and restaurants must stick to the 50% occupancy guideline issued by the Government,” the police commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-public-ny-celebrations/article38040115.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six arrested, drugs worth Rs. 10 lakh seized||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) busted a racket and arrested six persons who allegedly smuggled marijuana into the city from neighbouring districts to sell it among the youth for the new year. Based on a tip-off, a team of police raided a house in Mallathahalli and arrested three persons and recovered 15 kg of marijuana worth Rs. 10 lakh. Based on their information, the police arrested three more persons in Chamarajanagar who allegedly supplied the drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-arrested-drugs-worth-rs-10-lakh-seized/article38040407.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three arrested with ambergris||The Mico Layout police arrested three persons and recovered ambergris worth Rs. 4 crore from them. The accused – Panner Selvam, Anand Shekhar and K. Manju – were allegedly caught red-handed on Friday when they were waiting for their clients to deliver the consignment. Based on a tip-off , the police raided the place, arrested them and seized the car. The accused sourced the ambergris from Tamil Nadu and brought it to the city to sell. The ambergris have high demand in the international market to be used in perfume industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-with-ambergris-worth-rs-4-crore/article38040114.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Mobilising funds a challenge’||As many as 68% social sector organisations (SSOs) reported that mobilising funds for continuing their existing programmes posed a significant challenge, and 64% ranked the restrictions imposed by physical distancing norms a big challenge, said a new study. A report by Azim Premji University, ‘COVID-19 crisis: Survey on internal challenges faced by social sector organisations,’ said nearly 60% of the organisations felt that in the initial days of lockdown, it was difficult to obtain permission from local authorities to start field operations. Further, 54% of organisations indicated that they had to stall some of their programmes and adapt the others to the crisis, and 60% of the respondents started new programmes in the area of education, health and livelihoods in response to the unfolding situation on the ground. The situation-assessment study was carried out over January to May 2021, and of 107 organisations that responded, 28 were identified for qualitative interviews, covering small, medium and large organisations, operating in different states and domains such as livelihoods, health, education, human rights and gender, a release said. While 72% of the respondents indicated that their staff started working online, 52% reskilled their staff to work in online mode. As many as 20% reduced staff salaries in 2020, 16% reported delays in payment of salaries by a few months and 11% had to retrench staff due to lack of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobilising-funds-a-challenge/article38040125.ece
26 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Youth stabbed to death||A 17-year-old youth was stabbed to death allegedly by his friends over a trivial row in Halasuru on Friday night. The deceased has been identified as Minush, a resident of M.V. Garden, who had a heated argument with his friend, identified as Santosh, over a trivial row. Later, Santosh, with his two friends, barged into the Minush’s house and attacked him with a surgical blade. Passers-by rushed Minush to a nearby hospital where he succumbed later, the police said. The Halasuru police have taken up a case of murder and detained Santosh, while efforts are on to track down the others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-stabbed-to-death/article38040127.ece
26 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Joshi cleans graveyard to mark Vajpayee’s birth anniversary||Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi participated in a cleanliness drive at Heggeri Graveyard in Hubballi on Saturday to mark the birth anniversary of the former Prime Minister Late Atal Bihari Vajpayee. In a programme organised as part of Good Governance Day to commemorate the contributions of Vajpayee, members of Alumni Association of Siddharoodh High School and Husanappa Vajjannavar and his team members took part. Armed with a shovel, Mr. Joshi himself removed various shrubs and painted the compound wall of the graveyard. Later, addressing a gathering, Mr. Joshi said that development of all graveyards in Hubballi-Dharwad will be taken up in phases. Commissioner of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation Suresh Itnal spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joshi-cleans-graveyard-to-mark-vajpayees-birth-anniversary/article38040308.ece
26 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Amidst Omicron fears. Christmas celebrated in North Karnataka||Amid apprehensions about Omicron and possible further restrictions in the coming days, Christmas was celebrated in the northern districts of Karnataka, including Dharwad and Belagavi, on Saturday. Compared to last year, the number of people visiting the churches had increased this year despite the threat of the new COVID-19 variant. Special prayers were also held on Saturday seeking heavenly intervention to end the pandemic. Apart from the prayers, feeding the poor, cultural programmes and carol singing formed part of the celebrations. Solemn rejoicing marked Christmas celebrations in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad, particularly in Dharwad where Basel Mission was established in 1836. At the Hebich Memorial Church in Dharwad, Reverend Martin Borgia who took charge as Bishop of Karnataka Northern Diocese took part in the Christmas celebrations and delivered sermon. He was also felicitated on the occasion. Most of the Christians in the twin cities had put up the traditional “star” in front of their houses. Several streets were illuminated with colourful lights. Shops in the markets of Hubballi-Dharwad had been doing brisk business for the past many days. Artificial Christmas trees and decorative lamps were in great demand. Bakeries and shops selling cakes, puddings, chocolates and sweets, and stores selling greeting cards also did good business. The centuries-old Hebich Memorial Church, the Church of All Saints, the Holy Cross Church in Dharwad, Basel Mission Church and other churches in Hubballi were illuminated as part of the celebrations. The twin cities have followers of different denominations of Christianity belonging to different ethnic and linguistic groups and the festival is celebrated as per their local traditions. As it has been a practice, Christian families sent sweets and cakes to non-Christian families as part of the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amidst-omicron-fears-christmas-celebrated-in-north-karnataka/article38040316.ece
26 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Special programme to help strengthen TAPCMS||All necessary help through a special programme will be extended to strengthen Hubballi Taluk Agricultural Produce Co-operative Marketing Society (TAPCMS), which is celebrating the centenary of its establishment, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. Inaugurating the centenary celebrations of Hubballi TAPCMS (Hubballi Taluk Okkaluthana Huttuvali Maarata Sahakari Sangha) at Amaragol APMC Yard in Hubballi on Saturday, the Chief Minister said that the sangha has rendered commendable service to farmers for the last 100 years. “We all need to work unitedly for the welfare of farmers. Strengthening the sangha will help the cause of the farmers. The State government will provide all necessary help to strengthen this sangha,” he said. Mr. Bommai said that the sangha is an asset to farmers and efforts should be made to regain the old glory by safeguarding the interests of farmers. “I will always be there with the sangha,” he said. Emphasising the need for coming out with a proper plan to revive the sangha further, he said that he will get the necessary assistance sanctioned from the government. He said that he will also hold consultation with the sangha’s office-bearers to chalk out the next course of action. Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-programme-planned-to-help-strengthen-tapcms/article38040305.ece
26 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Zoology Museum gets new building||The Zoology Museum at Karnatak College, Dharwad, where rare exhibits, including 2,500 specimens of animals and birds, are on display, has now got a spacious new premises. The new facility was inaugurated on Friday. Inaugurating the new building, Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University K.B. Gudasi said that the Zoology Museum was nothing but a treasure trove for degree and research students. Prof. Gudasi said that the museum, a one-of-its-kind in the State, had over 2,500 specimens of animals and birds that have been preserved in pristine condition. “A curator too has been appointed for the museum to provide information to research students and students should make use of the facility,” he said. Principal of Karnatak Science College A.S. Bellad said that being one of the largest museums in the State, it was established by Gidiyan in 1947. He said that the museum turned into a treasure between 1947 and 1960 and it was J.C. Uttangi who brought rare specimens and upgraded the museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zoology-museum-gets-new-building/article38040311.ece
26 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Policepatil is president of Dharwad Bar||The efforts of incumbent president of Dharwad Bar Association B.S. Godse to get a second term failed on Friday with senior counsel C.S. Policepatil emerging victorious with a thumping win in the election to the century-old bar association. Mr. Policepatil secured 708 votes. Another candidate R.I. Savadatti secured 179 votes and the incumbent president, Mr. Godse, finished third with 132 votes. Advocate Ashok Dodmani was elected as the new vice-president, while N R Matti was elected as secretary. Siddhu Hebballi was elected joint-secretary and Prakash Ratgeri as treasurer. Advocates Kalmesh Badiger, Basavaraj Talwai, B M Belaldavar, Yellappa Bellakki, S N Kamatar and Paras Kusugal were elected to the executive council. Vanmala Mote was elected to the executive council from women reserved seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/policepatil-is-president-of-dharwad-bar/article38040317.ece
26 December 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Man dies in blaze||A 36-year-old man was killed in a fire accident at his house in Dharwad late on Friday night. The deceased, identified as Vinayak Chinivalar, was a resident of Adaki Oni near Nagreshwar temple in Dharwad. He was reportedly burnt alive in the accident. According to preliminary investigation, the deceased was in the habit of consuming alcohol and it is not clear how the fire broke out. Dharwad Town Police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-as-fire-breaks-out-in-dharwad/article38040302.ece
26 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||After woman dies, relatives protest alleging medical negligence||Alleging that a 45-year-old woman died owing to medical negligence after two unsuccessful surgeries at a private hospital in Kalaburagi, her family members staged a demonstration outside the hospital here on Saturday. According to reports, Nagamma Bagodi, a resident of Itaga village, underwent a tubectomy surgery at a private hospital twice within a week. She had complained of a stomach ache for the past few months after which she was admitted to a private hospital and advised surgery. The first surgery took place on December 23, and when her condition further deteriorated, the doctors performed another operation. However, her health worsened after the surgery and she was shifted to another hospital where she breathed her last. Her relatives staged a protest by keeping the body in front of the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-woman-dies-relatives-protest-alleging-medical-negligence/article38040314.ece
26 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Socialism kept India economically poor’||National president of BJP’s Yuva Morcha and Member of Parliament Tejasvi Surya said on Saturday that socialism kept India economically poor and secularism made the country culturally poor. He was speaking on the topic “Good Governance” at an interactive programme organised by the Udupi district unit of the BJP with intellectuals in Manipal. It was to mark the birth anniversary of the former Prime Minister Latet Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “Socialism has been a useless economic policy and it was implemented by Jawaharlal Nehru despite its expiry date long ago. India, which had been hit by imperialism, was again hounded by secularism post Independence,” he said. Mr. Surya said that wrong policies had kept India poor by choice and not by chance. The country was kept poor through the shackles of socialism post Independence. Socialism demotivated wealth creators in private sector deliberately, he said. The Member of Parliament said that now Prime Minister Narendra Modi is wiping out the residues of socialism and secularism for bringing in transformation by alleviating poverty and creating prosperity. He said that big projects such as Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, initiation of the Golden Quadrilateral Project for faster transport networks between major cities was all made possible by Vajpayee when he was the Prime Minister. “But the United Progressive Alliance regime later brought in a decade of decay for the country,” he said and added that administrative and cultural transformations made by Mr. Modi are irreversible. Mr. Surya said that the country is becoming a hub investment now due to changing policies and the BJP-led Union Government has understood the pulse of the new generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/socialism-kept-india-economically-poor/article38040388.ece
26 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Festive fervour at Mangaluru International Airport||Festive fervor was evident in the Mangaluru International Airport on Christmas. The notes of Christmas carols that 15 visually challenged artists from Shree Sharadha Andhara Geetha Gayana Kala Sangha, Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district rendered, provided a vibrant experience for the passengers. The Sarvamangala Trust, Mangaluru, which empowers differently abled, trained these artists in this unique art. The place next to the tastefully lit Christmas decor in the departure hall of the airport served as the platform for the artists to showcase their talent. If passengers paused for selfies in front of the decor, the carol singing saw them soak up the Christmas spirit. Denver Roche, a professional signer who worked with these artists for the past month anchored the event and kept the proceedings lively. Muthuraj from the trust played the joyful Santa Claus handing out treats to passengers and stakeholders alike. The passengers bought the limited-edition Christmas gift hampers consisting of greeting cards and other stationery items that the trust had readied. Proceeds from the sale of hampers went to the trust for their activity of imparting competitive training to the differently abled. Mr. Roche, who spent the last month training the artists praised them for their commitment to perform on this stage. The artists who learnt the carol script in Braille presented six carols – in Kannada and English. The stakeholders enjoyed the Christmas carol singing programme, a release from the airport said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festive-fervour-at-mangaluru-international-airport/article38040391.ece
26 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kotekar Town Panchayat to go to the polls tomorrow||Kotekar Town Panchayat on the outskirts of the city will go to the polls on December 27 for the second term after it was upgraded from the gram panchayat. The BJP had been elected to power in the panchayat in the last election. The council of the panchayat has a total of 17 seats (wards). The BJP and the Congress have fielded their candidates for all the seats, while the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) is contesting for six seats and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has fielded its candidates from two wards. In the last election held after it was upgraded as town panchayat, the BJP had bagged nine seats, the Congress four and Independents had bagged two seats. In addition, the CPI (M) and the SPDPI had shared one seat each. If the BJP is trying to retain its hold over the panchayat for the second term, the Congress too is making efforts to increase its tally. The open campaigning for the polls came to an end on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kotekar-town-panchayat-to-go-to-the-polls-tomorrow/article38040385.ece
26 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KIOCL chess tourney from January 1||KIOCL Limited’s two-day national-level Open FIDE Rating Rapid Chess Tournament, Fourth Kudremukh Trophy, which will be held here from January 1, 2022, will be conducted in different age categories. The age categories are of 5-7, 9, 11, 13 and 15 and open category with special prizes for Best Veteran, Best Youngest Player and Best Women Player. The total cash prizes will be around Rs. 2 lakh with 165 trophies. Competitions will also be held for boys and girls, in each age category and open categories, with a total of 10 prizes and trophies. The last date for registration, which can be done the link, https://cutt.ly/XYTEOQu or www.karnatakachess.com, will be December 30 by 10 a.m. with registration fees of Rs. 1,000. Those interested can fill the online registration form and make payment to KIOCL Sports and Recreation Club Account. For details, visit kudremukhchess  @gmail.com, a release from the company said and added that the venue will be Nehru Bhavan, KIOCL Township, Kavoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiocl-chess-tourney-from-january-1/article38040392.ece
26 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Job fair on January 3||The Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood will organise a job fair at the office of Udupi Deputy Commissioner on January 3, 2022. Those who have passed Class VIII and above can register their names by visiting udupi.nic.in and link to sanjeevini udyog mela. Call 9740993555 or 9686123850, a release for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/job-fair-on-january-3/article38040393.ece
26 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Anti-conversion Bill unlikely to get judicial approval: Khader||There are lacunae in the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill and is unlikely to get approval from the judiciary, said U.T. Khader, Mangaluru MLA, here on Saturday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Khader said the Bill goes against the basic tenets of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Religion and if it is enacted, the courts will strike it down. “The Government knows this, but still is going ahead with the process of enactment as they want to give an impression to people that they are against forceful conversion,” he said. Mr. Khader said the Bill has been passed in the Legislative Assembly, where the State Government failed to give a substantive reason for bringing it when there are legal provisions to act against forceful conversion. The Government failed to place statistics on the number of cases of forceful conversion reported in the State. Claiming that the Bill that has been passed in the Assembly is different from the Draft Bill prepared when Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister, Mr. Khader said the present Bill encourages third parities to question religious conversion. This Bill will lead to victimisation of institutions, which offer free treatment and education facility for the needy, who can be dragged to the court on false grounds that they are offering free service to those who get converted, Mr. Khader said The Congress, he said, is against forceful conversion and there are provisions in the Indian Penal Code to act against such conversions. Basavaraj Bommai’s Government is not really committed towards rightfully preventing forceful conversion, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-conversion-bill-unlikely-to-get-judicial-approval-khader/article38040394.ece
26 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Second test finds man negative for Omicron||A second RT-PCR test found a 27-year-old man from the city negative for Omicron. The man was found positive for COVID-19 following his return from Ghana on December 16. Genomic study of his samples showed he was infected by Omicron. He was kept under isolation at the Wenlock Hosptial where RT-PCR tests were done on the ninth and 10th day of isolation. The first test showed him negative for Omicron on Friday. Similarly the second test report showed him negative for the infection on Saturday. District COVID-19 Nodal Officer H. Ashok said the man will be sent to his house on Sunday where he will continue to be in home isolation for seven days. All the seven patients, who were found positive for Omicron, have recovered, he added. Dr. Ashok said repeat RT-PCR tests of 17 primary contacts of the man from Dakshina Kannada, who were negative for the infection, were done on the eight day of their quarantine. As many as 10 of them were negative from the infection, while reports of the remaining seven were awaited, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-test-finds-man-negative-for-omicron/article38040395.ece
26 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested||The Ullal police have arrested Mustafa of Hosbettu in Manjeshwar of Kerala on the charge of harassing a minor girl and a 22-year-old woman. The Ullal police said the the minor girl had complained that the accused came on a two-wheeler and allegedly touched her inappropriately, when she was in Talapady on Saturday. The 22-year-old woman lodged another complaint with the police stating that Mustafa had harassed her on Friday. The Ullal police have arrested Mustafa for offences under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code and also under provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested/article38040138.ece
26 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beach cleaning in city today||Youngsters Yuvaka-Yuvathi Mandala, Baikampady, has organised a beach cleaning drive from Panambur beach to Meenakaliya in Baikampady on Sunday. The drive will be organised from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Some illegal occupants are spoiling and littering the beach at Baikampady-Meenakaliya area. There is a need to create a clean and healthy beach environment. It is also required to attract more tourists to the beach. Mangaluru City Corporation will also take part in this initiative, it said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beach-cleaning-in-city-today/article38040382.ece
26 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||How to help the police in preventing crimes||Senior police officers led by Commissioner of Police Chandragupta rode bicycles in the city centre on Saturday to spread awareness on crime prevention as a part of Crime Prevention Month that is being observed here by the City Crime Branch. Mr. Chandragupta unveiled paintings at the city central library building on Irwin Road that spreads awareness on crime prevention. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Geetha Prasanna was present. The tall walls along the busy road have been made use of to educate the public on how the crimes can be prevented and how they can help the police in detecting and preventing crimes. Through the paintings, the public are educated to inform the police about any unlawful activities they come across besides messages that deter them from indulging in activities like gambling and betting and losing their hard-earned money. The Commissioner of Police felicitated the artists who created the paintings and expressed his appreciation for helping the police in educating the masses through the artistic representations. The paintings were done by the students of CAVA, Mysuru. Before pedaling on the busy road, Mr. Chandragupta distributed pamphlets among the public that contained information on crime prevention in the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/how-to-help-the-police-in-preventing-crimes/article38040405.ece
26 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Christmas celebrated amidst Omicron scare in Mysuru||Churches across Mysuru were specially decked up for Christmas which was celebrated on Saturday amidst the Omicron scare. People thronged the churches, especially St. Philomena’s Church in Lashkar Mohalla, and took part in the mass prayers. Despite curbs, people, keeping precautions in mind, gathered at the churches and greeted each other. The St. Philomena’s Church, also a major tourist attraction, was colorfully decorated and the people, wearing Santa cap, were seen happily moving around, greeting their friends and relatives, after lighting candles and prayer sessions. They took selfies with the church in the background. The church premises had selfie points among other attractions. Compared to last year, the people came out to celebrate at the churches in more numbers this time and the key reason has been vaccination against COVID-19. No vaccine was available during this time last year and therefore the celebrations were quiet. Midnight mass The midnight mass was held at the brightly lit St. Philomena’s Church and also in other churches in the city. Bishop K.A. William placed the idol of infant Jesus in the crib around midnight at St. Philomena’s Church and thereafter the prayers were held. He conveyed his Christmas message. Meanwhile, the malls here had attractions marking the Christmas celebrations with special decorations done for drawing the visitors. The shopping malls have turned into festive destinations with the shoppers seen taking selfies with the brilliantly lit Christmas tree around. Marking the occasion, they were seen wearing the Santa cap and shopping with families and friends. The corners at the malls were beautifully decked up with Christmas trees, big stars, bells and so on. The special cakes made for the occasion were relished by the shoppers. The festive mood was evident at the malls, which had announced special sales on the occasion of Christmas and New Year. Some bakeries in the city had baked rich plum cakes for the celebrations. Neighborhood shopping areas have put up shacks selling special eateries for the Christmas season. Varieties of cakes, cupcakes, cookies and much more were available.  Despite curbs, people, keeping precautions in mind, gathered at the churches and greeted each other. The St. Philomena’s Church, also a major tourist attraction, was colorfully decorated and the people, wearing Santa cap, were seen happily moving around,  The corners at the malls were beautifully decked up with Christmas trees, big stars, bells and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/christmas-celebrated-amidst-omicron-scare-in-mysuru/article38040409.ece
26 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tribals oppose increase in marriageable age for girls||Representatives of tribal communities and NGOs working for their welfare have expressed their ire over the government’s move to increase the legal marriageable age for girls from 18 years to 21 years. The Centre has already introduced a Bill in this regard but a section of tribal community members in Mysuru district have expressed their dismay over the move. “The law which has a bearing on every citizen of the country is being passed without any discussion’’, said S. Sreekanth of Development through Education (DEED), an NGO working for tribal empowerment and based in Hunsur. The arguments in favour of raising the marriageable age is that the girl will be well-read and educated when she attains 21 years of age and hence will be in a position to take a decision for herself. But this pre-supposes that every girl will pursue higher education and does not take into account the dropouts and those who do not have access to education due to the prevailing family circumstances, argued Mr. Sreekanth. Instead of providing for quality education and shoring up infrastructure and ensuing education for all, the government was side-stepping the issue, according to the members of the tribal community. The argument in favour of raising the marriageable age for girls till 21 years also presupposes that every girl – apart from pursuing higher education – will be gainfully employed and this argument is a fallacy, said Mr. Sreekanth. “The dropout rate from high schools was very high among the tribal communities and we hardly have any graduates among the adivasis. The existing Ashram Schools which cater to the tribals lack basic infrastructure and is understaffed and these issues should be addressed first and not touch upon the legal age for marriage’’, he added. Demand Incidentally, tribals have sought for a decrease in the marriageable age for both boys and girls on the grounds that the adivasis have their own tradition and want it to be respected. “What is of concern is that the community members tend to follow their tradition and conduct marriages which is illegal in the eye of the law. This has given rise to increase in cases being foisted on tribals and these numbers will go up in case the legal age for marriage for girls was increased’’, said Mr.Sreekanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribals-oppose-increase-in-marriageable-age-for-girls/article38040413.ece
26 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Flower show, cultural events inaugurated on palace premises||The district in-charge Minister S.T.Somashekar announced here on Saturday that the police band would perform on the palace premises throughout the year from January 1, 2022. He was speaking after inaugurating the flower show and cultural programmes organised on the palace premises. The band show will be held from 6.30 p.m. Stakeholders have sought regular cultural programmes to draw tourists but questions have been raised whether it was pertinent to launch new initiatives when there was renewed threat of a surge in the pandemic. Even the flower show came under criticism though it has evoked good response. The Minister recalled the contribution of the Wadiyars of Mysuru to the overall development of the region during the inauguration and said the photo exhibition depicting their works was appreciable. He said one has to recall and remember the initiatives of the Wadiyars which has helped generations of people and enabled their socio-economic growth and development. The construction of the KRS dam across the Cauvery entailed the members of the royal family to pledge their personal jewelry and raise loan which has benefited not only lakhs of farmers but has ensured drinking water to millions of people. The Minister said the flower show and cultural programme will continue for a week and the district administration was complying with COVID-19 norms and regulations. Only those who have taken both the doses of vaccination will be provided entry, he said. MLA Nagendra, Mayor Sunanda Phalanetra, Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flower-show-cultural-events-inaugurated-on-palace-premises/article38040411.ece
26 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Youngster dies while playing hockey||A youngster in his early 20s collapsed when playing hockey at Moornadu in Kodagu district on Saturday and died while being shifted to a hospital. Somanna (24) was the deceased and the incident took place when a hockey tournament was in progress. It is suspected that Somanna suffered a cardiac arrest. Though medical aid was administered and Somanna was rushed to a hospital in an ambulance he died en route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youngster-dies-while-playing-hockey/article38040406.ece
26 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||28 children test positive in Kodagu||In another cluster case in Kodagu, 28 children of a residential school at Panchavati (Harangi post) near Kushalnagar have tested positive for COVID-19. The infection was confirmed on Friday and most children are said to be asymptomatic. Kodagu DHO Venkatesh told The Hindu that 385 children of Jnanaganga Residential School underwent RT-PCR test on Thursday and 28 had the infection. A few children have mild symptoms. All of them are in home isolation, he said. The school has about 680 students and all of them are being tested. Around 200-plus children underwent tests on Saturday and their reports are awaited. The remaining children will complete the tests on Sunday. “There is no need to panic as we are carrying out the tests routinely in schools with the testing target increased in view of the Omicron scare.” Dr. Venkatesh said the contacts of the infected children are being traced and some of them tracked are also being tested as a precautionary measure even though they have no symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/28-children-test-positive-in-kodagu/article38040132.ece
26 December 2021||Vijayawada,KARNATAKA||RSS chief to address meeting||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat will address a meeting near Brodipet on Penumadam Road at Palakol on Sunday. The RSS State committee is organising the meeting titled ‘Godavari Sangamam’. RSS leaders Dusi Ramakrishna, Nagareddy Hari Kumar and Manthena Ramachandra Raju will participate. More than 10,000 activists from East and West Godavari, and other districts are expected to attend the meeting to be held at 4.30 p.m. The police have made tight security arrangements for the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rss-chief-to-address-meeting/article38040124.ece
26 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Send proposal for grants for building graveyards: DC||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has directed tahsildars of all taluks to send a proposal to the district administration seeking grants for construction of graveyards where land is available for the purpose and also send other proposals to purchase identified land, if government land is not available. She was chairing a meeting of officials from Revenue Department in Yadgir on Friday. According to official data collected recently, 50 villages in the district do not have graveyards. Therefore, officials of the Revenue Department should send a proposal seeking sanction of grants to construct graveyards. Or, they should send proposals exclusively to purchase private land if government land is not available in these villages, the DC said. She also said that graveyards were constructed in 175 villages in one year by launching a special drive as there were a total of 225 villages that did not have graveyards earlier. “We intend to construct graveyards in the remaining 50 villages shortly. Therefore, officials should take up this issue as a priority and complete the process at the earliest,” Dr. Ragapriya specifically said. A total of 10,902 hectares of agricultural land have been destroyed due to rain and floods. So far, a compensation of Rs. 8.08 crore has been given to 8,178 farmers against claims from 9,651 farmers and the remaining will be distributed shortly, the officials informed the Deputy Commissioner. As many as 777 houses were damaged and a compensation of Rs. 3.88 crore (Rs. 50,000 each) released to house owners. Of the total 777 houses, 59 were in Yadgir taluk followed by 109 houses in Shahapur taluk, 130 houses in Shorapur taluk, 158 houses in Wadagera taluk, 276 houses in Hunsagi taluk and 45 houses were damaged in Gurmitkal taluk, the officials explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/send-proposal-for-grants-for-building-graveyards-dc/article38040310.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Spirit of Xmas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spirit-of-xmas/article38040113.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Luminous||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/luminous/article38040401.ece
26 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 30 lakh seized, 3 arrested||The police arrested three persons and seized 38 red sanders logs that were allegedly transported in a lorry from Kadapa to Bengaluru. A release from district police on Saturday said the arrested were identified as S. Riaz Pasha,50, Shiak Khader Basha,30, and Inayat Pasha, 41. On information that a lorry load of red sanders was being transported from Badvel in Kadapa to Bengaluru, the Chilamatthur police intercepted a convoy of two-wheelers and the lorry on Friday night and confiscated 38 red sanders logs valued at Rs. 30 lakh. The Chilamatthur police had on November 29 intercepted a lorry carrying labourers from Tamil Nadu travelling to Kadapa district, but all of them managed to escape. The same people allegedly returned on Friday with the red sander logs in the lorry along with a couple of suspected smugglers. When he police intercepted thatm, two pilots allegedly abandoned two motorcycles, and the lorry driver along with the alleged smugglers fled the scene. However, the police managed to nab three persons. The police seized the lorry, motorcycles and mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-30-lakh-seized-3-arrested/article38039710.ece
26 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on expansion of SH 32 begins in Anantapur||As part of the widening work of the State Highway No.32 that began last week, officials have decided to demolish the Road Over Bridge (ROB) over Hyderabad-Bengaluru railway line in Anantapur. The half-a-century old bridge had developed cracks and will be replaced by a four-lane (23 meters wide) bridge. Roads and Buildings (National Highway) division, which has been entrusted with the execution of the widening work, has begun removing encroachments along the road and proposes to demolish the RoB that used to be the landmark since Independence. Completed in 1951, the two-lane flyover not only allowed a free flow of vehicular traffic over the busy railway line but also housed several offices and godowns, which have now been shifted. The contractor, S.R. Constructions, will execute the work for Rs. 198.25 crore at a -27% lesser value than the estimate and will complete the project by 24 October 2023, said Deputy Executive Engineer J. Jagadeesh Gupta. “We are planning to demolish the existing RoB in the first week of January and complete it within the shortest possible time to reduce traffic snarls on other routes that connect National Highway No.44 to the city centre. We hope to complete it within one year,” Mr. Gupta told The Hindu . The newly-developed four-lane road will have no land acquisition and start from the Nadimvanka Junction close to NH-44 and pass through Clock Tower, Saptagiri Circle, Surya Nagar, District Collector’s office and join the NH-42 (that goes towards Chittoor and ends at Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-expansion-of-sh-32-begins/article38039707.ece
26 December 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquid ganja seized||About 6.5 kg of liquid ganja worth about Rs. 5 lakh was seized from a person carrying it on a two-wheeler on the national highway at Gundugolanu in West Godavari district on Saturday. The accused reportedly told the police that he had bought the contraband from a person belonging to Chintapalli of the Visakhapatnam Agency area. “The accused was smuggling the liquid ganja from Rajahmundry to Guntur. We are trying to trace the roots of the racket,” said SP Rahul Dev Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquid-ganja-seized/article38040421.ece
26 December 2021||Hubballi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bommai to decide on new guidelines today||With rise in Omicron cases in the neighbouring States, the Karnataka government would decide on the new set of guidelines to check the pandemic after a meeting with experts on Sunday. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Saturday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai admitted that there was confusion over the new guidelines and restrictions on the New Year celebrations. “It will be clarified after meeting with experts on Sunday,” he said. Mr. Bommai said that Omicron cases were on the rise and the matter of concern for Karnataka was that they were increasing in the neighbouring States of Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “This is a cause for concern. A meeting with experts will be held on Sunday to discuss the situation and decide on appropriate measures to prevent its spread in Karnataka,” he said. Later speaking to presspersons in Vijayapura, the Chief Minister clarified that a decision in this regard would be taken after consulting experts on Sunday. “I already held a meeting at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha and gave some instructions. Subsequently new guidelines pertaining to Omicron have been issued by the Centre. All these will be discussed during the Sunday’s meeting and new guidelines will be announced,” he said. No foreign tour Earlier, during interaction with presspersons in Hubballi, he negated reports about his foreign tour and said that as of now he did not have any plan of foreign tour. “Now that the World Economic Forum conclave in Davos had been postponed to June, I do not have any foreign tour schedule,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bommai-to-decide-on-new-guidelines-today/article38039672.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discharged patients had mild or no symptoms||When Omicron cases were detected in the State on the night of December 14, there were several questions about its severity, medical condition of patients, treatment methods and others. Till December 25, 41 cases of the variant were detected in the State. Of them, ten were discharged on Friday. A few among the ten Omicron patients who were discharged from Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli, were given only multi-vitamin tablets since they did not have any symptoms. Some more were given medicines based on the symptoms. They were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms like cold. TIMS Director Dr Vimala Thomas said that all the ten patients have recovered and none of their condition was serious. Public health specialists and government hospital doctors have earlier cautioned that virus mutates when it passes through human beings multiple times, which could make it virulent. To avoid this, people were urged to wear mask, maintain physical distancing, besides taking vaccines. Effect of the variant on people with severe co-morbidities is yet to be learnt. Doctors said that if it has severe effect, people could face troubling times again and hospitals would be burdened. While doctors and health staff at TIMS were prepared with high-end medicines, mechanical ventilators and other medical resources to attend Omicron patients if their condition was to become critical, doctors from the hospital said that none of the ten patients needed mechanical ventilator or intense medical support. "Omicron did not lead to severe health complication in any of the ten patients who were discharged," said Dr Ehsan Ahmed Khan, medical superintendent of TIMS. The patients were discharged after testing negative in RT PCR. Currently, people in Telangana who are detected with Omicron are admitted at TIMS. Apart from the providing symptomatic treatment, isolation of the patients at the health facility is a measure to contain the spread of the variant. Some more are expected to be discharged in coming days.  If the situation becomes serious, people could face troubling times again and hospitals would be burdened. Doctors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discharged-patients-had-mild-or-no-symptoms/article38039668.ece
26 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan celebrates Christmas at church in Pulivendula||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy participated in the Christmas festivities along with his family members at his native Pulivendula town in Kadapa district on Saturday. Accompanied by his mother Vijayamma, wife Bharathi and other family members, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy arrived at the CSI Church of Rayalaseema Diocese, where he extended ‘Merry Christmas’ greetings to the fellow devout. After cutting a huge cake, he sat and listened to the holy sermons. He formally unveiled a plaque to mark the inauguration of a new building complex in the church and released the New Year calendar brought out by the church. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha, district in-charge Minister A. Suresh and Member of Parliament Y.S. Avinash Reddy were among those present. He later left for Kadapa airport, from where he left for Gannavaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-celebrates-christmas-at-church-in-pulivendula/article38040433.ece
26 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curtains down on one of ‘Asia’s largest screens’||It is curtains down on V Epiq theatre, touted to be the world’s third largest screen, in Sullurpeta, 96 km from here, much to the disappointment of movie-goers ahead of New Year. A joint venture of V-Celluloid and UV Creations, the exhibitor with three screens found the going tough in the wake of the alleged stringent regulations put in place by the Andhra Pradesh government through G.O. No. 35. “The multiplex close to the Chennai-Kolkata highway coming under the panchayat limits is unable to recover even maintenance costs and hence the decision to close it down,” according to its manager Raja Reddy. The promoters had reportedly pumped in over Rs. 40 crore for the facility equipped with SLS sound system and 4K laser projector. Nani-starrer Shyam Singha Roy was being screened there when the decision was taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curtains-down-on-one-of-asias-largest-screens/article38040428.ece
26 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Granite industry in dire straits||The granite sector was in the doldrums in 2021, thanks to ‘unimaginative” mining policy of the State government, hefty hike in ocean freights, and galloping price of fuel at a time when the sector was limping back to normal after the COVID-induced economic crisis the previous year. Smarting under the impact of the lockdown and partial curfew imposed to combat coronavirus, the granite barons were hoping to meet the pent-up global demand for both natural and artificial stone material at Chimakurthy and other places in Prakasam district, which is home to the world-famous black galaxy granite, at least during the year after arranging vaccination for about one lakh migrant workers, a majority of them who had returned to work from northern States. “The hopes of exporters have been dashed mainly due to logistic bottleneck. The granite barons are in a quandary due to high royalty rate charged by the government and unprecedented increase in the price of diesel,” according to a group of granite barons in the Building Material Special Economic Zone at Gullapalli. With sufficient orders on hand from overseas players, the gang-saw units operating from Gullapalli produced during the year over 600 containers worth natural and artificial stone material. However, they could not ship them in time to overseas destinations as oceanic freight rates remained very high, laments N. Sudhakar, managing director of Satya Exports. They were forced to buy add-on products like insurance as well. The container boxes were not freely available during the year. The number of vessels calling on Indian ports had come down as well following restrictions put in place in the wake of the pandemic in the European countries, explains Jyothi Granite Exports Chief Operating Officer M. Shivaram. The shipping lines quoted up to five times the hitherto price of about 2,000 US Dollars. “We are hoping against hope for revision of the freight rates at least in the new year,” he says. It will be a herculean task to meet the export target of 20% over the exports worth Rs. 483 crore done by the units in the SEZ during the previous year in the present circumstances, they feel. The year saw closure of a majority of the 1,500 cutter factories in the wake of hostile environment. Granite mining units, which have been paying royalty on cubic metre basis hitherto, were upset with introduction of new weighing system. The skyrocketing price of diesel during the year added to the woes. The year saw gang-saw units in SEZ pleading with the Centre to allow them to sell their products in the domestic market as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/granite-industry-in-dire-straits/article38040424.ece
26 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Protect farmers from exploitation in new Bill’||Noted farmers right activist Kuruganti Kavitha has urged the Centre to include provisions in the new Seeds Bill to build enough safeguards to prevent exploitation of farmers by seed companies. “Price regulation to protect all farmers is the need of the hour,” she said ahead of the much-expected tabling of the proposed Seeds Bill in Parliament soon. Farmers should be ensured good prices to seeds by private seed companies, she opined. “Importantly, simple compensation mechanisms which are timebound and accessible to farmers should be built as a provision into the Seeds Bill,” she said in a conversation with The Hindu . She termed the recent revocation of Pepsico’s patent on potato by the Protection of Plant Varieties & Farmers’ Rights (PPVFR) Authority a victory for farmers. Now that the farmers’ rights have been upheld, the PPVFR Authority should proactively create awareness among the growers on their rights to save, sow, resow, exchange or sell seeds in an unbranded manner, said Ms. Kavitha who successfully fought the case against the multinational global food and beverage company. This landmark judgement of December 3, 2021 sent out a strong signal to the PVP certificate holders that their right is not against farmers but only against non-farmer competitors, she explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/include-provision-to-protect-farmers-from-exploitation-in-new-bill/article38039713.ece
26 December 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christmas celebrated with caution in South Coastal A.P.||Adhering to COVID-19 safety norms, Christmas was celebrated with religious fervour and traditional enthusiasm across South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. The Jewett Memorial Baptist Church, head of all Baptist churches in the South, witnessed a good congregation of devotees. Ongole MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy joined the devotees in attending the midnight mass. Fr. Illuri Iradayaraj held the special prayers at the St. Theresa RCM Church at the old vegetable market centre. With fresh COVID cases coming down, the faithful also thronged the 150 denomination of churches in Ongole and offered special prayers to rejoice the birth of Jesus Christ. The historic Baptist church at Ramayapatnam was also a beehive of religious activity. Candlelight service In Nellore, the celebrations peaked at the decked up ABM church at the Nakallavari centre with devotees visiting in large numbers for the candlelight service. After giving a miss to big social gatherings last year, a large number of people gathered at the lone star Telugu Baptist church as also the St.Antony Church at Fatehkhanpet in the city. Members of GenX had a gala time getting choicest gifts from Santa Claus. Clothes distributed Members of the Christian community tastefully decorated their homes with stars and Christmas trees. Voluntary organisations distributed new clothes to under-privileged children on the occasion. Youth created ‘nativity scenes’ representing the infant Jesus, his mother Mary and her husband, Joseph at Cloughpet in Ongole. John E.Clough from the USA had spread the message of peace and love in these parts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christmas-celebrated-with-caution-in-south-coastal-ap/article38039712.ece
26 December 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVL blames State for ‘delay’ in petrochemical project||The Kakinada petrochemical complex project has been delayed for over four years as the State government is unwilling to extend support, including Viability Gap Funding, BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao has alleged. In 2017, the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) and the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) had signed a pact with the Andhra Pradesh government for setting up the petrochemical complex in 2,000 acres in the Kakinada Special Economic Zone (KSEZ). Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Narasimha Rao alleged that the State government was not cooperating in spite of the project having huge employment potential. “The Rs. 40,000-crore project is not on track as the State government is not keen on grabbing the opportunity,” he said. Raids on theatres Referring to the controversy over the State’s government slashing the prices of cinema tickets and conducting raids on theatres, Mr. Narasimha Rao asserted that the “direct attack” on the theatres would have an adverse impact on the State’s economy and economic activity. “The government’s policies are creating hurdles for the film industry,” he said. Stating that A.P. was the second State to get highest allocation under the MGNREGS, he said, “The allocation has been tripled compared to the financial year 2013-14, when the State received barely Rs. 26,000 crores. In 2020-21, the State received Rs. 76,000 crore.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-blames-state-for-delay-in-petrochemical-project/article38040431.ece
26 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||European Omicron trends offer Kerala key lessons||As Kerala braces for a potential spread of the Omicron virus variant in the days ahead, multiple plans and strategies will have to be implemented to ensure that the health system is not overwhelmed and non-COVID care is not hit as it was during the peak of the previous Delta wave, suggest public health experts. “It is a different set of challenges that we might be up against this time, if a community transmission of the Omicron variant were to take place. After two years of dealing with the pandemic we know that there is no need for a knee-jerk reaction. But there are huge uncertainties over at what point should we act and whether we should anticipate that the situation involving Omicron may turn out to be as bad as Delta was,” a senior public health expert says. While real world data from South Africa always maintained that the Omicron variant caused less serious disease than Delta, public health experts seemed to be waiting for data from the U.K. and Europe to confirm this. The latest study from Imperial College, London, concludes that the chances of Omicron-infected people being hospitalised is 20-25% less than those hit by Delta and that the chances of having a hospital admission of more than a day was less than 40-45%. The study also says that this reduced severity of the disease could be upstaged by the greater transmissibility of Omicron, which can infect a large number of people all at once, and especially reach the vulnerable much faster than other variants did. Public health experts point out that Kerala would be facing a unique situation of having both Delta and Omicron in circulation in the community. Going forward, either of these two or in combination can become a problem if test positivity rate goes over 10% and things can spiral out of control. “The key metric that we should be looking at, in a situation of an Omicron surge, would be how fast hospital beds, ICU beds and oxygen requirements are moving and not case numbers. Once community transmission of Omicron starts, it will then run through everyone (the doubling time is just two days). One major concern would be that if healthcare workers are affected in large numbers, all patient care activities will break down. The absenteeism of healthcare workers in hospitals can precipitate a crisis and this we might have to anticipate and plan ahead,” says R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. “There is a category of people — those above 60 years, multiple co-morbidities, the immunocompromised — for whom Omicron need not necessarily be mild. As they were vaccinated much early, vaccine-derived immunity would have waned for them,” points out Dr. Aravind. Main challenge “Another main challenge is the high immune escape potential of Omicron which can evade both monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and antibodies generated by vaccines or previous infection. This means that none of the mAbs currently used as life-saving drugs to prevent serious infection (Delta) in the vulnerable will work for Omicron infections and this might be a handicap,” he adds. Public health experts point out that Denmark’s Omicron experience is something that should be taken note of by Kerala. Denmark with 77% background vaccination rate and a high level of previous natural infection — a situation akin to Kerala — was one of the first nations in Europe to experience the Omicron surge. The picture emerging from both the U.K. and Denmark looks almost the same. Hospitalisations have surged but are now slowing down and showing signs of stabilising. The projected worst case scenario has not played out anywhere yet. Even when data from South Africa, U.K. and Denmark point towards less hospitalisations and decreased severity, scientists are cautious because they are not sure whether the variant is intrinsically less virulent or if the reduced severity is because cases have so far been concentrated in the younger population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/european-omicron-trends-offer-kerala-key-lessons/article38039667.ece
26 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarva darshan tokens to be released tomorrow||The online quota of Slotted Sarva Darshan (SSD) tokens for January will be released at 9 a.m. on December 27 benefiting the common pilgrims. While a limited number of 5,000 tokens will be made available between January 13 and 22 in view of the ten-day Vaikunta Dwara darshanam, about 10,000 tokens will be issued on rest of the days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarva-darshan-tokens-to-be-released-tomorrow/article38039714.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati accountant on IOB board||B. Chandra Reddy, a chartered accountant of Tirupati, has been appointed a part-time non-official Director on the Board of Directors of Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) by the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance. The nomination will hold good for a period of three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-accountant-on-iob-board/article38039715.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book hailed for promoting social awareness||Speakers at the release of the book ‘Dussaluva Kappanga’ authored by noted story writer R.C.K. Raju hailed the work for promoting social awareness. M. Ravi Kumar, head of the department of Telugu at Sri Venkateswara University, who formally released the book at a function organised by Public Relations Society of India, said the book aimed at promoting change in the behaviour of readers towards social issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-hailed-for-promoting-social-awareness/article38039716.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Honour for A.P. surgeon||The research paper submitted by Jayachandra Reddy, pursuing M.Ch. Surgical Oncology at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS University), was chosen for the ‘Best research paper’ award at the recent annual conference of Association of Surgeons of India (ASI). Dr. Reddy’s is the lone paper representing Andhra Pradesh at the conference of the ASI, functioning since 1938 and comprising more than 30,000 surgeons across the country. He received accolades from SVIMS Director B. Vengamma and surgical oncology H. Narendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/honour-for-ap-surgeon/article38039718.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yanamala demands public debate on ‘deepening’ financial crisis||Senior TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Saturday demanded a public debate on the “deepening financial crisis” in the State. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said people of the State deserved to know every detail of the “massive loans” availed by the YSRCP government and the “rising levels of poverty.” The former Finance Minister said people should know the factors that were leading to “economic bankruptcy” of the State that had been suffering on account of “excessive loans, populism, increase in the level of poverty, drop in investments, growing unemployment, and overall retrogression in every sector.” ‘Economic disparity’ The level of economic disparity had risen from 38% to 43% during the YSRCP term so far, and there was a drop in the per capita income by 1.4%. The savings of the poorer sections had dwindled like never before as taxes were being increased and freebies withdrawn. The “forcible collection of money under the One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme” had added to their woes, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. Expressing concern over rise in off-budget borrowings above the market loans, he said the capital expenditure on productive assets had come down alarmingly. Rude jolt He further blamed the “wrong policies” of the government for an alarming rise in the overall debt to Rs. 7 lakh crore in just two-and-a- half years. “The GDSP dropping to 2.58% in 2020-21 is a rude jolt,” the former Finance Minister observed. “The poor are the worst-hit by the misrule,” he said, adding they were finding it difficult to make ends meet in the wake of increasing prices of essential commodities and reduced income. Inflation had touched a whopping 14.2% and the State was positioned in the 20th place in the multi-dimensional poverty index, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. Reiterating his demand for a public debate on key issues such as revenue deficit, fiscal deficit, spending on welfare schemes, per capita income and the prevailing economic imbalance, he said people had the right to know the facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yanamala-demands-public-debate-on-deepening-financial-crisis/article38040435.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Justice Ramana has a busy day in the city||The State government hosted ‘High Tea’ for Chief Justice of India N.V.Ramana in the city on Saturday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Ministers and higher officers hosted Justice Ramana and his wife. Earlier in the day, Justice Ramana had visitors at a hotel in the city. A huge number of people, including elected representatives, government officials and persons representing various organisations, met Justice Ramana. A few among them include Judges, Deputy Chief Minister M. Narayana Swamy, senior IAS officer M.T. Krishna Babu, Padma awardee Annavarapu Ramaswamy, former Assembly Deputy Speaker Mandali Buddha Prasad, former Union Minister Kavuri Sambasiva Rao and former minister and TDP state president K. Atchannaidu. Justice Ramana had a darshan of Goddess Kanakadurga atop Indrakeeladri early in the morning. Justice Ramana along with his wife offered prayers at the temple. On Sunday, Justice Ramana will deliver Lavu Venkateswarlu Memorial speech at Siddhartha Engineering College at 9.30 a.m. and later take part in a meeting with advocates at the Acharya Nagarjuna University in Guntur. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will host a ‘High Tea’ for the CJI in the evening at Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/justice-ramana-has-a-busy-day-in-the-city/article38040484.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC initiatives for a healthy workforce post bifurcation||The perennial burden of accumulated revenue loss and fresh challenges posed by the pandemic-induced lockdown notwithstanding, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has made efforts to ensure good health of its employees by providing them adequate medical services. The corporation’s central hospital at Tarnaka in Hyderabad in the composite Andhra Pradesh catered to the medical needs of more than one lakh employees and their families. After bifurcation, the APSRTC started working from Vijayawada as its headquarters and discharged its administrative duties from the NTR administrative block on the premises of Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS). But drivers and conductors had to travel to the Hyderabad hospital for their medical needs. Taking their ordeal into account, the APSRTC built a 50-bed state-of-the-art corporate hospital in 2.5 acres at Vidyadharapuram in Vijayawada at a cost of Rs. 15 crore in July 2017, with the the employees contributing Rs. 100 every month for two years. “All medical services are available at the RTC hospital at Vidyadharapuram and the thrust is on quality,” said corporation Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao. Though the Employees Health Scheme cards had been given to the staff after the corporation’s merger into the government in January last year, APSRTC continues to provide institutional medical services as usual, he said. “Free consultation and medicines are provided here, a facility not available in other government departments,” said Mr. Rao. The hospital comprises ICU, casualty and post-operative wards for emergency patients and is equipped with departments of general medicine, surgery, orthopaedics, gynaecology, dermatology, ophthalmology, ENT, paediatrics, radiology, pathology, dental and anaesthesia. Besides, consultant doctors in cardiology, oncology, urology and nephrology examine patients twice a month. The hospital also conducts blood donation camps with the help of the Red Cross Society and encourages staff to participate in service activities. Helpline numbers (9494248897, 0866-2415206) had been introduced to enable employees to seek medical advice in case of an emergency. A separate building adjacent to the hospital caters to the night stay of the patients’ attendants who come from distant areas. Dispensaries In addition to this, 18 dispensaries had been established across the State for RTC employees. “The corporation has engaged the services of 46 doctors who work at these hospitals, including the central hospital, across the State,” Mr. Rao said. The APSRTC also opened a dispensary at Tarnaka recently for its retired employees who have settled in Hyderabad. “About 200 staff utilise the services daily and we try to give them the best,” said D.V.S. Appa Rao, Chief Medical Officer at the Central Hospital in Vidyadharapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-initiatives-for-a-healthy-workforce-post-bifurcation/article38040426.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Burglars try to loot retired IGP’s house||Suspected robbers entered the house of retired Inspector General of Police (IGP) T. Yoganand’s house at Kanuru on Saturday and threatened his parents at knife point to handover the valuables. The burglars entered into the house, located at Teacher’s Colony, Tulsi Nagar, under Penamaluru police station limits, around 2 p.m. and threatened Mr. Yoganand’s parents, T. Venkata Thata Rao and Swarna Kumari, to handover the cash and gold ornaments. When they tried to resist, one of the two miscreants, tried to smother Mr. Thata Rao, who fell down from the chair and raised an alarm for help. “Thieves entered into the house on the pretext of enquiring about COVID-19 vaccination. Later, they forced us to give the gold ornaments and money. When I refused to give, they tried to kill me by smothering with a pillow,” Mr. Thata Rao said in the complaint lodged with the Penamaluru police. Robbers escaped When their domestic help Sathipandu came out suddenly, the robbers escaped. Efforts are on to trace the accused, said Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata. Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Harshavardhan Raju said the accused were aged about 35 years. The incident created panic in the locality as the robbers struck on the house in broad daylight. Clues team and sniffer dog squad were pressed into service. Mr. Yoganand, an IPS officer, served as Visakhapatnam Police Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/burglars-try-to-loot-retired-igps-house/article38039708.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christmas prayers held with COVID norms||Christmas, the festival marking the birth anniversary of Jesus Christ, has been celebrated across the city on Saturday. Thousands of families flocked to churches late on Friday and Saturday to attend the special prayers. The midnight mass which is usually held during the early hours of the Christmas day was held on Friday evening and night in many churches in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Prayers were also offered in the day. The number of masses offered were also increased to accommodate more devotees while following precautions like physical distancing and avoiding overcrowding of the churches. St. Paul’s Cathedral, St. Peter’s Co-Cathedral, Gunadala Matha Shrine, St. Paul’s Centenary, St. Paul’s Basilica and St. Paul’s Centenary Church witnessed higher footfalls. All the churches in the city were decked up for the festival and different types of cribs displayed by them stood as special attractions. At Novotel hotel, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana along with his wife took part in Christmas celebrations. He was visited by the representatives of various Christian congregations after which he cut a cake as part of the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christmas-prayers-held-with-covid-norms/article38040486.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man gets 10-year jail in POCSO Act case||The Special Court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, awarded 10 years imprisonment to A. Venkateswara Rao, who allegedly sexually assaulted a minor girl in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh. The accused, a native of Chinna Akulamannadu village in Gudur mandal, kidnapped a 17-year-old girl in August 2014. Kidnap charges Following a complaint, the police registered a case on charges of kidnap and sexual assault against the accused and rescued the victim. As the crime was proved against Venkateswara Rao, 29, the court sentenced him to undergo 10 years imprisonment. It also imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000 on him, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-man-gets-10-years-for-assaulting-girl/article38039675.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake currency racket busted, two held||The Guntur police busted a fake currency racket, which was reportedly operating in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The police reportedly took two persons into custody. According to the Medikonduru police, a six-member gang was allegedly printing and circulating fake currency using a colour duplication machine and a printer. Based on a complaint lodged by the public, police traced the gang members and took two of them into custody. Investigation officers reportedly seized a few fake notes of Rs. 100, Rs. 200 and Rs. 500 denomination. The South Zone police launched a hunt to nab the remaining accused. “The accused are natives of A.P. and Telangana. We are trying to find out since how long the gang has been committing the crime, any other agents involved and other details,” a police officer said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-currency-racket-busted-two-held/article38040422.ece
26 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore dist. reports lone COVID-19 death in State||The State reported one death due to COVID-19 and 104 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The lone death was reported from Nellore district and the cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,489 and 20,76,410 respectively. The recovery rate and number of recoveries stand at 99.24% and 20,60,672 respectively with133 patients recovering in the past day. The number of active cases came down to 1,279. The daily test positivity rate of the 28,209 samples tested in the past day was 0.36% and that of the total 3.11 crore samples tested so far was 6.64%. Highest daily tally Chittoor reported 18 infections, the highest single day tally of infections among the districts. It was followed by West Godavari (16), East Godavari (12), Guntur (11), Srikakulam (10), Krishna (10), Visakhapatnam (9), Kadapa (7), Nellore (7), Anantapur (3) and Prakasam (1). Kurnool and Vizianagaram reported no infection in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-dist-reports-lone-covid-19-death-in-state/article38040436.ece
26 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour, gaiety mark Christmas celebrations in city||Christmas was celebrated with great enthusiasm and fervour here. People thronged churches for midnight mass late on Friday night and also offered special prayers again on Saturday Ross Hill Church in One Town, Trinity Lutheran Church near Suryabagh, Infant Jesus Church at Seethammadhara, St Paul’s Church at Siripuram and many other churches are among those which received thousands of people since the morning. The churches were decked up beautifully with decorative lights and Christmas trees. Cribs depicting the birth of Jesus Christ turned out to be a major attraction at many places. People sang songs and offered special prayers. Irrespective of religion, many people took part in the prayers in several churches and hugged each other. Social media was abuzz with people exchanging greetings. Households set up Christmas trees, stars and lights as part of the festival. Families wrapped up the festive spirit by offering gifts to each other, especially to the children. Many households organised community lunch and dinner inviting friends and neighbours with a wide varieties of delicacies including cakes and sweets. A number of commercial establishments illuminated their stores and adorned with Christmas theme-decoration. Many shops have set up people dressed up as Santa Claus to greet and receive their customers. Local bakeries and coffee shops saw a good turnout throughout the day. Plum cakes, cookies and brownies were sold on a large-scale. A few bakeries designed special plum cakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour-gaiety-mark-christmas-celebrations-in-city/article38040492.ece
26 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police streamline parking of vehicles on Beach Road||The city traffic police streamlined parking of vehicles along Beach Road stretch in view of increasing number of tourists visiting the city due to holiday season on Saturday. The traffic police personnel have given strict instructions to motorists to park two-wheelers along the Park Hotel-NTR Statue stretch (towards beach), while four-wheeler users were asked to park in the NTR Statue-Park Hotel Junction stretch, at only specified places. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha took to social media to announce the changes and also appreciated the move of traffic police. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that they have implemented the same last year and have resumed this rule again, keeping in view of tourist rush. He said that this parking changes will ensure free flow of traffic. Moreover auto-rickshaws and other type of vehicles have no entry from NTR Statue-Park Hotel Junction stretch, he said, asking tourists and locals to cooperate. “A total of 25 traffic police, 30 home guards and 17 A.R personnel are manning the stretch, apart from 15 personnel from top of buildings to monitor the rush,” he added. Boards on flyover Keeping in view the recent fatal road accidents on Telugu Thalli Flyover in the city, the traffic police arranged warning boards appealing to motorists to go slow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-streamline-parking-of-vehicles-on-visakhapatnam-beach-road/article38040453.ece
26 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA Park opened for public||Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Chairperson A. Vijaya Nirmala procured the first ticket of VMRDA Park and opened it for the public here on Saturday. She along with Chief Engineer of VMRDA, Bhavani Shankar, and other officials visited the park. It may be noted that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has inaugurated the park last week officially. The GVMC has renovated the park with a budget of around Rs. 33 crore as part of Smart Cities initiative. A few days ago, the corporation has handed over the park to the VMRDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmrda-park-opened-for-public/article38040490.ece
26 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC completed 47 projects, says smart city corporation chairman||Greater Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Limited (GVSCCL) Chairman G. Venkateswara Rao said that as part of Smart City initiative, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has completed as many as 47 projects, including the recently built VMRDA Park and Multi-Level Car Parking Project (MLCP) at Jagadamba centre, and as many as 23 more projects are in the pipeline. He said that another MLCP is also being constructed at Siripuram Junction and is scheduled to be completed within two years. He took part in an interactive session held at the ongoing 7th CREDAI-Visakhapatnam Expo here on Saturday. Speaking during the programme, he said that there is no particular definition for the Smart City, but it aims at improving civic amenities in the cities, develop infrastructure, digitalise services and deliver them fast. Stressing on the importance of involvement of people in finalising various programmes, he said that so far plans and projects were finalised after wide consultations with all stakeholders and, for the third stage which would start in 2024, the same process would be followed. Earlier Secretary, CREDAI-Visakhapatnam, E. Ashok Kumar, welcomed him. Advisor to the expo P. Koteswara Rao and members of the CREDAI were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-completed-47-projects-says-smart-city-corporation-chairman/article38040489.ece
26 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tyres catch fire at Paderu||A minor fire accident occurred when a stock of tyres caught fire near RTC Complex at Paderu in Visakhapatnam district during the earlys hours of Saturday. Police personnel and fire tenders reached the spot and doused the fire. Police officials said that some persons might have lit camp fire due to cold weather conditions and the sparks might have spread leading to the minor fire. The situation was brought under control within a short time, the police officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tyres-catch-fire-at-paderu/article38040488.ece
26 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records nine new COVID cases and 14 recoveries||The district recorded nine new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,321. During the same time period, 14 persons who were undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered. This increases the number of recoveries to 1,58,088. The death toll stands at 1,107 as no COVID-19 death was reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-nine-new-covid-cases-and-14-recoveries/article38040487.ece
26 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy imparts training for Marine Police||As part of the coastal security initiatives at the Eastern Naval Command, a maiden coastal security training capsule for 15 Marine Police personnel from eight coastal districts of A.P. was conducted under the aegis of the Naval Officer-in-Charge (Andhra Pradesh) from December 20 to 24. The training capsule included classroom instructions on seamanship, navigation, communication, damage control, and fire-fighting. Practical training was also imparted onboard a Fast Interceptor Craft. The training culminated in distribution of certificates of participation by Cmde M.G. Raju, the Naval Officer-in-Charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-imparts-training-for-marine-police/article38040438.ece
26 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Development came to a halt in State, says Sujana||Rajya Sabha member Y.S. Chowdhary has criticised the YSR Congress Party(YSRCP) saying that people of the State have never seen such a bad governance. Addressing the media here on Saturday, he alleged that development in the State is going back by about 25 to 30 years. Mr. Chowdhary said that with the negligence of the State government people were likely to migrate to other areas for employement. Citing the recent attack on YSRCP activist S. Subbarao Gupta in Ongole by the YSRCP workers, he said that that party’s own cadre do not have protection. He denied involvement in Hayagriva Infratech Private Limited issue and backing the proprietor of that company, as alleged by a few YSRCP leaders. Mr. Chowdary said that the State government’s move towards the cinema theatres and film industry led to suffering of managementa of cinema theatres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/development-came-to-a-halt-in-state-says-sujana/article38040494.ece
26 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||(Minor fire accident at VSP)||There was a minor fire accident at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) here in the early hours of Saturday due to a blast in Blast Furnace -2, Krishna, after two tyres got jammed, leading to spillage of hot metal onto the shop floor. Officials confirmed that there were no injuries or casualties. Work resumed after a brief shutdown, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-fire-accident-at-vsp/article38040437.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/big-draw/article38040440.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keeping a vow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keeping-a-vow/article38039720.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infusing life into art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infusing-life-into-art/article38040496.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rallies prohibited till January 2||In response to High Court directions two days ago to check the spread of Omicron variant of COVIDd, the State government on Saturday issued orders prohibiting conduct of rallies and public meetings throughout the State till January 2. Other events involving public congregations will be permitted subject to maintenance of physical distancing within the venue while no person was allowed without mask and arrangement of IR thermometers/thermal scanners at the entry point to scan persons entering inside. The orders for imposition of fine to people for not wearing mask in public places should be enforced strictly. The order under provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005, was issued in the light of suggestions by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and directions of the High Court. Three lawyers Ravichander, Chikkudi Prabhakar and Pawan Kumar had moved the High Court against the threat of Omicron spreading because people were moving without masks at government and political programmes and traditional celebrations. They highlighted the possibility of people gathering in large numbers in coming days. In this background, the High Court asked the government to issue orders within two or three days to check gatherings at Christmas, New Year celebrations and Sankranthi. Minister tests positive Panchayatraj Minister E. Dayakar Rao who was among five Ministers to camp at New Delhi for a week and returned here late on Friday night contracted COVID. The group of Ministers remained in New Delhi to seek a written assurance from Union Food Minister Piyush Goyal that the Centre will procure the entire quantity of paddy produced in the recent kharif but Mr. Goyal was unavailable after promising to get back to them in two days during their initial meeting. Member of Parliament from Chevella G. Ranjith Reddy, who was part of the delegation, also tested positive for COVID. He tweeted asking the people who came in contact with him to go in for isolation. As he felt sick on Saturday evening, Mr. Dayakar Rao underwent medical checkup and rapid antigen test which revealed his infection. Immediately, he went into isolation and advised people who came in contact with him in the last few days to observe home quarantine. Mr. Rao appealed to people of his Assembly constituency to contact his personal staff for redress of their issues during his isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rallies-prohibited-till-january-2/article38040339.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A mixed bag in revenue receipts||The financial situation of the State has been a mixed bag for the current calendar year with the revenue receipts barely crossing one third of the targets set for the year. The State started off the year with an optimistic note after the adverse impact it had on its finances previous fiscal due to Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. But, it’s expectations of realising tax and non-tax revenue of around Rs. 10,000 crore every month in tune with the budget estimates did not materialise even after lifting the COVID-19 restrictions in June. It had been managing to get tax revenue of around Rs. 8,300 crore on an average for the first seven months of the financial year, except for July when the revenue touched 9,000 crore mark. The State has estimated total revenue receipts of Rs. 1.76 lakh crore during the current fiscal in the budget document of which, tax revenue was estimated to be Rs. 1.06 lakh crore and non-tax revenue at Rs. 30,557.35 crore. The State’s revenue receipts till the end of October are pegged at Rs. 62,208 crore, little over one third of the revenue targeted for the current fiscal. The actuals of the State’s own tax revenue stood at Rs. 54,198 crore till the end of October as against the estimated Rs. 1.06 lakh crore for 2021-22, achieving half of the target with five months remaining in the fiscal. Officials of the Finance Department remained tight-lipped on the revenue receipts during November indicating that the figure remained more or less the same. Except for the sales tax collection which was estimated at Rs. 26,500 crore for the year of which Rs. 15,020 crore had been realized till October end and Excise duties estimated at Rs. 17,000 crore of which Rs. 8,611 crore had been realised, revenue receipts from other sectors appear not so encouraging. The State has estimated revenue from grants in aid and contributions at Rs. 38,669 crore for the fiscal. But it could realise just Rs. 5,155.98 crore till the end of October while the non-tax revenue at Rs. 2,854 crore during the period against the estimated Rs. 30,557 crore too had not been upto expectations. As a result, the State had to depend on borrowings, open market borrowings, in the form of State Development Loans which already crossed the Rs. 30,000 crore mark against the targeted Rs. 45,559 crore. Borrowings, as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao claimed more than once, that were being utilised for productive purposes should be considered as investment and not loans. Key factors One of the major factors that is influencing the State’s expenditure is the spending on the welfare sector in the form of various schemes, including the Rythu Bandhu involving spending in excess of Rs. 15,000 crore in the form of investment assistance to farmers every year. The government had significantly enhanced the social welfare pensions to different categories as part of welfare measures. Added to this is the implementation of revised pay scales to all categories of employees from the last few months with 30% hike in the fitment. Pay revision for the employees and revision of pensions in line with the PRC recommendations is likely to impose additional burden of Rs. 10,000 crore on the State-exchequer. The latest in the list of welfare schemes has been the Dalit Bandhu, the one of its kind scheme for financial empowerment of dalits with Rs. 10 lakh grant for each of the eligible families entailing an expenditure of few thousands of crores every year. While the list of the welfare schemes has been growing consistently, the State’s revenues however are not keeping pace with expectations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-mixed-bag-in-revenue-receipts/article38040334.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Procure paddy without conditions’||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao has demanded that the Centre purchase paddy from State without any conditions. Participating in several programmes held in the district including laying foundation stone for Telangana State Seed and Organic Certification Authority office and seeds godown at Siddipet market along with Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy, Zilla Parishad chairperson V. Roja Sharma and others on Saturday, Mr. Harish Rao said that Siddipet would become seed hub shortly and farmers can get quality seed. “A delegation of our Ministers went to New Delhi to meet Union Minister and they were humiliated. They went there to protect the interests of farmers. Food security is on the list of Centre and farming should not be seen in profit and loss manner. This was not right on the part of Centre,” said Mr. Harish Rao adding that this needed to be explained to public in detail. He alleged that Union Government had been weakening the agriculture markets. The Minister suggested farmers go for cops like oil palm, seri-culture and pulses stating that these crops would offer better remuneration. Amemorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between Agriculture Market Committee (AMC) and Siddipet Degree College under which the students studying economics would conduct a study on the crops that are in demand and can be marketed and make suggestions based on that. Mr. Harish Rao inaugurated 100- bed area hospital at Dubbak municipality along with Zilla Parisahd chairperson V. Roja Sharma, MLA Raghunandan Rao, MLCs Fareeduddin, Dr Yadava Reddy and others. Referring to the increase of omicron cases, the Minister suggested to get ready for third dose of vaccine if the Central government made such suggestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/procure-paddy-without-conditions/article38040338.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth demands houses for stone-cutter community||TPCC president Revanth Reddy demanded the government to construct houses for the stone-cutter community, whose houses were demolished in Serilingampally constituency. Mr. Reddy, who visited the affected families on Saturday, said that the responsibility lied with Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao to protect the poor ‘vaddera’ community people, who have been staying at the same place for the last 30 years. “Construct double bedroom houses for them on the same land,” he told Mr. Rama Rao and assured people that the Congress would support them. Mr. Reddy also questioned Serilingampally MLA Arikepudi Gandhi, who, he said, had promised pattas to these people and garnered their votes. “Now, he is nowhere to be seen when the huts are demolished,” the TPCC chief said. He added that the authorities demolished the huts without giving prior notices to the residents and all the 250 families were left homeless. The Congress leader also said that the residents had Aadhaar cards, ration cards and electricity connections given by government authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-demands-houses-for-stone-cutter-community/article38040347.ece
26 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eight held for fabricating Aadhaar documents||Eight members of a gang who fabricated documents for Aadhaar enrolment and updations were apprehended by Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (West Zone) team here on Friday. The gang forged birth certificates for Aadhaar enrolments or updations in Aadhaar cards and used unauthorised Aadhaar kits with Assam IDs, and cheated the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) by carrying out Aadhaar operations in unauthorised locations for their illegal gains, Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. The accused were identified as T. Nitesh Singh, 30, from Borabanda, Syed Mustafa alias Salman, 28, from Hakeempet, Tolichowki, Rabbani MA., 28, a resident of Golnaka, Mohd. Azhar Shareef, 27, from Tolichowki, Mohd. Sohail, 23, from SRT Nagar, Borabanda, Shaik Jahangir Pasha, 37, a resident of Old Hafeezpet, Miyapur, Mohd. Anwaruddin, 34, from Attapur, Rajendra Nagar, and Mohd.Ahmed, 20, Jahanuma, Charminar. One at large One Pavan, 35, who was working in the Aadhaar agency in Assam, is at large. Police seized six Aadhaar Kits (laptops, iris, fingerprint slabs, cameras), five stamps, Aadhaar card enrolment forms attested by duplicate gazetted officer stamp and signature, forged birth certificates, fake Aadhaar cards and Rs. 80,000 in cash from the possession of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eight-held-for-fabricating-aadhaar-documents/article38040324.ece
26 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New Hyderabad CP to focus on shady deals on DarkNet||Now is the time to focus on the increased caseload of cybercrimes and shady deals on the DarkNet, Hyderabad’s new Commissioner of Police C.V. Anand said on Saturday. Listing his top priorities, Mr. Anand stressed the need to maintain communal harmony as the city is known for it’s Ganga-Jamunai tehzeeb , apart from women safety, extensive use of technology in day-to-day policing and traffic. “Peace leads to development. Law and order will be one of my top priorities and special focus will be on further strengthen women safety,” Mr. Anand said. Having worked for over 11 years in metropolitan urban policing as DCP East and Central Zones of Hyderabad, Commissioner of Police, Vijayawada, Additional CP (Traffic) Hyderabad and CP Cyberabad, “I have a comprehensive understanding about this place which will help me in carrying out my duties in the new assignment,” he said. Expressing concern over the usage of drugs, the Commissioner said special drives to curb the drug menace will continue. Further, he said that one aspect of police which touches every citizen is traffic, and they will be very stern about it. As DCP Central zone, he established the ‘Lake Police’ in 2002 to bring better policing in and around Hussainsagar lake and to date they have saved thousands of lives of those trying to commit suicide. When he was Addl. CP (Traffic), Mr. Anand brought in several innovations and introduced new technologies for better traffic management. The current ‘Drunk Driving Enforcement’ was started by him and the SOPs related to its enforcement and jail sentences was set by him. He introduced free lefts, reversible traffic lanes, closing of the gaps in medians to streamline traffic flows, and one-ways were some traffic engineering methods, apart from the e-challan system, which is now being implemented across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-hyderabad-cp-to-focus-on-shady-deals-on-darknet/article38040328.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress to pull down ‘monstrous’ TRS-BJP alliance||Describing the BJP-TRS alleged alliance as a `monster’ working against the farmers’ interests, TPCC working president T. Jagga Reddy said the Congress will play the role of a giant killer to end the unholy alliance. At a press conference here, he said the monster has to be killed if the farmers have to survive and provide food to the nation. He said the entire episode of BJP-TRS leaders exchanging words on paddy crisis was part of the script readied by the BJP top leadership in connivance with the TRS. Claiming that general elections would be advanced to February and March in 2023 by the TRS and the agreement between the two parties is to create a ‘fake fight’ in the next one year to reduce the impact of Congress in the state, he said the very idea of not buying the rice in the next season is part of that strategy. Mr. Reddy said people of Telangana are not so naive and they are watching this drama and will teach a lesson to both TRS and BJP at the right time. Farmers are feeling cheated by both Modi and KCR and Congress will work to support the farmers. Women and youngsters should also realise the dangerous game being played by both the parties, he said. He appealed to people to use their powerful vote wisely and not to fall prey to the money politics of the TRS and BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-to-pull-down-monstrous-trs-bjp-alliance/article38040341.ece
26 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||UMF condemns ‘genocidal’ speeches in Haridwar||The United Muslim Forum (UMF), a body of faith leaders, on Saturday criticised what they said was the inaction of the Centre, Uttarakhand government and police against the reported speeches delivered by those from Hindutva organisations in Haridwar, and hoped the international community would take note of the incident. In a statement released to the media, the UMF alleged that the Uttarakhand government was ‘mute’. They said that the international community, the United Nations, Commonwealth, United Nations Commission on Human Rights Commission, and International Criminal Court would take note of the hate speeches and exert pressure on the Indian government to take action against the Hindutva groups. The UMF described the speeches at the Dharam Sansad as ‘genocidal’. They expressed concern and outrage over the nature of speeches, which they said called for picking up arms, removing Muslims from the country and calling for their genocide, and for acceptance of ‘India’s first terrorist’ Nathuram Godse. The United Muslim Forum also expressed anguish at one of the speakers’ wishing to kill former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh like Godse had done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/umf-condemns-genocidal-speeches-in-haridwar/article38040343.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISO certificate for Siddipet integrated veg., meat market||For the first time in the State, the integrated vegetable and meat market in Siddipet received the ISO certificate. The certificate was handed over to market committee chairman Pala Sairam by Finance and Health Minister Harish Rao at a programme held at the district headquarters on Saturday. The Minister also inaugurated the first vermicompost shed at the market yard. And to make it convenient for drivers and hamalis working at the market yard, Mr. Rao gave different area names to the various sheds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iso-certificate-for-siddipet-veg-meat-market/article38040345.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three more Omicron cases in State||Three more Omicron cases were detected in Telangana on Saturday, taking the total number of people down with the variant to 41. Of them, 10 were discharged on Friday. The three new cases are passengers who have come to the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Shamshabad, from other than ‘at-risk’ countries. Genome sequencing results of 20 samples are awaited. 140 COVID cases Meanwhile, the State registered 140 COVID cases on Saturday. While 26,947 samples were put to test, results of 4,267 are awaited. Two more COVID patients have died. The new 140 cases includes 92 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and 14 from Rangareddy. From March 2, 2020 to December 25, 2.94 crore samples were examined and 6,80,553 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 3,499 were active cases, 6,73,033 have recovered while 4,021 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-more-omicron-cases-in-state/article38040326.ece
26 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engg. student held in drunk drive case||A final year engineering student was arrested by Ghatkesar police for driving a car under the influence of alcohol, which resulted in the death of a woman who was riding pillion on a bike on Friday evening. The victim, Bathula Neeraja, and her husband Hanuman Das were proceeding towards Edulabad from Ghatkesar on their bike. “When they reached South Indian Bank around 6.30 a.m., Sai Nikhil Reddy, 22, from AS Rao Nagar, who was coming in opposite direction, drove the car in rash and negligent manner and rammed the bike, as a result of which they fell down,” police said. Neeraja succumbed to her injuries while being taken to a hospital while her husband’s condition is said to be stable. Birthday party Police said that Reddy, a student of Anurag College of Engineering, was returning home after attending a friend’s birthday party. He was arrested and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engg-student-held-in-drunk-drive-case/article38040331.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nepal youths arrested for investment fraud||Rachakonda police arrested three Nepalese nationals in connection with an investment fraud totalling about Rs. 86 lakh. The three-member gang that was operating from Siliguri of West Bengal was nabbed in the city late on Thursday, when they deboarded a train at the Secunderabad railway station. A total of 215 SIM cards, 53 mobile phones, cheques books and other material were seized from them. According to police commissioner Mahesh M Bhagwat, the investigation into the fraud was launched in October based on a petition by an aggrieved investor from Ghatkesar. Huge returns promised He transferred Rs. 86 lakh to various bank accounts after the youths promised him huge returns. However, the transactions were not returned. Mr. Bhagwat explained that the team of three – Gopal Sherpa, Sushil Gurung and Nima Tamang – were aides of the kingpin Deepu Mondal. The finances acquired through the fraud were being routed to China for crypto-currency exchanges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nepal-youths-arrested-for-investment-fraud/article38040463.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Ministers, TRS MPs exposed BJP’s betrayal’||The efforts of Telangana Ministers and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MPs during their recent visit to Delhi on the issue of paddy procurement did not go waste as they have exposed the betrayal of Telangana farmers by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Government at the Centre, TRS leaders have said. Speaking to reporters separately, Government Whip Balka Suman and Public Undertakings Committee (PUC) Chairman A. Jeevan Reddy said here on Saturday that both the Union Ministers and the State BJP leaders had been speaking lies continuously on the paddy/rice procurement in the State. They wondered how could Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal feign ignorance on several letters written by Telangana to Food Corporation of India (FCI) highlighting the delay in lifting custom milled rice pertaining to the last rabi season. The State Civil Supplies Corporation had written seven letters to FCI on the problems of storage space and shortage of railway rakes. In spite of repeated requests made by Telangana for speeding up lifting of rice pertaining to last rabi, the Central and State BJP leaders were spreading misinformation. Instead of raising the issue in Parliament, the Congress leaders including Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy and others were acting as Team B of BJP by reciting the BJP line on paddy procurement issue when they were aware of facts as they too were interested in politicising the issue rather than helping farmers, the TRS leaders said. On the announcement of BJP State president Bandi Sanjay about staging a protest on the unemployment issue, the TRS leaders sought to know if he could convince the BJP Government at the Centre on issuing a white paper on vacancies in Central Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ministers-trs-mps-exposed-bjps-betrayal/article38040335.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman ends life with 2-yr-old son||A woman set herself on fire along with her two-year-old son at Sircingandal village in Kondapaka mandal of Siddipet district on Saturday. According to the police, G. Navitha took the extreme step as she was unable to bear the harassment by her husband and in-laws. In a complaint lodged with the police, her mother B. Mallavva alleged that Navitha used to be regularly harassed by her husband Swamy, his brother Bhaskar and mother-in-law Beeravva and were responsible for her suicide.  (Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)  3 injured as tractor overturns Three persons were injured, one of them seriously, when a tractor overturned at Lakdaram village under Patancheru police station limits on Saturday. According to sources, Akash, Vamshi and Vijay, all below 19 years, got injured. Vijay’s condition was stated to be serious. He was shifted to a private hospital in Kondapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-ends-life-with-two-year-old-son/article38040346.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Panel raises concern over road mishaps||Chairman of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety (CoRS) Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre expressed concern over road accidents and fatality rate in Telangana. At a meeting held here on Saturday to review road safety interventions taken up by Telangana, he said although the number of accidents was higher in countries China, Japan and Germany, fatalities were only few thousands. However, in India, about 1.5 lakh persons were dying every year in road accidents. In a recent audit conducted by the CoRS, it was recommended that road safety in Telangana needed improvement, Justice Sapre said. He informed that 91% of road accident fatalities in Telangana were due to over-speeding. “The road accident fatalities will be reduced to a large extent if wearing of helmets and fastening seat belts is ensured 100% and over-speeding is controlled,” he said. In a detailed presentation made on behalf of the State government, it was informed to the chairman that it was recently decided to draft the services of NIT-Warangal in assisting the lead agency with full time domain experts and providing consultants and to allocate Rs. 25 crore as non-lapsable Road Safety Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panel-raises-concern-over-road-mishaps/article38040336.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ex gratia released||The State Government released Rs. 7.95 crore on Friday to 133 families of farmers who committed suicide. Each family will get Rs. 6 lakh. “The Collectors and District Magistrates te as indicated are authorized to draw the amount sanctioned and disburse the same to (133) families of farmers who have committed suicide due to failure of agriculture in the state through transfer to bank account by way of ECS and utilize funds for which it sanctioned,” read the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-gratia-released/article38040123.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to set up ‘Science City’ in Hyderabad||Union Minister for Tourism Kishan Reddy on Friday appealed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to consider sending a proposal to the Centre for setting up a ‘Science City’ in Hyderabad. In a communication to the Chief Minister, a copy of which was released to the media, the Union Minister said that the Centre “feels” that Hyderabad, which is “the city of science” and being “one of the most techno savvy States” serves as an ideal location for setting up a ‘Science City’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-set-up-science-city-in-hyderabad/article38040467.ece
26 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Akbaruddin urges UP to vote for MIM||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi, on Saturday, urged the people of Uttar Pradesh to vote for his party in the upcoming State Assembly polls. Mr. Owaisi was speaking to people of Uttar Pradesh, who have been living in Hyderabad, in a well-attended meeting at the party headquarters in Darussalaam. “I hope the people of Uttar Pradesh will give us an opportunity. We will surely give our best though winning or losing is in the hands of God. We have to try. If not today, then tomorrow. If not tomorrow, then the day after. But, we will surely be successful,” he said, even as he appealed to the people of UP to take the lead, and the reins of MIM in their hands, and said that he would follow them. Mr. Owaisi said that in the past, the people of Uttar Pradesh had voted for several parties like the Congress, Samajwadi party, and Bahujan Samaj Party, among others. “ Ek baar hum ko bhi aazamaa kar dekhlo (Try us once and see),” he said, adding that the party needed good and educated professionals in UP who can steer it towards success. He compared the situation of education in Uttar Pradesh and Telangana and said that the latter has an overseas scholarship scheme, which pays for the education and airfare of students who wish to pursue a masters degree in foreign universities. Touching upon waqf land parcels in Telangana, he underscored that around three years ago, on the representation of AIMIM, around 50 acres of waqf land was retrieved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/akbaruddin-urges-up-to-vote-for-mim/article38040349.ece
26 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Anjani Kumar takes charge as ACB DGP||Senior IPS officer Anjani Kumar took charge as the Director-General of Anti Corruption Bureau, on Saturday. Soon after handing over charge as Hyderabad Police Commissioner to his successor CV Anand, Mr. Anjani Kumar proceeded to the ACB headquarters in Banjara Hills to assume office from in-charge DG Govind Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anjani-kumar-takes-charge-as-acb-dgp/article38040462.ece
26 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Christmas celebrated with religious fervour, gaiety||Mellifluous carols praising Jesus Christ resonated across all the churches in town and elsewhere in the district as Christmas was celebrated with religious fervour on Saturday. All the churches, including the Centenary Wesley church in Christian Colony, the Lourdu Matha church at Bhagyanagar Colony, and the CSI church in the town were decked up in a dazzling array of lights and sparkling Christmas stars. The devout offered special prayers, sang Christmas carols and distributed cakes marking the joyous occasion. In Khammam district, Christmas was celebrated with traditional fervour and gaiety. Midnight mass and candle light services marked the celebrations in all churches across the town and other parts of the district. Feeding the poor Feeding the poor and other charitable activities were organised at various places in the old undivided Khammam district. Palair MLA K. Upender Reddy distributed clothes to the poor at a function held at Gol tanda in Tirumalayapalem mandal on Saturday. The legislator announced a donation of Rs. 75,000 for construction of a church at Daredu village in Khammam rural mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/christmas-celebrated-with-religious-fervour/article38040348.ece
26 December 2021||Warangal,TELANGANA||Innovation hub to come up in Warangal||Warangal is set to emerge as a major hub for fostering a culture of innovation among children and youth through hands-on activities and projects in science and technology in future. The Telangana State Council of Science & Technology and National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), Ministry of Culture, Government of India, inked a pact to set up an innovation hub at the Regional Science Centre. TSCOST member secretary Marupaka Nagesh and NCSM director S. Kumar signed the Memorandum of Understanding for setting up the innovation hub on Hunter Road in Hanamkonda in the heart of the tri-city of Warangal-Hanamkonda-Kazipet at a meeting held in Kolkata on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/innovation-hub-to-come-up-in-warangal/article38040472.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Shyam Singha Roy’ review: Nani and Sai Pallavi make it immensely watchable||The actual hero introduction scene in the Telugu film Shyam Singha Roy happens at the midway mark. Coming into full view, gradually, is not a man who has just beaten up goons to rousing music but a fearless writer in Bengal of the 1960s and 70s. The typewriter, pen and the printing press are Shyam Singha Roy’s (Nani) weapons. When he is offered a gun to align with the naxal movement, he chooses the pen and asserts that it is mightier than the sword. Director Rahul Sankrityan and writer Satyadev Janga make us root for a writer, a thinking hero. Even the rousing title song plays to visuals of Shyam at work in the printing press and his books turning out to be bestsellers. There are two worlds — one of aspiring filmmaker Vasudev Ghanta (Nani in a dual role; the surname alludes to the actor’s real surname) and that of writer Shyam Singha Roy. Vasu’s world, shot in comparatively cooler tones by cinematographer Sanu John Varghese, could be that of any new filmmaker. After quitting his IT job, he makes a low budget short film which becomes his passport to make a feature film. The movie making process involving Keerthi (Krithi Shetty) and friends (Abhinav Gomatam and Ankith Koyya) is filled with lines reflecting the travails of emerging filmmakers, with a tinge of humour. The conflict arises from a legal suit after Vasu’s film becomes a success, paving the way for his discovery of Shyam. Though the most endearing portions of the film unfold in Bengal of yore, the portions leading up to it are not in vain. Vasu’s short film comes handy at a crucial moment later in the story. A sequence where Vasu fends off men who harass Keerthi becomes a tool to push the story forward. Same is the case with an intimate scene between Vasu and Keerthi. In contrast to Vasu and Keerthi, today’s urban youngsters, the Bengal portions introduce us to Shyam and Maitreyi aka Rosy (Sai Pallavi). Shyam is loosely modelled after reformers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy who were aware of their class privileges and raised their voice against religious, class and gender discrimination. The ideals that define Shyam and how he meets Maitreyi who is confined to the devadasi tradition, unfolds like poetry.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Shyam Singha Roy  Cast: Nani, Sai Pallavi, Krithi Shetty  Direction: Rahul Sankrityan Music: Mickey J Meyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shyam-singha-roy-review-nani-and-sai-pallavi-make-it-immensely-watchable/article38040473.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Harnessing talent||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harnessing-talent/article38040466.ece
26 December 2021||Ahmedabad,||AAP to intensify protest over Gujarat paper leak||As the indefinite fast of two AAP leaders here entered the fourth day on Saturday, the party said it will intensify the agitation against the ruling BJP in Gujarat over the alleged leak of exam paper for the recruitment of head clerks in Government departments. Delhi MLA and Aam Aadmi Party's Gujarat in-charge Gulab Singh Yadav and State leader Mahesh Savani are on hunger strike at the party office here from Friday. On Thursday, several AAP leaders and workers including state unit chief Gopal Italia were arrested after they stormed into the BJP headquarters in Gandhinagar during a protest over the paper leak. While 28 arrested women members were released on Saturday after they got bail from the court, 65 male activists including Italia remain in jail, said party leader Manoj Sorathiya here. “It is a reflection of the BJP's mentality that despite protests, the Government has not removed Asit Vora, chairman of Gujarat Subordinate Services Selection Board which organises the exam,” Mr. Sorathiya said.  "Party's national president and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is keeping a watch on the developments and likely to visit Gujarat soon," he said, adding bail applications of Italia and others are likely to be heard next week. The arrested AAP members were booked under the IPC sections of rioting, sexual harassment, assault, trespass, assault on public servants, wrongful restraint and unlawful assembly, among others. The Gujarat Government initially said it had not found any concrete evidence about question paper leak. Later, the police in north Gujarat arrested eight persons for allegedly procuring the paper from an employee of the press where it was printed. The AAP has demanded compensation of Rs. 50,000 each to around 88,000 candidates who appeared for the exam on December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-to-intensify-protest-over-gujarat-paper-leak/article38040367.ece
26 December 2021||Amritsar,||‘AAP will solve problems of anganwadi, ASHA workers’||Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday met anganwadi and ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activists) workers of Punjab and assured to resolve their issues if his party is voted to power in the State in the upcoming Assembly elections. While addressing a programme ‘Arvind Kejriwal’s Dialogue with Anganwadi and ASHA Workers’, the Delhi Chief Minister said the “hardships of anganwadi workers such as low pay scale, no vacation, and no compensation to families of ASHA workers who died during the COVID-19 pandemic were the matters of their plight”. AAP is the only party that goes to people to know their issues so that once it is voted to power it can solve them, he said. He promised that like in Delhi, corruption will be eliminated from Punjab’s system and all demands of ASHA and anganwadi workers will be met. “Third guarantee announced by AAP, which was heavily criticised by other political parties, is that it alone will provide a great deal of financial help to women in Punjab,” said Mr. Kejriwal. “We only did one thing in Delhi – corruption elimination. Then we were able to provide free water, electricity, the best schools and hospitals, and free transportation for women,” he said. Addressing the gathering, party leader and MP Bhagwant Mann said, “We do not make manifesto sitting in the drawing rooms like other parties. We go to the people to know their issues and needs.” Meets lawyers In a separate meeting with lawyers, Mr. Kejriwal claimed that it was only AAP which could give a better future to Punjab and the country. “About 80,000 lawyers from Punjab can form their own government by joining AAP,” he said. “Medical and life risk insurance cover has been provided to lawyers and their families, and chambers in the courts for lawyers were set up,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-will-solve-problems-of-anganwadi-asha-workers/article38040253.ece
26 December 2021||Bhopal,||MP: 5 killed in seperate road accidents||Five persons were killed in separate accidents involving motorcycles in Damoh and Khargone districts of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, police said. Three persons were killed after the motorcycle they were travelling on collided with a bus in Damoh district in the afternoon, an official said.  In another accident, a woman and her 14-year-old son died when their motorcycle was hit by a speeding car in near Panwada village Khargone district in the evening, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-5-killed-in-seperate-road-accidents/article38040370.ece
26 December 2021||Jaipur,||Man dies after fall in mall||A man died after falling from the third floor of a shopping mall in Jhotwara area on Saturday, police said, adding they were unable to ascertain his identity or the reason for the fall. He fell on a girl, who was on the ground floor with her family members. She sustained injuries and was taken to hospital where she was discharged after treatment, police said. They said they could not conclude whether the man fell accidentally or it was a case of suicide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-dies-after-fall-in-mall/article38040371.ece
26 December 2021||Jammu,||Wheels of justice collapsed, says Mufti after bail for rape convict||The wheels of justice have “completely collapsed”, said PDP president and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday after one of the convicts in the 2018 Kathua rape case was granted bail by a court in Punjab. On December 21, the Punjab and Haryana High Court suspended the remaining sentence and jail term of dismissed police sub-inspector Anand Dutta and ordered that he be released upon furnishing surety bonds. “Perturbed that the policeman convicted for destroying evidence in Kathua rape case was granted bail and his jail term suspended. When a child raped and bludgeoned to death is deprived of justice, it becomes obvious that the wheels of justice have completely collapsed,” Ms. Mufti tweeted. The eight-year-old girl was raped and murdered in the Kathua district in January 2018 and the verdict in the case was pronounced on June 10, 2019, by a court in Pathankot, Punjab, where the Supreme Court had shifted the case. The court convicted six people, including the main accused Sanji Ram, dismissed Special Police Officers Deepak Khajuria and Parvesh Kumar who were sentenced to life imprisonment. Three dismissed policemen Anand Dutta, Tilak Raj, and Surender Verma were sentenced to five years in jail for hampering material evidence. Dutta has already undergone more than half of the sentence awarded to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wheels-of-justice-collapsed-mufti-on-bail-for-rape-convict/article38040251.ece
26 December 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. CM distributes smartphones to students||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on December 25 began the campaign to distribute free tablets and smartphones to one crore students of the State on thebirth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayeein Lucknow. Since 2014, December 25 has been celebrated as ‘Good Governance Day’ in the memory of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who served as the country’s Prime Minister thrice, including a full term in 1999-2004. Tablets and smartphones were distributed to 60,000 students at the Ekana Stadium. Five students – Akanksha Mishra, a final year student of B.Sc. Nursing; Sagar Upamanyu, a visually challenged student of MA (Political Science); Mehul Gupta, a B.Tech student; Prabal Awasthi preparing for competitive examinations and Zeba Kausar, a final year student of BA – were invited on stage to speak. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Adityanath said youth should not be hopeless in their lives and urged them to think big. “Thinking should never be small. If thinking is big it will give a new dimension to your personality. Youth should never allow hopelessness to enter their lives, if they work with this passion, they will be able to do anything.” Union Minister for Education, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Dharmendra Pradhan was also present on the occasion. Without taking names, Mr. Adityanath accused the Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav of misleading people during the pandemic and encouraging nepotism under his rule. He claimed to have created 4.5 lakh jobs in the State in the five years of his rule and cracked down on ‘mafia’ to the shock of their “patrons”. He also made the students raise the slogan “ Soch Imandar, Kaam Dumdaar ” said. The CM honoured weightlifter Mira Bai Chanu and her coach Vijay Kumar Sharma. Addressing the gathering earlier, Mr. Pradhan said the students of the country realise the importance of smartphones and digital education during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/up-cm-distributes-smartphones-to-students/article38040417.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. to procure essential COVID drugs from open market||To make adequate preparations to confront the third wave of COVID infection amid the rising positivity rate, the Delhi Government has tweaked its procurement process for essential drugs neededto treat patients. The Delhi Cabinet has approved a proposal for the procurement of life-saving medicines on the essential drugs list through its own portal from the open market. According to sources, the proposal, moved by the Health Department, will also help the State exchequer save money on essential COVID drugs whose stock needs to be replenished at the earliest. Floating open tender In the proposal, the Department had recommended floating an open tender on the Delhi e-procurement website for essential and life-saving medicines for all healthcare facilities under the Government. Presently, these medicines are procured through the Central Government portal, i.e, Government e-Marketplace (GeM) portal which, especially during a pandemic, leads to many issues. Apart from the price that the Government pays for these — which sources claimed was more than twice compared to the open market — their delivery time as well as quality were concerns flagged by the Department in its proposal. These issues, according to the Department, can help the Delhi Government’s Central Procurement Agency (CPA) which has been floating open tenders for medicines via the Government website for several decades. “The Government had also flagged these issues and the constraints being faced on the portal to the officials concerned related to GeM and several meetings also took place,” a source said. “However, given the current situation, there is a need to procure the essential medicines sooner than ironing these issues out,” the source said. The Delhi Government operates 38 major hospitals in the Capital catering to an estimated population of over 2.3 lakh citizens residing in Delhi as well as an estimated 33% of that number constituting a floating population of patients from the neighbouring States. As many as 32 medicines have been identified by the committee constituted by the Delhi Government and has been mandated to maintain the buffer stock of these medicines for 60 days. In addition, eight drugs have been identified by the Centre and as per their recommendations, it is necessary to maintain the buffer stock of these medicines for 30 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-to-procure-essential-covid-drugs-from-open-market/article38040240.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Biometric fraud’ hits Tihar||The Tihar Prison Department has stopped salaries of 47 officials after a mismatch was detected in their biometric verification, an official said on Saturday. Directed General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed the development. A senior official said that biometric verification drive was conducted by the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB) in Prisons Department in the last week of November. “All the new candidates from 2019 onwards were screened by matching their biometrics with the data preserved at the time of recruitment,” the official said. “Further action will be taken after the DSSSB final report,” the official said. Show-cause notices have been issued to them, the Prison Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/biometric-fraud-hits-tihar/article38040248.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘BJP trying to loot from employees’ GPF accounts’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday alleged that the BJP-ruled municipal corporations are about to loot Rs. 1,197 crore from GPF (General Provident Fund) accounts of employees. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj alleged that the BJP first “gulped down” Rs. 1,232 crore after the trifurcation of erstwhile MCD (Municipal Corporation of Delhi) and now it was trying to loot Rs. 1,197 crore. “BJP leaders are going to divide Rs. 1,197 crore among all three corporations — North body is getting Rs. 522 crore, South body is getting Rs. 410 crore and East body is getting Rs. 212 crore. A Government employee deposits money in GPF account throughout life for a better future and the BJP leaders want to snatch that money too,” the AAP leader said. He said that Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta must answer as to who will return the money that disappeared from the GPF accounts. “We are alleging with full responsibility that the municipal corporation is going to take out Rs. 1,197 crore from the employees’ fund and spend it. When it comes to paying salaries to the employees, they either stand with a bowl in front of the Delhi Government or in the court,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that as civic polls are approaching closer, the AAP leaders are working overtime to level unfounded charges on BJP-ruled municipal corporations to politically malign them. “Before levelling a charge and calling General Provident Funds trifurcation illegal, the AAP leader should understand that erstwhile MCD was trifurcated in 2012 and the employees were given a chance to choose from either of the new corporations they wished to work under. Since 2012, the employees are divided under three civic bodies and get their salary and pension from the municipal corporation they work under,” Mr. Kapoor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-trying-to-loot-from-employees-gpf-accounts/article38040235.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Amit Shah takes jibe at AAP’s advertisements||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday took potshots at the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi Government for “not fulfilling promises” and remaining relevant “only through advertisements” during the inauguration of a park in west Delhi here. An “effective work culture”, the Home Minister said at Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh, was a mainstay of BJP Governments across the country after being established under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Another work culture “What we say, we do. And that goes for all Governments under the BJP from the Centre to the States. Then there is another work culture — whether you do something or not, just give advertisements and television interviews,” Mr. Shah said in an apparent jibe at the AAP Government. “The time has come for the people of Delhi to decide which work culture is better; I don’t need to say anything more,” he added. Reacting to Mr. Shah’s comments, the AAP accused the BJP-ruled civic bodies of being “the world’s most corrupt municipal corporation.”  “As far as advertisement costs are concerned, Mr. Amit Shah should go around Delhi once and see how every nook and corner of Delhi has been hijacked by Mr. Narendra Modi and Mr. Yogi Adityanath,” it said. The AAP alleged there are 850 hoardings of Mr. Modi and Mr. Adityanath in Delhi and “in its stark contrast Delhi Government has only put up 108 hoardings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amit-shah-takes-jibe-at-aaps-advertisements/article38040238.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality continues to be ‘severe’||The air quality of the city continued to be in the “severe” category for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday and is likely to stay in the upper end of “very poor” to “severe” levels for the next two days, as per authorities. “For the next two days, winds are likely to be low reducing ventilation of pollutants. Light rainfall due to western disturbance is likely tomorrow afternoon. AQI is expected to be in ‘upper end of very poor’ or ‘lower end of severe’ for the next two days,” Government-run monitoring agency SAFAR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-continues-to-be-severe/article38040236.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 249 infections, one death||Continuing the upward trend, 249 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the highest in more than six months, taking the total number of cases to 14,43,062, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Saturday. There was one COVID-19 death in the last 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,104. Test positivity rate was 0.43%, which is also the highest in more than six months. Night curfew, closure of schools and colleges is feared to return as the positivity inched towards 0.5%, the trigger point of yellow alert under the Graded Response Action Plan. Of the total cases, there are 934 active cases. The new cases are up by 38.3% compared to 180 cases a day before. Seventy-nine cases of the Omicron variant have been reported in the city till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-249-infections-one-death/article38040239.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Six held after baby trafficking racket busted||The Delhi police have arrested six women members of a gang for alleged trafficking of infants, officials said on Saturday. The gang, involved in trafficking of over 50 infants, used to buy them from poor parents by offering them money. They used to further sell the babies to childless couples for a hefty amount, the police said. On December 17, the police received a tip-off that the members would be coming near Gandhi Nagar crematorium at 3.30 p.m. to sell an infant. They conducted a raid and apprehended three women, who had a baby around 8-month-old with them. Three more members were arrested the next day and a baby girl was rescued, DCP (Crime) Rajesh Deo said. Those arrested have been identified as Priya Jain, Priya, Kajal, Rekha, Shivani and Premvati, the officer said. The police said Kajal and Priyanka are the mastermind. It is also suspected that their network is spread to other States. Priyanka is absconding and efforts to nab her are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-held-after-baby-trafficking-racket-busted/article38040246.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman kidnaps employer’s son, 4 arrested||A 32-year-old woman and her three accomplices have been arrested for kidnapping her employer's son from Ghazipur flower market and seeking Rs. 50 lakh ransom, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Priyanka Kashyap said the accused were identified as Richa Sabarwal, her mother Anita, 56, her boyfriend Gurmeet Singh, 36, and Kamal Bansal, 36. The police said that on December 18 at 3.45 p.m., Vikas Aggrawal, who owns two banquet halls in the city, called and informed the Patparganj Industrial Area police station that his son Kinshuk had been kidnapped at gunpoint from the flower market, and was released later after he paid a ransom of Rs. 50 lakh. Gurmeet said Richa had run up debts amounting to lakhs of rupees, so she along with her mother and Gurmeet planned to kidnap Kinshuk and seek ransom, the DCP said. Richa worked as a flower decorator at Mr. Aggarwal’s banquet halls, earning Rs. 25,000 per month. The police said Richa is married and has two children. Her husband had suffered huge loss in his business during the COVID-19 pandemic and she had to bear all their expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-kidnaps-employers-son-4-arrested/article38040247.ece
26 December 2021||Srinagar,||Kashmir decks up for Christmas, tourists join locals in celebrations||Christmas was celebrated with religious fervour in Kashmir on Saturday as devotees held special prayers for the good health and prosperity of the people in the Valley. The largest gathering in Kashmir was held at the Holy Family Catholic Church on Maulana Azad Road in the heart of Srinagar city, where the members of the Christian community, including women and children, assembled to celebrate the occasion and held special prayers. “I pray the coming year ushers in happiness and God protects us, our country from COVID-19, from all problems and keeps us healthy,” Father Stalin Raja of the church said. Among the believers were a few tourists who joined the locals on the auspicious day and prayed for peace and prosperity in Jammu and Kashmir, and the world over. Christmas celebrations were also held in other churches of the valley, including the St Luke Church at Dalgate, which was renovated and re-opened after about 30 years, recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kashmir-decks-up-for-christmas-tourists-join-locals-in-celebrations/article38040369.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Food fiestas of the year||I feel a bit like young Oliver. I want to hold out a plate, and say: “Please, may I have some more?” For, even though it’s been quite a food-filled year, the stomach always yearns for seconds. But then I thought instead of second or even third helpings, perhaps I should go down memory lane and recall some of the food fiestas of the year. If there is anything good about COVID-19, it’s that it has given birth to a lot of closet chefs. And more and more people are looking at different kinds of cuisines that are like hidden treasures. Last week, one such gem came home. It was a Yemeni dish called mandi biryani. It was essentially a rice and chicken preparation but so delicious that I was left licking my fingers. The dish (Rs. 395) came from Sassy Begum, a delivery outfit which has on the menu various kinds of biryanis and dishes such as galouti kababs, coastal prawns and haleem. I found the mandi biryani amazingly good. For this, the chicken is marinated and grilled, while the rice is cooked separately with spices and stock. Then the chicken is placed in the rice and served with fried potatoes and cumin-flavoured raita, dotted with pomegranate seeds. Several other delivery outlets and home chefs are offering memorable out-of-the-box dishes. An outfit called Culinary Connections has various kinds of north-eastern food on the menu such as Kanthu (Rs. 345) – marinated fish cooked in banana leaves – and chapor ghonto (Rs. 225) — bottle gourd with thin dal pancakes. Babo’s Home Kitchen has some interesting dishes too, including fish paratha, stuffed with baked fish and prawns and served with alur dum (Rs. 540), and Dim posto, khus khus prepared with egg (Rs. 240). Then there is Gusto by Sanhita, which does an amazing gondhoraj mutton curry (flavoured with the king of lemons called gondhoraj). Her pork ularthiyathu (Rs. 750) and Kundapur seafood ghee roast (Rs. 750) are scrumptious, as is the Jaffna meat curry, cooked with 15 roasted spices and coconut. Rare regional food Chefs are curating regional food not easily available in Delhi. I had some Himachali food delivered by Pahadi Pattal, run by a food enthusiast called Nitika Kuthiala. Its non-veg thhali (Rs. 1299 + delivery charges) was exceptionally good — and consisted of pipli mutton, aloo and mattar madra, siddu stuffed with poppy seeds, Pahadi maah-rajma, jimikand, chutney and pickle. The madra (chickpeas and potatoes in a curd-based sauce) and the smoky dal (mixed rajma and urad) were superb. The pipli mutton had been flavoured with piquant Himachali chillies, and warmed the heart. There were many other regional delights. I remember in particular the dishes offered by Pitaara, which gives an innovative tweak to traditional recipe. I loved its govind gattey (Rs. 435), steamed lentil cakes stuffed with paneer and khoya, poached in yoghurt and onion sauce, and the wild mushroom stew (Rs. 420), mushrooms cooked with coconut milk and vinegar. I also had a great sadhya meal prepared by Gurugram-based Magic with spices this year. It’s been a tough year for most of us but cooks – big and small – have given us moments of joy. Let the New Year be a peaceful one. And let no one go hungry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/food-fiestas-of-the-year/article38040245.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Promoting harmony||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/promoting-harmony/article38040242.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Acting tough||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/acting-tough/article38040256.ece
26 December 2021||HONG KONG,||China replaces controversial party secretary in Xinjiang||China’s Communist Party on Saturday said it had appointed a new party chief for its Xinjiang region, replacing Chen Quanguo, an official who spearheaded a crackdown that saw hundreds of thousands sent to re-education camps. A brief statement from the official Xinhua news agency said the Central Committee had recently decided to appoint Ma Xingrui, the governor of southern Guangdong province and an official previously with the aerospace authority in China, as the new party secretary of Xinjiang. It added that Mr. Chen will be given a new appointment. That suggests that Mr. Chen may be in line for a promotion, observers said. The controversial Politburo member, who led Xinjiang for five years, was the highest ranked Chinese official sanctioned last year by the U.S. government for his role in the crackdown on Xinjiang’s Uighurs. The U.S. has called the policies put in place by Mr. Chen a “genocide”, a charge rejected by China. After taking over in 2016, Mr. Chen supervised the construction of a network of re-education camps, with hundreds of thousands of Uighurs detained there starting in 2017. Beijing initially denied the existence of the camps, but subsequently said they were “vocational training” centres. In July 2020, the then Donald Trump administration designated three senior party officials “for their involvement in gross violations of human rights” including “forced labour, arbitrary mass detention and forced population control, and attempts to erase their culture and Muslim faith”. Mr. Chen was the senior most of those officials and was barred from entering the U.S. The Joe Biden administration has also announced measures aimed at Beijing’s policies in Xinjiang. This week, President Biden signed into a law a move to ban imports from Xinjiang over concerns of forced labour. The move was slammed by Beijing, which said claims of “forced labour and genocide in Xinjiang are nothing but vicious lies hyped up by anti-China forces”. ‘Promotion in the works’ In the wake of criticism and sanctions from the U.S. and the EU, Chinese authorities have closed some of the camps and said some of the detainees had “graduated”. The replacement of Mr. Chen, however, was more likely to be a promotion rather than a response to international criticism, observers said. “The replacement cannot be called a response to international pressure,” Beijing-based political analyst Wu Qiang told the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post . “The pressure does exist, but what Beijing did is the opposite, as Chen might be promoted to a higher level, and the governance model in Xinjiang might be copied elsewhere in the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-replaces-controversial-party-secretary-in-xinjiang/article38039607.ece
26 December 2021||Kourou,||A telescope on million-mile voyage||The world’s most powerful space telescope on Saturday blasted off into orbit, headed to an outpost 1.5 million kilometres (9,30,000 miles) from Earth, after several delays caused by technical hitches. The James Webb Space Telescope, some three decades and billions of dollars in the making, left Earth enclosed in its Ariane 5 rocket from Kourou Space Centre in French Guiana. It is expected to take a month to reach its remote destination. It is expected to beam back new clues that will help scientists understand more about the origins of the Universe and Earth-like planets beyond our solar system. Named after a former NASA director, Webb follows in the footsteps of the legendary Hubble — but intends to show humans what the Universe looked like even closer to its birth nearly 14 billion years ago. Speaking on social media, Webb project co-founder John Mather described the telescope’s unprecedented sensitivity. “#JWST can see the heat signature of a bumblebee at the distance of the Moon,” he said. All that power is needed to detect the weak glow emitted billions of years ago by the very first galaxies to exist and the first stars being formed. ‘Exceptional measures’ The telescope is unequalled in size and complexity. Its mirror measures 6.5 metres (21 feet) in diameter — three times the size of the Hubble’s mirror — and is made of 18 hexagonal sections. It is so large that it had to be folded to fit into the rocket. That manoeuvre was laser-guided with NASA imposing strict isolation measures to limit any contact with the telescope’s mirrors from particles or even human breath. Once the rockets have carried Webb 120 kilometres, the protective nose of the craft, called a “fairing”, is shed to lighten the load. To protect the delicate instrument from changes in pressure at that stage, rocket-builder Arianespace installed a custom decompression system. “Exceptional measures for an exceptional client,” said a European Space Agency official in Kourou on Thursday. Crew on the ground will know whether the first stage of the flight was successful about 27 minutes after launch. Challenges ahead Once it reaches its station, the challenge will be to fully deploy the mirror and a tennis-court-sized sun shield. That intimidatingly complex process will take two weeks and must be flawless if Webb is to function correctly. Its orbit will be much farther than Hubble, which has been 600 kilometres above the Earth since 1990. The location of Webb’s orbit is called the Lagrange 2 point and was chosen in part because it will keep the Earth, the Sun and the Moon all on the same side of its sun shield. Webb is expected to officially enter service in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-telescope-on-million-mile-voyage/article38039587.ece
26 December 2021||Moscow,||Russia blocks rights group’s site||Russia has blocked the website of a prominent human rights monitor tracking political persecution, the group said on Saturday, as authorities press ahead with an unprecedented crackdown on dissent. The move against the monitor is the latest in a year that has seen Russia’s Opposition dismantled and scores of independent media and rights organisations branded as “foreign agents” or banned outright. OVD-Info, which tracks opposition protests and also provides legal support to victims of political persecution, said the Roskomnadzor media regulator had blocked its website earlier this week. “At the moment, we have not received a notice and do not know the reason for being blocked,” the group tweeted. A Roskomnadzor registry of blocked websites showed that a Moscow region court had issued a ruling dated December 20 to “limit” access to the site. The website was not accessible by AFP journalists in Russia on Saturday. OVD-Info, which was founded a decade ago during the first mass protests against President Vladimir Putin’s rule in December 2011, had been labelled a “foreign agent” in September. Carrying negative Stalin-era connotations, entities or individuals identified as “foreign agents” must accompany all their texts, videos and social media posts with a disclaimer. The label is a deterrent for advertisers and makes it difficult for organisations and journalists to carry out their work. OVD-Info, which led a campaign against the legislation, denounced the move as “an act of political pressure.” Growing list The “foreign agent” label has been used in particular against journalists, with the justice ministry’s list of individuals and news outlets ballooning from 17 at the start of the year to 103 as of Saturday. Critics point to a decision by Putin’s top domestic opponent Alexei Navalny to return to Russia in January as triggering the historic clampdown. The 45-year-old Opposition leader had been in Germany recovering from a near-fatal poisoning attack he blames on Putin — a claim the Kremlin has repeatedly denied. Mr. Navalny was jailed soon after his return on old fraud charges and has since seen his organisations banned as “extremist” and all of his top allies flee the country. Citing history Asked about the crackdown on Thursday, Mr. Putin said that it was aimed at curbing foreign influence. “I remind you of what our adversaries have been saying for centuries: Russia cannot be defeated, it can only be destroyed from within,” he told a press conference. He added that it was domestic dissent that brought about the collapse of the Soviet Union 30 years ago this month. Also this month, Russia’s Supreme Court is considering whether to shut top rights group Memorial, which works with OVD-Info. Prosecutors accuse the rights group of breaching “foreign agent” legislation and justifying terrorism by releasing lists of political prisoners that include banned figures like Mr. Navalny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-blocks-rights-groups-site/article38039590.ece
26 December 2021||Khartoum,||Thousands of people march in Sudan’s anti-coup rallies||Thousands of Sudanese protesters rallied on Saturday two months after a military coup, demanding soldiers “go back to the barracks” and calling for a transition to civilian rule. Waving flags, beating drums, dancing and chanting, crowds marched on the streets of Khartoum despite a heavy deployment of security forces — who later fired tear gas to break them up. Officers had earlier blocked bridges connecting the capital to suburbs, cut phone lines and restricted the internet ahead of the planned protests. At least 48 people have died in crackdowns during weeks of demonstrations, according to the independent Doctors’ Committee, and Khartoum’s state governor has warned that security forces “will deal with those who break the law and create chaos”. Demonstrators converged on the presidential palace in Khartoum, the headquarters of the military government in control since General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan seized power on October 25. Security forces with cranes used shipping containers to block the bridges across the Nile River connecting Khartoum to the cities of Omdurman and North Khartoum, and web monitoring group NetBlocks reported mobile internet services cut at sunrise on Saturday. Activists reported the arrest of several colleagues beginning on Friday night, and Volker Perthes, the United Nations special envoy to Sudan, urged the authorities to “protect” the protests, not to stop them. “Freedom of expression is a human right,” Mr. Perthes said on Saturday, adding that it includes “full access” to the internet. “No one should be arrested for his or her intention to protest peacefully.” Khartoum’s governor warned that “approaching or attacking buildings of strategic sovereignty is punishable by law”. Rape used as ‘weapon’ Within hours, security forces dispersed the thousands of protesters with truncheons and tear gas. Activists have condemned sexual attacks during those protests, in which the UN said at least 13 women and girls were raped. The European Union and the United States issued a joint statement on Thursday condemning the use of sexual violence “as a weapon to drive women away from demonstrations and silence their voices”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thousands-of-people-march-in-sudans-anti-coup-rallies/article38039603.ece
26 December 2021||Colombo,||Police officer shoots 4 colleagues in Sri Lanka||A policeman opened fire on a group of fellow officers in Sri Lanka, killing four of them and wounding three others, a police spokesman said on Saturday. The shooting occurred on Friday night inside a police station in Thirukkovil in eastern Sri Lanka. The town is located in the island’s former war zone, which has been largely peaceful since the civil war ended in 2009. The officer in charge of the police station was among the wounded who were rushed to a hospital. The police sergeant who carried out the shooting has been arrested after he surrendered to a separate police station and handed over two T-56 assault rifles and ammunition, police spokesman said. The motive for the shooting was not immediately known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-officer-shoots-4-colleagues-in-sri-lanka/article38039598.ece
26 December 2021||Riyadh,||Saudi group launches intense attack on Yemen||The Saudi-led coalition on Saturday launched a “large-scale” assault on Yemen after missiles fired by Iran-backed Houthi rebels killed two persons in the kingdom, the first such deaths in three years. The Houthis warned Yemen’s oil-rich northern neighbour of a “painful” response if the coalition does not stop its “aggression” against the conflict-riven country. Yemen has been wracked by civil war since 2014 pitting the internationally recognised government supported by the Saudi-led military coalition against the Houthis who control much of the north. Tens of thousands of people have since been killed, in what the UN has described as the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. The latest violence came overnight when two persons — one Saudi and the other Yemeni — were killed in the projectile attack on Jazan, Saudi’s civil defence said. “A military projectile fell on a commercial store on the main street, resulting in two deaths,” it said, adding six Saudis and a Bangladeshi national were wounded. Images from the official Saudi Press Agency purportedly of the aftermath of the attack showed a large crater in the ground and destroyed vehicles. Houthis’ warning The Saudi-led coalition said shortly afterwards that it was “preparing for a large-scale military operation”. It later launched an air strike in which “three civilians including a child and a woman were killed, and six others were wounded”, Yemeni medics told AFP. The coalition will hold a news conference on Sunday to address the latest developments. Houthi spokesman Yahya Saree warned Saudi Arabia of “painful operations as long as it continues its aggression and crimes”. In a statement on the Houthis’ Telegram channel, he said the rebels had launched three ballistic missiles on Jazan, a southern region of the kingdom bordering Yemen. The latest was the first in more than three years that has resulted in fatalities in the kingdom. It also comes as fighting between the two sides intensifies, with the coalition ramping air strikes on Sanaa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-group-launches-intense-attack-on-yemen/article38039591.ece
26 December 2021||New York,||Ruling againt NYT over Project Veritas upheld||A New York judge has upheld an order preventing The New York Times from publishing documents between conservative group Project Veritas and its lawyer and ruled that the newspaper must immediately relinquish confidential legal memos it obtained. The decision on Thursday by State Supreme Court Justice Charles D. Wood in Westchester County, released on Friday, comes in a defamation lawsuit Project Veritas filed against the Times in 2020. Months after the lawsuit was filed, the newspaper reported that the U.S. Justice Department was investigating Project Veritas in connection with the theft of a diary belonging to Ashley Biden, the president‘s daughter. In that story, the Times quoted the memos, leading Project Veritas to accuse the newspaper of violating attorney-client privilege. Judge Wood upheld his earlier order preventing the Times from further publishing the memos, and also ruled that the newspaper must turn over physical copies of the documents and destroy electronic versions. The newspaper reported it would appeal the ruling and seek a stay in the meantime. Publisher A.G. Sulzberger decried the ruling as an attack of press freedoms and alarming for “anyone concerned about the dangers of government overreach into what the public can and cannot know.” He also said it risked exposing sources. False watchdog Project Veritas bills itself as a watchdog, often of media. It’s known for using hidden cameras and hiding identities to try to ensnare journalists in embarrassing conversations and to reveal supposed liberal bias. In a statement Friday, Project Veritas lawyer Elizabeth Locke hailed the ruling as “a victory for the First Amendment for all journalists and affirms the sanctity of the attorney-client relationship.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ruling-againt-nyt-over-project-veritas-upheld/article38039594.ece
26 December 2021||Kyiv,||Ukranian President holds talks with U.S. senators||The President of Ukraine held a video call with 20 U.S. senators and members of Congress on Friday amid tensions with Russia, which recently stoked fears of a possible invasion by massing troops near Ukraine’s border. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke with the senators and congressional representatives about the Russian troop buildup and the situation in his country’s war-torn east, according to Mr. Zelenskyy’s office. Russia-backed rebels have been fighting Ukrainian forces in eastern Ukraine since 2014. “Now, more than ever, it is not words that matter, but decisive actions,” a statement quoted Mr. Zelenskyy as saying. “My goal is to stop the bloodshed in the east of Ukraine. It’s impossible to imagine security in Europe without ending the war in Donbas.” Mr. Zelenskyy and the lawmakers also talked about applying further sanctions pressure on Russia, Washington’s support of Kyiv’s “Euro-Atlantic aspirations” and Ukraine’s prospects for NATO membership. No third opinion During his call with the American lawmakers and senators, Mr. Zelenskyy said “not a single third country can have a say in Ukraine’s integration into NATO.” “No agreements on Ukraine without Ukraine,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ukranian-president-holds-talks-with-us-senators/article38039605.ece
26 December 2021||Kabul,||Taliban govt. scraps Afghan election body||The Taliban have dissolved Afghanistan’s election commission, a panel that supervised polls during the previous Western-backed administration, a spokesman for the Islamist government said on Saturday. “There is no need for these commissions to exist and operate,” Taliban government spokesman Bilal Karimi said, referring to the Independent Election Commission (IEC) and the Independent Electoral Complaints Commission. “If we ever feel a need, the Islamic Emirate will revive these commissions,” Karimi added. “They have taken this decision in a hurry... and dissolving the commission would have huge consequences,” Mr. Aurangzeb, who headed the panel up until the fall of the previous regime, said. Halim Fidai, a senior politician in the previous regime, said the decision to dissolve the electoral commission shows the Taliban “do not believe in democracy”. Karimi said the authorities had also dissolved two government departments this week — the ministry of peace, and the ministry of parliamentary affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-govt-scraps-afghan-election-body/article38039592.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Industry should focus on value creation, says DHL Express India MD||DHL Express India, the logistics, parcel-delivery, e-commerce shipping and international supply chain management unit of Deutsche Post DHL Group, says it would continue to invest in India to tap growth opportunities. R. S. Subramanian , senior VP and MD at DHL Express India shares his outlook for the industry and the company. Excerpts:  What was the experience during the peak of the pandemic? Logistics is not going away. Essential services are essential. Goods and PPE kits had to be delivered. There are so many businesses which are in the essential sector, it might be hospitals, life sciences, pharmaceutical companies and the whole ancillaries who support them. All of them needed to be up and running, and therefore, the logistics industry was called upon to provide this support. The challenges on the ground were very many in terms of controls at city, municipal and ward-level lockdowns. There were red zones. A lot of customers were working from home and we had to coordinate with them for delivery. But I think from that time onwards, into a month or two later [in 2020], the rebound from low volumes of April into May into June was very, very strong. So, we have seen all-time lows and all-time highs since then, and the rebound has been very, very strong. Trade recovery was quite good across sectors towards the latter half of 2020 and that momentum continued into 2021. How do you see the future? The comeback by the businesses is strong so, in that sense, 2021 is a very strong year compared to 2020. There will be recovery of businesses across sectors. High volumes and greater trading capacity and newer expansions and relocations will continue. We are aiming at adopting a digital and paperless approach. How much have you invested in India? The company has announced to invest €690 million between 2020 and 2022 to build and expand its facilities in key growth markets of Australia, Japan, Hong Kong S.A.R. and South Korea. In 2017, it invested €14 million in expansion and relocation and setting up new bases at various places in India. In 2018 and 2019, €1.7 million and €3.2 million were invested, respectively. In 2020, we invested €3 million and €56 million in 2021 in India. What is your investment plan here? There has not been a single month where we have not invested. Almost every month we have done something or the other. IT, expansion, training people are some of our major areas of investment. Every month or two, you will hear from us about something or the other coming. What are your expectations from 2022 and what are the challenges? India is a very good market for business. There are all the signals to do good business here. COVID is not over yet. Keeping our people safe is utmost priority. I believe that the logistics sector's focus will be to simplify, digitalise, and automate trade processes. What is your ESG roadmap? We have switched to the ESG framework. By 2050, we want to be a carbon neutral system. Our network is full of carbon and we must work hard to minimise it. There is a variety of work that is done across the network. We want to go paperless and switch to a digital approach. We are proud to receive the ‘Great Place to Work’ certification both in India and globally for many years now. We will keep valuing our employees. How has 2021 been in terms of business? 2021 has been great from a business point of view in terms of results. Globally, the numbers have been excellent, its all-time high record in 2020. It’s possibly 30-odd percent above what we did in full year 2019, so on a comparable basis, that’s the kind of business levels we are seeing. The momentum has been good in Q1, Q2 and Q3 globally, and so therefore it’s a very strong position. We started with a five-year strategy document to deliver excellence in a very digital world which is coming up and I think we’ve done extremely well in that sense. The performance of the India business has been equally stronger than what we see at a global level. 2021 was a very, very good year. Some of it is because of base effect of 2020, but towards the end of 2020, the latter half of 2020, we did very, very well. Our people-first approach which is taking care of employees by providing them with medical facilities, free vaccination, IT support for better work-from-home experience, allowed them to work effectively. We also maintained a close connect with our customers. The Centre is looking at reducing logistics cost for firms. Is the cost coming down and is it helping SMEs? The focus from the industry should be on value creation. Customer satisfaction should be priority. One of the biggest trends amidst the pandemic was e-commerce. There was a B2C boom because the style and channels of delivery were changing. SMEs must understand this change. We introduced the ‘Yellow Yatra’ plan where we provide financial aid to the SMEs and act as an advisory body for them. We developed a platform ‘GoTrade’ where SMEs can use this to trade their goods and make their mark on the global map.  India is a very good market for business. There are all the signals to do good business here||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/industry-should-focus-on-value-creation-says-dhl-express-india-md/article38039581.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Every third informal worker is now registered on e-Shram’||Every third informal sector worker in India is now registered on the e-Shram portal with registration on the portal crossing the 14 crore mark in four months, Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Saturday. The national database being created on e-Shram portal will eventually help the government to provide various social security and other welfare benefits to unorganised workers. The portal was unveiled on August 26. “e-Shram portal in just about 4 months 14 crore crossed... Kudos to all those who made it possible,” the Labour and Employment Minister tweeted. The latest data of the portal shows that the top five States in terms of number of registrations on e-Shram are U.P., West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand. Gender analysis of the data shows that 52.56% are female while 47.44% are male. The data show that 42.64% of the registered workers are other backward classes (OBC) followed by 26.45% from general category, 22.54% from the scheduled caste and 8.38% from the Scheduled Tribe. It also show that over 94% registered workers’ income is Rs. 10,000 per month or below while over 4% have income in the rage of Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 per month. About 51% workers are farm labourers, 11% in construction, 10% in domestic and household work and 6.5% in the apparel segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/every-third-informal-worker-is-now-registered-on-e-shram/article38039579.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCLAT stays order imposing Rs. 873-cr. fine on beer makers||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has imposed a stay on the orders passed by the fair trade regulator CCI slapping penalties on several beer makers, including United Breweries Ltd. that faces a fine of Rs. 751.8 crore. Passing an interim order, a two-member NCLAT bench has directed parties, including United Breweries, to deposit 10% of the penalty by way of ‘fixed deposit receipt’ within three weeks. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on September 24 imposed penalties totalling more than Rs. 873 crore on UBL, Carlsberg India, All India Brewers’ Association (AIBA) and 11 individuals for cartelisation in the sale and supply of beer. The said order was challenged before the NCLAT, which is an appellate authority over the CCI. “During the pendency of the appeal, to prevent an aberration of justice and to secure the ends of justice, [the bench] stays the impugned order dated 24.09.2021 in suo moto case no. 6/2017 subject to the payment of 10% of the penalty amount levied by the first respondent/CCI, by way of ‘fixed deposit receipt’ to and in favour of the Registrar, NCLAT, New Delhi, within three weeks from the date of passing of this order,” the NCLAT said in an order dated December 23. It has also directed the CCI and AIBA to file replies over the notices issued by it. The appellate tribunal has directed to list the matter on March 29, 2022, for admission. Confirming the development, UBL in a regulatory filing said it received an order passed by the NCLAT. UBL to comply “The company will comply with the directions and the said 10% amount shall be deposited through a fixed deposit receipt within stipulated time as mentioned in the order,” UBL, now controlled by Dutch multinational Heineken, said. The CCI had passed the final order against UBL, SABMiller India Ltd., now renamed as Anheuser Busch InBev India Ltd. (AB InBev), and Carlsberg India Private Ltd. (CIPL), among other entities. In its 231-page order, which had come almost four years after ordering a detailed probe, the CCI had also directed the companies, associations and individuals to ‘cease and desist’ from anti-competitive practices in the future. The period of cartelisation was considered to be from 2009 to at least October 10, 2018, with Carlsberg India joining in from 2012 and AIBA serving as a platform for facilitating such cartelisation since 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclat-stays-order-imposing-rs-873-cr-fine-on-beer-makers/article38039583.ece
26 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Fulcrum Digital scouts for multiple acquisitions||Fulcrum Digital Inc., which offers solutions to global customers to accelerate their digital transformation, is scouting for multiple acquisitions to strengthen its service offerings, chairman Rajesh Sinha said. The company, which has a large presence in India, would also add 1,200 people in two years, he added. “We are looking at a certain inorganic growth and have started scouting for some companies in India,” said Mr. Sinha, who is also the company’s founder. “We will acquire companies which are into fintech, insurtech, foodtech or into healthcaretech. And, they should [each] be anything between $15 million to $30 million in size. It can go up to even $40 million.” Since there was a scarcity of highly skilled resources in the market, the company was also looking for firms that had talented people. “We are looking for those kind of technology people and if we merge or get them into our portfolio company, we can accelerate and deliver more value,” he said.  Mr. Sinha added that Fulcrum had been talking to financial institutions to raise the capital for acquisitions. “We are almost at the final stage for getting the funding, ” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fulcrum-digital-scouts-for-multiple-acquisitions/article38039577.ece
26 December 2021||Centurion,||Team India has the best chance to conquer the ‘Final Frontier’||We are in Ground Zero. At the Gauteng province where Omicron, the latest variant of ‘Concern’ in COVID-19, first surfaced. The masks are out, so are the sanitisers. The mood is sombre and the Christmas celebrations have been muted. We live in difficult times. It is here, in the Gauteng district, that India will begin its quest for conquering the ‘Final Frontier’ — triumphing in a Test series in South Africa. India has series victories in all other major Test-playing nations. Significant series The upcoming three-Test series — the first match gets underway at Centurion on Sunday — is significant. India has a gilt-edged opportunity to make history at a time when the South African team is not at its strongest. And when its Director of Cricket Graeme Smith and coach Mark Boucher are under investigation for racism in a country where the subject is so sensitive. The Boxing Day Test will mark legend Rahul Dravid’s first overseas Test in his new role as coach. It has been raining in these parts and showers have been forecast on days 1, 2 and 5 of the Test. A start-stop-start Test could upset the rhythm of both the batters and the bowlers. The Indian think-tank could play five bowlers, four pacemen and R. Ashwin in the eleven, with the explosive Rishabh Pant at No. 6. There should be seam movement and bounce on a surface with a grass cover at the SuperSport Park. Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Shami, Mohammed Siraj and Shardul Thakur could complete the Indian pace pack. Shardul will also add depth to the batting along with Ashwin. As the match progresses, there should be assistance for Ashwin; always potent against the southpaws. The Kookaburra ball does a lot early on and moves much less later — there is hardly any reverse swing — and openers K.L. Rahul and Mayank Agarwal and No. 3 Cheteshwar Pujara will have to prevent inroads with the new ball. Short of runs There will be pressure and scrutiny on skipper Virat Kohli. He is short of runs by his own standards, and his recent statements would not have gone down well with the Indian Board. But then, Kohli is passionate about Test cricket and there is no doubting the quality of his batting abilities. India is likely to give the experienced Ajinkya Rahane — his horizontal bat shots could be effective on these wickets — another opportunity. South Africa last played Test cricket six months ago. The side has lost five of its last eight home Tests but has won 21 out of the 26 Tests at Centurion. However, now there is no A.B. de Villiers, Hashim Amla or Faf du Plessis to bail the side out of trouble. Influential wicketkeeper-batter Quinton de Kock, soon to become a father, is available for only the first Test and the side’s quickest bowler, Anrich Nortje, has been ruled out of the series because of fitness concerns. Despite the presence of the feisty skipper Dean Elgar, the talented Aiden Markram and the gifted de Kock, there are holes in the South African batting. Vibrant pace attack But then, even without Nortje, South Africa has a vibrant pace attack. Kagiso Rabada can be quick and dangerous, Lungi Ngidi has troubled the Indian batters in the past and Duanne Olivier, a whippy bowler, can be deceptively fast. Can India breach ‘Fortress Centurion’?  The teams (from):   India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), K.L. Rahul (Vice-capt.), Mayank Agarwal, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane, Rishabh Pant (wk), R. Ashwin, Shardul Thakur, Mohammed Shami, Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Siraj, Ishant Sharma, Umesh Yadav, Shreyas Iyer, Hanuma Vihari, Wriddhiman Saha (wk), Priyank Panchal and Jayant Yadav.   South Africa: Dean Elgar (Capt.), Aiden Markram, Keegan Petersen, Rassie van der Dussen, Temba Bavuma, Quinton de Kock (wk), Wiaan Mulder, Keshav Maharaj, Kagiso Rabada, Lungi Ngidi, Duanne Olivier, Sarel Erwee, Marco Jensen, Beuran Hendricks, George Linde, Sisanda Magala, Ryan Rickelton (wk), Glenton Stuurman, Prenelan Subrayen and Kyle Verreynne.   Umpires: Marais Erasmus and Adrian Holdstock; TV umpire: Allahuddien Paleker; Match Referee: Andy Pycroft.   Match starts at 1.30 p.m. (IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohlis-india-has-the-best-chance-to-conquer-the-final-frontier/article38039681.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Team Radiant triumphs||Davis Cupper Saketh Myneni led Team Radiant to the trophy with a 22-18 victory over Bangalore Challengers in the final of the Centena Pro Tennis League here on Saturday. Saketh outclassed reigning National champion Niki Poonacha 5-0 in the third rubber to gain a four-point lead for the team which proved decisive in the eventual analysis. Four-time National champion Prerna Bhambri was equally responsible in Radiant shining in the climax as she won both her mixed doubles matches, with Parv Nage and Arjun Uppal. In a heady climax, Prerna and Arjun outplayed Dilip Mohanty and Sai Samhitha 5-1 when the teams were tied 17-17 after five rubbers. In the league stage, Bangalore had crushed Team Radiant 28-14, but it was magical performance in the business end of the competition by Saketh, Prerna and company. Aman Dahiya did give a strong start for Bangalore, which had fared consistently strong through the league, by beating Parv 5-. But, Radiant recovered quickly as Prerna and Parv beat Aman and Sai Samhitha 5-2. Saketh could have sealed the issue in the doubles but Suraj Prabodh blew hot and cold, as Niki and Paras Dahiya capitalised to win 5-3 for Bangalore. Paras went on to beat a nervous Suraj 5-3 in the fifth rubber that led to a dream climax. Arjun and Prerna stepped it up with their calm and calculated play, to trigger a joyous round of celebration for Team Radiant. It was no wonder that the players of Team Radiant swept the best players awards in the various categories. Niki had the consolation of getting an award for his overall superb performance in the league. Anil Dhupar, secretary general, All India Tennis Association (AITA), presented the trophy to Team Radiant.  The results (final):   Team Radiant bt Bangalore Challengers 22-18 (Parv Nage lost to Aman Dahiya 1-5; Parv & Prerna Bhambri bt Aman & Sai Samhitha 5-2; Saketh Myneni bt Niki Poonacha 5-0; Saketh & Suraj Prabodh lost to Niki & Paras Dahiya 3-5; Suraj Prabodh lost to Paras Dahiya 3-5; Arjun Uppal & Prerna bt Dilip Mohanty & Sai 5-1) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-radiant-triumphs/article38039730.ece
26 December 2021||KOVILPATTI,||UP clinches National junior hockey crown||Uttar Pradesh rode on Arun Sahani’s brace to script a 3-1 win over Chandigarh in the final of the 11th Hockey India junior National men’s championship here on Saturday. It was complete domination by Uttar Pradesh, which was clinical in all departments. Nipping the Chandigarh attack in the bud and attacking from both flanks, Uttar Pradesh, with three World Cuppers in its team, proved why it was the best side in the tournament. World Cupper Uttam Singh was the fulcrum of the team. He was not only the midfield general but also worked hard on both flanks. Uttar Pradesh’s Sharda Nand Tiwari opened the scoring with a perfect strike off a penalty corner at the start of the second quarter and Sahani’s two goals in the space of nine minutes sealed Chandigarh’s fate. Raman reduced the margin in the 51st minute.   The results (final):   UP 3 (Sharda Nand Tiwari 15, Arun Sahani 16, 34) bt Chandigarh 1 (Raman 51).   Third-place: Odisha 3 (Deepak Minz 27, Sushant Toppo 47, Sudeep Chirmako 49) bt Haryana 2 (Rohit 34, Deepak 36) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uttar-pradesh-clinches-crown/article38039727.ece
26 December 2021||CENTURION,||‘Bowling is India’s strength’||Dean Elgar loves nothing more than the sniff of combat. The tenacious left-handed opener and South Africa’s skipper believes his team has an advantage playing on home soil. He said, “I think it’s pretty even. Us playing at home, obviously, gives us a little bit of an upper hand.” Looking at the Indian team, Elgar said, “You can’t not give them the credit for what they have done over the last while. So, I am not going to sit here and say they are not the best side in the world.” Elgar said, “Their strength at the moment lies in their bowling. We are extremely aware of that as well. They’ve had a lot of success as a bowling unit.” The South African skipper added, “But we have our own seamers and we’ve got a little bit of pace and bounce and the wickets may do a little bit more in South Africa than it does anywhere else around the world.” Elgar said “family comes first, he’s going to become a father” when asked about Quinton de Kock missing the last two Tests. The battlelines are drawn. And Elgar and his men are ready to face the barrage from the Indian bowlers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowling-is-indias-strength/article38039685.ece
26 December 2021||Centurion,||Dravid stresses on good team performance||Rahul Dravid has unfinished business in South Africa. The batting legend was the skipper of the side that shocked a strong Proteas outfit in the Wanderers Test of the 2006-07 series to make history as the first Indian team to win a Test on South African soil. However, India could not hang on for a draw in a rain-affected second Test at Durban and went down in the decider in Cape Town after holding all the aces. That setback still rankles Dravid. Now, as the coach of this Indian team, he has the opportunity to set the record right. “The first Test of a series is important. If you win, you have the chance to put pressure on the home side. But it is not make-or-break. We won the first Test in 2006 but South Africa came back,” Dravid said speaking to the media on Saturday. The Indian coach stressed “Good team performance. Everyone has a role to play, it is not about a few individuals.” Dravid said, “Batting contributions from the lower order will also be vital, particularly if it is a low-scoring game.” He said the batters will have to adapt to the challenging conditions in South Africa that could change over five days. Dravid observed, “The batters have to put runs on the board to give the bowlers an opportunity to pick 20 wickets.” The India coach said Ajinkya Rahane was in a “good head space” and skipper Virat Kohli was a proven performer who loved Test cricket.  He said the Indian bowling had quality and felt the South African attack deserved respect too. Dravid said some selection calls would be difficult but noted, “How you respond to sitting out is a test of your character.” From 2006-07 to 2021, the wheel has turned a full circle for Dravid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-stresses-on-good-team-performance/article38039684.ece
26 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Naval Tata HA lifts Nehru sub-junior title||Naval Tata Hockey Academy (NTHA), Jamshedpur managed to edge past Ritu Rani Hockey Academy (RRHA), Patiala 2-1 in a sedate final to lift the 38th Nehru sub-junior hockey tournament here on Saturday. NTHA drew first blood in the 7th minute but the scores were level two minutes later when Sunil converted a penalty corner for RRHA. The winner came in the 22nd minute and it was more a match of hoping for mistakes from the opposition than any serious effort to score from either team thereafter. With the game largely restricted between the two 30-yard lines, there were few forays into the shooting circle and the occasional attempts went wide without coming close to disturbing the scoreline. RRHA coach Harsh Sharma, doubling up as the team goalkeeper, was named the player of the match. The winner received a purse of Rs. 1,60,000 while the runner up got Rs. 96,000.  The result (final): NTHA, Jamshedpur 2 (Jolen Topno, Bikram Soreng) bt RRHA, Patiala 1 (Sunil) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naval-tata-ha-lifts-nehru-sub-junior-title/article38040224.ece
26 December 2021||LONDON,||Players deserve credit for Villa’s rise: Gerrard||Steven Gerrard said on Friday that his players deserved the credit for Aston Villa’s climb up the Premier League table since he took charge of the Birmingham club. Villa had lost five straight league matches and was just two points above the relegation zone when Gerrard left Scottish champion Rangers to replace Dean Smith, sacked as manager in November. Since Gerrard’s arrival at Villa Park, the club has climbed from 16th to 10th and will be bidding for a fifth win in seven league games when it plays at home against Chelsea on Sunday. “I had confidence and belief that we could come in and have the impact that we’ve had,” said Gerrard, who brought several of his coaching staff with him from Glasgow giant Rangers. “The players deserve the credit for going and carrying those performances out.” The former Liverpool and England captain added: “Once I started talking to Villa, the very first thing I did was look at the fixtures in the short-term. There were a lot of fixtures to be excited about, and I think the players have done extremely well in terms of the points return.” Good run Under Gerrard, Villa has beaten Brighton, Crystal Palace, Leicester and Norwich while losing narrowly to title contender Manchester City and Liverpool. “We were close to taking a point out of the City game as well,” Gerrard said. “The Liverpool game was slightly different — they dominated for large parts. But I think we gave a good account of ourselves and made them extremely nervous in the latter stages of that game. “ The players should be confident, they should have loads of belief heading into a really busy schedule.”  The players should be confident, they should have loads of belief heading into a really busy schedule||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-deserve-credit-for-villas-rise-gerrard/article38040221.ece
26 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bat signed by 2011 WC-winning team fetches $25,000||A bat signed by the 2011 World Cup winning Indian cricket team was sold for $25,000, while Australia opener David Warner's 2016 IPL-winning signed SunRisers Hyderabad jersey fetched $30,000 in a non-fungible token (NFT) auction in Dubai. The NFT auction, conducted by CricFlix in association with RevSportz and Fanatic Sports, witnessed huge response for the historic digital artefacts, garnering a total of $335,950 bidding on Friday. While Warner's 2016 IPL-winning signed jersey topped the chart with the highest bid, digital rights of the bat signed by the Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led team, which handed the country the ODI World Cup after 28 years, also attracted massive bidding. The digital rights to the collection of cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar's 200th Test match was successfully bagged by an ardent Tendulkar fan, Amal Khan from Mumbai for $40,000 (Rs. 30,01,410). The collection, including a signed match jersey, special commemorative cover and autographed match ticket, was the first one to go under the hammer. With an exclusive collection of 23 rare artefacts of world cricket, including the official souvenir and team's autographs of India's maiden tour to England in 1932 were sold for $14,500 (Rs. 10,88,011) and $14,000 (Rs. 10,50,493) respectively. The CricFlix's auction roaster also saw the Don Brandman-signed NFT stamp being sold for $26,600 (Rs. 19,95,937). Lata Mangeshkar concert recording for the 1983 World Cup-winning team was bought for $21,000 (Rs. 15,75,740) while Balasaheb Thackeray cartoons and autographs from India's first tour of Pakistan in 1952 were auctioned for $15,000 (Rs. 11,25,528). For digital rights of India's first-ever Test skipper CK Naiyudu's collection, including his original bank account book and passport, were sold for $7500 (Rs. 5,62,725) and $980 (Rs. 73,529) respectively. Veteran India pacer Jhulan Goswami's 2017 World Cup semifinal jersey fetched $10,000 (Rs. 7,50,300). It was also the first-ever NFT from the women cricketing world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bat-signed-by-2011-wc-winning-team-fetches-25000/article38040350.ece
26 December 2021||PUNE,||Moyuka lifts title||Unseeded Moyuka Uchijima of Japan beat fourth seed Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia 6-2, 7-5 in the final of the NECC $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana on Saturday. Firing eight aces and converting five of eight break points she forced, the 20-year-old Moyuka cruised to victory in an hour and 37 minutes. It was the fourth title in the professional circuit for Moyuka, and third of the season. The champion collected 65 WTA points and $3,935, and the runner-up won 40 points and $2,107. In the doubles final, top seeds Anna Danilina and Valeriya Strakhova prevailed 6-0, 2-6, 10-5 against the Japanese pair of Funa Kozaki and Misaki Matsuda. The doubles champion team got $1,437 and the runner-up $719. The General Manager of the National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC), BSR Shastri, was the chief guest and presented the prizes.  The results (finals):   Singles: Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) bt Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) 6-2, 7-5.   Doubles: Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Funa Kozaki & Misaki Matsuda (Jpn) 6-0, 2-6, [10-5] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/moyuka-lifts-title/article38040226.ece
26 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Kensington claims Bangalore 2000 Guineas||Arjun Mangalorkar-trained Kensington (Antony up) won the Bangalore 2000 Guineas, the chief event of the races held here on Saturday (Dec 25). The winner is owned by Diamond Band Racing Syndicate Pvt. Ltd. rep. by Mr. Shiven Surendranath, Mr. Haider Soomar, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha and Mr. Sumit Mazumder. Kensington, who jumped out smartly, settled down to race fifth or sixth till the home stretch, before Antony, who rode a well-judged race, skilfully manoeuvred his mount from outside in the straight. The colt responded well and took command in the last 150m mark and held on gamely from the fast finishing Evaldo.  The results:   1. BUCKPASSER PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): SETAREH (Shane Gray) 1, Divine Blessings (Antony) 2, Lords Of Legend (Akshay K) 3 and Measure Of Time (P.S. Chouhan) 4. Not run: Scribbling Hopper. 1-3/4, Lnk and 1. 1m 13.96s. Rs. 38 (w), 19, 21 and 19 (p), SHP: 51, THP: 66, FP: 156, Q: 118, Trinella: 1,191 and 690, Exacta: 4,333 and 1,075. Favourite: Measure Of Time. Owner: Sarainaga Racing Pvt Ltd. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  2. HUMAN RIGHTS DAY PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 25: CAPABLE (M. Naveen) 1, Dream Chaser (Vishal Bunde) 2, Acaster (J.H. Arul) 3 and Impelling Power (S. John) 4. 3-1/2, 2-3/4 and 6-3/4. 1m 39.27s. Rs. 190 (w), 30, 17 and 15 (p), SHP: 38, THP: 64, FP: 569, Q: 318, Trinella: 2,101 and 900, Exacta: 7,268 and 2,596. Favourite: Acaster. Owner: Mr. G.S. Reddy. Trainer: Sharat Kumar.  3. SHANTI FALLS PLATE (DIv. II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over: GALACTICAL (J.H. Arul) 1, Rightly Noble (Vishal Bunde) 2, General Patton (Antony) 3 and Embosom (Dhanu Singh) 4. 1-1/4, 1-1/2 and Shd. 1m 14.24s. Rs. 95 (w), 31, 61 and 17 (p), SHP: 209, THP: 56, FP: 3,097, Q: 1,740, Trinella: 7,786 and 1,907, Exacta: 12,877 and 5.519. Favourite: General Patton. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal, Mr. Gautam Aggarwal and Mr. Sultan Singh. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  4. PHAR LAP PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): ARMORY (Dhanu Singh) 1, Perfect Empress (Akshay K) 2, Electric Blue (Arshad) 3 and Spectacular (Shane Gray) 4. 1/2, Hd and 2-1/4. 1m 26.90s. Rs. 48 (w), 14, 23 and 22 (p), SHP: 52, THP: 60, FP: 246, Q: 220, Trinella: 2,462 and 387, Exacta: 2,602 and 918. Favourite: Spectacular. Owner: Mrs. Rohini Thuppal. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  5. ICE BREAKER TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4-y-o & over: AACHEN (C. Umesh) 1, Wings Of Desire (Arshad) 2, Starry Wind (Md. Akram) 3 and Alberetta (L.A. Rozario) 4. Not run: Commodus. 1-1/4, 1/2 and 1. 1m 14.06s. Rs. 25 (w), 14, 28 ans 131 (p), SHP: 56, THP: 317, FP: 278, Q: 194, Trinella: 13,253. Exacta: 45,427 (carried over). Favourite: Aachen. Owner: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing LLP. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  6. BANGALORE 2000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o (Terms): KENSINGTON (Win Legend-Angelique) Antony 1 , Evaldo (Gusto Farrfesheena) Akshay K 2, Southern Dynasty (Multidimensional-Set Aside) C.S. Jodha 3 and Imperial Blue (Be Safe-Youre So Beautiful) C. Umesh 4. Nk, 2-3/4 and 1. 1m 37.88s. Rs. 47 (w), 17, 25 and 27 (p), SHP: 81, THP: 64, FP: 526, Q: 286, Trinella: 10,275 and 2,642, Exacta: 59,090 and 16,883. Favourite: Ascoval. Owners: Diamond Band Racing Syndicate Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. Shiven Surendranath, Mr. Haider Soomar, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha and Mr. Sumit Mazumder. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  7. SHANTI FALLS PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o &over: SECRETSUPERSTAR (Chetan K) 1, Musterion (Vishal Bunde) 2, Gypsy (Ikram Ahmed) 3 and Baltimore (S. John) 4. Not run: Mr. Humble. 2-1/4, Snk and Hd. 1m 13.96s. Rs. 37 (w), 15, 27 and 43 (p), SHP: 55, THP: 117, FP: 418, Q: 211, Trinella: 3,631 and 2,489, Exacta: 6,134 and 2.253. Favourite: Secretsuperstar. Owner: Mr. Nanda Kumar N. Trainer: Kishen Thomas.  8. VANI VILASA SAGARA PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: BLACK COFFEE (Antony) 1, Four Wheel Drive (Akshay K) 2, Windstorm (Arshad) 3 and Tyto Alba (Rajesh K) 4. Not run: Ansaldo. Lnk, 1-3/4 and 6-1/2. 1m 39.14s. Rs. 53 (w), 18, 16 and 22 (p), SHP: 36, THP: 65, FP: 173, Q: 81, Trinella: 906 and 522, Exacta: 58,380 (carried over). Favourite: Four Wheel Drive. Owner: Mr. Saurabh Jetli. Trainer: Neil Darashah. Jackpot: Rs. 1,16,657 (one tkt); Runner up: 7,142 (seven tkts); Treble (i): 1,843 (four tkts); (ii): 4,049 (three tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kensington-claims-bangalore-2000-guineas/article38039732.ece
26 December 2021||Jaipur,||Can Himachal stop TN from white-ball double?||Tamil Nadu has been the best domestic side in the country in white-ball cricket since the 2019-20 season. After losing the finals of the one-day and T20 competitions in 2019, the team has won back-to-back titles in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20s (2020-21 and 2021-22). On Sunday, Tamil Nadu has a date with history as it goes for the domestic limited-overs double this season. It will be the firm favourite as it takes on Himachal in the final of the Vijay Hazare Trophy at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium. Team effort The team’s batters are in good form and every player has chipped in with valuable performances. That left-arm spinner R. Sai Kishore walks in at No. 8 — he has shown that he can wield the willow with good effect — reflects the depth of the team. The bowling is spin dominant, but Tamil Nadu will play in the main stadium, where the medium-pacers have made an impact, for the first time this season. The team could swap left-arm spinner M. Siddharth for a seam option. Tamil Nadu, however, can ill-afford to take Himachal, figuring in its maiden final, lightly. The latter has played an aggressive brand of cricket while knocking out fancied opponents. Showing the way Skipper Rishi Dhawan has led from the front with both bat and ball during his campaign, scoring 416 runs and picking up 14 wickets. Opener Prashant Chopra leads his team’s batting charts with 435 runs while the Himachal medium-pacers have been skilful in exploiting the helpful conditions and have the ability to rattle any top-order. Himachal also has the advantage of having played at the Sawai Mansingh stadium in the quarterfinal and semifinal. Speaking about the final, Tamil Nadu skipper Vijay Shankar said, “we have done well to get here. One doesn’t get the chance to go for the double often, so we want to enjoy it. Chasing 311 to win the semifinal has given us the confidence that we can handle any situation.”  They are a very good team in white-ball cricket but we are confident of getting the job done. We are always a good bowling side always and this year our batting has also clicked Rishi DhawanHP skipper||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/can-himachal-stop-tn-from-white-ball-double/article38039689.ece
26 December 2021||LONDON,||Rodgers hopes Leicester will recover||Leicester City manager Brendan Rodgers believes his side will recover quickly from the agonising penalty shoot-out exit from the League Cup when it faces Premier League leader Manchester City on Sunday. The Foxes twice conceded a two-goal lead in their midweek League Cup quarterfinal against Liverpool — including an equaliser deep into added time — before losing on spot-kicks. Adding to the pain of defeat, Leicester defenders Caglar Soyuncu and Ricardo Pereira were forced off while star striker Jamie Vardy played the last 20 minutes with a tight hamstring. None of which augurs well for Leicester’s fixture against Premier League leader City, even though the Foxes have won with two of their last four meetings against Pep Guardiola’s side. “There is always disappointment but I said before the game, ‘you are coming to Anfield, a great place to play, and whatever happens let’s impose our way’,” said former Liverpool manager Rodgers on Friday. “That’s what I’ve always had from these players. They have been competitive against the best teams in the country and we saw that, we just couldn’t do enough to get over the line.”  City is playing well at the minute, so we will just have to see where we are at and then devise a plan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rodgers-hopes-leicester-will-recover/article38040222.ece
26 December 2021||AURANGABAD:,||Double for Tanush; Harshini wins||Tanush Ghildyal downed fifth seed Arnav Paparkar 6-4, 6-4 in the final of the EMMTC National under-14 tennis championship on Saturday. It was a double crown for Tanush, who had won the doubles title with Arnav. In the girls final, N. Harshini beat Sohini Mohanty 3-6, 6-2, 6-4.  The results (finals): Boys: Tanush Ghildyal bt Arnav Paparkar 6-4, 6-4; Girls: N. Harshini bt Sohini Mohanty 3-6, 6-2, 6-4. Doubles: Rishitha Reddy & Sohini bt Harshini & Snigdha Kanta 6-2, 6-7(5), [10-7] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-for-tanush-harshini-wins/article38040227.ece
26 December 2021||CHENNAI:,||Storm Breaker wins main event||Storm Breaker (Yash Narredu astride) won the Dr. T. Dhevanathan Yadav Winner Trophy, the feature event of the races held here on Saturday (Dec. 25). The winner is the property of Mrs. B.E. Saldanha, M/s. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding & M/s. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy and trained by Deepesh Narredu who saddled two more winners on the day.  1. DREAM TO LEAD HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 00 to 25 (no whip): DRIFTWOOD PACIFIC (Ram Nandan) 1, Stern Maiden (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Priceless Treasure (Farid Ansari) 3 and Rajputana (M.S. Deora) 4. Not run: Beauregard. 1-1/2, shd and 1/2. 1m, 2.71s. Owner: Mr. Tatineni Prasad Rao. Trainer: Vishesh.  2. DANCING GLANCES HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65: RAYS OF SUN (P.P. Dhebe) 1, Royal Commander (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Eagle Prince (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Waytogo (P. Sai Kumar) 4. Not run: Storm Trigger. 1-3/4, 1-3/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 41.10s. Owner: M/s. Zaveri Stud Farm. Trainer: P. Krishna.  3. DR. T. DHEVANATHAN YADAV WINNER TROPHY (1,200m), rated 60 to 85: STORM BREAKER (Yash Narredu) 1, Catelyn (P.P. Dhebe) 2, Star Twist (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Glorious Destiny (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 1-1/2, 1-3/4 and 1/2. 1m 13.86s. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldanha, M/s. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding & M/s. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy. Trainer: D. Narredu.  4. P.M. ANTONY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), maiden 2-y-o only (Terms): PRICELESS BEAUTY (Nakhat Singh)1, Chaposa Springs (P.P. Dhebe) 2, Dark Son (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Glorious Evensong (Farhan Alam) 4. Dist, nose and 3. 1m, 13.88s. Owners: Mr. Rohini Thuppal & Mr. M. Narredu. Trainer: D. Narredu.  5. SILVER BIRCH HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: WAR EMBLEM (C. Brisson) 1, Rwanda (Mubs Kareem) 2, Uncle Sam (B. Dharshan) 3 and Lord Of The Turf (Nakhat Singh) 4. 3/4, lnk and hd. 1m, 15.20s. Owner: Mr. A.L. Murugappan. Trainer: Sebastian.  6. RIVER KNIGHT HANDICAP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 45: LADY MIMI (C. Brisson)1, Moonlight Sonata (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Wisaka (Ramandeep) 3 and Sovereign Power (Nakhat Singh) 4. 4, 1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m14.62s. Owner: Mr. Bhupinder Singh S.S. Trainer: D. Narredu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/storm-breaker-wins-main-event/article38039722.ece
26 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||House Of Diamonds expected to score||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s House Of Diamonds, who ran second in her last start, should make amends in the Mir Fazilath Memorial Cup, the main event of Sunday’s (Dec. 26) races.  HUSSAIN SAGAR PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III) — 2.15 p.m.: 1. Destine To Be (1) Gaurav Singh 62, 2. N R I Blue (3) Akshay Kumar 62, 3. Prime Gardenia (6) Rupal Singh 62, 4. Solo Winner (7) Abhay Singh 61, 5. Red River (12) T.S. Jodha 59, 6. Royal Girl (8) Santosh Raj 58.5, 7. Southern Lady (4) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 8. N R I Gift (11) Rafique Sk. 57.5, 9. Paree (5) Afroz Khan 56.5, 10. Astronaut (9) Khurshad Alam 55.5, 11. Jo Malone (2) Aneel 55.5 and 12. Turf Monarch (10) Surya Prakash 50.  1. N R I BLUE,   2. DESTINE TO BE,   3. PRIME GARDENIA   SANGAM PLATE (DIV. II), (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.45: 1. King Maker (6) Surya Prakash 60, 2. N R I Magic (4) Rafique Sk. 60, 3. Once More (3) R.S. Jodha 59.5, 4. Shaquille (1) Santosh Raj 58.5, 5. Curcumin (10) Akshay Kumar 57, 6. Linewiler (5) Mukesh Kumar 55.5, 7. N R I Heights (8) Aneel 55, 8. Sheldon (9) Gaurav Singh 52, 9. Bedazzled (2) Afroz Khan 51.5 and 10. Sputnic (7) G. Naresh 50.5.  1. CURCUMIN, 2. LINEWILER, 3. KING MAKER   GREENER PLATE (DIV. II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.15: 1. Lifes Song (8) Rohit Kumar 60, 2. Hard To Toss (13) A.A. Vikrant 58, 3. Able Love (7) B. Nikhil 57.5, 4. Indian Glory (3) Surya Prakash 56.5, 5. Angelita (11) Ajeeth Kumar 55.5, 6. Furious Fun (6) Kiran Naidu 55, 7. Narakamicie (12) C.S. Jodha 53, 8. Star Cruise (5) R. Ajinkya 53, 9. Charmer (9) Nakhat Singh 52, 10. Royal Support (10) S.J. Sunil 52, 11. Battle Ready (1) G. Naresh 50.5, 12. Exponent (2) P. Gaddam 50.5 and 13. Precious Gift (4) Santosh Raj 50.5.  1. ANGELITA, 2. NARAKAMICIE,   3. INDIAN GLORY   SANGAM PLATE (DIV. I), (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.45: 1. Apollo (5) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Lockhart (7) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 3. Rapid Fire (8) Surya Prakash 60, 4. The Special One (9) Akshay Kumar 60, 5. Rhythm Selection (10) Md. Ismail 57.5, 6. Sun Dancer (6) Kiran Naidu 56.5, 7. Big Brave (4) R. Ajinkya 54, 8. Call Of The Blue (3) Rafique Sk. 54, 9. Story Teller (2) R.S. Jodha 52.5 and 10. Sacred Lamp (1) Abhay Singh 51.5.  1. APOLLO, 2. THE SPECIAL ONE, 3. SUN DANCER   MIR FAZILATH HUSSAIN MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 4.15: 1. Her Legacy (6) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. House Of Diamonds (3) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 3. Kingston (10) Nakhat Singh 54, 4. Angel Tesoro (7) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 5. Stunning Force (8) Mukesh Kumar 53.5, 6. All Time Legend (5) Ashad Asbar 52.5, 7. Intense Approach (9) C.S. Jodha 52, 8. Max (4) N.B. Kuldeep 51.5, 9. Siyavash (2) Gaurav Singh 51.5 and 10. Unsung Hero (1) Afroz Khan 51.5.  1. HOUSE OF DIAMONDS,   2. KINGSTON,   3. INTENSE APPROACH   GREENER PLATE (DIV. I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 4.45: 1. Castlerock (11) P. Ajeeth Kumar 60, 2. Rising Queen (6) Abhay Singh 60, 3. Top Diamond (3) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 4. Hidden Hope (10) S.S. Tanwar 57, 5. Cabello (12) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 6. Silk (9) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 7. Garnet (5) G. Naresh 53.5, 8. Thunder Road (1) Gaurav Singh 52.5, 9. Ambitious Star (2) Nakhat Singh 52, 10. Above The Law (7) C.S. Jodha 51.5, 11. Silk Route (4) Surya Prakash 51, 12. Fatuma (8) Rafique Sk. 50.5 and 13. Space Time (13) B. Nikhil 50.5.  1. TOP DIAMOND,   2. ABOVE THE LAW,   3. SILK   Day’s Best : CURCUMIN  Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6; Mini-jackpot: 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3, (ii) 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/house-of-diamonds-expected-to-score/article38039728.ece
26 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY:,||Balamurugan, Sharvani win||M. Balamurugan of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra’s Hardee Patil bagged the under-15 boys’ and girls’ titles in the UTT National-ranking South Zone table tennis tournament here on Saturday. While Balamurugan defeated Priyanuj Bhattacharyya of Assam 4-1 for his second successive crown, Hardee clinched her maiden title of the season with a 4-1 win over Sharvani Nagam of Tamil Nadu.  The results: U-15: Youth: Boys: Final: M. Balamurugan (TNTTA) bt Priyanuj Bhattacharyya 11-7, 13-15, 11-1, 13-11, 11-5; Semifinals: Balamurugan bt Kushal Chopda (Mah) 11-9, 11-9, 11-9, 7-11, 7-11, 11-8; Priyanuj bt Divyaj Roy (TTFI) 11-6, 8-11, 6-11, 11-8, 11-6, 14-12.   Girls: Final: Hardee Patel (Mah) bt Sharvani Nagam (TTTA) 11-9, 8-11, 11-7, 11-8, 11-5; Semifinals: Sharvani bt Sandika Bhattacharjee (Ben) 12-10, 11-5, 5-11, 11-9, 8-11, 11-9; Hardee bt Sayani Panda (NCOE) 11-4, 11-6, 11-9, 8-11, 12-10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balamurugan-sharvani-win/article38039734.ece
26 December 2021||KOLKATA,||I-League: Gokulam meets Churchill||Holder Gokulam Kerala FC will take on former champion and last year’s runner-up Churchill Brothers in the opening round of the new edition of the Hero I-League, which gets underway at three venues in and around the City from Sunday. The venues are Mohun Bagan in Kolkata, Kalyani and Naihati. In the other two matches, TRAU FC of Imphal will take on All India Football Federation’s development side Indian Arrows while debutant Rajasthan United Club will meet Roundglass Punjab FC. This time, the tournament has a field of 13 contenders, an increase of two over the 11 that participated in the previous edition. After former champion Chennai City FC expressed its inability to field a side, Mumbai-based Kenkre FC made its way through by virtue of finishing second in the I-League Qualifiers. The champion of the Qualifiers Rajasthan United and Sreenidi Deccan FC which gained a direct entry, are the other newcomers. This apart, there are the other regulars like Aizawl FC, Mohammedan Sporting (Kolkata), NEROCA FC (Imphal), Real Kashmir FC and Sudeva Delhi FC, giving a pan-Indian semblance to the tournament. Despite being downgraded to the second tier of the country’s league hierarchy, the tournament is expected to see some interesting contests among the sides that have a lot of fresh talents in their roster. Apart from the title, there are no other incentives as the AIFF has made it clear that promotion to the country’s top league — ISL — will only start from the 2022-23 season. But the process of relegation will be restarted this time. The tournament will be played in a bio-secure bubble like the previous season and the teams and the match officials will have to follow specific protocols. The competition format will also be repeated with all the teams playing each other once in a round-robin format in Phase One. In the final phase, the top seven of in the table (Group A) will play for the title while the bottom six (Group B) will be fighting relegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-meets-churchill/article38039729.ece
26 December 2021||DOHA,||Mukund & Kalyanpur go down||Adil Kalyanpur and Sasikumar Mukund lost 7-6(1), 6-4 in the doubles semifinals to Tusng-Hao Huang and Saba Purtseladze in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here.  The result:   Tsung-Hao Huang (Tpe) & Saba Purtseladze (Geo) bt Adil Kalyanpur & Sasikumar Mukund 7-6(1), 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukund-kalyanpur-go-down/article38040103.ece
26 December 2021||LONDON,||Ray Illingworth passes away||Former England captain Ray Illingworth has died at the age of 89, his county Yorkshire announced on Saturday. “We are deeply saddened to learn that Ray Illingworth has passed away,” the county wrote on its Twitter account. He was undergoing radiotherapy for oesophageal cancer. Illingworth played 61 Tests for England between 1958 and 1973 and captained the country 31 times, winning 12 matches and an Ashes series in Australia in 1970-71. He scored 1,836 Test runs at an average of 23.24 and claimed 122 wickets with his off-spin bowling at 31.20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ray-illingworth-passes-away/article38039679.ece
26 December 2021||DUBAI,||Pakistan pips India in last-ball finish||Pakistan edged out India by two wickets in a last-ball thriller of the under-19 Asia Cup here on Saturday. It rode on a stroke-filled 81 by No. 3 Muhammad Shehzad and a late cameo by Ahmad Khan (29 not out) to chase down a target of 238. Ahmad hit Ravi Kumar for a boundary off the game’s final delivery to seal the issue. Earlier in the day, the Pakistan bowlers, led by medium-pacer Zeeshan Zameer (five for 60), restricted India to 237.   The scores: India 237 in 49 overs (Aaradhya Yadav 50, Harnoor Singh 46, Zeeshan Zamir 5/60) lost to Pakistan 240/8 in 50 overs (Muhammad Shehzad 81, Irfan Khan 32, Raj Bawa 4/56) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-pips-india-in-last-ball-finish/article38039680.ece
26 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Yoddha steals it from Pirates||UP Yoddha pipped Patna Pirates 36-35 off the final move of the match in their ProKabaddi League contest here on Saturday. Raider Surender Gill got the much-needed bonus point for Yoddha while Pardeep Narwal (12 points) top-scored for the team. In the second match, a last raid blunder by Rakesh Gowda, when he miscalculated a bonus point, handed Pune Paltan a one-point win over Telugu Titans.  The results: UP Yoddha bt Patna Pirates 36-35; Puneri Paltan bt Telugu Titans 34-33; Jaipur Pink Panthers bt Haryana Steelers 40-38 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yoddha-steals-it-from-pirates/article38039682.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Grihith takes a five-for||Grihith took a fifer as Delhi Capital beat Mount Club by eight wickets in the Indra Devi memorial U-14 tournament.  The scores: Mount Club 71 in 29 overa (Grihith Gumber 5/20) lost to Delhi Capital 72/2 in 17 overs .      Fine batting by Adiya Kumar, Priyanshu and Aryan Malik 49 helped Jat Heroes beat United India by 82 runs in the DDCA league.  The scores: Jat Heroes 236 in 39 overs (Adiya Kumar 53, Aryan Malik 49, Priyanshu 47) bt United India 154/8 in 40 overs (Kairav Singhania 55 n.o., Jaspreet Singh 4/27) .      Man of the match Rahul scored an unbeaten 65 and picked two wickets while Nayan and Sawhney and Dhurv Gupta took three wickets each as Vikas Puri Centre thrashed Vikrant Yadav Academy by 10 wickets in just 5.5 overs in the 1st VS Sports tournament.  The scores:   VYA 77 in 23 overs (Nayan Sawhney 3/0, Dhurv Gupta 3/13, Rahul 2/12) lost to VPC 78/0 in 5.5 overs (Rahul 65 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grihith-takes-a-five-for/article38040223.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||All-round show by Darshan||M.B. Darshan (44 & five for 35) helped RBNCC ‘B’ register a 76-win over Mysore Underwriters SC in the KSCA Mysore Zone second division league here recently.  The scores:   II div: RBNCC ‘B’ 180 in 28.4 overs (M.B. Darshan 44, K.Mahesh 41, K.M. Sharath 5/30) bt Mysore Underwriters SC 104 in 29.5 overs (V.Akhilesh 54 n.o, M.B. Darshan 5/35).   III div.: Mohan’s XI 166 in 32.4 overs ( N. Deepak 71, Rohith 30, Nitish Manju 4/42, Sanketh Shetty 3/24) lost to Karavali Cricketers 169/5 in 23.5 overs ( D. Parameshwara 40, M.U. Karthik 33, Rajath 39).   IV div.: Nanjangud CC 158 in 45.2 overs (Md. Sadiq 29, Vibodh Ramesh 4/30) bt New National CC 142/9 in 50 overs (P. Kishan 40, Adarsh G Puthraya 40, Harshith V Kadam 4/12) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-round-show-by-darshan/article38040377.ece
26 December 2021||TIRUCHI:,||Bharathidasan in semifinals||Host Bharathidasan scripted a 63-32 win over Manonmaniam Sundaranar in the quarterfinals of the South Zone inter-university kabaddi tournament for men on Saturday. Bharathidasan, Vels IST & AS, SRM IST and Mangalore entered the semifinal league.  The results: Quarterfinals: Vels IST & AS bt Kuvempu 46-32; Bharathidasan bt Manonmaniam Sundaranar 63-32; SRM IST bt Sathyabama 48-37; Mangalore bt Acharya Nagarjuna 50-15.   Pre-quarterfinals: Kuvempu bt Yogi Vemana 44-24; Bharathidasan bt Yenepoya 41-29; Sathyabama bt Madras 54-32; ANU bt Anna 45-37 .    D. Ramaraj's hat-trick went in vain as Sky lost to Sachin by seven wickets in the TAKE-DDCA fourth division league.  The scores: II div.: Jahir Promising XI 217/3 in 30 overs (P. Vijaya Raj 36, K. Muruganantham 81, S. Thirukumaran 44, K. Satheesh 29 n.o.) bt RVS SC 116 in 30 overs (R. Vijay 25, A. Kennedy 3/13). IV div.: Sky 111 in 27 overs (M. Syed Abudhaheer 49) lost to Sachin 112/3 in 19 overs (R. Muthukkannan 51, J. Abdul Kareem 38 n.o., D. Ramaraj 3/0, incl. a hat-trick) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bharathidasan-in-semifinals/article38039725.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, IV-A, Gandhi Nagar Starlets vs Rising Stars (St. Bede’s ‘B’); V-B, TFUCC vs Social (St. Bede’s ‘A’); Milkyway vs Vijay’s (MCC HSS); Harnath vs SKM (SRMC, turf); GTUC vs Madras Indians (Wahe Guru ‘A’), 9.30 a.m. TDCA league, III div., Parthasarathy vs Jaya Education Group (8 a.m.), OCF ground; Harrington CA-Esbee State-level u-12 tournament, Reddy’s Santhoshapuram, noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article38040141.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 07:32 IST,||Sudoku — December 26, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-26-2021/article38040527.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Catch me if you can||Sporting an ear-to-ear smile, Anshu Bisht settles at his PC gaming station at home in Haldwani, Uttarakhand. He picks up his controller and puts on his headset as his livestream kicks off. Anshu, better known as GamerFleet, says into the mic — as the audience numbers tick upwards into the thousands — he has something special planned: a speedrun for the popular world-building game Minecraft. Speedrunning, as its name suggests, sees the playing of a video game, or a section of it, with the intent of completing it as fast as possible, be it for entertainment or competition. Geared towards the completionist among gamers, it has garnered quite a cult following over the past two decades. Speedrunning, done both in a solo environment or a more competitive e-sports space, can be done on a mobile device like a smartphone or a tablet, as well as the typical console and PC setups. Speedrun gaming picked up pace globally around two years ago amongst the Gen-Z and Gen-alpha communities after US-based Minecraft YouTuber Dream ventured into it. His most viewed speedrun video has more than 100 million views, and this is where Indian gamers, including Anshu, found a space for gaming content to grow in the last year. As Anshu kicks off his speedrun, he dashes through a pixellated forest, stopping here and there to build a couple of shelters to ward off some monsters in the night. In a stream of rushed Hindi, he shares his in-game coordinates with his audiences who may want to ‘meet’ up with him. Anshu, who broke a personal record of 40 minutes in mid-August for a Minecraft speedrun, shares he was inspired to start speedrunning after seeing international creators having a go. “Normally I complete Minecraft in 15 to 30 days, building everything with the best armour and resources. But when speedrunning, I only tend to make important upgrades. Anyone can play the game but only a few can speedrun a game within a limited time; it does require some practice and skill.” Head in the game Respected in India’s speedrun circles, Noida-based Rudraansh AKA TheRealCCV points out, “Speedrunning isn’t about direct competition like player-versus-player (PvP) games such as Dota, League of Legends, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive.” Popular speedrun games include nostalgic ones such as Super Mario 64 (1996) and Legend of Zelda (1998) which kicked off the movement, as well as recent next-gen releases such as Control (2020) and Resident Evil Village (2020); Minecraft, however, has stayed a go-to favourite for speedrun gamers over the years, peaking among Gen-Z and Gen-Alpha after iconic Minecraft YouTuber Dream ventured into it. Anshu’s YouTube channel GamerFleet is nearing 1.5 million subscribers. He chooses his speedrun games carefully, explaining, “The qualities I look at in video games that make it ideal for speedrunning are: the game should be interesting enough to play over and over again, the cinematics in between should be skippable, and there should be enough shortcuts to skip the grinding parts of the game.” Known for his outrageous comedy during his streams, Wales-based Pammi AKA Chapati Hindustani Gamer — whose YouTube channel has more than 7.2 million subscribers — has a strong connection with his Indian audiences, often playing Roblox and Minecraft. He advises new speedrunners, “Pick a game that you’re passionate about and that also challenges you and not irritate you. This will help you create more engaging content. Many pros finish Minecraft speedruns in under 30 minutes.” He sheepishly admits that the fastest he could complete Minecraft was in four hours about three months ago in August, adding, “Embarrassing, but I loved it!” The India status quo Speedrunning games — driven by high adrenalin — have created a niche and engaging community since the 1990s across the world. Large-scale worldwide events like Games Done Quick amass hundreds of thousands of viewers and have raked in millions of dollars for charity. However, Pranav claims the community is larger and more active in the West than in India, thanks to Twitch.  The online hub for all things to do with the gaming style, Speedrun.com has currently amassed a database of more than 2.5 million runs in more than 25,000 games from 9,24,944 users. The site has leaderboards, community moderation of games, marathons and schedules as well as helpful resources for other gamers. Keen to get more Indian games into speedruns, Rudraansh has been an organiser and a caster in the smaller-scale tri-monthly tournament Getting Over It Duos. He, along with four other people, organise the tournament. To date, the organisation has accumulated a prize pool of around $2,350 throughout the first four tournaments and registrations from over 63 India-based teams and counting. Rohit Naresh Jagarsia, founder and CEO, Revenant Esports speaks on the “lucrative” potential of this gaming category, “In India, there’s a big audience behind mobile titles which are multiplayer games that cannot be speedrun by the book. However, people generally speedrun games like Battlegrounds Mobile India, Call Of Duty Mobile and Free Fire by pushing ranks and competing with other leaderboard players. If pushing ranks and grinding leaderboards also counts as speedrunning a multiplayer game, then I think India has a massive appetite for this space within gaming.” It sure looks like the future is bright and monied for speedrunning in India. Mumbai-based Ronodeep Dasgupta — known for his YouTube channel The RawKnee Games that has more than 3.1 million subscribers — agrees, “The Internet has moved away from long-form content with Instagram Reels and YouTube Shorts, so a speedrun would be an interesting event to watch since it would take about 20 minutes. It might take between 40 and 45 minutes for games like Counter-Strike: Global Offensive and PUBG to finish. A speedrun might be the YouTube Shorts of esports.” In March, Ronodeep was elated to beat his Minecraft speedrun record in under 20 minutes. He elaborates, “The Indian speedrunning community is seeing steady growth on YouTube in the past year, but the actual potential of these games is yet to be explored in the country.” Looking forward to this growing content wave for gamers, Pammi sums it up, “There is a sense of thrill, drama, suspense, euphoria, and disappointment in speedrun gaming content. It is a complete entertainment package.”  Keep up with tech Over the last year, with next-generation consoles such as the Xbox Series X and S and the PlayStation 5 and more powerful PCs, speedrunning has been given a fresh spotlight so that gamers and developers can show off the experience of racing through a game. Pammi says that it is important to speedrun a game that has fast loading times. Pranav Panpalia, the founder of Delhi-based gaming influencer agency Opraahfx, explains, “The hardware, like the console, is created keeping heavy-duty gaming in mind. Few brands even involve pro-gamers to test their products before launching them to the larger public/audiences.” He also says there is an important software aspect to it; a few speedrun games come with some tech limitations; for example, a few Japanese versions of video games are a bit faster as they have less text and load faster. Therefore, gamers of that geography have an unfair advantage over others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/catch-me-if-you-can/article38040354.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow the trail||A colony of ants is frozen in motion. They seem to trudge across a wall and around what appears to be three golden domes and work together, typical of their behaviour. But here, they are made of copper and brass. National Award-winning artist Maria Antony Raj’s sculpture, titled Ants, says volumes about his preoccupation with natural phenomena that inspire human behaviour. Ants and his other sculptures that have been in the making for the last 15 years, now stand in DakshinaChitra Museum’s Kadambari Art Gallery for public viewing. The artist, who resides and works from Cholamandal Artists’ Village, is a man of very few words. But his work speaks for itself. A sense of fragility emanates from his sculptures that look closely at animal behaviour, that is often, unknowingly, mimicked by mankind. His fascination for anthills is what inspired him first to conjure up figures that resembled the shape, but comprising varying elements. “The ant has always been seen as a social role model to humans. From folk tales and proverbs to moral stories, the ant is portrayed as hardworking, honest and cooperative. Though small, the ant has succeeded,” says Maria. The way in which ants share food and work in union, is another metaphor that often presents itself in his work. On the other hand, his series titled Butterfly features delicate, visual takes on how birds and insects interact with the magarantham (pollen) in flowers. Entirely made with brass, copper sheets and wires, these are also mobile sculptures that Maria says “have just the right, subtle movement, but have not lost their form in the space.” Of late, the artist has been engaging a lot with mobile sculptures. “When the sculpture is kept at a fixed place, it seems to be still and aloof. I always think of ways to make it more communicative,” says Maria. Butterfly etches out an oft-seen scene at the park, of butterflies in pursuit of a flower to comfortably settle on. While the petals are done in brass sheets, the anther and pollen are made of copper wires. He says his “deep approach” towards such simple occurrences is what lends itself to a sculpture. And why does he stick to such themes? “Globalisation and the current struggle to retain cultural values, leads me to keep it simple.”  Butterfly is on display at DakshinaChitra Museum’s Kadambari Art Gallery till January 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/follow-the-trail/article38040416.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||On a separate track||“Do not play cinema songs. Play the keerthanais that you were taught first before attempting other things,” Rajhesh Vaidhya’s father used to tell him when he was a child, trying to master the nuances of the veena. Whenever his father stepped out, a young Rajhesh would try playing a film number. “My first attempt was Ilaiyaraaja’s ‘Pani Vizhum’ ( Ninaivellam Nithya ). I was so obsessed with that tune that I would long for the few minutes when my dad was not around, to try and play that number,” beams Rajhesh, as he narrates this anecdote at his Ashok Nagar residence. That fascination continues till date. Today, Rajhesh is the go-to veena player for leading music composers. Apart from his multiple live concerts in the December music season, he is currently thrilled about two things: completing a thousand episodes of his popular Do You Have A Minute series on social media, and turning music composer for a Tamil film. The series kickstarted on March 24, 2019, when the musician thought about playing audience requests — in a short, snappy format. “In my live concerts, I used to take a lot of requests and this was planned as an extension of that. The plan was to film about 40-50 videos,” he reveals. Mixed bag of melodies  But the response was overwhelming. Requests for him to play both popular and underrated songs kept pouring in, and Rajhesh kept filming every day. He completed 1,000 posts recently with a fast rendition of ‘Vetri Kodi Kattu’ from Rajinikanth’s Padayappa . The time that audiences had during lockdowns helped these short one-minute videos gain traction. “The veena still holds sway among audiences,” he says, citing Anirudh’s recent Western-classical fusion ‘So Baby’ track from Doctor in which he played the instrument. Rajhesh has also played for Ilaiyaraaja and Yuvan Shankar Raja in their forthcoming film projects. The year 2022 promises to be special for the musician, for he will soon debut as a composer in upcoming Tamil film, Shot Boot 3 , directed by Arun Vaidyanathan. “It’ll be a happy kids-based film that hopes to spread a lot of love and positivity. My music will have a variety of genres, to suit the needs of the subject.” Currently, Rajhesh has taken a short break from his Do You Have A Minute series, but promises to return in the New Year with more vigour and fresh songs. Apart from some new collaborations, Rajhesh is also working on a unique veena-based four-minute single. “It will not feature keyboards or percussion; whatever you hear will be the sound of the veena playing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-a-separate-track/article38040351.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Green Christmas in the time of climate change||There was a time when “Green Christmas” just denoted Yule celebrations free of crippling snowfall — and nothing else. With that meaning, the term works only in places with extreme winters that suffer a “whiteout”. It is ludicrously out of place in the tropics. Absolutely in Chennai. When that genius of a satirist-comedian Stan Freberg employed it to take a playful jab at how Christmas is fused with Commerce to make an inseparable pair of ‘Cs’, his immediate American audience guffawed, getting the joke straightaway. The ‘green’ in Freberg’s “Green Christmas” (released in 1958) was a smart synecdoche for business, denoting the green printing ink that goes into the American currency. Before moving on to the subject at hand, sample a couple of hilarious Freberg lines that are a spin-off from a timeless carol: “Deck the hall with advertising/ Fa la la la la la la la la/ ’Tis the time for merchandising/ Fa la la la la la la la la”. The way Freberg used Green Christmas rings truer, with “Christmas shopping” having entered lexicons under every sky. Climate change has added another connotation to “Green Christmas”, one that is truly global cutting across climes. Unlike Freberg’s, this Green Christmas is not something to laugh about. And it comes with with an all-season, all-region relevance. Festivals make a fertile ground for sustainability messaging. After a tour of “green golus” during the Navarathri season, it is just the season for green Christmas trees. There is an almost universal appeal to Christmas trees and its branches would be right pegs to hang a sustainability message, besides of course all those glittering baubles. Here are notes from two initiatives that did just that. Junk-wood tree A glittering Christmas tree standing at the coffee shop in Crowne Plaza Chennai Adyar Park is a newly-sprung ally to the towering ceiling, as it gives visitors a compelling reason to look up from their foaming latte. Beneath the colour and glitter of the artificial trees lies junk wood that had been left ignored in the hotel’s carpentry section. The installation was done by Bhagwan Chavan and Aparajithan Adimoolam from the Cholamandal Artists’ Village, with assistance from artists Bharath and Selva Senthil. Bhagwan Chavan recalls the first meeting he and Aparajithan had with Anand Nair, general manager, Crowne Plaza Chennai Adyar Park, about the Christmas installation. Anand showed the exact spot for the tree, and he wanted it to flatter the high ceiling of the coffee shop. The meeting was coming to a close when Anand had asked if they would like to look in on the carpentry section to check out some junk wood. The artists took a look at the material that was to all appearances past their usefulness. “That night, I and Aparajithan were doing some scribbles. Generally, Christmas trees follow a pattern. We also went through the origin of Yuletide tree. That is when it struck me that the tree installation can be done with any material,” recalls Bhagwan. From there, the idea of a 14-feet high installation began to emerge. “We collected the junk wood and started cutting it into the shapes we had planned. As the design had delicate curves, we went in for machine cutting. With eco-friendly powder paints, we painted the trees in the installations — in gold, green and silver colours. We gave two to three coats. On top of it, we used glitter powder — that transformed the whole picture,” notes Bhagwan. Bhagwan notes that wrapping paper was used and it would have chemicals; and that the installation largely eco-friendly. He adds that besides the green message it wrung out of the junk wood, the installation has achieved an effect harnessing the light and shade from around it. “When we designed the Yule tree, we wanted an interplay of natural and artificial light. The coffee shop is rotund-shaped, with three-fourth of it glass, a factor that allows light to stream in unhindered. During daytime, the shadows of the natural trees outside fall on the coffee shop. When we did the basic sketch in the studio, we put lights from different directions to it. When you light from different directions, you have shadows falling all round. When we installed the whole thing, what we discovered was that, the marble floor also reflected the tree. In the night, when you put the lights on, the reflection falls on the glass and you see three installations at one time.” Seashell tree InterContinental Chennai Mahabilpuram Resort in Covelong chose to put out a sustainability message, by having sand and seashell replace bark and branch. Kunal Shanker, general manager of the resort points out that the in-house conceptualised and put together the 14-feet tall tree with seashells and sand. He adds that made with sand and seashells, the installation has little commercial value, but abundant ecological significance. “It is biodegradable and comes from nature itself,” remarks Kunal. The GM elaborates that by zeroing in on this theme, the sustainability message has been infused with a strong local favour. “We wanted to impact the local fishermen community by creating something symbolic of sustainability. It is symbolic of the fragile marine ecosystems around Mahabalipuram,” he notes, drawing attention to the olive ridley nesting that happens on the coast and the sensitivity that is required to see the turtles are protected. Sensitivity includes also proper waste management. He adds that the tree is also meant to be a reminder of the issue of eroding coastlines. The seashell tree, installed in the open, in the lobby courtyard, will put down sustainability roots at the spot until January 5.  We collected the junk wood and started cutting it into the shapes we had planned. As the design had delicate curves, we went in for machine cutting. With eco-friendly powder paints, we painted the trees in the installations — in gold, green and silver colours||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-christmas-in-the-time-of-climate-change/article38039906.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||NGT seeks reports on sewage and encroachments in Velachery lake||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) — Southern Zone has sought detailed reports from the State government on two different cases pertaining to the Velachery lake that it took suo moto notice of . One has to do with the encroachments along the rainwater inlet canal of Velachery lake and the other is about the State’s plan of action to prevent sewage entering the waterbody. The directive was issued on December 13. NGT expects the State’s Chief Secretary to submit both the reports by January 7. The tribunal has also passed another directive to the State government seeking the formation of a joint committee to inspect and assess the damages caused by the encroachments. Further, the NGT has come down heavily on the Chennai District Collector for failing to demolish the encroachments on the waterbody; the Chennai Drinking Water Board for not preventing discharge of sewage into the lake and also on the Public Works Department over the way the lake is being maintained. The tribunal also passed an order stating that the Municipal Administration & Water Supply Department and Secretary of the Drinking Water Supply Department, Government of Tamil Nadu, hold a meeting to arrive at short-term and long-term solutions to prevent contamination of the lake and file a report in this regard. The NGT also directed the Chennai Drinking Water Board to consider the option of draining incoming sewage to the lake by deploying sewage sucker tankers or through a burial canal to the sewage treatment plants. More than two weeks ago, Justice K. Ramakrishnan, Judicial Member, Southern Zone Bench, Chennai, NGT, and K. Satyagopal, Expert Member, Southern Bench of the NGT, passed an order stating that no report was filed on the action taken to prevent contamination of the lake and its restoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ngt-seeks-reports-on-sewage-and-encroachments-in-velachery-lake/article38039891.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wetland bursting at the seams with jacanas?||When a family member tends towards corpulence, it hardly registers in the mind till their drapes start bursting, the buttons flying with the muzzle velocity of a firearm. Equating resident birds with the close-of-kin, birders are beginning to notice that the Perumbakkam wetland is bursting at the seams with jacanas. On the southernand northern extremities of the wetland, water has drained hugely and noticeably — respectively — exposing vegetation the pheasant-tailed and bronze-winged jacanas take to, with their never-ending jacanidae toes. They are making the most of it — particularly the pheasant-tailed jacana. Not many days ago, when birder Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi scanned the expanse, mumbling numbers, his tally of pheasant-tailed jacanas stood somewhere around 200. He had also counted nearly a dozen bronze-winged jacanas. Counting independently on another day, birder Sundaravel Palanivel’s arrived at a guesstimate: a whopping 400 jacanas with much of that number being racked up by the pheasant-tailed jacanas. Either way, the jacana presence is monstrously high. Juveniles, particularly of the pheasant-tailed, make up a neat percentage of the gathering. There are also pheasant-tailed togged in their delectable breeding colours and extended sickle. A stray thought enters the frame, altering the picture. Having guzzled water through November, the Perumbakkam is now somewhat akin to a lung whose fluid build-up is being cleared slowly. The draining ismassively incomplete, with the central sections of the wetland still retaining pools of water. Ornithologist V Santharam notes that this could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland gets more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out. When that happens, the sense of mammoth presence would also diminish. It could well be that the jacanas had been present earlier too in such impressive numbers, but were never shoehorned into small spaces with favourable vegetation. The ornithologist brings yet another perspective to the jacana-dominated picture. “Congregations of jacanas are not unusual. If they have juveniles now, they must have finished their breeding a little earlier. They probably have different breeding schedules. May be post-breeding, they are congregating at a place that is relatively safe and they have enough food.” Among the many things that stand out in the tightly-congregations of pheasant-tailed jacanas is cantankerous infighting. Every other second, two jacanas would go up in a flurry of quarrelsome and unruly feathers. Santharam explains: “They defend small territories within which they can enjoy exclusive feeding rights. I have seen this with rails and coots — they also have a strong territorial instinct. In contrast, waders are migratory; they come here and find the food to be abundant and they go about their business quietly. These resident birds are more specialised in their feeding, looking for things in vegetation, and it is not an easy kind of food to access, and probably, they need to have some space to themselves.”  This could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland becomes more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wetland-bursting-at-the-seams-with-jacanas/article38039912.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A new route to worship||One thing defines people almost infallibly — their routine. AK Kannan’s gets him to hit the road on his loyal four-stroke, by 6.30 a.m., and do a head-spinning tour of temples. His worship begins where others’ ends. Collecting discarded items of worship — shrinking flowers, open-mouthed coconuts, squeezed-out milk packets, half-burnt incense sticks et al. Kept segregated, each discard is reached to its earmarked place by Kannan and his trusty steed. In 52-year-old Kannan’s eyes, getting the remains of hallowed personal items of worship to serve the larger good is an extension of the worship. For quite sometime, his solid-waste management (SWM) philosophy veered entirely to this commitment, excluding other essentials. He can wrap his head around any SWM concept now, but is modest enough to admit that as late as 2014, he was dreadfully ignorant of certain basics. “Back then, I was not aware that composting yards existed.” He had however instinctively pottered his way to doing the right thing, making sure organic waste went where it is most wanted and useful. “In 2012, when I lived in Madurai, I began collecting used worship items from temples, depositing the flower waste in outlying areas abounding in trees. The initiative first began at home — I winced at the thought of putting used worship items in the regular garbage bin with other discards. They deserved a more ceremonious journey to their final destination. They did not belong in the garbage truck.” In 2014, a transfer by his employer, Prasar Bharathi, meant the temple tour had a new route — in a new city. He began to work out of the Doordarshan Kendra, Chennai, where he is assistant engineer. Calling Kannan’s daily commute meandering is putting it mildly. His to-do list for the day includes visits to around 25 temples and a composting yard and a material recovery centre (MRC). “There are 25 to 30 temples I gather discarded items from. On an average, I manage to touch 25 temples. I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop. From there, I head to my office in Chepauk.” Unloading these items at a composting yard and a material recovery centre of the Greater Chennai Corporation is part of the tedious routine. Only that Kannan hardly considers it tedium. “For the first three years, I was taking these discards to composting pits in MRC Nagar, where vermicomposting was being done.” He now usually chooses between the composting yard on Kutchery Road in Mylapore and the one on Arunachalam Street in Chintadripet (where he visits Arpineshwarar temple), which is just two throttles away from his office in Chepauk. While he would head to any temple where used worship items need to cleared, he does have his favourites. “Karneeswarar temple in Saidapet is the main source,” reveals Kannan, explaining that yields from there are invariably whopping great. Somewhat like Newton’s Cradle with its spheres, the initiative operates with self-sustaining momentum, with each player in the chain, from the first to the last, contributing to it in varying degrees. The givers (temple authorities) and takers (GCC compost yard managers) respond promptly so that Kannan does not have to tarry a zeptosecond longer than he should. That is usually the case and Kannan seems to possess the patience of spirit to take the occasional delays in the stride of his “bloated” two-wheeler. When this writer meets Kannan who is fresh from a routine temple tour, he unclasps his side box to reveal large, mangled plastic bags carelessly shoved into it. They are wornout from obvious overuse. Kannan would like to call it “reuse”. “These plastic bags would be reused again and again till they are down to their last shreds,” he smiles. Filled with waste, the bags would be carried like panniers. When the day’s collection cycle is complete, a gunny bag in the front and the rear would be added on. Coconut shells travel along with the withered flowers, but have a nearby, different destination. “In all Corporation yards with composting facilities, there are material recovery centres where they have coconut shells as a collection category. The coconut shells that are gathered in are transported through lorries for the making of ropes. Often, there would be 50 to 100 coconut shells. On pradosam days, there would be 200 to 300 of them, and I would hire an autorickshaw to reach them to a Corporation facility,” he explains. “I also keep the agal vilakkus separate, as they form a separate category at the material recovery centres. They are taken to the recycling unit that makes paver blocks for road-laying When asked about the average expense resulting from his volunteering, he pegs it at Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 a month. Kannan points out that after he moved to Chennai, an extremely active solid waste management group helped him gather sufficient knowledge about the various facets of solid waste management. As a mentor, K Viswanathan of Mylapore Residents’ Welfare Assocaition has greatly influenced Kannan. Has Kannan inspired people to take up volunteering of the rare kind that he represents? “There are people who have joined with me — they would do it for a while, but would not be able to sustain it. After a few days, they would throw up their hands and say it is too much for them,” says Kannan with a gentle laugh, probably at memories of such conversations from the past. Whenever these volunteers express anguish of this sort, Kannan is empathetic. “Earlier, I would pick up and drop such trash in the evenings as well. I could to see that the overwork was impacting my mind adversely,” says the 52-year-old. His family continually warn him that his enthusiasm tends to get out of hand, and that he has to watch out for stretching himself beyond physical limits with the volunteering work. He says: “At home, I am appreciated for my volunteering initiative, but also chided for being unmindful of my health while doing it.”  I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-route-to-worship/article38039904.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting them out of the block||In the last six months, Prabha Ramesh has helped raise four terrace gardens and inspired 12 people to start composting their kitchen waste. Through home visits, calls and follow-ups, these citizens are urged to do their bit to reduce the burden on landfills. Prabha is a volunteer with Project Vilvam, initiated by the chairman of Inner Wheel District 323 Kamala Selvam. Besides raising kitchen or rooftop gardens, these volunteers encourage others to follow their example, and also show them how to go about it. Through this work, they have impacted homes, schools, service-based organisations and individuals. For an initiative that started in June, it has covered much ground. “We have 56 clubs in the district and in the last six months we would have done good work in more than 40 government schools,” says Sheetal Satish, project coordinator, Vilvam. She notes that in the past, the Club had associated with a majority of these institutions, which aids the smooth execution of the ongoing project. Club members work with old age homes too in a big way. “At an old age home in Mylapore, the yield from the backyard had been feeding the seniors,” says Sheetal. The larger goal of this project is to make sure every household segregates their waste and also undertake composting on their premises. “I stay in an apartment with no common facility for composting biodegredable waste but I have a 20-litre bucket that does the job for us,” says Prabha, club coordinator, Inner Wheel Club of Chennai Symphony. Vilvam is not target-oriented; nor are there plans to give away prizes to the best-maintained gardens. “This is just an initiative to build awareness and we hope this would be an ongoing project for the Club,” says Sheetal. How is the initiative’s progress tracked? There are constant updates on the WhatsApp group on the progress made by each of the clubs. Prabha says, “Each club has a coordinator and four clubs are headed by a project coordinator. Every month, a progress report reviewing the work is shared.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/getting-them-out-of-the-block/article38039916.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Flower composting drive struggles to bloom again||Last month, two giant composting bins at the Anantha Padmanabhaswami temple on Second Main Road, shook off an almost two-year-long inertia, and excitedly hunkered down to work. The other two, just as hulking, look on dolefully, like an IT employee persistently benched for want of additional projects. The pandemic has slowed down many stellar initiatives, and it brought this much-acclaimed composting exercise to a standstill. As the initiative restarts, there is much rustiness to deal with. “From our side, we have assigned a staff member to just feed these two bins with flowers and tulsi leaves that had been used in worship, but are yet to kickstart the process to receive the output,” remarks a temple authority. “The compost has to be taken out, dried and packed. We are seeking help in restarting this essential process. Earlier, before the pandemic, Exnora Green Pammal was doing it for us. They would take the compost, dry it and turn into packets for us to sell at Rs. 60 each.” After all, the two working bins do not have the safisfaction of their work crowned with results and positively apprised. “We are in talks with ITC to get the initiative restarted in its totality.” The composting initiative had been birthed by ITC’s corporate social responsibility outreach. The temple authority notes that Exnora Green Pammal is strapped for human resources and is unable to take up this exercise again. “We are on a hunt for people who can run this exercise in its totality,” the source reveals. “If youngsters volunteer to do this work, it would be commendable. Sometime ago, two persons approached us and expressed a willingness to take up this work as volunteers. We agreed, but insisted that they give a letter of request seeking permission volunteer for the cause. We are yet to hear from them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/flower-composting-drive-struggles-to-bloom-again/article38039900.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping those green babies safe||November was a washout for Premila Balaji. The garden enthusiast, who has been nurturing her backyard with a variety of flowers, vegetables and fruits, did not expect the rains to be so heavy that it would knock down her precious tomatoes and marigolds. “Only 50 percent of my plants could be saved; and I cannot say they are doing great,” says Premila. The cauliflower that she has been caring for from the seed stage was badly damaged. “This was disappointing as it does not generally happen during winter. Last year, my cauliflowers were a hit and even my neighbours got a share of them,” says the senior citizen who is a member of Chennai Organic Terrace Garden groups. The papaya tree also met with a similar fate. Due to too much water, she suspects, the roots suffered a fungal infection. Rainwater had entered the ground floor of her independent house in Kodambakkam and she could do little to save her plants on the terrace. So, what are are those much-needed lessons on monsoon care of plants? “Rainwater provides plants nourishment but too much of it is not good; so move the pots to a place where they get sufficient but not excess rainwater. Ensure the containers/ pots have proper holes for water to drain out. Ensure these drainage holes are not clogged up.” Premila says 2015 Chennai floods was a good teacher. “I did not have stands for all my grow bags and they were kept on the floor. Later, I constructed stands and revamped the arrangement completely,” she says. Providing a shade with a net is effective most of the time. She cautions that with the net on, sometimes pollination does not take place as expected.  Mix the top soil  If the mud is not too porous or if the water does not seep in easily, then it means they need a proper mix. “I add coco-peat to the soil so that they hold water and do not become dry,” she says, adding that bio fungicides do help. Gardening requires care and patience and in Chennai’s weather one can enjoy the fruits only for six months, she says. Plan what to plant and when. Avoid greens during rainy season. Try planting seeds in trays during monsoon and transferring them to the ground or pot when rains subside. Premila sees the Ivy Gourd plant as the star of this season, as it continues to bear fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/keeping-those-green-babies-safe/article38039919.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Christmas celebrations at Sarvalokaa||A carnival was held as part of the month-long Christmas celebration at Sarvalokaa. Proceeds of the sale will be used to build a shed for farm animals, says a press release. Teachers and children created a Christmas tree with bamboos raised within the school and decorated it with ornaments made by them. Children were taught the importance of caring, loving and sharing through classroom discussions and related activities. Carols, music, dance, and food counters were other aspects of the festival, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/christmas-celebrations-at-sarvalokaa/article38039883.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Football tourney with a social focus||Fifteen matches, eight teams and 64 participants. The 4th STEP tournament organised by Victory Sports Foundation (VSF), an NGO working to uplift underprivileged children through sports, was a “five a side” football tournament for boys under-15. The event was conducted at the Chaos Entertainment Centre in Adyar.   The team from Don Bosco, Perambur were declared winners and the Grace FC team were the runners-up. While Dinesh from Don Bosco was adjudicated ‘Best Goal Keeper’, Leonardo Christy from Government Madrasa School was declared ‘Most Promising Player’. Bharath Shankar Subramanian, partner, Accel; and Veerendra Mathur and Sharmishta Sen, founding trustees, VSF were the special guests. Through sport, the Foundation inculcates life skills like discipline, focus, integrity, confidence and sensitivity towards society, said a release. To know more, visithttps://victorysportsfoundation.org/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/football-tourney-with-a-social-focus/article38039889.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Elders struggle to access Aavin booth||Accessing the Aavin milk booth at Besant Nagar, near the bus terminus is quite difficult, especially for the senior citizens. It is located on the first floor and the staircase is steep. I request the authorities at Aavin to do the needful. S Ramalingam is a resident of Sastri Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/elders-struggle-to-access-aavin-booth/article38039885.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Shop and get reward points||Fresh2day, a chain of stores selling a variety of fruits, vegetables, grocery and dairy products, sources most of their supply from farms and villages thereby offering items at affordable price. It rewards its customers with five points on every purchase of Rs. 100. During special occasions, customers can earn double the rewards (10%) on their purchase, said a release. Its membership rewards programme is offered free of charge, added the release. Outlets Fresh2day is present in seven locations (T Nagar, Gopalpuram, Vepery, Gandhi Nagar, Mylapore, Sholinganallur and Ashok Nagar) and three more stores will be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shop-and-get-reward-points/article38039887.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The original jacana congregation point||V Santharam, ornithologist and director of the Institute of Bird Studies at Rishi Valley, recalls how jacanas ruled the roost at two jheels in North Chennai — back then, North Madras. “In the 1980s, we used to go to the Manali and Madhavaram jheels (famously known as the twin jheels). we used to access it from the Manali side. I do not remember the bus route — we used to take that bus from Burma Bazaar and it will drop us right at the village, and from there, we would walk about 200 metres and we would reach this place. We used to go through the village and then go into a mango orchard. There would be the shallow waters in front of us, full of lotus leaves — we used to count, most of time, 150 to 200 jacanas. And together, these jheels would be just one-tenth the size of the Perumbakkam wetland.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-original-jacana-congregation-point/article38039907.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Eye clinic in Thiruvanmiyur||Leela Eye Clinic in Thiruvanmiyur is now run by Srila Enterprises LLP with Dr. Srikanth Ramasubramanian and Dr. Mekala Lakshminarayanan as designated partners. According to a press release, the ophthalmic clinic offers various services including management of the childhood myopia, squint, evaluation and treatment of glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy. In addition, surgeries for cataract, glaucoma, squint, eyelid disorders, laser refractive surgery and retinal disorders are also performed with the latest technology. The clinic has obtained the accreditation of the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals in India (NABH), adds the release. The clinic is at 25th East Street, Kamaraj Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur. For details, call 7305045550 / 044-43546464||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/eye-clinic-in-thiruvanmiyur/article38039874.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Road safety rules flouted at Sholinganallur’||Violation of road safety rules have become rampant at Sholinganallur junction. Motorists drive on the wrong side of the road. Those who comply with the rules find it extremely difficult to cope with this situation. Next, it is parking of vehicles in no-parking areas. I request the Greater Chennai Traffic Police to do the needful. N Ramesh is a resident of Sholinganallur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/road-safety-rules-flouted-at-sholinganallur/article38039876.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Yoga classes in Besant Nagar||Aashik conducts yoga classes in Besant Nagar. According to a press release, he is an internationally certified yoga trainer teaching in Chennai for the past seven years. He conducts one-on-one and group classes. Also takes at-home classes as per client’s needs. He organises yoga classes and yoga events for corporate firms. He can be reached at Ph: 95782 48086 or yoga9tue@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/yoga-classes-in-besant-nagar/article38039880.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer- writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article38039877.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘birthday’ gift is a kitchen garden||Members of Jothi Madhar Sangam will snuff out 45 candles when it celebrates its anniversary in 2023, and before that event, it wants its members to find their green thumbs. The women’s association wants each of its members to raise a kitchen or terrace garden, small or big. Lakshmi Raghukumar, president, Jothi Madhar Sangam, reveals that this is a mandatory requirement so that members of the Sangam would be more convincing while promoting its initiative, Mission Clean, Vision Green. The Sangam has 80-90 members across age groups spread across neighbourhoods. “This is not a competition but we want everyone to participate in it, especially those who have not tried to grow plants, to understand the real essence of this greening initiative,” says Lakshmi. Once members raise their kitchen garden they are encouraged to inspire non-members. They are also encouraged to initiate tree planting on the roads in their colony and the plan is to plant 10,000 palm seeds in 2023 along the Adyar river bank in Ekkattuthangal. “We have currently planted 300 saplings,” says Lakshmi. The Sangam is also distributing seeds to members. The core team plans to monitor the green drive and also conduct competitions to encourage people to give their best. They already have some members who are garden enthusiasts. For example, Vijaya Tulasiraman has raised one on the balcony of her apartment in TNagar. For the Sangam’s 40th anniversary celebration, members were involved in a recycling initiative. Says Lakshmi, “We collected waste materials and made craft items out of them — again, this was done by all the members. Later, they volunteered with government schools to teach the craft to children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-birthday-gift-is-a-kitchen-garden/article38039914.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Allies in the mission||AK Kannan has had many allies from various quarters, including officials, in his volunteering work. He makes special mention of two conservancy inspectors — S Mahadevan from 124 ward, Zone 9; and RP Sridhar from ward 62, Zone 5. Just as he feels indebted to how they have matched his enthusiasm for the cause with theirs, they are hugely impressed that someone would work with undimnished focus, covering the kilometers on the road, unfailingly every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/allies-in-the-mission/article38039898.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Culinary workshop||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a culinary workshop on December 29. According to a press release, participants will be taught to make pav bhaji , nachos , paneer finger role , kachoris , paani puri , sev puri , bhel puri , onion samosas and a few more. For registration and other details, call 044-29530048||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/culinary-workshop/article38039878.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wetland bursting at the seams with jacanas?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wetland-bursting-at-the-seams-with-jacanas/article38039893.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Green Christmas in the time of climate change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-christmas-in-the-time-of-climate-change/article38039895.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A daily tour of temples||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-daily-tour-of-temples/article38039897.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wetland bursting at the seams with jacanas?||When a family member tends towards corpulence, it hardly registers in the mind till their drapes start bursting, the buttons flying with the muzzle velocity of a firearm. Equating resident birds with the close-of-kin, birders are beginning to notice that the Perumbakkam wetland is bursting at the seams with jacanas. On the southernand northern extremities of the wetland, water has drained hugely and noticeably — respectively — exposing vegetation the pheasant-tailed and bronze-winged jacanas take to, with their never-ending jacanidae toes. They are making the most of it — particularly the pheasant-tailed jacana. Not many days ago, when birder Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi scanned the expanse, mumbling numbers, his tally of pheasant-tailed jacanas stood somewhere around 200. He had also counted nearly a dozen bronze-winged jacanas. Counting independently on another day, birder Sundaravel Palanivel’s arrived at a guesstimate: a whopping 400 jacanas with much of that number being racked up by the pheasant-tailed jacanas. Either way, the jacana presence is monstrously high. Juveniles, particularly of the pheasant-tailed, make up a neat percentage of the gathering. There are also pheasant-tailed togged in their delectable breeding colours and extended sickle. A stray thought enters the frame, altering the picture. Having guzzled water through November, the Perumbakkam is now somewhat akin to a lung whose fluid build-up is being cleared slowly. The draining ismassively incomplete, with the central sections of the wetland still retaining pools of water. Ornithologist V Santharam notes that this could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland gets more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out. When that happens, the sense of mammoth presence would also diminish. It could well be that the jacanas had been present earlier too in such impressive numbers, but were never shoehorned into small spaces with favourable vegetation. The ornithologist brings yet another perspective to the jacana-dominated picture. “Congregations of jacanas are not unusual. If they have juveniles now, they must have finished their breeding a little earlier. They probably have different breeding schedules. May be post-breeding, they are congregating at a place that is relatively safe and they have enough food.” Among the many things that stand out in the tightly-congregations of pheasant-tailed jacanas is cantankerous infighting. Every other second, two jacanas would go up in a flurry of quarrelsome and unruly feathers. Santharam explains: “They defend small territories within which they can enjoy exclusive feeding rights. I have seen this with rails and coots — they also have a strong territorial instinct. In contrast, waders are migratory; they come here and find the food to be abundant and they go about their business quietly. These resident birds are more specialised in their feeding, looking for things in vegetation, and it is not an easy kind of food to access, and probably, they need to have some space to themselves.”  This could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland becomes more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wetland-bursting-at-the-seams-with-jacanas/article38039940.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A new route to worship||One thing defines people almost infallibly — their routine. AK Kannan’s gets him to hit the road on his loyal four-stroke, by 6.30 a.m., and do a head-spinning tour of temples. His worship begins where others’ ends. Collecting discarded items of worship — shrinking flowers, open-mouthed coconuts, squeezed-out milk packets, half-burnt incense sticks et al. Kept segregated, each discard is reached to its earmarked place by Kannan and his trusty steed. In 52-year-old Kannan’s eyes, getting the remains of hallowed personal items of worship to serve the larger good is an extension of the worship. For quite sometime, his solid-waste management (SWM) philosophy veered entirely to this commitment, excluding other essentials. He can wrap his head around any SWM concept now, but is modest enough to admit that as late as 2014, he was dreadfully ignorant of certain basics. “Back then, I was not aware that composting yards existed.” He had however instinctively pottered his way to doing the right thing, making sure organic waste went where it is most wanted and useful. “In 2012, when I lived in Madurai, I began collecting used worship items from temples, depositing the flower waste in outlying areas abounding in trees. The initiative first began at home — I winced at the thought of putting used worship items in the regular garbage bin with other discards. They deserved a more ceremonious journey to their final destination. They did not belong in the garbage truck.” In 2014, a transfer by his employer, Prasar Bharathi, meant the temple tour had a new route — in a new city. He began to work out of the Doordarshan Kendra, Chennai, where he is assistant engineer. Calling Kannan’s daily commute meandering is putting it mildly. His to-do list for the day includes visits to around 25 temples and a composting yard and a material recovery centre (MRC). “There are 25 to 30 temples I gather discarded items from. On an average, I manage to touch 25 temples. I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop. From there, I head to my office in Chepauk.” Unloading these items at a composting yard and a material recovery centre of the Greater Chennai Corporation is part of the tedious routine. Only that Kannan hardly considers it tedium. “For the first three years, I was taking these discards to composting pits in MRC Nagar, where vermicomposting was being done.” He now usually chooses between the composting yard on Kutchery Road in Mylapore and the one on Arunachalam Street in Chintadripet (where he visits Arpineshwarar temple), which is just two throttles away from his office in Chepauk. While he would head to any temple where used worship items need to cleared, he does have his favourites. “Karneeswarar temple in Saidapet is the main source,” reveals Kannan, explaining that yields from there are invariably whopping great. Somewhat like Newton’s Cradle with its spheres, the initiative operates with self-sustaining momentum, with each player in the chain, from the first to the last, contributing to it in varying degrees. The givers (temple authorities) and takers (GCC compost yard managers) respond promptly so that Kannan does not have to tarry a zeptosecond longer than he should. That is usually the case and Kannan seems to possess the patience of spirit to take the occasional delays in the stride of his “bloated” two-wheeler. When this writer meets Kannan who is fresh from a routine temple tour, he unclasps his side box to reveal large, mangled plastic bags carelessly shoved into it. They are wornout from obvious overuse. Kannan would like to call it “reuse”. “These plastic bags would be reused again and again till they are down to their last shreds,” he smiles. Filled with waste, the bags would be carried like panniers. When the day’s collection cycle is complete, a gunny bag in the front and the rear would be added on. Coconut shells travel along with the withered flowers, but have a nearby, different destination. “In all Corporation yards with composting facilities, there are material recovery centres where they have coconut shells as a collection category. The coconut shells that are gathered in are transported through lorries for the making of ropes. Often, there would be 50 to 100 coconut shells. On pradosam days, there would be 200 to 300 of them, and I would hire an autorickshaw to reach them to a Corporation facility,” he explains. “I also keep the agal vilakkus separate, as they form a separate category at the material recovery centres. They are taken to the recycling unit that makes paver blocks for road-laying When asked about the average expense resulting from his volunteering, he pegs it at Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 a month. Kannan points out that after he moved to Chennai, an extremely active solid waste management group helped him gather sufficient knowledge about the various facets of solid waste management. As a mentor, K Viswanathan of Mylapore Residents’ Welfare Assocaition has greatly influenced Kannan. Has Kannan inspired people to take up volunteering of the rare kind that he represents? “There are people who have joined with me — they would do it for a while, but would not be able to sustain it. After a few days, they would throw up their hands and say it is too much for them,” says Kannan with a gentle laugh, probably at memories of such conversations from the past. Whenever these volunteers express anguish of this sort, Kannan is empathetic. “Earlier, I would pick up and drop such trash in the evenings as well. I could to see that the overwork was impacting my mind adversely,” says the 52-year-old. His family continually warn him that his enthusiasm tends to get out of hand, and that he has to watch out for stretching himself beyond physical limits with the volunteering work. He says: “At home, I am appreciated for my volunteering initiative, but also chided for being unmindful of my health while doing it.”  I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-route-to-worship/article38039938.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||PDS outlet relocated||The cardholders of the Public Distribution System (PDS) outlet identified as EB 067 in Mogappair East heave a sigh of relief as it has been shifted from Veeramamunivar Salai in Fourth Block to Pattinathar Street in 10th Block (opposite Amma Unavagam). According to an official, the shop which has 1950 cardholders is functioning from the new premises since December 1. “The earlier premises was too cramped and commodoties were getting damaged whenever it rains heavily. This monsoon, water entered the shop; hence, it was shifted. This is also a rented facility. This shop has two entrances. As of now, only one entrance is kept open. If required, the other entrance will also be opened,” says the official. Relocation of the shop was a long-felt need of the cardholders. “In the earlier shop, only one person can enter the shop other than the staff. This shop is far better but still a much better facility could have been found,” says M. Rajendran, a cardholder of the shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pds-outlet-relocated/article38039933.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting them out of the block||In the last six months, Prabha Ramesh has helped raise four terrace gardens and inspired 12 people to start composting their kitchen waste. Through home visits, calls and follow-ups, these citizens are urged to do their bit to reduce the burden on landfills. Prabha is a volunteer with Project Vilvam, initiated by the chairman of Inner Wheel District 323 Kamala Selvam. Besides raising kitchen or rooftop gardens, these volunteers encourage others to follow their example, and also show them how to go about it. Through this work, they have impacted homes, schools, service-based organisations and individuals. For an initiative that started in June, it has covered much ground. “We have 56 clubs in the district and in the last six months we would have done good work in more than 40 government schools,” says Sheetal Satish, project coordinator, Vilvam. She notes that in the past, the Club had associated with a majority of these institutions, which aids the smooth execution of the ongoing project. Club members work with old age homes too in a big way. “At an old age home in Mylapore, the yield from the backyard had been feeding the seniors,” says Sheetal. The larger goal of this project is to make sure every household segregates their waste and also undertake composting on their premises. “I stay in an apartment with no common facility for composting biodegredable waste but I have a 20-litre bucket that does the job for us,” says Prabha, club coordinator, Inner Wheel Club of Chennai Symphony. Vilvam is not target-oriented; nor are there plans to give away prizes to the best-maintained gardens. “This is just an initiative to build awareness and we hope this would be an ongoing project for the Club,” says Sheetal. How is the initiative’s progress tracked? There are constant updates on the WhatsApp group on the progress made by each of the clubs. Prabha says, “Each club has a coordinator and four clubs are headed by a project coordinator. Every month, a progress report reviewing the work is shared.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/getting-them-out-of-the-block/article38039942.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Flower composting drive struggles to bloom again||Last month, two giant composting bins at the Anantha Padmanabhaswami temple on Second Main Road, shook off an almost two-year-long inertia, and excitedly hunkered down to work. The other two, just as hulking, look on dolefully, like an IT employee persistently benched for want of additional projects. The pandemic has slowed down many stellar initiatives, and it brought this much-acclaimed composting exercise to a standstill. As the initiative restarts, there is much rustiness to deal with. “From our side, we have assigned a staff member to just feed these two bins with flowers and tulsi leaves that had been used in worship, but are yet to kickstart the process to receive the output,” remarks a temple authority. “The compost has to be taken out, dried and packed. We are seeking help in restarting this essential process. Earlier, before the pandemic, Exnora Green Pammal was doing it for us. They would take the compost, dry it and turn into packets for us to sell at Rs. 60 each.” After all, the two working bins do not have the safisfaction of their work crowned with results and positively apprised. “We are in talks with ITC to get the initiative restarted in its totality.” The composting initiative had been birthed by ITC’s corporate social responsibility outreach. The temple authority notes that Exnora Green Pammal is strapped for human resources and is unable to take up this exercise again. “We are on a hunt for people who can run this exercise in its totality,” the source reveals. “If youngsters volunteer to do this work, it would be commendable. Sometime ago, two persons approached us and expressed a willingness to take up this work as volunteers. We agreed, but insisted that they give a letter of request seeking permission volunteer for the cause. We are yet to hear from them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/flower-composting-drive-struggles-to-bloom-again/article38039937.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Thiruvengada Nagar RWA takes up greening exercise||South End Road at Thiruvengada Nagar in Ambattur is getting a green patch which the Greater Chennai Corporation calls a “roadside park.” For the past few months,Thiruvengada Nagar Residents Welfare Association is planting saplings along this road bordering the railway track. According to Association members, this patch was earlier misused to dump garbage. To prevent this, the Association has taken up the greening exercise. As part of this exercise, Greater Chennai Corporation is fencing the road margin that is 15m wide and 600m long. Besides, the Association with the support of a sponsor has installed a notice board exhorting the public to not dump waste on this road. “After several representations, a wall was built only last year along the road to prevent the public from crossing over the railway tracks. Earlier, many untoward incidents had occurred as people cross the railway tracks to access the nearby Tangedco office to pay electricity bills. Youngsters also take this risk to reach the nearby playground. So, since 2011, we were trying to prevail upon the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Southern Railway to construct a wall. Now, we are planning to raise trees and plants along the stretch once the fencing work is completed,” says a K.K. Rajendran, a member of the association. The Association also wants the Greater Chennai Corporation to attend to a median on First Main Road in the colony which was developed under a State government’s scheme called “Namukku Naame Thittam,” a citizen-driven initiative in 2011. While the State has rolled out Namukku Naame Thittam recently and municipal bodies are trying to rope in residents associations and business houses to be part of this initiative, this median stands testimony to the earlier version of the same scheme. “Until 2011, there was no median on the road. There, in the middle of the road stood trees planted sometime in the 1990s. Their shade drew many to park their vehicles. This space was also misused to consume alcohol. While we were taking up this issue with the erstwhile Ambtattur Muncipality, the State had launched the Namukku Naame Thittam which called for public participation in developing some facilities like roads, stormwater drains and parks. We thought of raising a wall around the trees so that they serve as a road median and this will end the problem of illegal parking. While the Municipal officials agreed to our plan, we had a tough time in convincing the Thiruvallur District Collectorate about this. For days, the Association members kept visiting the Collectorate till we got the final nod to construct the median. The construction of the median was estimated at Rs. .4,86,000. The next challenge was raising funds. We approached two industrialists residing in our colony to financially support the association’s endeavour. With their aid, the association raised Rs. . 1,62,000 and the rest was borne by the Municipality. While the median was designed, the Association was also part of it. We insisted on sharp grills on the compound wall that will deter miscreants from entering the median. That is how the median came into existence. However, we were able to maintain the median only up to 2015 because its maintenance cost ate into a sizeable sum of the association’s budget. Miscreants kept stealing the lights in the median. In 2015, we gave a fresh coat of paint to the median, after which we gave up. Hence, we are requesting the Corporation to give a facelift to this median,” recalls S. Selvaganesan, another member of the association. Yet another request the Association has put forth to the Greater Chennai Corporation is to carry out a repair and maintenance work at the park on First Main Road. “In the walkway, tiles are worn out and lamps are missing from the lamp-holders. Sprinklers to water the lawn is also out of order. This park was established by the Corporation in 2013 at a cost of Rs. .65 lakh. Hence, we feel it is time to give a fresh coat of paint and needs a spruce-up,” says Selvaganesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thiruvengada-nagar-rwa-takes-up-greening-exercise/article38039925.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Bird droppings, a nuisance||The tree outside my house at 15th Street, Anna Nagar is home to different species of birds. This has caused a lot of hassle for my family as there are bird droppings everywhere inside my house and outside on the street. We are unable to walk, park our cars or stand inside our own house. The major concern is the health issue created by this problem. My grandmother, who visited us from Delhi in July, fell sick and when admitted in a private hospital, doctors confirmed that the bird droppings could have caused the infection. The corporation office and officers have not been helpful. We have been visiting the Shenoy Nagar office for more than six months now. They had taken our request and even some money to cut down the tree and get the work done. They aren’t responding to our request to give a permit to get the work done from somebody else. A similar situation is being faced by few other residents in our area. (Khusboo Surana is a resident of Anna Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bird-droppings-a-nuisance/article38039927.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Dead trees should be removed’||On November 12, a huge tree fell at Fourth Cross Venkataswamy Road junction in Shenoy Nagar. I had crossed the spot barely five minutes ago. A car parked under the shade of the tree narrowly escaped with minimal damage. There were no casualties. It must have been an uphill task to clear the tree from the road. It is said that the tree fell because it was a dead one. Hence, I request the State to take a census of trees in the city and identify the dead ones. Such trees should be felled and new saplings can be planted at the place. This exercise is necessary to avoid untoward incidents. A. Shreevas is a resident of Alapakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dead-trees-should-be-removed/article38039931.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The original jacana congregation point||V Santharam, ornithologist and director of the Institute of Bird Studies at Rishi Valley, recalls how jacanas ruled the roost at two jheels in North Chennai — back then, North Madras. “In the 1980s, we used to go to the Manali and Madhavaram jheels (famously known as the twin jheels). we used to access it from the Manali side. I do not remember the bus route — we used to take that bus from Burma Bazaar and it will drop us right at the village, and from there, we would walk about 200 metres and we would reach this place. We used to go through the village and then go into a mango orchard. There would be the shallow waters in front of us, full of lotus leaves — we used to count, most of time, 150 to 200 jacanas. And together, these jheels would be just one-tenth the size of the Perumbakkam wetland.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-original-jacana-congregation-point/article38039939.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Christmas celebrated||The tiny tots at Sindhi Model Senior Secondary School in Kellys celebrated Christmas with pomp and fervour. Students of UKG performed a dance, sang songs and gave a speech talking about the importance of Christmas. Secretary Daneshkumar N Chhabria; principal Victoria D and vice principal Padma A took part. Children were taught to make various crafts like santa cap, paper folding santa and Christmas tree with pulses and cereals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/christmas-celebrated/article38039929.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘birthday’ gift is a kitchen garden||Members of Jothi Madhar Sangam will snuff out 45 candles when it celebrates its anniversary in 2023, and before that event, it wants its members to find their green thumbs. The women’s association wants each of its members to raise a kitchen or terrace garden, small or big. Lakshmi Raghukumar, president, Jothi Madhar Sangam, reveals that this is a mandatory requirement so that members of the Sangam would be more convincing while promoting its initiative, Mission Clean, Vision Green. The Sangam has 80-90 members across age groups spread across neighbourhoods. “This is not a competition but we want everyone to participate in it, especially those who have not tried to grow plants, to understand the real essence of this greening initiative,” says Lakshmi. Once members raise their kitchen garden they are encouraged to inspire non-members. They are also encouraged to initiate tree planting on the roads in their colony and the plan is to plant 10,000 palm seeds in 2023 along the Adyar river bank in Ekkattuthangal. “We have currently planted 300 saplings,” says Lakshmi. The Sangam is also distributing seeds to members. The core team plans to monitor the green drive and also conduct competitions to encourage people to give their best. They already have some members who are garden enthusiasts. For example, Vijaya Tulasiraman has raised one on the balcony of her apartment in TNagar. For the Sangam’s 40th anniversary celebration, members were involved in a recycling initiative. Says Lakshmi, “We collected waste materials and made craft items out of them — again, this was done by all the members. Later, they volunteered with government schools to teach the craft to children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-birthday-gift-is-a-kitchen-garden/article38039941.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Shop and get reward points||Fresh2day, a chain of stores selling a variety of fruits, vegetables, grocery and dairy products, sources most of their supply from farms and villages thereby offering items at affordable price. It rewards its customers with five points on every purchase of Rs. 100. During special occasions, customers can earn double the rewards (10%) on their purchase, said a release. Its membership rewards programme is offered free of charge, added the release. Fresh2day is present in seven locations (T Nagar, Gopalpuram, Vepery, Gandhi Nagar, Mylapore, Sholinganallur and Ashok Nagar) and three more stores will be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shop-and-get-reward-points/article38039921.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Allies in the mission||AK Kannan has had many allies from various quarters, including officials, in his volunteering work. He makes special mention of two conservancy inspectors — S Mahadevan from 124 ward, Zone 9; and RP Sridhar from ward 62, Zone 5. Just as he feels indebted to how they have matched his enthusiasm for the cause with theirs, they are hugely impressed that someone would work with undimnished focus, covering the kilometers on the road, unfailingly every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/allies-in-the-mission/article38039936.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping those green babies safe||November was a washout for Premila Balaji. The garden enthusiast, who has been nurturing her backyard with a variety of flowers, vegetables and fruits, did not expect the rains to be so heavy that it would knock down her precious tomatoes and marigolds. “Only 50 percent of my plants could be saved; and I cannot say they are doing great,” says Premila. The cauliflower that she has been caring for from the seed stage was badly damaged. “This was disappointing as it does not generally happen during winter. Last year, my cauliflowers were a hit and even my neighbours got a share of them,” says the senior citizen who is a member of Chennai Organic Terrace Gardeners. The papaya tree also met with a similar fate. Due to too much water, she suspects, the roots suffered a fungal infection. Rainwater had entered the ground floor of her independent house in Kodambakkam and she could do little to save her plants on the terrace. So, what are are those much-needed lessons on monsoon care of plants? “Rainwater provides plants nourishment but too much of it is not good; so move the pots to a place where they get sufficient but not excess rainwater. Ensure the containers/ pots have proper holes for water to drain out. Ensure these drainage holes are not clogged up.” Premila says 2015 Chennai floods was a good teacher. “I did not have stands for all my grow bags and they were kept on the floor. Later, I constructed stands and revamped the arrangement completely,” she says. Providing a shade with a net is effective most of the time. She cautions that with the net on, sometimes pollination does not take place as expected.  Mix the top soil  If the mud is not too porous or if the water does not seep in easily, then it means they need a proper mix. “I add coco-peat to the soil so that they hold water and do not become dry,” she says, adding that bio fungicides do help. Gardening requires care and patience and in Chennai’s weather one can enjoy the fruits only for six months, she says. Plan what to plant and when. Avoid greens during rainy season. Try planting seeds in trays during monsoon and transferring them to the ground or pot when rains subside. Premila sees the Ivy Gourd plant as the star of this season, as it continues to bear fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/keeping-those-green-babies-safe/article38039943.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A unique canvas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-unique-canvas/article38039935.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Green Christmas in the time of climate change||There was a time when “Green Christmas” just denoted Yule celebrations free of crippling snowfall — and nothing else. With that meaning, the term works only in places with extreme winters that suffer a “whiteout”. It is ludicrously out of place in the tropics. Absolutely in Chennai. When that genius of a satirist-comedian Stan Freberg employed it to take a playful jab at how Christmas is fused with Commerce to make an inseparable pair of ‘Cs’, his immediate American audience guffawed, getting the joke straightaway. The ‘green’ in Freberg’s “Green Christmas” (released in 1958) was a smart synecdoche for business, denoting the green printing ink that goes into the American currency. Before moving on to the subject at hand, sample a couple of hilarious Freberg lines that are a spin-off from a timeless carol: “Deck the hall with advertising/ Fa la la la la la la la la/ ’Tis the time for merchandising/ Fa la la la la la la la la”. The way Freberg used Green Christmas rings truer, with “Christmas shopping” having entered lexicons under every sky. Climate change has added another connotation to “Green Christmas”, one that is truly global cutting across climes. Unlike Freberg’s, this Green Christmas is not something to laugh about. And it comes with with an all-season, all-region relevance. Festivals make a fertile ground for sustainability messaging. After a tour of “green golus” during the Navarathri season, it is just the season for green Christmas trees. There is an almost universal appeal to Christmas trees and its branches would be right pegs to hang a sustainability message, besides of course all those glittering baubles. Here are notes from two initiatives that did just that. Junk-wood tree A glittering Christmas tree standing at the coffee shop in Crowne Plaza Chennai Adyar Park is a newly-sprung ally to the towering ceiling, as it gives visitors a compelling reason to look up from their foaming latte. Beneath the colour and glitter of the artificial trees lies junk wood that had been left ignored in the hotel’s carpentry section. The installation was done by Bhagwan Chavan and Aparajithan Adimoolam from the Cholamandal Artists’ Village, with assistance from artists Bharath and Selva Senthil. Bhagwan Chavan recalls the first meeting he and Aparajithan had with Anand Nair, general manager, Crowne Plaza Chennai Adyar Park, about the Christmas installation. Anand showed the exact spot for the tree, and he wanted it to flatter the high ceiling of the coffee shop. The meeting was coming to a close when Anand had asked if they would like to look in on the carpentry section to check out some junk wood. The artists took a look at the material that was to all appearances past their usefulness. “That night, I and Aparajithan were doing some scribbles. Generally, Christmas trees follow a pattern. We also went through the origin of Yuletide tree. That is when it struck me that the tree installation can be done with any material,” recalls Bhagwan. From there, the idea of a 14-feet high installation began to emerge. “We collected the junk wood and started cutting it into the shapes we had planned. As the design had delicate curves, we went in for machine cutting. With eco-friendly powder paints, we painted the trees in the installations — in gold, green and silver colours. We gave two to three coats. On top of it, we used glitter powder — that transformed the whole picture,” notes Bhagwan. Bhagwan notes that wrapping paper was used and it would have chemicals; and that the installation largely eco-friendly. He adds that besides the green message it wrung out of the junk wood, the installation has achieved an effect harnessing the light and shade from around it. “When we designed the Yule tree, we wanted an interplay of natural and artificial light. The coffee shop is rotund-shaped, with three-fourth of it glass, a factor that allows light to stream in unhindered. During daytime, the shadows of the natural trees outside fall on the coffee shop. When we did the basic sketch in the studio, we put lights from different directions to it. When you light from different directions, you have shadows falling all round. When we installed the whole thing, what we discovered was that, the marble floor also reflected the tree. In the night, when you put the lights on, the reflection falls on the glass and you see three installations at one time.” Seashell tree InterContinental Chennai Mahabilpuram Resort in Covelong chose to put out a sustainability message, by having sand and seashell replace bark and branch. Kunal Shanker, general manager of the resort points out that the in-house conceptualised and put together the 14-feet tall tree with seashells and sand. He adds that made with sand and seashells, the installation has little commercial value, but abundant ecological significance. “It is biodegradable and comes from nature itself,” remarks Kunal. The GM elaborates that by zeroing in on this theme, the sustainability message has been infused with a strong local favour. “We wanted to impact the local fishermen community by creating something symbolic of sustainability. It is symbolic of the fragile marine ecosystems around Mahabalipuram,” he notes, drawing attention to the olive ridley nesting that happens on the coast and the sensitivity that is required to see the turtles are protected. Sensitivity includes also proper waste management. He adds that the tree is also meant to be a reminder of the issue of eroding coastlines. The seashell tree, installed in the open, in the lobby courtyard, will put down sustainability roots at the spot until January 5.  We collected the junk wood and started cutting it into the shapes we had planned. As the design had delicate curves, we went in for machine cutting. With eco-friendly powder paints, we painted the trees in the installations — in gold, green and silver colours||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-christmas-in-the-time-of-climate-change/article38039960.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wetland bursting at the seams with jacanas?||When a family member tends towards corpulence, it hardly registers in the mind till their drapes start bursting, the buttons flying with the muzzle velocity of a firearm. Equating resident birds with the close-of-kin, birders are beginning to notice that the Perumbakkam wetland is bursting at the seams with jacanas. On the southernand northern extremities of the wetland, water has drained hugely and noticeably — respectively — exposing vegetation the pheasant-tailed and bronze-winged jacanas take to, with their never-ending jacanidae toes. They are making the most of it — particularly the pheasant-tailed jacana. Not many days ago, when birder Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi scanned the expanse, mumbling numbers, his tally of pheasant-tailed jacanas stood somewhere around 200. He had also counted nearly a dozen bronze-winged jacanas. Counting independently on another day, birder Sundaravel Palanivel’s arrived at a guesstimate: a whopping 400 jacanas with much of that number being racked up by the pheasant-tailed jacanas. Either way, the jacana presence is monstrously high. Juveniles, particularly of the pheasant-tailed, make up a neat percentage of the gathering. There are also pheasant-tailed togged in their delectable breeding colours and extended sickle. A stray thought enters the frame, altering the picture. Having guzzled water through November, the Perumbakkam is now somewhat akin to a lung whose fluid build-up is being cleared slowly. The draining ismassively incomplete, with the central sections of the wetland still retaining pools of water. Ornithologist V Santharam notes that this could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland gets more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out. When that happens, the sense of mammoth presence would also diminish. It could well be that the jacanas had been present earlier too in such impressive numbers, but were never shoehorned into small spaces with favourable vegetation. The ornithologist brings yet another perspective to the jacana-dominated picture. “Congregations of jacanas are not unusual. If they have juveniles now, they must have finished their breeding a little earlier. They probably have different breeding schedules. May be post-breeding, they are congregating at a place that is relatively safe and they have enough food.” Among the many things that stand out in the tightly-congregations of pheasant-tailed jacanas is cantankerous infighting. Every other second, two jacanas would go up in a flurry of quarrelsome and unruly feathers. Santharam explains: “They defend small territories within which they can enjoy exclusive feeding rights. I have seen this with rails and coots — they also have a strong territorial instinct. In contrast, waders are migratory; they come here and find the food to be abundant and they go about their business quietly. These resident birds are more specialised in their feeding, looking for things in vegetation, and it is not an easy kind of food to access, and probably, they need to have some space to themselves.”  This could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland becomes more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wetland-bursting-at-the-seams-with-jacanas/article38039962.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A new route to worship||One thing defines people almost infallibly — their routine. AK Kannan’s gets him to hit the road on his loyal four-stroke, by 6.30 a.m., and do a head-spinning tour of temples. His worship begins where others’ ends. Collecting discarded items of worship — shrinking flowers, open-mouthed coconuts, squeezed-out milk packets, half-burnt incense sticks et al. Kept segregated, each discard is reached to its earmarked place by Kannan and his trusty steed. In 52-year-old Kannan’s eyes, getting the remains of hallowed personal items of worship to serve the larger good is an extension of the worship. For quite sometime, his solid-waste management (SWM) philosophy veered entirely to this commitment, excluding other essentials. He can wrap his head around any SWM concept now, but is modest enough to admit that as late as 2014, he was dreadfully ignorant of certain basics. “Back then, I was not aware that composting yards existed.” He had however instinctively pottered his way to doing the right thing, making sure organic waste went where it is most wanted and useful. “In 2012, when I lived in Madurai, I began collecting used worship items from temples, depositing the flower waste in outlying areas abounding in trees. The initiative first began at home — I winced at the thought of putting used worship items in the regular garbage bin with other discards. They deserved a more ceremonious journey to their final destination. They did not belong in the garbage truck.” In 2014, a transfer by his employer, Prasar Bharathi, meant the temple tour had a new route — in a new city. He began to work out of the Doordarshan Kendra, Chennai, where he is assistant engineer. Calling Kannan’s daily commute meandering is putting it mildly. His to-do list for the day includes visits to around 25 temples and a composting yard and a material recovery centre (MRC). “There are 25 to 30 temples I gather discarded items from. On an average, I manage to touch 25 temples. I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop. From there, I head to my office in Chepauk.” Unloading these items at a composting yard and a material recovery centre of the Greater Chennai Corporation is part of the tedious routine. Only that Kannan hardly considers it tedium. “For the first three years, I was taking these discards to composting pits in MRC Nagar, where vermicomposting was being done.” He now usually chooses between the composting yard on Kutchery Road in Mylapore and the one on Arunachalam Street in Chintadripet (where he visits Arpineshwarar temple), which is just two throttles away from his office in Chepauk. While he would head to any temple where used worship items need to cleared, he does have his favourites. “Karneeswarar temple in Saidapet is the main source,” reveals Kannan, explaining that yields from there are invariably whopping great. Somewhat like Newton’s Cradle with its spheres, the initiative operates with self-sustaining momentum, with each player in the chain, from the first to the last, contributing to it in varying degrees. The givers (temple authorities) and takers (GCC compost yard managers) respond promptly so that Kannan does not have to tarry a zeptosecond longer than he should. That is usually the case and Kannan seems to possess the patience of spirit to take the occasional delays in the stride of his “bloated” two-wheeler. When this writer meets Kannan who is fresh from a routine temple tour, he unclasps his side box to reveal large, mangled plastic bags carelessly shoved into it. They are wornout from obvious overuse. Kannan would like to call it “reuse”. “These plastic bags would be reused again and again till they are down to their last shreds,” he smiles. Filled with waste, the bags would be carried like panniers. When the day’s collection cycle is complete, a gunny bag in the front and the rear would be added on. Coconut shells travel along with the withered flowers, but have a nearby, different destination. “In all Corporation yards with composting facilities, there are material recovery centres where they have coconut shells as a collection category. The coconut shells that are gathered in are transported through lorries for the making of ropes. Often, there would be 50 to 100 coconut shells. On pradosam days, there would be 200 to 300 of them, and I would hire an autorickshaw to reach them to a Corporation facility,” he explains. “I also keep the agal vilakkus separate, as they form a separate category at the material recovery centres. They are taken to the recycling unit that makes paver blocks for road-laying When asked about the average expense resulting from his volunteering, he pegs it at Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 a month. Kannan points out that after he moved to Chennai, an extremely active solid waste management group helped him gather sufficient knowledge about the various facets of solid waste management. As a mentor, K Viswanathan of Mylapore Residents’ Welfare Assocaition has greatly influenced Kannan. Has Kannan inspired people to take up volunteering of the rare kind that he represents? “There are people who have joined with me — they would do it for a while, but would not be able to sustain it. After a few days, they would throw up their hands and say it is too much for them,” says Kannan with a gentle laugh, probably at memories of such conversations from the past. Whenever these volunteers express anguish of this sort, Kannan is empathetic. “Earlier, I would pick up and drop such trash in the evenings as well. I could to see that the overwork was impacting my mind adversely,” says the 52-year-old. His family continually warn him that his enthusiasm tends to get out of hand, and that he has to watch out for stretching himself beyond physical limits with the volunteering work. He says: “At home, I am appreciated for my volunteering initiative, but also chided for being unmindful of my health while doing it.”  I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-route-to-worship/article38039959.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A date with the Marina||Here is a year-end treat for the differently-abled who have always enjoyed the sight of the Marina, but could savour it only from a frustrating distance. A stretch of the beach is being made accessible once again for children and adults with disabilities to enjoy the cool breeze, sand and waves of the ocean. This time, ‘Wheelchair-accessible Marina Beach’ is open for six days, from December 27 to January 2. January 1 is excluded as per a government rule. As part of International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the Greater Chennai Corporation, for some years, has been making arrangements on the sands by procuring wheel chairs and placing a friendly pathway. This year, the event could not be conducted on December 3 because of the rains. As per a Facebook post, the event being organised by Accessible Beaches in Chennai  is happening after a hiatus of two years due to COVID-19.  “ The rains may have played spoilsport around December 3, World Disability Day, but Greater Chennai Corporation is determined to squeeze in the beach access celebration before December ends,” reads the post. The public have been asked to mask up and attend the event. “The accessible beach path to the sea (and a few beach wheelchairs too) await you,” adds the note. A similar arrangement was made on the sands of Elliot’s Beach on December 5 by Raindrops Charity Foundation and Tamilnadu Udhavikaram Differently Abled Welfare Association. More than 170 people turned up on the day, said an organiser. Walking into an accessible beach is a day most differently-abled cherish and want every day. Most people with disabilities find it difficult to wade through the sands on a wheelchair or walk on crutches. The experience is different when all arrangements are in place.  A similar arrangement was made on the sands of Elliot’s Beach on December 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-date-with-the-marina/article38039951.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting them out of the block||In the last six months, Prabha Ramesh has helped raise four terrace gardens and inspired 12 people to start composting their kitchen waste. Through home visits, calls and follow-ups, these citizens are urged to do their bit to reduce the burden on landfills. Prabha is a volunteer with Project Vilvam, initiated by the chairman of Inner Wheel District 323 Kamala Selvam. Besides raising kitchen or rooftop gardens, these volunteers encourage others to follow their example, and also show them how to go about it. Through this work, they have impacted homes, schools, service-based organisations and individuals. For an initiative that started in June, it has covered much ground. “We have 56 clubs in the district and in the last six months we would have done good work in more than 40 government schools,” says Sheetal Satish, project coordinator, Vilvam. She notes that in the past, the Club had associated with a majority of these institutions, which aids the smooth execution of the ongoing project. Club members work with old age homes too in a big way. “At an old age home in Mylapore, the yield from the backyard had been feeding the seniors,” says Sheetal. The larger goal of this project is to make sure every household segregates their waste and also undertake composting on their premises. “I stay in an apartment with no common facility for composting biodegredable waste but I have a 20-litre bucket that does the job for us,” says Prabha, club coordinator, Inner Wheel Club of Chennai Symphony. Vilvam is not target-oriented; nor are there plans to give away prizes to the best-maintained gardens. “This is just an initiative to build awareness and we hope this would be an ongoing project for the Club,” says Sheetal. How is the initiative’s progress tracked? There are constant updates on the WhatsApp group on the progress made by each of the clubs. Prabha says, “Each club has a coordinator and four clubs are headed by a project coordinator. Every month, a progress report reviewing the work is shared.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/getting-them-out-of-the-block/article38039964.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Flower composting drive struggles to bloom again||Last month, two giant composting bins at the Anantha Padmanabhaswami temple on Second Main Road, shook off an almost two-year-long inertia, and excitedly hunkered down to work. The other two, just as hulking, look on dolefully, like an IT employee persistently benched for want of additional projects. The pandemic has slowed down many stellar initiatives, and it brought this much-acclaimed composting exercise to a standstill. As the initiative restarts, there is much rustiness to deal with. “From our side, we have assigned a staff member to just feed these two bins with flowers and tulsi leaves that had been used in worship, but are yet to kickstart the process to receive the output,” remarks a temple authority. “The compost has to be taken out, dried and packed. We are seeking help in restarting this essential process. Earlier, before the pandemic, Exnora Green Pammal was doing it for us. They would take the compost, dry it and turn into packets for us to sell at Rs. 60 each.” After all, the two working bins do not have the safisfaction of their work crowned with results and positively apprised. “We are in talks with ITC to get the initiative restarted in its totality.” The composting initiative had been birthed by ITC’s corporate social responsibility outreach. The temple authority notes that Exnora Green Pammal is strapped for human resources and is unable to take up this exercise again. “We are on a hunt for people who can run this exercise in its totality,” the source reveals. “If youngsters volunteer to do this work, it would be commendable. Sometime ago, two persons approached us and expressed a willingness to take up this work as volunteers. We agreed, but insisted that they give a letter of request seeking permission volunteer for the cause. We are yet to hear from them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/flower-composting-drive-struggles-to-bloom-again/article38039956.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The original jacana congregation point||V Santharam, ornithologist and director of the Institute of Bird Studies at Rishi Valley, recalls how jacanas ruled the roost at two jheels in North Chennai — back then, North Madras. “In the 1980s, we used to go to the Manali and Madhavaram jheels (famously known as the twin jheels). we used to access it from the Manali side. I do not remember the bus route — we used to take that bus from Burma Bazaar and it will drop us right at the village, and from there, we would walk about 200 metres and we would reach this place. We used to go through the village and then go into a mango orchard. There would be the shallow waters in front of us, full of lotus leaves — we used to count, most of time, 150 to 200 jacanas. And together, these jheels would be just one-tenth the size of the Perumbakkam wetland.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-original-jacana-congregation-point/article38039961.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Under-15 football tourney with a social focus||Fifteen matches, eight teams and 64 participants. The 4th STEP tournament organised by Victory Sports Foundation (VSF), an NGO working to uplift underprivileged children through sports, was a “five a side” football tournament for boys under-15. The team from Don Bosco, Perambur were declared winners and the Grace FC team were the runners-up. While Dinesh from Don Bosco was adjudicated ‘Best Goal Keeper’, Leonardo Christy from Government Madrasa School was declared ‘Most Promising Player’. Bharath Shankar Subramanian, partner, Accel; and Veerendra Mathur and Sharmishta Sen, founding trustees, VSF were the special guests. Through sport, the Foundation inculcates life skills like discipline, focus, integrity, confidence and sensitivity towards society, said a release. To know more, visithttps://victory sportsfoundation.org/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/under-15-football-tourney-with-a-social-focus/article38039949.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘birthday’ gift is a kitchen garden||Members of Jothi Madhar Sangam will snuff out 45 candles when it celebrates its anniversary in 2023, and before that event, it wants its members to find their green thumbs. The women’s association wants each of its members to raise a kitchen or terrace garden, small or big. Lakshmi Raghukumar, president, Jothi Madhar Sangam, reveals that this is a mandatory requirement so that members of the Sangam would be more convincing while promoting its initiative, Mission Clean, Vision Green. The Sangam has 80-90 members across age groups spread across neighbourhoods. “This is not a competition but we want everyone to participate in it, especially those who have not tried to grow plants, to understand the real essence of this greening initiative,” says Lakshmi. Once members raise their kitchen garden they are encouraged to inspire non-members. They are also encouraged to initiate tree planting on the roads in their colony and the plan is to plant 10,000 palm seeds in 2023 along the Adyar river bank in Ekkattuthangal. “We have currently planted 300 saplings,” says Lakshmi. The Sangam is also distributing seeds to members. The core team plans to monitor the green drive and also conduct competitions to encourage people to give their best. They already have some members who are garden enthusiasts. For example, Vijaya Tulasiraman has raised one on the balcony of her apartment in TNagar. For the Sangam’s 40th anniversary celebration, members were involved in a recycling initiative. Says Lakshmi, “We collected waste materials and made craft items out of them — again, this was done by all the members. Later, they volunteered with government schools to teach the craft to children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-birthday-gift-is-a-kitchen-garden/article38039963.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-year-old creates record||Two-year-old K.M. Sai Tribhuvan from Chennai entered the International Book of Records for being the youngest toddler to hang on a curve bar for the longest time. He achieved the feat by hanging for two minutes and three seconds earlier this year in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-year-old-creates-record/article38039947.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Games and gifts bring smiles to students of CSI School||Christmas arrived earlier for the students of CSI School for Deaf and Dumb in Santome as the Dr. John Joseph Foundation celebrated Christmas Extravaganza 2021 on December 18. Various games and stalls were part of the celebration. The children were overwhelmed with joy when Santa arrived and distributed gifts after which a sumptuous meal was provided to the underprivileged students. Suryakala, District Child Protection Officer, was the chief guest and spoke about the various welfare programmes for the children of the economically weaker section of society. Padmapriya, CEO of Sanitation First India, and Dr. Kamala Selvaraj, founder GG Hospitals, also participated in the event. “Christmas is a season of giving and sharing. Every year, the foundation has been distributing gifts to the less fortunate children during the festival and this year it was decided to celebrate it with children of CSI School for Deaf and Dumb,” said Churchill Joseph, founder of the Dr. John Joseph Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/games-and-gifts-bring-smiles-to-students-of-csi-school/article38039953.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping those green babies safe||November was a washout for Premila Balaji. The garden enthusiast, who has been nurturing her backyard with a variety of flowers, vegetables and fruits, did not expect the rains to be so heavy that it would knock down her precious tomatoes and marigolds. “Only 50 percent of my plants could be saved; and I cannot say they are doing great,” says Premila. The cauliflower that she has been caring for from the seed stage was badly damaged. “This was disappointing as it does not generally happen during winter. Last year, my cauliflowers were a hit and even my neighbours got a share of them,” says the senior citizen who is a member of Chennai Organic Terrace Gardeners. The papaya tree also met with a similar fate. Due to too much water, she suspects, the roots suffered a fungal infection. Rainwater had entered the ground floor of her independent house in Kodambakkam and she could do little to save her plants on the terrace. So, what are are those much-needed lessons on monsoon care of plants? “Rainwater provides plants nourishment but too much of it is not good; so move the pots to a place where they get sufficient but not excess rainwater. Ensure the containers/ pots have proper holes for water to drain out. Ensure these drainage holes are not clogged up.” Premila says 2015 Chennai floods was a good teacher. “I did not have stands for all my grow bags and they were kept on the floor. Later, I constructed stands and revamped the arrangement completely,” she says. Providing a shade with a net is effective most of the time. She cautions that with the net on, sometimes pollination does not take place as expected.  Mix the top soil  If the mud is not too porous or if the water does not seep in easily, then it means they need a proper mix. “I add coco-peat to the soil so that they hold water and do not become dry,” she says, adding that bio fungicides do help. Gardening requires care and patience and in Chennai’s weather one can enjoy the fruits only for six months, she says. Plan what to plant and when. Avoid greens during rainy season. Try planting seeds in trays during monsoon and transferring them to the ground or pot when rains subside. Premila sees the Ivy Gourd plant as the star of this season, as it continues to bear fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/keeping-those-green-babies-safe/article38039965.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Shop and get reward points||Fresh2day, a chain of stores selling a variety of fruits, vegetables, grocery and dairy products, sources most of their supply from farms and villages thereby offering items at affordable price. It rewards its customers with five points on every purchase of Rs. 100. During special occasions, customers can earn double the rewards (10%) on their purchase, said a release. Its membership rewards programme is offered free of charge, added the release. Fresh2day is present in seven locations (T Nagar, Gopalpuram, Vepery, Gandhi Nagar, Mylapore, Sholinganallur and Ashok Nagar) and three more stores will be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shop-and-get-reward-points/article38039954.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Allies in the mission||AK Kannan has had many allies from various quarters, including officials, in his volunteering work. He makes special mention of two conservancy inspectors — S Mahadevan from 124 ward, Zone 9; and RP Sridhar from ward 62, Zone 5. Just as he feels indebted to how they have matched his enthusiasm for the cause with theirs, they are hugely impressed that someone would work with undimnished focus, covering the kilometers on the road, unfailingly every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/allies-in-the-mission/article38039955.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wetland bursting at the seams with jacanas?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wetland-bursting-at-the-seams-with-jacanas/article38039944.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A new route to worship||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-route-to-worship/article38039945.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Green Christmas in the time of climate change||There was a time when “Green Christmas” just denoted Yule celebrations free of crippling snowfall — and nothing else. With that meaning, the term works only in places with extreme winters that suffer a “whiteout”. It is ludicrously out of place in the tropics. Absolutely in Chennai. When that genius of a satirist-comedian Stan Freberg employed it to take a playful jab at how Christmas is fused with Commerce to make an inseparable pair of ‘Cs’, his immediate American audience guffawed, getting the joke straightaway. The ‘green’ in Freberg’s “Green Christmas” (released in 1958) was a smart synecdoche for business, denoting the green printing ink that goes into the American currency. Before moving on to the subject at hand, sample a couple of hilarious Freberg lines that are a spin-off from a timeless carol: “Deck the hall with advertising/ Fa la la la la la la la la/ ’Tis the time for merchandising/ Fa la la la la la la la la”. The way Freberg used Green Christmas rings truer, with “Christmas shopping” having entered lexicons under every sky. Climate change has added another connotation to “Green Christmas”, one that is truly global cutting across climes. Unlike Freberg’s, this Green Christmas is not something to laugh about. And it comes with with an all-season, all-region relevance. Festivals make a fertile ground for sustainability messaging. After a tour of “green golus” during the Navarathri season, it is just the season for green Christmas trees. There is an almost universal appeal to Christmas trees and its branches would be right pegs to hang a sustainability message, besides of course all those glittering baubles. Here are notes from two initiatives that did just that. Junk-wood tree A glittering Christmas tree standing at the coffee shop in Crowne Plaza Chennai Adyar Park is a newly-sprung ally to the towering ceiling, as it gives visitors a compelling reason to look up from their foaming latte. Beneath the colour and glitter of the artificial trees lies junk wood that had been left ignored in the hotel’s carpentry section. The installation was done by Bhagwan Chavan and Aparajithan Adimoolam from the Cholamandal Artists’ Village, with assistance from artists Bharath and Selva Senthil. Bhagwan Chavan recalls the first meeting he and Aparajithan had with Anand Nair, general manager, Crowne Plaza Chennai Adyar Park, about the Christmas installation. Anand showed the exact spot for the tree, and he wanted it to flatter the high ceiling of the coffee shop. The meeting was coming to a close when Anand had asked if they would like to look in on the carpentry section to check out some junk wood. The artists took a look at the material that was to all appearances past their usefulness. “That night, I and Aparajithan were doing some scribbles. Generally, Christmas trees follow a pattern. We also went through the origin of Yuletide tree. That is when it struck me that the tree installation can be done with any material,” recalls Bhagwan. From there, the idea of a 14-feet high installation began to emerge. “We collected the junk wood and started cutting it into the shapes we had planned. As the design had delicate curves, we went in for machine cutting. With eco-friendly powder paints, we painted the trees in the installations — in gold, green and silver colours. We gave two to three coats. On top of it, we used glitter powder — that transformed the whole picture,” notes Bhagwan. Bhagwan notes that wrapping paper was used and it would have chemicals; and that the installation largely eco-friendly. He adds that besides the green message it wrung out of the junk wood, the installation has achieved an effect harnessing the light and shade from around it. “When we designed the Yule tree, we wanted an interplay of natural and artificial light. The coffee shop is rotund-shaped, with three-fourth of it glass, a factor that allows light to stream in unhindered. During daytime, the shadows of the natural trees outside fall on the coffee shop. When we did the basic sketch in the studio, we put lights from different directions to it. When you light from different directions, you have shadows falling all round. When we installed the whole thing, what we discovered was that, the marble floor also reflected the tree. In the night, when you put the lights on, the reflection falls on the glass and you see three installations at one time.” Seashell tree InterContinental Chennai Mahabilpuram Resort in Covelong chose to put out a sustainability message, by having sand and seashell replace bark and branch. Kunal Shanker, general manager of the resort points out that the in-house conceptualised and put together the 14-feet tall tree with seashells and sand. He adds that made with sand and seashells, the installation has little commercial value, but abundant ecological significance. “It is biodegradable and comes from nature itself,” remarks Kunal. The GM elaborates that by zeroing in on this theme, the sustainability message has been infused with a strong local favour. “We wanted to impact the local fishermen community by creating something symbolic of sustainability. It is symbolic of the fragile marine ecosystems around Mahabalipuram,” he notes, drawing attention to the olive ridley nesting that happens on the coast and the sensitivity that is required to see the turtles are protected. Sensitivity includes also proper waste management. He adds that the tree is also meant to be a reminder of the issue of eroding coastlines. The seashell tree, installed in the open, in the lobby courtyard, will put down sustainability roots at the spot until January 5.  We collected the junk wood and started cutting it into the shapes we had planned. As the design had delicate curves, we went in for machine cutting. With eco-friendly powder paints, we painted the trees in the installations — in gold, green and silver colours||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-christmas-in-the-time-of-climate-change/article38040001.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wetland bursting at the seams with jacanas?||When a family member tends towards corpulence, it hardly registers in the mind till their drapes start bursting, the buttons flying with the muzzle velocity of a firearm. Equating resident birds with the close-of-kin, birders are beginning to notice that the Perumbakkam wetland is bursting at the seams with jacanas. On the southernand northern extremities of the wetland, water has drained hugely and noticeably — respectively — exposing vegetation the pheasant-tailed and bronze-winged jacanas take to, with their never-ending jacanidae toes. They are making the most of it — particularly the pheasant-tailed jacana. Not many days ago, when birder Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi scanned the expanse, mumbling numbers, his tally of pheasant-tailed jacanas stood somewhere around 200. He had also counted nearly a dozen bronze-winged jacanas. Counting independently on another day, birder Sundaravel Palanivel’s arrived at a guesstimate: a whopping 400 jacanas with much of that number being racked up by the pheasant-tailed jacanas. Either way, the jacana presence is monstrously high. Juveniles, particularly of the pheasant-tailed, make up a neat percentage of the gathering. There are also pheasant-tailed togged in their delectable breeding colours and extended sickle. A stray thought enters the frame, altering the picture. Having guzzled water through November, the Perumbakkam is now somewhat akin to a lung whose fluid build-up is being cleared slowly. The draining ismassively incomplete, with the central sections of the wetland still retaining pools of water. Ornithologist V Santharam notes that this could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland gets more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out. When that happens, the sense of mammoth presence would also diminish. It could well be that the jacanas had been present earlier too in such impressive numbers, but were never shoehorned into small spaces with favourable vegetation. The ornithologist brings yet another perspective to the jacana-dominated picture. “Congregations of jacanas are not unusual. If they have juveniles now, they must have finished their breeding a little earlier. They probably have different breeding schedules. May be post-breeding, they are congregating at a place that is relatively safe and they have enough food.” Among the many things that stand out in the tightly-congregations of pheasant-tailed jacanas is cantankerous infighting. Every other second, two jacanas would go up in a flurry of quarrelsome and unruly feathers. Santharam explains: “They defend small territories within which they can enjoy exclusive feeding rights. I have seen this with rails and coots — they also have a strong territorial instinct. In contrast, waders are migratory; they come here and find the food to be abundant and they go about their business quietly. These resident birds are more specialised in their feeding, looking for things in vegetation, and it is not an easy kind of food to access, and probably, they need to have some space to themselves.”  This could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland becomes more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wetland-bursting-at-the-seams-with-jacanas/article38040009.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting them out of the block||In the last six months, Prabha Ramesh has helped raise four terrace gardens and inspired 12 people to start composting their kitchen waste. Through home visits, calls and follow-ups, these citizens are urged to do their bit to reduce the burden on landfills. Prabha is a volunteer with Project Vilvam, initiated by the chairman of Inner Wheel District 323 Kamala Selvam. Besides raising kitchen or rooftop gardens, these volunteers encourage others to follow their example, and also show them how to go about it. Through this work, they have impacted homes, schools, service-based organisations and individuals. For an initiative that started in June, it has covered much ground. “We have 56 clubs in the district and in the last six months we would have done good work in more than 40 government schools,” says Sheetal Satish, project coordinator, Vilvam. She notes that in the past, the Club had associated with a majority of these institutions, which aids the smooth execution of the ongoing project. Club members work with old age homes too in a big way. “At an old age home in Mylapore, the yield from the backyard had been feeding the seniors,” says Sheetal. The larger goal of this project is to make sure every household segregates their waste and also undertake composting on their premises. “I stay in an apartment with no common facility for composting biodegredable waste but I have a 20-litre bucket that does the job for us,” says Prabha, club coordinator, Inner Wheel Club of Chennai Symphony. Vilvam is not target-oriented; nor are there plans to give away prizes to the best-maintained gardens. “This is just an initiative to build awareness and we hope this would be an ongoing project for the Club,” says Sheetal. How is the initiative’s progress tracked? There are constant updates on the WhatsApp group on the progress made by each of the clubs. Prabha says, “Each club has a coordinator and four clubs are headed by a project coordinator. Every month, a progress report reviewing the work is shared.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/getting-them-out-of-the-block/article38040011.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A new route to worship||One thing defines people almost infallibly — their routine. AK Kannan’s gets him to hit the road on his loyal four-stroke, by 6.30 a.m., and do a head-spinning tour of temples. His worship begins where others’ ends. Collecting discarded items of worship — shrinking flowers, open-mouthed coconuts, squeezed-out milk packets, half-burnt incense sticks et al. Kept segregated, each discard is reached to its earmarked place by Kannan and his trusty steed. In 52-year-old Kannan’s eyes, getting the remains of hallowed personal items of worship to serve the larger good is an extension of the worship. For quite sometime, his solid-waste management (SWM) philosophy veered entirely to this commitment, excluding other essentials. He can wrap his head around any SWM concept now, but is modest enough to admit that as late as 2014, he was dreadfully ignorant of certain basics. “Back then, I was not aware that composting yards existed.” He had however instinctively pottered his way to doing the right thing, making sure organic waste went where it is most wanted and useful. “In 2012, when I lived in Madurai, I began collecting used worship items from temples, depositing the flower waste in outlying areas abounding in trees. The initiative first began at home — I winced at the thought of putting used worship items in the regular garbage bin with other discards. They deserved a more ceremonious journey to their final destination. They did not belong in the garbage truck.” In 2014, a transfer by his employer, Prasar Bharathi, meant the temple tour had a new route — in a new city. He began to work out of the Doordarshan Kendra, Chennai, where he is assistant engineer. Calling Kannan’s daily commute meandering is putting it mildly. His to-do list for the day includes visits to around 25 temples and a composting yard and a material recovery centre (MRC). “There are 25 to 30 temples I gather discarded items from. On an average, I manage to touch 25 temples. I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop. From there, I head to my office in Chepauk.” Unloading these items at a composting yard and a material recovery centre of the Greater Chennai Corporation is part of the tedious routine. Only that Kannan hardly considers it tedium. “For the first three years, I was taking these discards to composting pits in MRC Nagar, where vermicomposting was being done.” He now usually chooses between the composting yard on Kutchery Road in Mylapore and the one on Arunachalam Street in Chintadripet (where he visits Arpineshwarar temple), which is just two throttles away from his office in Chepauk. While he would head to any temple where used worship items need to cleared, he does have his favourites. “Karneeswarar temple in Saidapet is the main source,” reveals Kannan, explaining that yields from there are invariably whopping great. Somewhat like Newton’s Cradle with its spheres, the initiative operates with self-sustaining momentum, with each player in the chain, from the first to the last, contributing to it in varying degrees. The givers (temple authorities) and takers (GCC compost yard managers) respond promptly so that Kannan does not have to tarry a zeptosecond longer than he should. That is usually the case and Kannan seems to possess the patience of spirit to take the occasional delays in the stride of his “bloated” two-wheeler. When this writer meets Kannan who is fresh from a routine temple tour, he unclasps his side box to reveal large, mangled plastic bags carelessly shoved into it. They are wornout from obvious overuse. Kannan would like to call it “reuse”. “These plastic bags would be reused again and again till they are down to their last shreds,” he smiles. Filled with waste, the bags would be carried like panniers. When the day’s collection cycle is complete, a gunny bag in the front and the rear would be added on. Coconut shells travel along with the withered flowers, but have a nearby, different destination. “In all Corporation yards with composting facilities, there are material recovery centres where they have coconut shells as a collection category. The coconut shells that are gathered in are transported through lorries for the making of ropes. Often, there would be 50 to 100 coconut shells. On pradosam days, there would be 200 to 300 of them, and I would hire an autorickshaw to reach them to a Corporation facility,” he explains. “I also keep the agal vilakkus separate, as they form a separate category at the material recovery centres. They are taken to the recycling unit that makes paver blocks for road-laying When asked about the average expense resulting from his volunteering, he pegs it at Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 a month. Kannan points out that after he moved to Chennai, an extremely active solid waste management group helped him gather sufficient knowledge about the various facets of solid waste management. As a mentor, K Viswanathan of Mylapore Residents’ Welfare Assocaition has greatly influenced Kannan. Has Kannan inspired people to take up volunteering of the rare kind that he represents? “There are people who have joined with me — they would do it for a while, but would not be able to sustain it. After a few days, they would throw up their hands and say it is too much for them,” says Kannan with a gentle laugh, probably at memories of such conversations from the past. Whenever these volunteers express anguish of this sort, Kannan is empathetic. “Earlier, I would pick up and drop such trash in the evenings as well. I could to see that the overwork was impacting my mind adversely,” says the 52-year-old. His family continually warn him that his enthusiasm tends to get out of hand, and that he has to watch out for stretching himself beyond physical limits with the volunteering work. He says: “At home, I am appreciated for my volunteering initiative, but also chided for being unmindful of my health while doing it.”  I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-route-to-worship/article38040000.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Ashok Nagar park poorly maintained||The park at Ashok Nagar that is spread across Raghava Reddy Colony First Street and Ashok Nagar 65th Street is reportedly not being maintained properly by the Greater Chennai Corporation. According to residents, the park has not been swept for days. “The park is littered with all kinds of trash. There are no garbage bins. Further, it is overrun with weeds,” says R. Ravi Rao, a resident of Raghava Reddy Colony. Some of the regular visitors to the park requested the Zone 10 Kodambakkam Office of the Greater Chennai Corporation to appoint a caretaker and ensure its cleanliness. The park is meant to be open only from 5 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. As there is no security guard, the park is kept open all the time. Visitors also complain about damaged and rusted equipment in the children’s play area and gym. “The seats in the see-saw are missing. Adults play on the swings and that could have damaged it. That’s why a caretaker needs to be appointed,” says S. Meenakshi Mohan, a resident of Ashok Nagar. As the place is littered with leftovers, dogs stray into the park. Visitors also complain about adolescents misusing the walkway by riding cycles. “They ride geared cycle at a good speed and perform stunts posing a risk to the other visitors,” adds Meenakshi. In this regard, a senior Greater Chennai Corporation official of Kodambakkam Zone has promised to do the needful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ashok-nagar-park-poorly-maintained/article38039994.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Flower composting drive struggles to bloom again||Last month, two giant composting bins at the Anantha Padmanabhaswami temple on Second Main Road, shook off an almost two-year-long inertia, and excitedly hunkered down to work. The other two, just as hulking, look on dolefully, like an IT employee persistently benched for want of additional projects. The pandemic has slowed down many stellar initiatives, and it brought this much-acclaimed composting exercise to a standstill. As the initiative restarts, there is much rustiness to deal with. “From our side, we have assigned a staff member to just feed these two bins with flowers and tulsi leaves that had been used in worship, but are yet to kickstart the process to receive the output,” remarks a temple authority. “The compost has to be taken out, dried and packed. We are seeking help in restarting this essential process. Earlier, before the pandemic, Exnora Green Pammal was doing it for us. They would take the compost, dry it and turn into packets for us to sell at Rs. 60 each.” After all, the two working bins do not have the safisfaction of their work crowned with results and positively apprised. “We are in talks with ITC to get the initiative restarted in its totality.” The composting initiative had been birthed by ITC’s corporate social responsibility outreach. The temple authority notes that Exnora Green Pammal is strapped for human resources and is unable to take up this exercise again. “We are on a hunt for people who can run this exercise in its totality,” the source reveals. “If youngsters volunteer to do this work, it would be commendable. Sometime ago, two persons approached us and expressed a willingness to take up this work as volunteers. We agreed, but insisted that they give a letter of request seeking permission volunteer for the cause. We are yet to hear from them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/flower-composting-drive-struggles-to-bloom-again/article38039998.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Monsooncare for those green babies||November was a washout for Premila Balaji. The garden enthusiast, who has been nurturing her backyard with a variety of flowers, vegetables and fruits, did not predict the rains to be so heavy that it would knock down the precious tomatoes and marigolds. “I could save only 50 percent of my plants and I cannot say they are doing great,” says Premila. The cauliflower that she has been caring for from the seed stage was badly damaged. “This was disappointing as it does not generally happen during winters. Last year, my cauliflowers were a hit and even my neighbours got a share of them,” says the senior citizen who is a member of Chennai Organic Terrace Gardeners. The papaya tree also met with a similar fate. Due to too much water, she suspects the roots suffered a fungal infection. The rain waters had entered the ground floor of her independent house in Kodambakkam that she could do little to save her plants on the terrace. So, what are some lessons for monsoon care of plants? Rainwater provides plants nourishment but too much of anything is not good, so move pots to a place where they get sufficient but not excess rain water. Ensure the containers/pots have proper holes for water to drain out. Ensure these drainage holes are not clogged up. Premila says 2015 Chennai floods was a good teacher. “I did not have stands for all my grow bags and they were kept on the floor. Later, I constructed stands and revamped the arrangement completely,” she says. Providing a shade with a net is effective many times unless there are heavy winds accompanying the rains. She cautions that sometimes pollination does not take place as expected with a net.  Mix the top soil  If the mud is not too porous or if the water does not seep in easily then it means they need a proper mix. “I add coco-peat to the soil so that they hold water at the same time they don’t become dry,” she says, adding that bio fungicides do help. Gardening requires a lot of care and patience and in Chennai’s weather one can enjoy the fruits only for six months, she says. Make sure to plan what to plant and when. Avoid greens during rainy season. Try planting seeds in trays during monsoon and transferring them to the ground or pot when rains subside. Premila’s big saving grace this time is the Ivy Guard plant; they continue to bear fruits, and the family are relishing the garden’s fresh produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/monsooncare-for-those-green-babies/article38039986.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Shop and get reward points||Fresh2day, a chain of stores selling a variety of fruits, vegetables, grocery and dairy products, sources most of their supply from farms and villages thereby offering items at affordable price. It rewards its customers with five points on every purchase of Rs. 100. During special occasions, customers can earn double the rewards (10%) on their purchase, said a release. Its membership rewards programme is offered free of charge, added the release. Oulets Fresh2day is present in seven locations (T Nagar, Gopalpuram, Vepery, Gandhi Nagar, Mylapore, Sholinganallur and Ashok Nagar) and three more stores will be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shop-and-get-reward-points/article38039985.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Mugaliwakkam park needs to be spruced up’||The Greater Chennai Corporation’s park at Marigold Street in Blooming Garden (Ward 156) in Mugaliwakkam (Zone 12; Alandur) leaves a lot to be desired. In the space meant for children, the play equipment are damaged. Instead of sandy soil, mud has been dumped which can injure children. The walls are marred with wornout posters. These posters carry messages on environment conservation. Instead of posters, the walls can be adorned with paintings. Further, composting pits were installed at the park. As they were not maintained properly, they have become a haven for snakes. Hence, we want the Corporation to do away with the pits. Yet another request, medicinal plants should be planted. D.Thirugnanam, president, Blooming Garden Residents Welfare Association in Mugaliwakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mugaliwakkam-park-needs-to-be-spruced-up/article38039988.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Safety rules flouted at Valluvarkottam junction’||Road safety rules are violated at the Valluvarkottam junction in Nungambakkam. This includes driving on the wrong side of the road. Here, vehicles come from five busy roads — Valuvarkottam High Road, Thirumalai Pillai Road, Kodambakkam High Road from Gemini flyover, Kodambakam High Road from Liberty and Lake Area Main Road. During peak hours, the junction witnesses heavy traffic. But the junction is chaotic as many flout rules. Most of the time, I notice only one traffic police personnel posted at the signal. When the automated signals are on, the personnel does not bother to keep an eye on the movement of the traffic at the junction. Besides, there is a need to post a traffic cop near Thirumalai Pillai Road. It is necessary that the traffic police penalise the offenders and ensure the junction is safe as there are many schools in the vicinity. N. Ravikkumaar is a resident of Nungambakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/safety-rules-flouted-at-valluvarkottam-junction/article38039990.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The original jacana congregation point||V Santharam, ornithologist and director of the Institute of Bird Studies at Rishi Valley, recalls how jacanas ruled the roost at two jheels in North Chennai — back then, North Madras. “In the 1980s, we used to go to the Manali and Madhavaram jheels (famously known as the twin jheels). we used to access it from the Manali side. I do not remember the bus route — we used to take that bus from Burma Bazaar and it will drop us right at the village, and from there, we would walk about 200 metres and we would reach this place. We used to go through the village and then go into a mango orchard. There would be the shallow waters in front of us, full of lotus leaves — we used to count, most of time, 150 to 200 jacanas. And together, these jheels would be just one-tenth the size of the Perumbakkam wetland.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-original-jacana-congregation-point/article38040002.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Games and gifts bring smiles to students of CSI school||Christmas arrived earlier for the students of CSI School for Deaf and Dumb in Santome as the Dr. John Joseph Foundation celebrated Christmas Extravaganza 2021 on December 18. Various games and stalls were part of the celebration. The children were overwhelmed with joy when Santa arrived and distributed gifts after which a sumptuous meal was provided to the underprivileged students. Suryakala, District Child Protection Officer, was the chief guest and spoke about the various welfare programmes for the children of the economically weaker section of society. Padmapriya, CEO of Sanitation First India, and Dr. Kamala Selvaraj, founder GG Hospitals, also participated in the event. “Christmas is a season of giving and sharing. Every year, the foundation has been distributing gifts to the less fortunate children during the festival and this year it was decided to celebrate it with children of CSI School for Deaf and Dumb,” said Churchill Joseph, founder of the Dr. John Joseph Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/games-and-gifts-bring-smiles-to-students-of-csi-school/article38040013.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘birthday’ gift is a kitchen garden||Members of Jothi Madhar Sangam will snuff out 45 candles when it celebrates its anniversary in 2023, and before that event, it wants its members to find their green thumbs. The women’s association wants each of its members to raise a kitchen or terrace garden, small or big. Lakshmi Raghukumar, president, Jothi Madhar Sangam, reveals that this is a mandatory requirement so that members of the Sangam would be more convincing while promoting its initiative, Mission Clean, Vision Green. The Sangam has 80-90 members across age groups spread across neighbourhoods. “This is not a competition but we want everyone to participate in it, especially those who have not tried to grow plants, to understand the real essence of this greening initiative,” says Lakshmi. Once members raise their kitchen garden they are encouraged to inspire non-members. They are also encouraged to initiate tree planting on the roads in their colony and the plan is to plant 10,000 palm seeds in 2023 along the Adyar river bank in Ekkattuthangal. “We have currently planted 300 saplings,” says Lakshmi. The Sangam is also distributing seeds to members. The core team plans to monitor the green drive and also conduct competitions to encourage people to give their best. They already have some members who are garden enthusiasts. For example, Vijaya Tulasiraman has raised one on the balcony of her apartment in TNagar. For the Sangam’s 40th anniversary celebration, members were involved in a recycling initiative. Says Lakshmi, “We collected waste materials and made craft items out of them — again, this was done by all the members. Later, they volunteered with government schools to teach the craft to children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-birthday-gift-is-a-kitchen-garden/article38040010.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Road needs to be relaid’||It is time to relay Third Main Road at Ashok Brindavan Nagar in Iyappanthangal. The road was laid 10 years ago. Now it is battered and give motorists a backbreaking ride. When it rains, the stretch becomes slushy. Hence, it is requested that the road be relaid at the earliest. P. Senthil Kumar, Confederation of Ayyappanthangal Residents Welfare Associations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/road-needs-to-be-relaid/article38039992.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Allies in the mission||AK Kannan has had many allies from various quarters, including officials, in his volunteering work. He makes special mention of two conservancy inspectors — S Mahadevan from 124 ward, Zone 9; and RP Sridhar from ward 62, Zone 5. Just as he feels indebted to how they have matched his enthusiasm for the cause with theirs, they are hugely impressed that someone would work with undimnished focus, covering the kilometers on the road, unfailingly every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/allies-in-the-mission/article38039997.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Green Christmas in the time of climate change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-christmas-in-the-time-of-climate-change/article38039995.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A daily tour of temples||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-daily-tour-of-temples/article38039996.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Green Christmas in the time of climate change||There was a time when “Green Christmas” just denoted Yule celebrations free of crippling snowfall — and nothing else. With that meaning, the term works only in places with extreme winters that suffer a “whiteout”. It is ludicrously out of place in the tropics. Absolutely in Chennai. When that genius of a satirist-comedian Stan Freberg employed it to take a playful jab at how Christmas is fused with Commerce to make an inseparable pair of ‘Cs’, his immediate American audience guffawed, getting the joke straightaway. The ‘green’ in Freberg’s “Green Christmas” (released in 1958) was a smart synecdoche for business, denoting the green printing ink that goes into the American currency. Before moving on to the subject at hand, sample a couple of hilarious Freberg lines that are a spin-off from a timeless carol: “Deck the hall with advertising/ Fa la la la la la la la la/ ’Tis the time for merchandising/ Fa la la la la la la la la”. The way Freberg used Green Christmas rings truer, with “Christmas shopping” having entered lexicons under every sky. Climate change has added another connotation to “Green Christmas”, one that is truly global cutting across climes. Unlike Freberg’s, this Green Christmas is not something to laugh about. And it comes with with an all-season, all-region relevance. Festivals make a fertile ground for sustainability messaging. After a tour of “green golus” during the Navarathri season, it is just the season for green Christmas trees. There is an almost universal appeal to Christmas trees and its branches would be right pegs to hang a sustainability message, besides of course all those glittering baubles. Here are notes from two initiatives that did just that. Junk-wood tree A glittering Christmas tree standing at the coffee shop in Crowne Plaza Chennai Adyar Park is a newly-sprung ally to the towering ceiling, as it gives visitors a compelling reason to look up from their foaming latte. Beneath the colour and glitter of the artificial trees lies junk wood that had been left ignored in the hotel’s carpentry section. The installation was done by Bhagwan Chavan and Aparajithan Adimoolam from the Cholamandal Artists’ Village, with assistance from artists Bharath and Selva Senthil. Bhagwan Chavan recalls the first meeting he and Aparajithan had with Anand Nair, general manager, Crowne Plaza Chennai Adyar Park, about the Christmas installation. Anand showed the exact spot for the tree, and he wanted it to flatter the high ceiling of the coffee shop. The meeting was coming to a close when Anand had asked if they would like to look in on the carpentry section to check out some junk wood. The artists took a look at the material that was to all appearances past their usefulness. “That night, I and Aparajithan were doing some scribbles. Generally, Christmas trees follow a pattern. We also went through the origin of Yuletide tree. That is when it struck me that the tree installation can be done with any material,” recalls Bhagwan. From there, the idea of a 14-feet high installation began to emerge. “We collected the junk wood and started cutting it into the shapes we had planned. As the design had delicate curves, we went in for machine cutting. With eco-friendly powder paints, we painted the trees in the installations — in gold, green and silver colours. We gave two to three coats. On top of it, we used glitter powder — that transformed the whole picture,” notes Bhagwan. Bhagwan notes that wrapping paper was used and it would have chemicals; and that the installation largely eco-friendly. He adds that besides the green message it wrung out of the junk wood, the installation has achieved an effect harnessing the light and shade from around it. “When we designed the Yule tree, we wanted an interplay of natural and artificial light. The coffee shop is rotund-shaped, with three-fourth of it glass, a factor that allows light to stream in unhindered. During daytime, the shadows of the natural trees outside fall on the coffee shop. When we did the basic sketch in the studio, we put lights from different directions to it. When you light from different directions, you have shadows falling all round. When we installed the whole thing, what we discovered was that, the marble floor also reflected the tree. In the night, when you put the lights on, the reflection falls on the glass and you see three installations at one time.” Seashell tree InterContinental Chennai Mahabilpuram Resort in Covelong chose to put out a sustainability message, by having sand and seashell replace bark and branch. Kunal Shanker, general manager of the resort points out that the in-house conceptualised and put together the 14-feet tall tree with seashells and sand. He adds that made with sand and seashells, the installation has little commercial value, but abundant ecological significance. “It is biodegradable and comes from nature itself,” remarks Kunal. The GM elaborates that by zeroing in on this theme, the sustainability message has been infused with a strong local favour. “We wanted to impact the local fishermen community by creating something symbolic of sustainability. It is symbolic of the fragile marine ecosystems around Mahabalipuram,” he notes, drawing attention to the olive ridley nesting that happens on the coast and the sensitivity that is required to see the turtles are protected. Sensitivity includes also proper waste management. He adds that the tree is also meant to be a reminder of the issue of eroding coastlines. The seashell tree, installed in the open, in the lobby courtyard, will put down sustainability roots at the spot until January 5.  We collected the junk wood and started cutting it into the shapes we had planned. As the design had delicate curves, we went in for machine cutting. With eco-friendly powder paints, we painted the trees in the installations — in gold, green and silver colours||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-christmas-in-the-time-of-climate-change/article38039978.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wetland bursting at the seams with jacanas?||When a family member tends towards corpulence, it hardly registers in the mind till their drapes start bursting, the buttons flying with the muzzle velocity of a firearm. Equating resident birds with the close-of-kin, birders are beginning to notice that the Perumbakkam wetland is bursting at the seams with jacanas. On the southernand northern extremities of the wetland, water has drained hugely and noticeably — respectively — exposing vegetation the pheasant-tailed and bronze-winged jacanas take to, with their never-ending jacanidae toes. They are making the most of it — particularly the pheasant-tailed jacana. Not many days ago, when birder Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi scanned the expanse, mumbling numbers, his tally of pheasant-tailed jacanas stood somewhere around 200. He had also counted nearly a dozen bronze-winged jacanas. Counting independently on another day, birder Sundaravel Palanivel’s arrived at a guesstimate: a whopping 400 jacanas with much of that number being racked up by the pheasant-tailed jacanas. Either way, the jacana presence is monstrously high. Juveniles, particularly of the pheasant-tailed, make up a neat percentage of the gathering. There are also pheasant-tailed togged in their delectable breeding colours and extended sickle. A stray thought enters the frame, altering the picture. Having guzzled water through November, the Perumbakkam is now somewhat akin to a lung whose fluid build-up is being cleared slowly. The draining ismassively incomplete, with the central sections of the wetland still retaining pools of water. Ornithologist V Santharam notes that this could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland gets more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out. When that happens, the sense of mammoth presence would also diminish. It could well be that the jacanas had been present earlier too in such impressive numbers, but were never shoehorned into small spaces with favourable vegetation. The ornithologist brings yet another perspective to the jacana-dominated picture. “Congregations of jacanas are not unusual. If they have juveniles now, they must have finished their breeding a little earlier. They probably have different breeding schedules. May be post-breeding, they are congregating at a place that is relatively safe and they have enough food.” Among the many things that stand out in the tightly-congregations of pheasant-tailed jacanas is cantankerous infighting. Every other second, two jacanas would go up in a flurry of quarrelsome and unruly feathers. Santharam explains: “They defend small territories within which they can enjoy exclusive feeding rights. I have seen this with rails and coots — they also have a strong territorial instinct. In contrast, waders are migratory; they come here and find the food to be abundant and they go about their business quietly. These resident birds are more specialised in their feeding, looking for things in vegetation, and it is not an easy kind of food to access, and probably, they need to have some space to themselves.”  This could be a temporary phenomenon resulting from cramped lodgings. Once the water recedes from the other parts, and the wetland becomes more accessible to them, the jacanas would be more spread out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wetland-bursting-at-the-seams-with-jacanas/article38039980.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting them out of the block||In the last six months, Prabha Ramesh has helped raise four terrace gardens and inspired 12 people to start composting their kitchen waste. Through home visits, calls and follow-ups, these citizens are urged to do their bit to reduce the burden on landfills. Prabha is a volunteer with Project Vilvam, initiated by the chairman of Inner Wheel District 323 Kamala Selvam. Besides raising kitchen or rooftop gardens, these volunteers encourage others to follow their example, and also show them how to go about it. Through this work, they have impacted homes, schools, service-based organisations and individuals. For an initiative that started in June, it has covered much ground. “We have 56 clubs in the district and in the last six months we would have done good work in more than 40 government schools,” says Sheetal Satish, project coordinator, Vilvam. She notes that in the past, the Club had associated with a majority of these institutions, which aids the smooth execution of the ongoing project. Club members work with old age homes too in a big way. “At an old age home in Mylapore, the yield from the backyard had been feeding the seniors,” says Sheetal. The larger goal of this project is to make sure every household segregates their waste and also undertake composting on their premises. “I stay in an apartment with no common facility for composting biodegredable waste but I have a 20-litre bucket that does the job for us,” says Prabha, club coordinator, Inner Wheel Club of Chennai Symphony. Vilvam is not target-oriented; nor are there plans to give away prizes to the best-maintained gardens. “This is just an initiative to build awareness and we hope this would be an ongoing project for the Club,” says Sheetal. How is the initiative’s progress tracked? There are constant updates on the WhatsApp group on the progress made by each of the clubs. Prabha says, “Each club has a coordinator and four clubs are headed by a project coordinator. Every month, a progress report reviewing the work is shared.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/getting-them-out-of-the-block/article38039982.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A new route to worship||One thing defines people almost infallibly — their routine. AK Kannan’s gets him to hit the road on his loyal four-stroke, by 6.30 a.m., and do a head-spinning tour of temples. His worship begins where others’ ends. Collecting discarded items of worship — shrinking flowers, open-mouthed coconuts, squeezed-out milk packets, half-burnt incense sticks et al. Kept segregated, each discard is reached to its earmarked place by Kannan and his trusty steed. In 52-year-old Kannan’s eyes, getting the remains of hallowed personal items of worship to serve the larger good is an extension of the worship. For quite sometime, his solid-waste management (SWM) philosophy veered entirely to this commitment, excluding other essentials. He can wrap his head around any SWM concept now, but is modest enough to admit that as late as 2014, he was dreadfully ignorant of certain basics. “Back then, I was not aware that composting yards existed.” He had however instinctively pottered his way to doing the right thing, making sure organic waste went where it is most wanted and useful. “In 2012, when I lived in Madurai, I began collecting used worship items from temples, depositing the flower waste in outlying areas abounding in trees. The initiative first began at home — I winced at the thought of putting used worship items in the regular garbage bin with other discards. They deserved a more ceremonious journey to their final destination. They did not belong in the garbage truck.” In 2014, a transfer by his employer, Prasar Bharathi, meant the temple tour had a new route — in a new city. He began to work out of the Doordarshan Kendra, Chennai, where he is assistant engineer. Calling Kannan’s daily commute meandering is putting it mildly. His to-do list for the day includes visits to around 25 temples and a composting yard and a material recovery centre (MRC). “There are 25 to 30 temples I gather discarded items from. On an average, I manage to touch 25 temples. I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop. From there, I head to my office in Chepauk.” Unloading these items at a composting yard and a material recovery centre of the Greater Chennai Corporation is part of the tedious routine. Only that Kannan hardly considers it tedium. “For the first three years, I was taking these discards to composting pits in MRC Nagar, where vermicomposting was being done.” He now usually chooses between the composting yard on Kutchery Road in Mylapore and the one on Arunachalam Street in Chintadripet (where he visits Arpineshwarar temple), which is just two throttles away from his office in Chepauk. While he would head to any temple where used worship items need to cleared, he does have his favourites. “Karneeswarar temple in Saidapet is the main source,” reveals Kannan, explaining that yields from there are invariably whopping great. Somewhat like Newton’s Cradle with its spheres, the initiative operates with self-sustaining momentum, with each player in the chain, from the first to the last, contributing to it in varying degrees. The givers (temple authorities) and takers (GCC compost yard managers) respond promptly so that Kannan does not have to tarry a zeptosecond longer than he should. That is usually the case and Kannan seems to possess the patience of spirit to take the occasional delays in the stride of his “bloated” two-wheeler. When this writer meets Kannan who is fresh from a routine temple tour, he unclasps his side box to reveal large, mangled plastic bags carelessly shoved into it. They are wornout from obvious overuse. Kannan would like to call it “reuse”. “These plastic bags would be reused again and again till they are down to their last shreds,” he smiles. Filled with waste, the bags would be carried like panniers. When the day’s collection cycle is complete, a gunny bag in the front and the rear would be added on. Coconut shells travel along with the withered flowers, but have a nearby, different destination. “In all Corporation yards with composting facilities, there are material recovery centres where they have coconut shells as a collection category. The coconut shells that are gathered in are transported through lorries for the making of ropes. Often, there would be 50 to 100 coconut shells. On pradosam days, there would be 200 to 300 of them, and I would hire an autorickshaw to reach them to a Corporation facility,” he explains. “I also keep the agal vilakkus separate, as they form a separate category at the material recovery centres. They are taken to the recycling unit that makes paver blocks for road-laying When asked about the average expense resulting from his volunteering, he pegs it at Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 a month. Kannan points out that after he moved to Chennai, an extremely active solid waste management group helped him gather sufficient knowledge about the various facets of solid waste management. As a mentor, K Viswanathan of Mylapore Residents’ Welfare Assocaition has greatly influenced Kannan. Has Kannan inspired people to take up volunteering of the rare kind that he represents? “There are people who have joined with me — they would do it for a while, but would not be able to sustain it. After a few days, they would throw up their hands and say it is too much for them,” says Kannan with a gentle laugh, probably at memories of such conversations from the past. Whenever these volunteers express anguish of this sort, Kannan is empathetic. “Earlier, I would pick up and drop such trash in the evenings as well. I could to see that the overwork was impacting my mind adversely,” says the 52-year-old. His family continually warn him that his enthusiasm tends to get out of hand, and that he has to watch out for stretching himself beyond physical limits with the volunteering work. He says: “At home, I am appreciated for my volunteering initiative, but also chided for being unmindful of my health while doing it.”  I begin with temples in Choolaimedu, where I live, followed by those in Nungambakkam. The next stop is T. Nagar, followed by Saidapet, particularly Karneeshwarar temple. Mylapore is the next pit stop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-route-to-worship/article38039977.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Flower composting drive struggles to bloom again||Last month, two giant composting bins at the Anantha Padmanabhaswami temple on Second Main Road, shook off an almost two-year-long inertia, and excitedly hunkered down to work. The other two, just as hulking, look on dolefully, like an IT employee persistently benched for want of additional projects. The pandemic has slowed down many stellar initiatives, and it brought this much-acclaimed composting exercise to a standstill. As the initiative restarts, there is much rustiness to deal with. “From our side, we have assigned a staff member to just feed these two bins with flowers and tulsi leaves that had been used in worship, but are yet to kickstart the process to receive the output,” remarks a temple authority. “The compost has to be taken out, dried and packed. We are seeking help in restarting this essential process. Earlier, before the pandemic, Exnora Green Pammal was doing it for us. They would take the compost, dry it and turn into packets for us to sell at Rs. 60 each.” After all, the two working bins do not have the safisfaction of their work crowned with results and positively apprised. “We are in talks with ITC to get the initiative restarted in its totality.” The composting initiative had been birthed by ITC’s corporate social responsibility outreach. The temple authority notes that Exnora Green Pammal is strapped for human resources and is unable to take up this exercise again. “We are on a hunt for people who can run this exercise in its totality,” the source reveals. “If youngsters volunteer to do this work, it would be commendable. Sometime ago, two persons approached us and expressed a willingness to take up this work as volunteers. We agreed, but insisted that they give a letter of request seeking permission volunteer for the cause. We are yet to hear from them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/flower-composting-drive-struggles-to-bloom-again/article38039976.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents waging a battle to save a canal||Encroachments on water channels are the bane of many localities in Chennai. Here is an illustration from the southern suburbs. After the December 2015 floods, P. Amudha, Flood Monitoring Officer, Kancheepuram District, marked the encroachments on Pappan Kalvai (Madu Purampokku) as obstructing an important feeder channel of the Adyar river.  The encroachments were to be demolished on December 8, but for reasons unknown they haven’t been demolished till date. M. R. Sai Sampath Kumar, a social activist and a long-time resident of Nawab Habibullah Nagar, Mudichur, has given petitions to erstwhile Kancheepuram District Collector, Divisional Revenue Officer, Kancheepuram, Sub-Collector, Kancheepuram and Executive Engineer, Lower Palar Basin Division and Sriperumbudur Tashildar to remove the encroachments.  Recently, the Revenue Divisional Officer, Sriperumbudur inspected the canal on Manimangalam - Sriperumbudur Road and marked the encroachments, and steps were taken to demolish two places of worship constructed on the canal. “More encroachments have to be demolished, mainly illegally constructed houses, only then can we prevent flooding in Mudichur and Varadharajapuram,” says Sai Sampath Kumar. The canal drains rainwater from Adhanur, Mannivakkam, Manimangalam, Guduvancherry and Mudichur regions, and excess water from Adhanur Eri, Mannivakkam Eri, Manimangalam Eri, Guduvancherry Eri and Mudichur Periya Eri to the Bay of Bengal through Adyar river. “Though steps have been taken to construct a weir in the canal this year, a shutter in the weir is needed,” says Sai Sampath Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-waging-a-battle-to-save-a-canal/article38039968.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Monsooncare for those green babies||November was a washout for Premila Balaji. The garden enthusiast, who has been nurturing her backyard with a variety of flowers, vegetables and fruits, did not predict the rains to be so heavy that it would knock down the precious tomatoes and marigolds. “I could save only 50 percent of my plants and I cannot say they are doing great,” says Premila. The cauliflower that she has been caring for from the seed stage was badly damaged. “This was disappointing as it does not generally happen during winters. Last year, my cauliflowers were a hit and even my neighbours got a share of them,” says the senior citizen who is a member of Chennai Organic Terrace Gardeners. The papaya tree also met with a similar fate. Due to too much water, she suspects the roots suffered a fungal infection. The rain waters had entered the ground floor of her independent house in Kodambakkam that she could do little to save her plants on the terrace. So, what are some lessons for monsoon care of plants? Rainwater provides plants nourishment but too much of anything is not good, so move pots to a place where they get sufficient but not excess rain water. Ensure the containers/pots have proper holes for water to drain out. Ensure these drainage holes are not clogged up. Premila says 2015 Chennai floods was a good teacher. “I did not have stands for all my grow bags and they were kept on the floor. Later, I constructed stands and revamped the arrangement completely,” she says. Providing a shade with a net is effective many times unless there are heavy winds accompanying the rains. She cautions that sometimes pollination does not take place as expected with a net.  Mix the top soil  If the mud is not too porous or if the water does not seep in easily then it means they need a proper mix. “I add coco-peat to the soil so that they hold water at the same time they don’t become dry,” she says, adding that bio fungicides do help. Gardening requires a lot of care and patience and in Chennai’s weather one can enjoy the fruits only for six months, she says. Make sure to plan what to plant and when. Avoid greens during rainy season. Try planting seeds in trays during monsoon and transferring them to the ground or pot when rains subside. Premila’s big saving grace this time is the Ivy Guard plant; they continue to bear fruits, and the family are relishing the garden’s fresh produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/monsooncare-for-those-green-babies/article38039983.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Mudichur residents seek reopening of library||Residents of Mudichur have appealed to the St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union and Mudichur Village Panchayat to reopen the public library located on Thiruvalluvar Street near Mudichur Village Panchayat office. “Around a decade ago, a librarian was appointed by the erstwhile Kancheepuram District Collectorate. It is said that as Mudichur Village Panchayat expressed its inability to pay a salary to the librarian, the library had to be closed. For years, the library is under lock and key,” says A. Vaishnavi Anirudh, a resident of Mudichur. At present, there is no library in areas coming under the jurisdiction of Mudichur Village Panchayat. The nearest library is either at Perungalathur or at Ashtalakshmi Nagar Third Street in Mudichur which is part of Varadharajapuram Village Panchayat. According to Mudichur residents, the library was spacious with a good collection of books and therefore enjoyed good patronage. Regular visitors at the library were urging the St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union and Mudichur Village Panchayat to also have a collection of competitive examinations books. However, before that could be done, the facility got closed, say residents. “I have been taking up this issue with the authorities for the past few years. They promise to do the needful. But nothing has happened till today,” says Vaishnavi. The library was opened more than 10 years ago. It had a membership close to 250. The library used to be kept open from Monday to Thursday; and on Saturday and Sunday from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.   “The library was spacious with a good collection of books and therefore enjoyed good patronage”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mudichur-residents-seek-reopening-of-library/article38039970.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The original jacana congregation point||V Santharam, ornithologist and director of the Institute of Bird Studies at Rishi Valley, recalls how jacanas ruled the roost at two jheels in North Chennai — back then, North Madras. “In the 1980s, we used to go to the Manali and Madhavaram jheels (famously known as the twin jheels). we used to access it from the Manali side. I do not remember the bus route — we used to take that bus from Burma Bazaar and it will drop us right at the village, and from there, we would walk about 200 metres and we would reach this place. We used to go through the village and then go into a mango orchard. There would be the shallow waters in front of us, full of lotus leaves — we used to count, most of time, 150 to 200 jacanas. And together, these jheels would be just one-tenth the size of the Perumbakkam wetland.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-original-jacana-congregation-point/article38039979.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘birthday’ gift is a kitchen garden||Members of Jothi Madhar Sangam will snuff out 45 candles when it celebrates its anniversary in 2023, and before that event, it wants its members to find their green thumbs. The women’s association wants each of its members to raise a kitchen or terrace garden, small or big. Lakshmi Raghukumar, president, Jothi Madhar Sangam, reveals that this is a mandatory requirement so that members of the Sangam would be more convincing while promoting its initiative, Mission Clean, Vision Green. The Sangam has 80-90 members across age groups spread across neighbourhoods. “This is not a competition but we want everyone to participate in it, especially those who have not tried to grow plants, to understand the real essence of this greening initiative,” says Lakshmi. Once members raise their kitchen garden they are encouraged to inspire non-members. They are also encouraged to initiate tree planting on the roads in their colony and the plan is to plant 10,000 palm seeds in 2023 along the Adyar river bank in Ekkattuthangal. “We have currently planted 300 saplings,” says Lakshmi. The Sangam is also distributing seeds to members. The core team plans to monitor the green drive and also conduct competitions to encourage people to give their best. They already have some members who are garden enthusiasts. For example, Vijaya Tulasiraman has raised one on the balcony of her apartment in TNagar. For the Sangam’s 40th anniversary celebration, members were involved in a recycling initiative. Says Lakshmi, “We collected waste materials and made craft items out of them — again, this was done by all the members. Later, they volunteered with government schools to teach the craft to children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-birthday-gift-is-a-kitchen-garden/article38039981.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Shop and get reward points||Fresh2day, a chain of stores selling a variety of fruits, vegetables, grocery and dairy products, sources most of their supply from farms and villages thereby offering items at affordable price. It rewards its customers with five points on every purchase of Rs. 100. During special occasions, customers can earn double the rewards (10%) on their purchase, said a release. Its membership rewards programme is offered free of charge, added the release. Outlets Fresh2day is present in seven locations (T Nagar, Gopalpuram, Vepery, Gandhi Nagar, Mylapore, Sholinganallur and Ashok Nagar) and three more stores will be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shop-and-get-reward-points/article38039972.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Allies in the mission||AK Kannan has had many allies from various quarters, including officials, in his volunteering work. He makes special mention of two conservancy inspectors — S Mahadevan from 124 ward, Zone 9; and RP Sridhar from ward 62, Zone 5. Just as he feels indebted to how they have matched his enthusiasm for the cause with theirs, they are hugely impressed that someone would work with undimnished focus, covering the kilometers on the road, unfailingly every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/allies-in-the-mission/article38039975.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Green Christmas in the time of climate change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/green-christmas-in-the-time-of-climate-change/article38039973.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A daily tour of temples||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-daily-tour-of-temples/article38039974.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The long road to recovery||The Oxford Languages word of the year is vax; Merriam-Webster picked vaccine, noting that it has come to represent much more than just medicine. With the pandemic into its second year, it is perhaps not surprising that all the top lookups of 2021 had something to do with COVID-19. This was reflected in the themes that dominated non-fiction books — virus, vaccine, climate change, inequality, trade, globalisation, rising authoritarianism, surveillance technology and so forth. Michael Lewis’ The Premonition: A Pandemic Story tells the story of a small group of “scientific misfits” who had obsessed all their lives with how viruses spread and replicated, and how governments accepted it theoretically but did not take it as an actual threat. Connecting the dots, Lewis explains America’s mismanagement of the pandemic, thereby holding a mirror for the rest of the world. A key local health official, who felt a “big event” was coming and that the healthcare system would be overwhelmed, said, “It’s a foreboding. A knowing that something is looming around the corner. Like how when the seasons change you can smell fall in the air right before the leaves change and the wind turns cold.” Several books dealt with other aspects of the pandemic by profiling vaccine makers ( Vaxxers: The Inside Story of the Oxford AstraZeneca Vaccine and the Race Against the Virus by Sarah Gilbert and Catherine Green) or the virus itself ( Invisible Empire: The Natural History of Viruses by Pranay Lal). The end of the year saw the publication of The Dawn of Everything: A New History of Humanity by David Graeber and David Wengrow. An anthropologist and an archaeologist got together to try to “reconstruct” a sort of “grand dialogue about human history” with modern evidence. Graeber passed away last September, barely three weeks after they finished writing it. “We are projects of collective self-creation,” they say. “What if we approached human history that way? What if we treat people, from the beginning, as imaginative, intelligent, playful creatures who deserve to be understood as such?” Both go about telling the story of not how the species fell from an idyllic state but how it came to be trapped in such “tight conceptual shackles” that reinvention has become difficult. The India story Countries reacted differently to the pandemic and two decisions overwhelmed India — first, the sudden announcement of a national lockdown in March 2020 that put the informal sector in disarray and second, initial apathy on the vaccination front — not ordering enough vaccines early, exporting vaccines, then being forced to hold back because of domestic demand — meant that a virulent second wave revealed the cracks in health care. After the lockdown, when people lost jobs in the cities and were desperate for food and shelter, many began to walk home to villages hundreds of kilometres away. Vinod Kapri catches one such journey – of a group of seven who rode their bicycles from Ghaziabad in U.P. to Saharsa in Bihar ( 1232 Km: The Long Journey Home ). On another front, farmers, upset with three controversial bills, protested for over a year at the Singhu border near Delhi, till the government withdrew the laws. With the agriculture sector in distress for decades, two writers highlighted the cause, Jaideep Hardikar in Ramrao: The Story of India’s Farm Crisis and Kavitha Iyer in Landscapes of Loss: The Story of an Indian Drought.  Democracy in peril In his 2018 book, How the World Swung to the Right , Francois Cusset points out that despite a few zones of active resistance, like the Chiapas uprisings or the movement against racialised police brutality in the U.S., the last half-century has been witness to an undeniable global shift to the right. French political scientist Christophe Jaffrelot, who has been writing on India since the 1990s, records the swift decline here from a “liberal secular polity” to a “majoritarian ethnic democracy”. Modi’s India: Hindu Nationalism and the Rise of Ethnic Democracy documents not only the unravelling of pluralism but also how the majoritarian takeover is happening with the systematic demolition of institutions. New events Two other writers, Debashish Roy Chowdhury and John Keane, argue that democracy stands at a crossroads in India ( To Kill a Democracy: India’s Passage to Despotism ). Keane, an acclaimed political theorist, and Roy Chowdhury, a journalist, collaborated for three years to understand the struggles of Indian democracy and why it was finding it difficult to live up to its ideals. In a talk about the book with the publisher, Keane said the book shows what is happening in India is something new, not just a repetition of the events of the 1930s and 1940s in Germany and Italy. The word both writers came up with is “despotism”. In her book, The Violence in Our Bones: Mapping the Deadly Fault Lines Within Indian Society , Neera Chandhoke tries to understand why violence and democracy co-exist in India despite being antithetical to each other. Shruti Kapila throws new light on the political ideas and leaders that shaped modern India in Violent Fraternity: Indian Political Thought in the Global Age. Looking through the eyes of painter Ravi Varma, Manu Pillai takes readers through five erstwhile princely states (1860-1900) and shows how they tested the Raj in False Allies . Cold truths With climate change rapid, widespread, and intensifying, as per the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, writers are chronicling the changes and thinking of ways to stop the damage, like a drastic reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Amitav Ghosh traces climate change to imperial policies and tells it through a spice in The Nutmeg’s Curse ; Shekhar Pathak profiles the people who led a unique environment movement in the 1970s in The Chipko Movement: A People’s History and the lessons it holds for the fragile Himalayas. Former diplomats and foreign secretaries have been tracking India-China tensions too, particularly after the boundary row has seen a flare-up. Shivshankar Menon writes how India adapted to changes in Asia after independence and looks at Indian foreign policy with a “wide-angle lens” in India and Asian Geopolitics: The Past, Present . In The Fractured Himalaya: India Tibet China 1949-1962 , Nirupama Rao untangles the knots and shows why India clearly invited trouble with China when it decided that the border issue would not figure in negotiations on Tibet. As ties between all three polities are being redrawn, Rao’s book reassesses the relationship and its inflection points leading up to the 1962 war. If a professor of social and political theory, Amia Srinivasan, examines the politics of ethics and sex in a post-#MeToo world in her feminist essays, The Right to Sex , behavioural scientist Pragya Agarwal explores what drives how we think and talk about motherhood in (M)otherhood: On the Choices of Being a Woman . Life and teachings Nobel laureate Amartya Sen’s enriching memoir, Home in the World, explains how his early years in Santiniketan and later at Presidency College Calcutta shaped his ideas. Jairam Ramesh profiles Sir Edwin Arnold’s epic poem on the life and teachings of the Buddha in The Light of Asia: The Poem that Defined the Buddha . There were several books on technology, including The Art of Conjuring Alternate Realities by Shivam Shankar Singh and Anand Venkatanarayanan on cyber warfare and its chilling possibilities. In sport, Michael Holding’s scathing attack on racism ( Why We Kneel, How We Rise ), Christopher Clarey’s biography of Roger Federer ( The Brilliant Career of Roger Federer ), and Simon Kuper’s The Barcelona Complex grabbed the headlines. In a year filled with loss, there were at least two poignant memoirs – Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s Notes on Grief , a moving ode to her father, whom she suddenly lost in the middle of the pandemic, and Rodrigo Marquez’s A Farewell to Gabo and Mercedes, a tearful and warm tribute to his famous writer father, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, who battled dementia, and his resilient intrepid mother.  With climate change rapid, widespread, and intensifying, as per the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, writers are thinking of ways to stop the damage||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-long-road-to-recovery/article38040084.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The in-between spaces||I pour the coffee. I go over my tasks for the day. I set out the ingredients to start fixing the day’s meals. There’s half an hour to go before yoga class, so in go the ear buds, and my morning begins in earnest. There was a time when I would nurse that tumbler of filtered beverage while I pored over the newspaper. But time seems to have scrunched itself into these dense knots, unfurling and escaping into nothingness if I don’t insert my multiple to-dos inside every twist and turn of its second-scored fibre. Leisurely browsing the broadsheet is a weekend luxury; other days I must make do with the endless scroll of social media or the click-and-skim of online news portals. But with those micro-electronic Bluetooth-enabled marvels speaking into my ears, I can busy myself with morning chores even as I tune into the news — and views — of the day. Podcasts — and the spoken word by other means — have made the mundane tasks of my daily life a little more bearable (think Mary Poppins and a spoonful of sugar!), and helped me in managing the isolation of the past 19 months. If the early days of the pandemic turned everyone and their niece into a podcaster, the following year saw the emergence of a whole slew of slick new shows that confirmed that this format of content delivery was here to stay. So, while the number of independent podcasts being cranked out from under tables and in bedroom closets continues to rise, so do the audio portfolios of big media brands. Consulting firm Redseer reported that in 2021, close to 20% of the Indian population (over the age of 12, with internet access) listened to podcasts in some shape or form, an increase of 34% over 2020. They also noted that Indians spend on average around 2% of their online media consumption time on podcasts. I don’t count myself an “average” podcast listener — this is by far my preferred medium. Increasingly, I find myself referencing something I’ve listened to much more often than something I’ve read. Even before the pandemic, I was a podcast junkie, spending my two-hour-something commute listening to drama, documentaries, true crime, features, and talk, but the listening filled what one might think of as the empty hours between departure and arrival or the time spent waiting for something, like the milk to boil or sleep to come. But in the past year or so, the listening fills different kinds of spaces — perhaps not empty, but certainly, open. I’ve sought and found a variety of voices; some offer stimulation and feed my enquiring mind. Others offer solace and hope, a respite from the run-run-run of the workday; I’ve mentioned many in this column. Yet others leave me laughing out loud as I clear the dishes after dinner, prompting family members to wonder if I was not-so-slowly losing it (now they first peer at my ears and then roll their eyes). I’ve sometimes listened deeply, at other times with just one ear, but in listening to podcasts, I have learned to better appreciate the layers of sound that mark the context of my life. And when the ear buds are out, I have learned to pay closer attention to words, the voices that speak them, and the silences that punctuate speech. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-in-between-spaces/article38040094.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Journals of the plague year||Strewn across the sun-baked flood plains of Egypt are ancient marble pillars, scoured and discoloured. These are Nilometers, the world’s oldest continually functioning scientific instruments. They have stood by the Nile, marking the rise and fall of that great river, since the time of the pharaohs. Today we have a river of words to mark our civilisation, for despite the omnipresence of screens, the written word still counts for something. We may still discern a pattern in this flood of pages. The books that came out this year might very well be those giving us the last clear glimpse of the pre-pandemic era. Assuming an average writing time of 18-24 months for a novel, most books released through 2021 would have had their inception in 2019-20 and so straddle two worlds, pre- and post-pandemic. They depict a now-vanished age, when time still moved in a linear fashion, followed by an age when time collapsed on itself. Human impact Manasi Subramaniam, executive editor at Penguin Press, says that Namita Gokhale’s The Blind Matriarch brought home the human impact of the pandemic. “Books have a way of helping people come to terms with the world around them, and we hope that even in a fraught year like 2021, we’ve risen to that challenge,” she says. Udayan Mitra, executive publisher at HarperCollins, saw a keen interest in “books that focus on the intricacies of human relationships” this year. For instance, Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni’s The Last Queen , Anindita Ghose’s The Illuminated , Shivani Sibal’s Equations , and Sonal Kohli’s The House Next to the Factory . The year saw a noticeable demand for books capturing the zeitgeist, and Mitra points out that speculative fiction has trended, with some striking books in that genre. Sci-fi might be a realistic rendering of the unreal, but the unreal is now the new normal, and that has the genre working overtime. Lawyer-novelist Gautam Bhatia’s The Horizon adds to the story he told in his debut novel, The Wall , which is set in an enclosed, circular city-state called Sumer, the ultimate gated community. The struggle continues between those who want to maintain the status quo and those who wish to see the wall breached. Incidentally, 2021 marks the hundredth anniversary of the word, ‘robot’, which Karel Čapek used for the first time in his debut play, RUR or Rossum’s Universal Robots , about a race of artificial workers who overthrow their masters. We can see how the angry robots of Čapek have evolved into the gentle “Artificial Friend” Klara in Kazuo Ishiguro’s Klara and the Sun . Klara isn’t superhuman. Designed to provide friendship to a lonely child, she is kindly, easily scared, and mortal. Klara speaks to us in her vulnerability. Fly away Bestselling author Antony Doerr’s Cloud Cuckoo Land also sees a literary novel embracing and modifying sci-fi tropes such as starships and virtual reality. It has multiple storylines — a medieval city on the verge of falling, contemporary America racked by tensions, a spaceship bearing the last humans fleeing a dying planet — but they all convey a sense of things coming to an end. The same note is heard in the second volume of The Gollancz Book of South Asian Science Fiction, where, in one of the stories, the protagonist has an epiphany: “there was no shelter, no safety in an unravelling world”. Editor Tarun K. Saint says these stories depict the “ongoing crises” of South Asia as reflected in fiction. One response, of course, is to reach for the escape hatch and read yourself out of this moment, something that sci-fi is uniquely equipped to perform. Like sci-fi, another genre that asks us to stretch our imagination is horror. After being stuck for ages in dusty attics with ghosts of Victorian writers like M.R. James, Indian horror is slowly maturing, as proved by books like Venita Coelho’s Dark Tales: Ghost Stories from India or Dakhma by K. Hari Kumar. In these books, it is human misdeeds that are ghoulish, unleashing consequences that reverberate down the generations. As Coelho says, reading horror is to “work an exorcism ritual for our own ghosts and the demons of the world.” It’s therapeutic to read horror confined by the page when the last two years have been about a profound loss of control. The past is a haunting spectre in all the books that won top honours this year. In Damon Galgut’s Booker Prize-winning novel, The Promise , a white family tries to come to terms with South Africa’s racist history; International Booker winner David Diop’s At Night All Blood is Black tells the story of a Senegalese soldier fighting with the French army during World War I who finds himself trapped in the moment his best friend, a soldier in the same regiment, died before his eyes. And, of course, the biggest gong, the Nobel Prize for Literature, went to Abdulrazak Gurnah, originally from Zanzibar, whose work is dominated by mass upheavals, with people fleeing their homelands and seeking shelter elsewhere. In Gurnah’s literary universe, everything is shifting — memories, names, identities — reflecting what we saw all around us this year. Translations rule In keeping with this world in flux, translations continue to be the rage. The JCB Prize for fiction, one of the most coveted among India’s literary prizes, was shared by M. Mukundan and translators Fathima E.V. and Nandakumar K. for the novel, Delhi: A Soliloquy. Chiki Sarkar, co-founder of Juggernaut Books, which brought out Gyan Chaturvedi’s Alipura in an acclaimed translation by Salim Yusufji, says they were proud to publish the famous novel. Though Juggernaut’s list is dominated by non-fiction, they plan to have “a small, high-quality fiction list which will be largely translations,” says Sarkar. Trisha De Niyogi, COO and director at Niyogi Books, says, “As a publisher with an emphasis on translation, we turned our attention to folktales and folklores from languages not listed in the eight schedule. We published Voices from the Lost Horizon (by Anvita Abbi), where we have the genesis stories, folktales, and folk songs of the Great Andamanese people. You can actually listen to the folk songs as sung by the tribal artists, as the book has QR codes taking you to the audio-visual recordings.”  Voices from the Lost Horizon is a haunting book, as spine-tingling as stumbling upon the ruins of a lost civilisation, for the Great Andamanese people are everyday losing their language and the stories inscribed in it. Shortly after passing on the tales, the main storyteller died. Says Abbi, “In death, he carried away with him the knowledge and memories of an entire race.” Books, those fragile objects made of brittle pages, are ultimately our last weapon in the war against mortality. And, contrary to the overwhelming fear about the demise of physical books, they are here to stay. As bookshops opened worldwide after the lockdowns, people again sought out that warm, paper-scented corner safe from the buffetings of the world. Just as future archaeologists will find layers of discarded masks and know of ‘before’ and ‘after’ worlds, this is the last year before the pandemic will permanently write itself into our literary records. But there will also probably be intense growth and experimentation in the arts and sciences, a flush of post-traumatic creativity. A Renaissance to a Black Death, a Roaring 20s to a Spanish flu. The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.  Books, those fragile objects made of brittle pages, are our last weapon in the war against mortality. And, contrary to the overwhelming fear about the demise of physical books, they are here to stay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/journals-of-the-plague-year/article38040056.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Thank god for small mercies||I think we can all agree that the past year is not one that humanity will remember with any degree of fondness. Like a painful surgery, or a heartbreak, or a particularly nasty classroom incident involving G. Suresh-Balaji from VII B, 2021 is something most of us would rather consign to the dustbin of memory and pretend never happened at all. But, even in a year when simply saying the word ‘positive’ out loud would instantly elicit startled looks from anyone within earshot, I still believe it is important to focus on all the things that showed us why even 2021 was not an utter, irredeemable loss. We cannot afford to lose hope and plunge into despair, so we must turn to optimism to keep us physically and mentally fit. Like a rigorous yoga practice, or a run on the beach, or a sharp smack on the back of the head from a random stranger, it gets the circulation going. Things aren’t as bad as they seem Good things are always happening, even in the bleakest of times. Director Siruthai Siva and Sun Pictures overcame the considerable challenges of making a film during a pandemic to give us the most abysmally bad Rajinikanth film since Kochadaiyaan . Our Prime Minister pulled off the heroic feat of keeping people’s morale high through a year of pesky civil protests, annoying questions over the government’s sincere efforts to manage the nation’s COVID-19 optics, and petrol prices which didn’t have the common decency to stay low. Ajinkya Rahane still has a test career. All is not lost. Masks actually work. As disguises After a lifetime of making fun of comicbook artists for trying to suggest that feeble masks such as those worn by Robin or The Phantom would completely obscure their identity, I stand corrected, and I apologise profusely. In 2021, I personally could not, on multiple occasions, recognise my own friends when they were masked up (as responsible citizens should be). I’d see someone walk by, remark to myself about how they looked like Sub-Zero from Mortal Kombat , only to have them approach me, take off their mask, and reveal themselves to be good old G. Suresh-Balaji from VII B. Low-budget bank robbers worldwide must be rejoicing. “Due to COVID reasons” is a great catch-all excuse “Due to COVID reasons, we are notallowing you to carry bottles into the hotel room”. “Due to COVID reasons, we don’t stock antacids”. “Due to COVID reasons, Dilip Vengsarkar will be the next James Bond”. Okay, I made that last one up. But the other two are actual examples of reasons that were trotted out to me in the very recent past, to explain away some random restriction. Because it’s COVID, you can’t argue with them. It’s exactly like “national security”. So, the next time you’re in a tight spot, say something like “Due to COVID reasons, I had no option but to steal your goats and sell them at a neat profit”, and watch your problems disappear. Indian cricket fans continue to raise the bar For those of us who grew up watching cricket in the 90s, this is a period of extreme abundance — we have a great all-conditions bowling attack, boast a scarcely believable bench strength, and are one of the most consistently successful teams worldwide. To us, looking at this team and harping on their lack of ICC titles is acting like those middle class parents who look at their child’s 98/100 exam paper and sardonically ask whether the remaining 2 marks were donated to the neighbourhood crows. I am privileged and grateful to be on WhatsApp groups (shudder) with many deeply knowledgeable and skilled experts who know exactly which player to sack, what the batting order should be, and how to win the toss every time so that our national team can scale even greater heights. Put them in charge, I say. You see? All it takes is a little optimism and a willingness to look for silver linings. Armed with those, we can pick ourselves up, take a few deep breaths, play that song from Sakalakala Vallavan one more time, and heartily leap into 2022 with the absurdly irrational belief that it will be an easier year than this one — and we’d have a fair chance of being right. The writer is also a game designer. Read more at www.bigfatphoenix.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/thank-god-for-small-mercies/article38040015.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunshine in my rucksack||As privileged as it sounds, the pandemic ‘trapped’ me in the mountains; I was home, like everybody else, only with fresher air. I took it in my stride for a decently long time until the travel itch resurfaced, which I desperately tried to drown in routine. While everyone I knew was experimenting with new recipes and I felt hopeful I’d turn over a new leaf, I didn’t go through a cooking phase; my relationship with the kitchen only worsened. I’m ashamed to say I didn’t pick up any new hobbies either. I tried shuffle dance once, if that counts. In the privacy of my room where I could make a fool of myself, my legs turned to jelly as I lay defeated on the floor and accepted the fact that my body’s high-speed coordination was below average. I moved on. That is, I went back to my comfort zone of books and cinema. Long walks The announcement of relaxation in the restrictions released the breath I had been holding inside me for the longest time, and I scrambled for whatever bits and pieces I could lay my hands, nay, my feet on. Starting from walks in my hometown Nainital and marvelling at what quiet, clean, and beautiful strolls this commercial cesspool had to offer minus humanity, to retracing hikes I had done as a child (including one I had never done despite growing up there), my first taste of ‘pandemic travel’ was exploring this tourist town as a local. Like for a lot of us who travelled for workations and picked one spot to be in and explore, slow travel took on a whole new meaning. I reluctantly switched my travel motto from the grass is green on the other side to the grass is green where you water it, and started to explore my backyard, Kumaon, like never before. From little villages which were nothing but signboards to me as I whizzed past them on my way to farther, better places, to detours leading to nondescript spots, I took the road less travelled. I found birdlife, solitude, and a hidden billabong upstream from Chaanfi village where my mother recalled eating the sweetest potatoes on a school picnic. I discovered a waterfall and the joy of reunion near Bhalugarh where I went with my father to meet his neighbours from over 40 years ago when he was posted there as a young government forest official. I ate delicious millet halwa at a homestay in Parvada, which I had bypassed a million times on my way to Mukteshwar. Staycation time I skipped the wildlife safaris of Corbett national park, shut down for more than a year, and peered at Jupiter’s moons wedged above its jungles instead, through a privately installed telescope. I plucked citrus maltas from trees in the villages of their birthplace and tasted them as if for the first time, now that they weren’t being transported to grocery stores. I made friends with a ‘workationing’ journalist from Bihar and a couple from South India, without having to travel far. Heck, I even indulged in a staycation for the first time, unwinding at an iconic hotel in Nainital where I had previously only attended wedding cocktails. For over a year, I waited to get permits for a high-altitude trek. When I finally accepted that the pandemic was nowhere near its end, I left with my guide on an uncharted route that didn’t require official permits. For the first time in the history of my outdoor stints, I didn’t come across a human for days. The only footprints in the snow were those of pheasants and predators. A snowstorm, many shooting stars, and a stunning sunset over a glacial lake later, I returned home while technically never having left. Humbled by sights that I would have never ‘deigned’ to explore in normal times, I am no longer disturbed by Instagram posts of people holidaying in the Maldives. Winters have hit the mountains in full force and I would love some sunshine as the year ends, but I cannot any longer say that it’s because I haven’t travelled in a long time. Born and brought up in the Himalayas, the author writes on culture, ecology, sustainability, and all things mountain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunshine-in-my-rucksack/article38040095.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||We, the screen writers||In the morning, our staff room was abuzz with the regular prattle. Classes over, we yanked out the mobile phones languishing in silence in our bags. With bent necks, scanning eyes and clicking thumbs, we soon got engrossed in our digital universe. In graveyard silence with only the sound of the ticking clock, we were mindlessly or busily occupied. I glanced at my phone and saw a text message. The number seemed strange and I failed to recognise it. The text zapped me. It read, “I have the money IDK [I don’t know] how much and I’ve hidden the body NP CU [no problem, see you] soon and UDI [unidentified drinking injury] this time! XOXO [hugs and kisses].” There he was, I said to myself, Sid is again up to his tricks trying to spook me with horror. I’m sure he’s been on a diet of spine-chilling thrillers! In the past few decades, text messaging has given us an unprecedented, whimsical flexibility. The glorious English language has been spirited away and its purity and mellifluous beauty given a decent burial. The complexity, nuances and subtlety have all but disappeared, with the blatant disregard for grammar and spelling. The electrifying speed of SMS has irrevocably changed our use of the English language. Haven’t we become a society of prolific writers? Every week, we thumb thousands of words. Love affairs blossom and romances flower and soon end. Friendships are cultivated, hopes nurtured and plans made. Ideas are sparked, arguments are picked, news is shared. Typing is the new talking. Our minds and souls are colonised. Our lives are filled with texts, e-mails, instant messages. It’s our new-found obsession. Granted they are easy, quick, immediate, efficient and indispensable too at times. Granted they can be warm and friendly but they can also lead to grave misunderstandings with dire consequences. We surely see a void, don’t we miss the richness and texture, the descriptive depth of face-to-face spoken exchanges? Text messaging in comparison seems thin and artificial, stripped of life. Imagine tone, facial expressions, emotions, emphasis, body language, accent and gestures all added to our communication. Picture eye contact in real-time conversations and the richness is undeniable. jayachan2020@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/we-the-screen-writers/article38040034.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala made history in March by becoming the first African and the first woman to serve as director-general of an inter-governmental organisation that helps governments establish, revise and enforce rules that govern international trade. Okonjo-Iweala was also the first woman to serve as finance minister in her native Nigeria, a position she held twice. Which organisation is this? 2 In November, Joe Biden was at Walter Reed Medical Center for a routine colonoscopy. The normal procedure required Biden to be under anaesthesia. This situation led to a short-term yet historic occasion. Previously, when Donald Trump had to undergo the same procedure, he refused to go under anaesthesia, so the situation did not arise. What was the historic occasion that came about when Biden was under anaesthesia? 3 ‘Everydays: The First 5000 Days’ by the artist Beeple is a photo collage of 50,000 pictures of daily events. It was bought by a Singapore-based programmer using Ether for $69.3 million at Christie’s, making it one of the most expensive works of art by a living artist. It is the very first art work of its kind, which belongs to a certain non-interchangeable unit of data that has been in the news all of 2021. What is ‘Everydays’ a type of? 4 An instrument called MOXIE, which stands for Mars ‘ ____’ In-Situ Resource Utilization Experiment, aboard NASA’s Perseverance rover, was able to successfully convert a compound found in the Martian atmosphere into an element. This technology could help make future human missions to the Red Planet a reality as it will be able to provide a substance essential for humans to survive. What element was created on Mars? 5 A $5.6 billion electric railway line went into service in June, connecting the capital of this place to the city of Nyingchi. The 400-km line is part of a bullet train service that snakes through 47 tunnels and 121 bridges. Due to the area’s high altitude, and with most of the line being 9,000 feet above sea level, the train is equipped with an automated system that maintains oxygen levels inside its cars. In which picturesque area, known as the ‘Roof of the World’, does this bullet train run? 6 In July, a school opened its doors in Malawi, which was the first of its kind in the world. What normally takes three weeks to build was finished in 18 hours and organisers hope that the quick and affordable technology can help address the severe shortage of schools in the country. Although the school cost about 15% less to build, the machine capable of doing so costs about $500,000. What machine was used to build this school? 7 El Salvador passed a law in September adopting a certain entity as legal tender, alongside the U.S. dollar. The controversial move had a lot of doubters as many were sceptical of the new currency’s inherent volatility. Many financial experts voiced concerns that this new form of currency could bring further economic instability to El Salvador and encourage money laundering. This has led to many countries, including India, looking into this new technology-based currency and its future. What currency, without argument the most famous of its kind, is now legal in El Salvador? 8 On September 16, Jared Isaacman, the billionaire chief executive of Shift4 Payments, was the commander of the Inspiration4 mission to raise money for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital. He and three others went aboard the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule and orbited Earth for three days. The three others on board were a survivor of bone cancer, a U.S. Air Force veteran, and an entrepreneur. Why was this a historic first in the history of space travel? 9 The Saildrone Explorer SD 1045 was a drone that was intentionally steered into the heart of a natural weather phenomenon that was packing winds of more than 120 miles per hour, in September. Researchers from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration hope that the data collected will help them better understand how these freak phenomena, which are becoming more frequent due to climate change, intensify. What did the drone fly into? 10 China announced that it has officially eliminated one of the most lethal diseases that kills hundreds of thousands of people each year. They achieved this historic milestone by an efficient and targeted campaign among the public, and distributed resources such as insecticide-treated nets to people across the country. What disease, which kills hundreds of people in India, is now eliminated in China? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article38040089.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A new year again. And again||A common complaint I hear from friends and colleagues these days — and I caught myself sliding right into it the other day — is that the years 2020 and 2021 have blended into each other in one pandemic mega-year. It is, after all, difficult to keep track of time when you’re stuck in quarantine, or undergoing a prolonged lockdown, or worrying yourself sick over a loved one’s health. No wonder then that both Indian and international creators have recently released a number of TV shows and films that feature ‘time loops’ prominently. Characters are stuck living the same day over and over again, a situation that ironically ends up giving them clarity about what they want out of life. For Hollywood, this process had begun in real earnest in 2018 and 2019, after two major releases involving time loops. In 2018, the Netflix interactive special Black Mirror: Bandersnatch gave viewers the ability to create their own adventures out of a time loop story. And in 2019, Natasha Lyonne wrote, produced and starred in the masterful time loop series Russian Doll , a darkly comic, philosophically ambitious show that stands head and shoulders above the rest of this genre. The trend continued in 2020, with the Andy Samberg-Cristin Milioti starrer Palm Springs , a Hulu movie that blended the time loop trope with some very enjoyable romcom trappings. Reliving time 2021 saw this trend being consolidated and applied across genres: another Hulu film, the action-thriller Boss Level (starring B-movie legend Frank Grillo alongside heavyweights Mel Gibson, Michelle Yeoh and Naomi Watts) was about a Special Forces soldier trying to stop a time loop that inevitably ends with his death. Amazon Prime Video released The Map of Tiny Perfect Things in February 2021. Based on a short story by journalist and writer Lev Grossman, this was a sweet, good-hearted teenage love story about two youngsters who discover that they’ve both been reliving the same time loop. In April, Netflix released Travon Free’s poignant short film Two Distant Strangers globally; here, the experiences of Black Americans with law enforcement are alluded to through the eyes of the protagonist, a Black man whose time loop keeps ending with him being shot by the cops — once because a cop feels his joint-smoking is dangerous, another time because the cops burst into his house after reading an address sign wrong (reminiscent of the March 2020 killing of Breonna Taylor), and so on. Closer home too, there have been several films in recent months utilising this idea. In Lijo Jose Pellissery’s Malayalam-language Churuli , there is a very clever use of this device in the second half, although I can’t spell it out here without spoiling the climax. Suffice it to say that as is Pellissery’s style, the innovation fits the theme of the screenplay; it’s not mere gimmickry. In Mano Karthikeyan’s Tamil-language film Jango , released last month, a neurosurgeon (Satheesh Kumar) is stuck living the same day repeatedly and within the confines of that day, he tries to save his wife from a mysterious assassin. Déjà vu Also released last month, Venkat Prabhu’s Maanaadu has been praised for its intelligent usage of the time loop device. Here, a Coimbatore police officer (S.J. Suryah) and an NRI (Silambarasan) who is in town to help his friend elope realise that they are both trapped into living the same day, a day where the Chief Minister is assassinated at his own conference. Repetition, eternal recurrence, déjà vu : what do these characters learn from the experience? Well, a lot of them seem to realise which parts of their lives are... extraneous, let us say. It allows them to focus on that which is most important: life itself, their one true love (like in Palm Springs or The Map of Tiny Perfect Things ), or a cause bigger than them ( Maanaadu , Churuli ). In this way, they end up living more in ‘a day’ than they had in their entire previous un-looped lives. The writer is an author and journalist working on his first book of non-fiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-new-year-again-and-again/article38040087.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Charging points||With the ferocity of the pandemic calming down a bit and a number of relaxations to the lockdown, I wanted to use the opportunity before the predicted third wave to pay obeisance to our family deity at the temple situated about 300 km from my home in Chennai. Luckily, we did it before the scare of Omicron. On the big day, there was a competition in my house between my children and me in finding a plug point to charge our gadgets. The list included mobile phones, tablets, a power bank, smartwatches, earbuds and a laptop. While driving, it struck me how many gadgets I had charged and how they were ruling our life. Within a few decades, humans have totally surrendered their life to gadgets. Today, we are dependent on many gadgets even for simple tasks. If we closely observe our daily routine, not a single day passes without charging some equipment or the other. During lockdown, online classes and work from home became the new normal. Apart from charging mobile phones, laptops and tablets, shavers and trimmers and hair straightners too needed to be juiced up. Must accessory Today, the phone has become the third hand of everyone. Every day, either consciously or unconsciously, one searches for a plug point to charge them. Basic model phones do not require daily charging. However, smartphones dry fast and to cope with that, power banks are used. Of course, you need to charge power banks also to charge your other devices. When I entered college in 1993, I remember my father presenting me a watch that required a key to be screwed for it to work. Once screwed, it would work for a few days; now my sons use smartwatches which counts even the number of steps they walk, their heart beat and pulse rate. However, if the watch is not charged, it is of no use. Every morning, it has become a ritual to charge every device that we have to use for the day. Just as one should not skip his breakfast, do not forget to feed the devices, irrespective of going out or staying at home. taraj2804@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/charging-points/article38040032.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Letters||The build-up to an India-Pakistan match has only commercial benefits. (‘From the inside edge; Dec. 19) When the game is done and dusted, all the jingoism and chest-thumping, drummed up by the electronic media, go hollow. The saying, “cricket could impart a healing touch in the troubled relations between India and Pakistan” is meaningless because the two nations are always at diplomatic loggerheads. Ranganathan Sivakumar nMarqusee’s stupendous dissection of the evolution of cricket in the Indian subcontinent and the emergence of greats like Sachin Tendulkar even as India embraced globalisation explains why his book still holds sway among many. M. Jeyaram nPepsi’s ‘Nothing official about it’ campaign was perhaps the first instance of ambush marketing in the country. It captured the imagination of a young India eager to throw away the stifling controls of the past. K.M.K. Murthy nThe rivalry between India and Pakistan continues to be fierce. Temperatures inevitably soar when there is a clash between them, whether on the cricket pitch, hockey field, or elsewhere. But there is discernible bonhomie between the players, and their camaraderie is perhaps the main salutary feature. C.V. Aravind nNot only has the 22-yard game been reduced to a 22-inch passive entertainer, its commercialisation has become so rampant that Test cricket too might fade away. Cricket may finally survive in the T20 format or, worse, in a T10 format only. But IPL, a purely commercial extravaganza and moneyspinner, is sure to thrive. Even the astute Marqusee could not have imagined the ruinous state towards which the game is moving. Kosaraju Chandramouli nThe three evils of present-day cricket pointed out by the late Mike Marqusee about 25 years ago mainly stem from the huge money involved in the game. With universal greed for wealth acquisition, there seems to be no end to this malady in the foreseeable future. Sri Vrinda N.   I had oft heard of Cicero, but didn’t know much about his biography. (‘Mark his words’; Dec. 19) The article made for an interesting read. Also, the origin of the now famed name ‘Atticus’ made for an interesting revelation. Simran Sidhu   It is disheartening to learn that the evil of caste-based discrimination continues to thrive among the Indian diaspora. (‘Caste as a livelihood problem; Dec. 19) That caste equity is a matter of students’ and workers’ rights has been proved by Harvard’s recent move. N. Rama Rao   To that generation of children who know Nehru only as a political leader (‘The eternal romantic’; Dec. 19), Palat’s article is an eye-opener. Nehru’s conviction in science is truly unbelievable. Sandhya Suresh V. nScientific temper, which also finds mention in our Constitution, is needed all the more now, considering the rising rhetoric in the country. Scientific temper makes a person tolerant and open to new ideas. Dewang Ganesh Thosar nThe article on science and Nehru’s scientific temperament is a collector’s piece. The author has been able to fully elaborate on Nehru, science and beyond. Please continue the series. Kamaljeet Singh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/letters/article38040030.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Frontline workers||They were hailed as ‘COVID warriors’ and ‘gods in white uniform’, but little was done to help the physical and psychological well-being of thousands of frontline healthcare workers — doctors, nurses, radiographers, lab technicians, anaesthetists, and interns — during the peak of the second wave. As infections rose, they grappled with long hours, lack of resources such as personal kits, oxygen and medicines, and the high risk of infection. They reported anxiety, insomnia, post-traumatic stress disorder, and burnout. They spent long periods away from families. Many had to deal with intimidation and violence; videos surfaced of irate family members assaulting medical staff, of neighbours barring them entry into their homes. Worse, several personnel such as ASHA workers were not even paid salaries on time. Yet, they carried on, curing, caring, saving lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/frontline-workers/article38040036.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The Bonda tribe||In remote Malkangiri district, one of the poorest areas of Odisha with a high incidence of malnutrition, climate change is adding to people’s hardships. Malkangiri’s tribal people, who traditionally subsisted on forest produce and climate-resilient crops such as millet, recently shifted to paddy. Paddy, though, requires rich soil to flourish, but unseasonal and exponentially higher rainfalls have washed away the fertile topsoil in this hilly district, leaving the people hungry. Now, the Bonda tribe, led by its women, is going back to cultivating indigenous millet, using organically preserved seeds, as has been done over generations. The government’s Odisha Millets Mission is encouraging this, by fixing a minimum support price and including millets in the State’s nutrition programme. Millets require less water for cultivation, can be grown on hilly terrain, and are drought-resistant. Their high nutritional content makes them good for both expecting mothers and children. With millet khichdi being served in local anganwadis, Bonda women have ensured the region returns to its food roots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-bonda-tribe/article38040038.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Stan Swamy & Co.||Stan Swamy, who was arrested in October 2020 on charges of having Maoist links and for allegedly inciting the Bhima Koregaon violence of 2018, died on July 5 this year, after being denied bail repeatedly. Why was he special? The 84-year-old priest was an activist, who worked for decades with tribal and Dalit minorities, especially those displaced by development projects, often taking up advocacy of their legal rights. The oldest person to be charged under the draconian UAPA, he had, ironically, always fought for the rights of under-trial prisoners from indigenous communities in Jharkhand.  Along with Swamy, 15 others were arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case: Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Gautam Navlakha, Arun Ferreira, Jyoti Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor, Sudhir Dhawale, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Shoma Sen, Rona Wilson, Anand Teltumbde, and Hany Babu. Bharadwaj got bail recently, Rao in February. Their continued incarceration without trial has been strongly criticised by human rights organisations. But, as Swamy said, “A caged bird can still sing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stan-swamy-co/article38040040.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The protesting farmers||“I’ll keep going to the Delhi border till the black farm laws are withdrawn. We are prepared to struggle even if it goes on till 2024,” Jaswinder Kaur, 42, had toldThe Hinduin June this year. As it happened, in the run-up to the U.P. and Punjab elections, the three laws were repealed on November 29. Kaur was one among tens of thousands of farmers who camped at Delhi’s borders for 16 months, braving blazing heat and biting cold, police batons and barricades, hunger and hatred. They were called separatists, terrorists, urban naxals, anti-nationals and more, but stuck to their peaceful protest. Support protests were held in the U.S., U.K., Canada, etc. Farmers claim 700 of them were killed during the protests, but there are no government figures. The worst violence was on October 3, in U.P.’s Lakhimpur Kheri, when four farmers and a journalist were killed and several injured when they were run over by an SUV belonging to Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s convoy. Following this, three people were lynched by the crowd. It was only after the repeal and after assurances on other demands such as guaranteed prices and withdrawal of criminal cases against protesters that the farmers called off their historic stir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-protesting-farmers/article38040042.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Forbidden Stories||When news outlets reported this July that Pegasus, an Israeli spyware, had hacked some 50,000 phone numbers worldwide, including those of journalists and activists in India, it brought into sharp focus government espionage against citizens. At the centre of the expose was Forbidden Stories, a non-profit initiative that helps journalists under threat publish their work via a secure, encrypted platform. The brainchild of French journalist Laurent Richard, it was set up in 2017 in collaboration with Reporters Without Borders and Freedom Voices Network. Shaken by the 2015 Charlie Hebdo massacre, Richard felt the need for “a journalistic response to crimes committed against the press”. Forbidden Stories offers opportunities to journalists and media organisations across the world to platform the work of “silenced” colleagues, and has over the years published several reports for which journalists face threats in their home countries. Its mission is to bypass censorship. And keep the idea of a free press alive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/forbidden-stories/article38040044.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The fact-checkers||From the harmless tomato causing a deadly virus to reports of Pakistan invading Afghanistan, a lot of fake news originates in India. Worse, there’s a correlation between fake news and infections, violence, lynchings, and attacks on minorities. With the National Crime Records Bureau finding a 214% increase in fake news in 2020, it is fact-checking websites such as Alt News, BOOM, Check4Spam, SM Hoax Slayer, THIP Media, etc. that have come up trumps. With thousands of verification requests each day, they steadily cross-check and debunk false claims, in English and some regional languages too. They collaborate with subject experts, keep track of fakes, publish explainers. Alt News and BOOM focus on politics and current events, Check4Spam and SM Hoax Slayer on social media myths, THIP on health news. Most have signed up with the International Fact-Checking Network, which has a code of ethics, compliance rules and annual audits. Where Facebook and Twitter have failed to regulate fake news, these platforms have helped people keep track of the truth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-fact-checkers/article38040046.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Gagandeep Kang||The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic was at its peak in India. The death toll was mounting, as hospital beds and oxygen fell woefully short. In the midst of the mayhem was a voice of empirical reason: virologist Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at Christian Medical College and the first Indian woman to be elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society. “Right now it’s really bad in the megacities but it is going to get worse in other cities as well... it will stretch into rural areas. We need to be preparing for that now,” she warned, with prescience. Always accessible to the media, who leaned on her for clarity, Kang has tracked the contours of the pandemic and been a vocal advocate of vaccinations. In September, she said the pandemic could be heading towards an endemic stage in the country. On the new variant, she said: “Omicron is very transmissive. Think about double masking, limiting crowds, ventilation.” Kang stressed on the need to keep children at school. She was the face of sanity in a crazy year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gagandeep-kang/article38040048.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Danish Siddiqui||Mohammad Zubair, 37, lies bloodied, in foetal position, on the ground, his hands shielding his head as a gang of men rains blows on him with lathis. This image, which became a symbolising moment in the communal riots that broke out in Delhi in 2020, was shot by late Reuters photographer and Pulitzer Prize winner Danish Siddiqui. It was just one of many iconic moments he captured of contemporary times: the 2015 Nepal earthquake, the Rohingya exodus, the Hong Kong protests, and the COVID-19 pandemic in India. Siddiqui’s last assignment was in Afghanistan, where he was covering clashes between Afghan security forces and the Taliban. He was killed in a Taliban attack. In a TEDx talk, Siddiqui had said: “As a photojournalist, I have the privilege to witness humanity at its best and at its worst and everything in between. My role is [that of] a mirror and I want to expose you to the raw truth and make you a witness to it. You can look away or stand up and act for change.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/danish-siddiqui/article38040050.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Dalit power||This year, films centred on Dalit characters and lives made an indelible mark on the cinematic imagination. Tamil and Telugu cinema took the lead — from Mari Selvaraj’sKarnan(in pic below), Pa. Ranjith’sSarpatta Parambarai, and T.J. Gnanavel’sJai Bhimin Tamil toLove Story,Uppena, andSridevi Soda Centerin Telugu. Netflix anthologyAjeeb Daastaanshad Konkona Sen Sharma playing Bharti Mandal, a Dalit queer factory worker, in ‘Geeli Pucchi’. The films were in-your-face, with assertive Dalit leads who fought for their rights, and had no ‘saviours’ hovering overhead. Equally important, the films were commercial and critical successes. IfJai Bhimquickly became the highest-ranked movie of all time on IMDB,Sarpatta Parambaraiwas included byNYTin its must-watch list of international OTT films, and Konkona won an Asian Academy Creative Award. Rapper Arivu, who wrote the ‘Power’ song forJai Bhim, had in March written ‘Enjoy Enjaami’, also drawing on Dalit life, which garnered more than 300 million views, the first Tamil indie single to do so. If this means the Dalit cultural voice is finally beginning to be mainstreamed, then more power to the blues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dalit-power/article38040052.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The Earthspinner by Anuradha Roy (Hachette)||Anuradha Roy’s fifth novel has themes her readers will be familiar with: memory, history, migration, home, and the figure of the artist in whom all these preoccupations converge to become something rich and strange. Elango is a potter: each time he creates, dead clay turns into a living sculpture. As against the beauty of the creative process are ugly human emotions like hatred and prejudice, which take shape in bursts of fanatic violence.The Earthspinneris narrated in a soft, gentle tone, which doesn’t waver even in scenes of destruction. It reminds us of a possibility, of another mode of being, which is also personified in the village dog, Chinna, who teaches the characters what it means to be human.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-earthspinner-by-anuradha-roy-hachette/article38040055.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The House Next to the Factory by Sonal Kohli (Fourth Estate)||The nine interlinked stories in this collection are set in Delhi and zoom in on a typical Punjabi family. The great events of history — Indira Gandhi’s assassination, the subsequent riots — happen out there, barely touching the characters’ lives, which ebb and flow according to their own particular rhythms. A sentence from an Anita Desai novel forms the epigraph, and, like Desai, Sonal Kohli is a custodian of the quotidian. This is fiction with the flavour of R.K. Narayan, Amrita Pritam or Anton Chekhov.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-house-next-to-the-factory-by-sonal-kohli-fourth-estate/article38040062.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Names of the Women by Jeet Thayil (Jonathan Cape)||The Bible mentions several women but they are all lifeless figures — adored, abhorred or simply passed over. Jeet Thayil reclaims the stories of Mary Magdalene and 14 other women who birthed, cooked, washed, ministered and witnessed the prophet, but were easily forgotten by the men who wrote the gospels. They are attracted to Jesus because he promises to bring the margins to the centre: they intuitively sense his radicalism, which ruffles the feathers of the comfortable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/names-of-the-women-by-jeet-thayil-jonathan-cape/article38040065.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Whereabouts by Jhumpa Lahiri Penguin Hamish Hamilton||Jhumpa Lahiri excels at dissecting the ‘homeless’ mind. InWhereabouts, the scalpel is turned towards the first-person narrator, who analyses each turn of her thoughts, her habits, her responses, ruthlessly. This unnamed woman is comfortable in her monastic life with books and yet yearns for a sudden affair or two, is a tired teacher, a “terrible” daughter, a solicitous friend and a “survivor”. If her neurotic self-examination is exasperating at times, she preempts the reader’s response by condemning herself for it. All this makesWhereaboutsa mature, unapologetic novel, which makes no attempt to please.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/whereabouts-by-jhumpa-lahiri-penguin-hamish-hamilton/article38040067.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Murder at the Mushaira by Raza Mir (Aleph Book Company)||Historical fiction — the kind which combines meticulous historical research with fictional elements — is a rarity in Indian English writing.Murder at the Mushairafills the gap and how. It is as much a trustworthy account of Delhi in the days leading to the uprising of 1857 as an entertaining work of fiction. Historical figures — Bahadur Shah Zafar, the junior magistrate Theophilus Metcalfe, the poet Daagh, the Delhi College professor Master Ramachandra — are infused with life. At the centre is Mirza Ghalib in the role of detective. The author of Ghalib’s 2019 biography (Ghalib: A Thousand Desires), Raza Mir makes Ghalib into a sumptuously rounded character whose poetic sensibilities give him an unparalleled insight into human nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/murder-at-the-mushaira-by-raza-mir-aleph-book-company/article38040069.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Budhini by Sarah Joseph, trs Sangeetha Sreenivasan (Penguin Hamish Hamilton)||It was 1959. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had gone to inaugurate the Panchet dam in Dhanbad. Budhini Mejhan, a 15-year-old Santhali girl who worked with the Damodar Valley Corporation, had welcomed him with a garland. So, while she became the poster girl of modern India, she was also ostracised for ‘marrying’ outside her community. In Malayalam writer Sarah Joseph’s novel, Budhini is a symbol of the millions who have been collateral damage in the process of nation-building.The deft translation by Sangeetha Sreenivasan, a bilingual writer and Joseph’s daughter, is a novel in its own right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/budhini-by-sarah-joseph-trs-sangeetha-sreenivasan-penguin-hamish-hamilton/article38040071.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The Odd Book of Baby Names by Anees Salim (Penguin Hamish Hamilton)||A former king is dying. He leaves behind a legacy of loss — of his kingdom, of impossible dreams, of love, even hope. The only area in which he was successful was the bed and he has a bevy of offspring, of whom all but two are legitimate. Like the king, most of his children lead ennui-ridden lives till they are jolted awake by the news of his impending death. If this sounds grim, the novel is anything but. The king, with his decadent whims, is himself a comic figure. Melancholy lurks in every corner but life is not grand enough to allow tragedies.The Odd Book of Baby Namesis a glorious celebration of absurdity where the author disappears and unruly, irrepressible life takes over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-odd-book-of-baby-names-by-anees-salim-penguin-hamish-hamilton/article38040073.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Gods and Ends by Lindsay Pereira (Vintage Books)||Mumbai’s Catholic community often gets stereotyped as boisterous, sexually liberated and happily drunk. InGods and Ends, set in a chawl named Obrigado Mansion in the Catholic locality of Orlem in suburban Bombay of the 70s, characters drink not out of happiness but out of boredom, to relieve life’s crushing drudgery. Life has failed them, as has religion. One of the tenants of Obrigado is Jesus Christ. He stays in Room 106 — “a place where even dreams went to die.” The floating specks of light in this existential darkness are sudden moments of empathy or the more mundane liberation of gossip and banter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gods-and-ends-by-lindsay-pereira-vintage-books/article38040075.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Alipura Gyan Chaturvedi, trs Salim Yusufji (Juggernaut )||Hindi writers like Govind Mishra and Maitreyi Pushpa have captured Bundelkhand in all its savage beauty in their fiction; satirist Gyan Chaturvedi’sBaramasi(1999) is a more recent addition to the genre. This novel about the true-blue sons and daughters of the soil is now available to English readers asAlipura, translated seamlessly by Salim Yusufji. Chaturvedi, who had a nomadic childhood in the villages bordering Bundelkhand, depicts the locals with a delightful mix of mockery and indulgence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/alipura-gyan-chaturvedi-trs-salim-yusufji-juggernaut/article38040077.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Principles of Prediction by Anushka Jasraj (Context)||One of the most unconventional and bold works of fiction written in recent years, Anushka Jasraj’s debut collection of 13 short stories pushes at the limits of the credible and emerges with things piquantly true. The bizarre is the ordinary here: an unhappily married woman wants to run away and join the circus; a kleptomaniac child steals things like homoeopathic medicine, baby strollers, perhaps even an elephant. Jasraj doesn’t hold the reader’s hand through this topsy-turvydom. The only way to enjoy these stories is to fall headlong into the rabbit hole, which may or may not lead to a wonderland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/principles-of-prediction-by-anushka-jasraj-context/article38040079.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||BE ST NON-FICTION||Top 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/be-st-non-fiction/article38040082.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||by Kavitha Rao (Westland Books)||Lady Doctors This is the story of Anandibai Joshi, Kadambini Ganguly, Rukhmabai Raut, Haimabati Sen, Muthulakshmi Reddy and Mary Poonen Lukose — India’s first women in medicine. Rao begins by narrating an anecdote from Anandibai Joshi’s life when, as an 18-year-old, she announced to a group of men her intention of going to America to study medicine. All the other women Rao has profiled were equally fearless fighters and determined to break glass ceilings. Together, they made “medicine an acceptable profession for women, and later, even a respectable one.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/by-kavitha-rao-westland-books/article38040081.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3182||Across  1 £51 uncle’s blown, consuming hot ‘meals’ that are really just booze (6,7) 8 Opposed to Protestantism to some extent (4) 9 Time one German given clubs (he’s a golfer) (5,5) 10 Work party (6) 11 PM’s body parts in Spooner’s speech (3,5) 12 Message in very odd parts of zodiac wanting flipping Everyman to irritate (5,4) 14 Cheerful boy, by George (to begin with) (4) 15 Primarily, someone honouring ‘Infallible Ali’? (4) 16 Dishes sent back: long time, wait with only sides cleared off (9) 20 ‘Curse of marijuana’ – the Mail (8) 21 Indecent bridal pants (6) 23 Star, Ringo perhaps, announced: ‘Good, EU’s beginning to evaporate’ (10) 24 Nurse’s backside (4) 25 Little wrinkles, removing head in butchery jobs (8,5)  Down  1 Behold! ‘New joke’ at first originated in ancient past (4-3) 2 Low-carb diet’s sound in Ecuador’s capital (5) 3 Italian footballers on WhatsApp, perhaps finding caretaker (7) 4 Easy reading — e.g. taut thriller — I ordered (5,10) 5 Regularly suppressing anger round a poet (6) 6 What you may get when boxed salad accommodates a little ethical principle (6,3) 7 On drugs, southern English getting old-fashioned (7) 13 Citron mixed with water in French drink (9) 15 Fish from south not available in W Yorks city (4,3) 17 The French female admitting mistake, largely shown up — seriously! (3,4) 18 Scrappy Sea Lord arms cannon again? (7) 19 Giving up iodine, lighten up for duration (6) 22 How Hermione had a child, a poet (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3182/article38040092.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Highlights 2 0 2 1||January  Joe Biden inaugurated as 46th President of the US  February  Aung San Suu Kyi removed from power following a coup d'état in Myanmar  March  Container ship Ever Given got wedged across Suez Canal, blocking trade for 6 days  April  The number of Covid-19 deaths in India crossed 2 lakh  May  Hundreds of corpses, suspected dead of Covid-19, found floating in the Ganga  June  Track star Milkha Singh died from Covid-related complications, aged 91  July  Fr. Stan Swamy, 84, arrested and denied bail in the Bhima Koregaon case, died  August  Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra won India's first Olympic gold medal in athletics  September  Containers carrying nearly 3,000 kg of heroin impounded at Gujarat's Mundra port  October  COP26 began in Glasgow; brokered a deal on the "phasedown" of coal power  November  After 16 months of protests, three contentious farming laws repealed by Centre  December  Gen. & Mrs. Rawat and 12 officers and soldiers died in Coonoor chopper crash||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/highlights-2-0-2-1/article38040029.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Study of distant magnetar reveals facets of the exotic star||An international group of researchers has succeeded in measuring for the first time the characteristics of a flare on a distant magnetar. A magnetar is a rare compact type of neutron star teeming with energy and magnetism. The magnetar they have studied is about 13 million light years away, in the direction of the NGC 253, a prominent galaxy in the Sculptor group of galaxies. The flare, which spewed within a few tenths of a second as much energy as the Sun would shed in 100,000 years, was captured accidentally on April 15, 2020, by the Atmosphere-Space Interactions Monitor instrument (ASIM) of the International Space Station. Rare and exotic This data was then analysed by the researchers over the period of a year to throw light into the structure of the flare, and thereby, into the nature of such magnetars. This is the first study to characterise such a flare from so distant a magnetar. The research was published in the journal, Nature.  Magnetars are relatively rare objects, with only about thirty having been spotted within the Milky Way so far. The present magnetar is only the second one to be studied which is located outside the galaxy and is also the furthest, at 13 million light years distance. How magnetars form During the course of their evolution, massive stars – with masses around 10-25 times the mass of the Sun – eventually collapse and shrink to form very compact objects called neutron stars. A subset of these neutron stars are the so-called magnetars which possess intense magnetic fields. These are highly dense and have breathtakingly high rotation speeds – they have rotational periods that can be just 0.3 to 12.0 seconds. “We believe that size of the object was around 20 km in diameter with mass around 1.4 times the mass of the Sun,” says Shashi Bhushan Pandey of the Aryabhata Research Institute of Observational Sciences, Nainital, who is one of the authors of the paper. High luminosity Magnetars have high magnetic fields in the range of 1015 gauss and they emit energy in the range given by luminosities of 1037 – 1040 joules per second. Compare this to the luminosity of the sun which is in the order of 1026 joules per second – a factor of at least 1011 lower. Further, these magnetars emit violent flares. “The observations revealed multiple pulses, with a first pulse appearing only for about tens of microseconds, much faster than other extreme astrophysical transients,” said Alberto J. Castro-Tirado, from the Andalusian Institute for Astrophysics (IAA-CSIC), Spain, and lead author of the paper, in a release circulated by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. The observed giant flare lasted approximately 160 milliseconds and during this time 1039 joules of energy was released. The flare spewed as much energy in a tenth of a second that our Sun will radiate in 100,000 years, according to the paper. Eruptions in magnetars are believed to be due to instabilities in their magnetosphere, or “starquakes” produced in their crust - a rigid, elastic layer about one kilometre thick. This causes waves in the magnetosphere, and interaction between these waves causes dissipation of energy. Magnetars are very difficult to observe when they are silent. It is only during a flare that they can be observed, and these flares are so short-lived that it presents a formidable problem. “They are mostly observed or seen in active transient phases which are very short in duration and are very faint in general for any available instruments or telescopes,” says Dr Pandey. Serendipitous finding It was also a serendipitous find because, as Dr Pandey explains: “ASIM is mainly designed with its large effective area to observe terrestrial gamma ray flashes. It was a great coincidence that this bright transient flash was observed by ASIM instrument.” According to Dr Pandey, studying these flares will not only help us understand the physics of magnetars, it will also help in understanding fast radio bursts, which are among the most enigmatic phenomena in astronomy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/study-of-distant-magnetar-reveals-facets-of-the-exotic-star/article38039663.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Using music to better manage dementia||Dementia is a group of symptoms that affect memory and thinking and interfere with daily life. Alzheimer’s Disease is the main and major cause of dementia. Treatments to reduce the symptoms and progression of dementia can be clinical, or methods such as practising yoga, breathing exercises, brisk walking and listening to tuneful music. It is an age-related disease, affecting over 55 million people across the world. The National Health Portal of India says that as per the Census 2011, dementia affects 2.7% of the 65 million Indian Senior Citizens over 65 years of age. Combating dementia The California-based site “Bayview Senior Assisted Living,” in an article suggests 13 ways in which dementia can be handled/reduced. These are: (1) breathing in and out- thinking of nothing but the breath coming out, (2) thinking about a favourite, peaceful place – even your noise-free living room, (3) nurturing a pet, (4) massage – once or twice a week relieves stress, (5) yoga – the breathing has a calming effect, (6) singing, or playing music – whatever you enjoyed during your prime, (7) doing arts and crafts – knitting, painting, and such, (8) cleaning your place daily; it keeps your brain working and offers a sense of accomplishment, (9) tending a garden – even if it is only flower pots, (10) reading newspapers and books, not just listening to TV news channels (and also trying to answer questions asked on Kaun Banega Karorpathi ), (11) attempting puzzles, crosswords, sudoku and the like, and learning a new language, (12) doing simple cooking, of course with someone’s help, and (13) organising – bringing order to drawers or shelves – getting rid of unwanted old files and letters will be an accomplishment! What are other factors of value in reducing depression and postponing Alzheimer’s? Will bilingualism (ability to handle two languages with ease) or multilingualism be of greater advantage in reducing dementia than just familiarity with a single language? Dr. Subhash Kaul and Dr. Suvarna Alladi of Hyderabad looked into this aspect.In their study, bilingual dementia patients developed the disorder over four years later than monolingual subjects. As it turns out, people in many parts of India are indeed bilingual (speak at least two languages, even if they cannot read in them). Indeed, most people who work in cities are good in speaking two languages; their jobs- housemaids, shopkeepers and the like – require bilingualism. Prof. Vijayalakshmi Ravindranath of the Centre for Brain Research at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, has initiated work to study this aspect using functional magnetic resonance imaging, along with a survey of people around Bengaluru. Of course, it will be helpful for senior citizens who are monolingual to start learning a second language. Role of music Another important factor is music. Even listening to music can be therapeutic. Indeed, the paper by Celia Moreno-Morales et al., titled ‘Music Therapy in the Treatment of Dementia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis’, in Frontiers in Medicine (Lausanne) (doi:10.3389/fmed.2020.00160) analysed the outcomes of eight earlier studies and concluded that music could be a powerful treatment strategy, by itself or in combination with pharmacological therapy, depending on the nature of the dementia. Musical memory In a similar vein is the paper by M. H. Thaut et al., titled: ‘Neural Basis of Long-term Musical Memory in Cognitively Impaired Older Persons’, which has appeared in the journal Alzheimer Disease & Associated Disorders ( doi: 10.1097/WAD. 0000000000000382). Using fMRI to scan the brain areas of 17 subjects with mild cognitive impairment, who were listening to short clips of personally selected music from the patient’s past, as well as newly composed music, the scientists concluded that long-known music activates various areas of the brain, and also identified why long-term memory is preserved among cognitively impaired older persons. In other words, they recognise and enjoy it! Such experiments have been done right here in India by Prof. Nandini Chatterjee Singh’s group of the National Centre for Brain Research, Manesar, Haryana. She assembled a group of classical Hindustani musicians and as they performed, she monitored the players and listeners. You may access it in the podcasts section of the website https://indscicomm.blog or by searching for “Emotions in Hindustani Music-Part 2. Podcast.” Rhythm and beat It is not just the tune, but also the rhythm, timing and the movement. Those of us who listen to old movie songs can immediately capture errors in musical scale and rhythm. Professor Jessica Grahn of London, Ontario, Canada says that moving to music is an instinctive, often involuntary activity, experienced by those in all cultures. As humans move to music, the brain’s movement centres light up in response to music and rhythm, even when we aren’t moving a muscle. Do individuals who have trouble moving to the beat sill feel compelled to do so? Here then is an exciting potential held by musical interventions for those with degenerative neurological disorders such as dementia. So let the music play on! dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/using-music-to-better-manage-dementia/article38039654.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Releasing the booster shots: What are we waiting for?||The Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 clearly appears to be taking over as the dominant strain of the virus, reflecting its increased transmissibility, and ability to escape the immunity conferred by the standard vaccination schedule or past infection. There is evidence to suggest that such immunity, which wanes with time elapsed from the second dose, can be boosted with a third dose of the vaccine. There are several arguments which are being made against boosters, which seem to be oversimplifying the discourse. The first of these arguments is that two doses protect against severe disease, irrespective of the waning protection against infection with the passage of time. We now know this is not true. A study analysing data from medical databases in Brazil and Scotland (with close to 2 million adults from Scotland, and 42 million from Brazil) found protection from the vaccine against hospitalisations and death beginning to wane within three months after the second dose. This was before the Omicron variant was reported. A more transmissible variant would mean a potentially larger denominator of those infected, and even if a small proportion of these individuals need hospitalisation, we could overwhelm the healthcare system. A shorter doubling time which is being reported for Omicron would also mean that infections are likely to be clustered in time, making “flattening the curve” more challenging. Is it just like a flu? Second comes the statement, “Omicron could be just like the flu.” We need to remind ourselves that influenza kills 12,000–52,000 individuals in the U.S. every year (as per the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), and possibly a significantly higher number in India. It is also true that respiratory infections increase risk of heart attacks and strokes upto sixfold, and it would be in our best interests to prevent them, especially in the elderly and immunocompromised. Even if Omicron intrinsically causes a milder illness than the existing variants, its impact on vulnerable groups could be profound, and cannot be trivialised. Post-COVID sequelae and long-COVID do not often get captured in statistics since they may not be associated with hospitalisation, but are very real reasons for us to do our best to prevent infection. But focusing exclusively on the fact that Omicron may not cause disease as severe as the Delta variant, we ignore all the collateral damage that it might cause which may not get labelled as severe COVID disease. Effective strategy Thirdly, the view that boosters are a luxury when India has vaccine shortages: An important question is whether it is hesitancy or shortages that have prevented the entire eligible population from being vaccinated? In addition, when last checked, a majority of the doses presently being administered are second doses to those in the relatively low-risk 18–44 age group category, followed by first doses to individuals in the same category (close to 3.6 million and 0.9 million doses, respectively, of the 6.2 million total doses administered on December 22). Suspending vaccinations temporarily for those under 40 years of age without comorbidities (who, even when unvaccinated, suffer mild illness, the data from South Africa confirming this for Omicron) to offer booster doses to vulnerable groups might be a more effective strategy rather than waiting for a later date after Omicron has spread through the community and caused irreparable damage. Lastly, a booster with the same vaccine does not work: The COV-BOOST study analysed seven different vaccines as boosters and found all of them effective to varying degrees after two doses of Covishield, including Covishield as a booster. A heterologous prime-boost strategy (booster with a different vaccine) definitely performs better, but whether a third dose of what is available today is better than an ideal third dose that’s available a month later needs to be modelled. Mixing the available vaccines (Covishield followed by Covaxin and vice-versa) is being tested, and if the results are promising, this might be an efficient strategy. Healthcare workers Other considerations that must be weighed in the decision to roll out a booster immediately is that we do not want hordes of individuals gathering to receive their third dose in the middle of an Omicron surge, turning vaccination centre gatherings into superspreader events. This is very likely to have happened with the Delta variant during the second surge, and we must not make the mistake of repeating this with Omicron. Rapid, widespread transmission would also mean the possible selection of newer variants, the attributes of which are impossible to predict. We also do not want healthcare workers falling ill at the same time, thereby paralysing healthcare services (it has been close to a year since when frontline workers have been vaccinated). Our vaccination programme, combined with the high background seroprevalence from past infection, has likely protected us for the last few months. However, it was always known that if there was a new variant which caused vaccine breakthrough infections and reinfections, we could face another big wave. In addition to strictly preventing crowds and superspreader events, we need to act fast, using the available scientific evidence, to prevent such a wave with the Omicron variant. Rolling out booster doses to the immunocompromised, elderly, and frontline workers immediately could be invaluable.  (Lancelot Pinto, MD, is a consultant respirologist with P.D.Hinduja National Hospital and Medical Research Centre, Mumbai, India.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/releasing-the-booster-shots-what-are-we-waiting-for/article38039655.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Smell factor||What makes humans react quickly to negative smells? Researchers at Karolinska Institutet in Sweden have found that negative smells associated with unpleasantness or unease are processed earlier than positive smells and trigger a physical avoidance response. The cognitive process is not only unconscious but is also extremely rapid, this goes against the conventional wisdom that unpleasant smells associated with danger is a conscious cognitive process. The olfactory organ takes up about 5% of the human brain and enables us to distinguish between many million different smells. In humans, the olfactory sense seems particularly important for detecting and reacting to potentially harmful stimuli. Until recently, it was not known which neural mechanisms are involved in the conversion of an unpleasant smell into avoidance behaviour in humans. The researchers have for the first time made it possible to measure signals from the human olfactory bulb, which processes smells and in turn can transmits signals to parts of the brain that control movement and avoidance behaviour (Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences).  Three experiments were carried out in which participants were asked to rate their experience of six different smells, some positive, some negative, while the electrophysiological activity of the olfactory bulb when responding to each of the smells was measured. And they found that the bulb reacts specifically and rapidly to negative smells and sends a direct signal to the motor cortex within about 300 milliseconds, the release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/smell-factor/article38039657.ece
26 December 2021||Kolkata,||‘Not given nod to Howrah civic body amendment Bill’||Dismissing media reports claiming he had approved the exclusion of areas of Bally Municipality from the jurisdiction of the Howrah civic body, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday said it is under consideration as inputs from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee are awaited. He had earlier accused the Trinamool Congress government of not providing information he had sought on the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, sent to him for his assent. Taking to Twitter, he said, “Reports in media that West Bengal Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar has put his seal of approval on the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, are not correct. It is under consideration under Article 200 of the Constitution as inputs @MamataOfficial are awaited.” Article 200 of the Constitution empowers a Governor to either give or withhold assent to a Bill or reserve it for the consideration of the President. Passed by Assembly The Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, that proposed to separate Bally Municipality from the jurisdiction of the HMC, was passed by the Assembly recently. TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh said, “The Governor is going beyond his jurisdiction. He should give assent to a Bill passed by the House if he hasn’t as he claims.” Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari said the Governor has already pointed out that he has not given his nod to the Bill. “It is up to the Governor, it is his discretion. The TMC should not force him and use the gubernatorial office for its political gains,” he added. West Bengal State Election Commissioner Saurav Das had called on Mr. Dhankhar on Friday and discussed issues related to pending municipal polls in the State, amid allegations of rigging and intimidation against the TMC by the opposition camps during the December Kolkata Municipal Corporation election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/not-given-nod-to-howrah-civic-body-amendment-bill/article38040365.ece
26 December 2021||Jaipur,||CID-CB to probe RTI activist attack case||The Rajasthan government on Saturday ordered a probe by the CID-CB into the brutal attack on an RTI activist in Barmer district earlier this week and announced financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh for him. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to frame the rules under the Whistle Blowers’ Protection Act to ensure protection for RTI and social activists. Amra Ram (30), a resident of Pareyu village of Barmer, was kidnapped, beaten up and his legs pierced with nails by a group of attackers on Tuesday. He had complained against illegal liquor trade some time ago. Acting on his complaint, the police had seized illegal liquor. The police have arrested four people in connection with the attack. A police constable was suspended and a SHO sent to the Police Lines in the wake of the incident. In a tweet, Mr. Gehlot said orders have been issued for transferring the case to the CID-CB. The government will provide financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to Mr. Ram, he said. He also said the Jodhpur Collector had visited the hospital where Mr. Ram is undergoing treatment, and enquired about the activist’s condition. Mr. Ram’s family members expressed satisfaction over his treatment. Mr. Gehlot said he has written to the Prime Minister urging him to frame rules under the Whistle Blowers’ Protection Act so that the RTI and social activists, whistle blowers and civil society members can be protected and strict action taken against the culprits. The Bill was passed by Rajya Sabha on February 21, 2014, and got the President’s assent on May 9, 2014. But even after seven years, the Centre has not framed the rules, Mr. Gehlot said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cid-cb-to-probe-rti-activist-attack-case/article38040359.ece
26 December 2021||Patna,||BJP Minister takes a dig at Tejashwi Yadav||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal in Bihar should give up its demand for a caste-based census following its leader Tejashwi Yadav’s exogamous marriage, a BJP Minister in the State said on Saturday. The tongue-in-cheek remark came from Samrat Chaudhary, an outspoken member of the Nitish Kumar Cabinet who holds the Panchayati Raj portfolio. “In fact, Tejashwi Yadav should be asked to which community does he now belong — the one of his parents or the one of his wife,” said Mr. Chaudhary, referring to the Leader of the Opposition’s recent wedding to Rachel Iris, who has now taken up a new name, Rajshree. The Minister was asked about the differences between his party and the Chief Minister’s JD(U) with regard to the caste census. The State legislature has twice passed resolutions in support of caste census and although the BJP members endorsed these, the party finds itself in a quandary over the refusal of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre to carry out the exercise. Mr. Kumar, who had met the PM over the issue a few months ago, heading a delegation of which Mr. Tejashwi was a part, has indicated that he intended to go in for a head count of different castes in the State. He has also said that he will be convening an all-party meeting on the issue before ordering the survey. Mr. Chaudhary, however, was of the view that “it is for the BJP and the JD(U) to take a call on the issue” since both parties shared power. “In any case, the yuvraaj (crown princes) of both U.P. and Bihar have broken the caste barrier. Hence, their parties should stop worrying about caste census,” said the BJP leader in a reference to Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, whose wife belongs to a different caste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-minister-takes-a-dig-at-tejashwi-yadav/article38040363.ece
26 December 2021||BHOPAL,||The battle against mining in Chhattisgarh||The Adivasi community in Hasdeo Arand Coalfield (HACF), Chhattisgarh, is up in arms against the expansion of coal mining projects that pose a threat to their existence and the rich biodiversity of the region. With conservationists, researchers and activists supporting them, the community has urged the Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel to overturn the 2019 recommendations for the opening up and expansion of coal mining projects. The HACF inhabitants have warned against an environmental disaster. “If mining operations begin, we will lose our lifeline, the perennial streams that criss-cross many villages before merging with the Hasdeo river. Our wells and hand pumps will all go dry,” Umeshwar Singh Amo, of village Jampani (Patriya Girdmuri) in Korba district, told The Hindu . The HACF spread over 1,880 sq.km, consists of 23 blocks, including Tara, Parsa, Parsa East & Kente Basan, and Kente Extension that fall under thick forests. Members of nearly 20,000 tribal communities such as the Gonds, the Orans, the Lohars and the Kunwars depend on the forests for survival. The villagers in Surguja, Surajpur and Korba districts fear the industrial activity will not only snatch away their source of income but also lead to mass migration. The wildlife will be endangered as the proposed sites for mining cut across the elephant corridor. “Our habitation and socio-cultural needs will be ruined,” said Jainandan Singh Porte of village Ghatbara in Sarguja district, who took part in the 330-km protest march this October. The padyatra to Raipur was to demand the cancellation of all coal mining projects in their area. Experts have repeatedly pointed out that the extraction of coal in the region would rip the fragile land of its silence and serenity, lead to aridity and cause harmful smoke and noise pollution. Environmentalists and activists including Aditya C. Panda, Honorary Wildlife Warden; Angul, Odisha and Mike Pandey of Earth Matter/ River Bank Studio; Asad Rehmani, former director Bombay Natural History Society; Prerna Singh Bindra, former member, standing committee, National Board for Wildlife Conservationist; Neel Gogate of Jamtara Wilderness camp, Pench National Park and members of Chhattisgarh Wildlife Board have conveyed their concerns to the CM. Calling it a bad decision, the signatories have requested the government to review its expansion proposal before executing any haphazard action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/battle-against-mining-in-chhattisgarh/article38040254.ece
26 December 2021||Mumbai,||Lockdown in Maharashtra if oxygen demand rises: Minister||A day after the State government imposed new restrictions in the wake of the rising number of COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra on Saturday reported 1,485 new patients and two new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said the State may go for complete lockdown if the demand for medical oxygen goes above 800 metric tonnes per day. Mr. Tope said the third wave could be of Omicron and the State government will keep on reviewing the situation and demand for oxygen. “If the number goes on increasing, then the 800 MT limit can be brought down to 500 MT,” he said, appealing all to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. Omicron cases are increasing “rapidly”, but in general such patients were not ending up in ICU nor did they need supplementary oxygen, Mr. Tope told reporters. He did not mention the current rate of consumption of medical oxygen in the State. “We do not want people to face more restrictions, therefore I am making an appeal to people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. Wearing mask is very important,” he said. Meanwhile, Mumbai registered 757 new coronavirus cases. However, the city did not report a single death. This is the sixth time since the pandemic that the city has reported zero deaths. Meanwhile, over 2,500 personnel will be on the ground in Nagpur city to enforce prohibitory orders announced by the State, a senior official said on Saturday. Nagpur Police Commissioner Amitesh Kumar said the bandobast (ground deployment) has been finalised and DCPs have been directed to set up pickets on the roads. “There will be 2,500 police personnel to enforce the 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdown-in-maharashtra-if-oxygen-demand-rises/article38040250.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||On the brink||The story so far: For Afghanistan, 2021 was one of the watershed years in its history. After 20 years of war, the U.S. pulled back its troops from Afghanistan, which led to the return of the Taliban to power. While the Taliban now has the whole country under their control, they seem clueless on how to address a looming humanitarian crisis. As several countries have suspended or substantially cut aid to Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover, the country is on the brink of a humanitarian disaster.  How bad is the humanitarian situation?  Almost 80% of the fallen Afghan Government’s budget came from international development assistance. After the Taliban took over Kabul on August 15, most of the donors suspended government aid. The U.S. has also frozen nearly $9.5 billion of Afghan central bank assets, mainly held in New York Fed and American financial institutions. The Taliban remain on the U.S. Treasury Department’s sanctions list. According to the UN World Food Programme, the situation could become the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. UN agencies estimate that about 23 million of Afghanistan’s nearly 40 million people are facing acute food shortages. Other countries, including the U.S., European nations and India, have sent humanitarian aid to ameliorate the situation. As most commercial flights to Kabul are still suspended, aid is being sent by road to the landlocked country, mainly through Pakistan, Iran and Central Asia. Amid growing calls for international action to address the situation, the UN Security Council, on December 22, unanimously adopted a resolution that facilitates humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. But all the international sanctions on the Taliban are still in place.  How are the Taliban ruling?  While the Taliban have said the new regime would be different from the old one of Mullah Omar, there’s little evidence on the ground suggesting any real change — at least not yet. Reportedly, there are two different factions within the Taliban — one dominated by the Haqqanis, who have close ties with al-Qaeda and the Pakistani intelligence establishment, and the other by a relatively moderate wing, comprising Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who is currently the deputy Prime Minister. The selection of a Pashtun-men-only Cabinet and decisions such as keeping girls out of primary education suggest that the hardliners have an upper hand in decision making. Despite a general amnesty that the Taliban announced after they seized power, extrajudicial killings continued. According to a recent Human Rights Commission (HRC) report, at least 72 executions were attributed to the Taliban since mid-August and in several cases bodies were publicly displayed. Some 4.2 million young Afghans are out of school, 60% of them girls, says the HRC report.  Does the Taliban regime have international recognition?  No country has formally recognised the Taliban regime this time. But several countries, including Pakistan, China, Russia and Central Asian republics, have kept their diplomatic missions open in Kabul. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi has held direct talks with Taliban delegations. In September, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan told the UN General Assembly that the only way forward for Afghanistan is to “strengthen and stabilise the current government”. Qatar, which hosted the Taliban-U.S. talks that led to the American withdrawal from Afghanistan, poses itself as a conduit between the West and the Taliban. The UAE recently reached out to the Taliban by opening embassy operations. According to a Taliban spokesperson, the UAE assured the Taliban that it would not allow former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, who has taken refuge in the Emirates, to engage in political activities. All these developments suggest that a larger group of countries are ready to engage the Taliban this time.  Is the war over?  While fighting has receded, Afghanistan is far from reaching peace and stability. Unlike in the 1990s, the Taliban have taken control of almost all of the country, including Panjshir Valley in the north which defied both the Soviets and the Taliban earlier. But the Panjshir guerrillas were not defeated; they retreated to the mountains. Their commander Ahmad Massoud, son of the legendary Panjshir warlord Ahmad Shah Massoud, is reportedly in Tajikistan, along with Amrullah Saleh, former Vice-President. They may be waiting for an opportunity to strike back, like the Taliban did after they were ousted in 2001. The immediate security challenge the Taliban face, however, is from the Islamic State-Khorasan, the Afghan wing of the IS. The IS-K has carried out multiple bombings since the Taliban takeover. Stuck between a humanitarian disaster and the Taliban’s Islamist totalitarianism, the people of Afghanistan are also being hunted down by terrorists of the Islamic State.  UN agencies estimate that about 23 million of Afghanistan’s nearly 40 million people are facing acute food shortages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-the-brink/article38039585.ece
26 December 2021||Pune,||BJP seeks CBI probe in TET scam||Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Saturday said a CBI enquiry should be conducted in the alleged irregularities in the 2020 Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET). Speaking to reporters, Mr. Patil claimed not just TET, irregularities in other examinations were also coming to the fore. “The Minister concerned should take the responsibility. The TET should be conducted again. Several Ministers are involved in the irregularities and it will be revealed when the CBI begins a probe. The MVA should not fear the CBI enquiry,” he said. He added that the alleged scam was big and the State police will not be able to investigate. The police have arrested Maharashtra State Council of Examinations (MSCE) commissioner Tukaram Supe in connection with the alleged malpractice last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-seeks-cbi-probe-in-tet-scam/article38040357.ece
26 December 2021||December 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking in the eye||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/looking-in-the-eye/article38040361.ece
26 December 2021||Jodhpur,||Alleged drug smuggler held after shoot-out||The Rajasthan police on Saturday nabbed an alleged drug smuggler, involved in a shoot-out with a police team in Bhilwara in April this year leading to the deaths of two constables and foiling the police bid to arrest him. Ajmer range’s Inspector General of Police S. Sengathir said drug smuggler Rajuram alias Fauji was nabbed by a joint team of Ajmer and Jodhpur police on early Saturday morning from Khokharia village under Banar police station of Jodhpur. He was arrested after a gunfight with the police team in which he suffered a bullet injury in his leg, said the IGP. Mr. Sengathir said a special team had been constituted to nab Fauji. “We recently got information that Fauji has been hiding in Khokharia village in Jodhpur district. The information was shared with the Jodhpur police and a siege was laid around the house on Friday night,” he said. Since he was out of the house then, the police team kept a night-long watch and tried to nab him when he returned on Saturday morning, the IGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/alleged-drug-smuggler-held-after-shoot-out/article38040364.ece
26 December 2021||Indore,||Foundation stone for Indore metro laid||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday laid the foundation stone for Indore Metro-related works, including the construction of 16 stations and 11-km viaduct, cumulatively worth Rs. 1,417 crore, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/foundation-stone-for-indore-metro-laid/article38040366.ece
