27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Two more booked for Haridwar hate meet||The Uttarakhand Police on Sunday added the names of two more persons in the first information report (FIR) pertaining to hate speeches at a religious event in Haridwar organised between December 17 and 19, where calls were made for genocide and violence against Muslims. Director-General of Police, Uttarakhand, Ashok Kumar told The Hindu that many persons had been examined and the investigation was on. No arrests had been made so far. Mr. Kumar said adding the provisions of the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) to the case was being legally examined. “Whether UAPA can be invoked or not is part of the investigation. It will depend on the facts of the case, and we are getting it examined legally,” he said. The Haridwar Police have registered a case under Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), entailing a maximum punishment of five years. “Our investigation is on from both points of view — if more number of accused are to be added to the investigation and if any other Section is applicable,” Mr. Kumar said. The FIR registered on December 23 had only named Wasim Rizvi, alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, as an accused as it was based on a complaint filed by a local resident who had only mentioned “Wasim Rizvi and others”. Rizvi, a former Chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, had recently converted to Hinduism. Akhada head On Sunday, the police added the names of Annapurna Maa, alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, the Mahamandleshwar of the Niranjini Akhada and general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha; and Dharamdas Maharaj, a resident of Bihar, to the FIR. In one of the video clips, Annapurna Maa is seen telling the gathering that Hindus should leave aside books and pick up arms against Muslims. Dharamdas Maharaj said there were “500 Pakistans in India”, where Hindu rituals could not be performed, and called for the killing of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Superintendent of Police (Haridwar City) Shekhar Suyal said the police were taking action based on the investigation and as evidence emerged. Asked if the two accused had been called for questioning, Mr. Suyal said, “It is a part of the investigation; cannot reveal more.” Yati Narsinghanand, who organised the event, he called upon Hindu youth to become “Prabhakaran” or “Bhindranwale”, and provoked Hindus to pick up arms against the Muslims. Mr. Narsinghanand has several FIRs against him in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Earlier this year, his comments about Prophet Muhammad led the Delhi Police to file an FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-booked-for-haridwar-hate-meet/article38045508.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Metro to airport: Preliminary work begins on Ballari Road||The metro link to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) has started taking shape with the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) commencing preliminary work of the ambitious project. The contractor of the elevated metro project has deployed heavy machines to carry out the work in multiple locations by partially barricading the service road of the National Highway (Ballari Road) that connects the airport. Anjum Parwez, Managing Director, BMRCL told The Hindu that in a month or two, the contractor will take up the work in a full-fledged manner. “Preliminary work is going on. Meanwhile, the contractor is working on setting up labour camps, casting yards and others. Machines and resources are also being mobilised for the work,” he said. Under phase 2A and B of the metro project, the BMRCL is building the ORR-Airport line from Central Silk Board to the KIA via K.R. Puram, Nagawara and Hebbal. The phase 2A of the project from Central Silk Board has already begun on the Outer Ring Road, from K.R. Puram to Trumpet (till the boundary of KIA). The BMRCL is executing the project in three packages. The distance between the two points is 38 km. The Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) will build a metro line for a stretch of 2 km within its campus that will include construction of two metro stations as per the design approved by the BMRCL. Mr. Parwez said that initially, construction work will be taken up in those areas where tree removal is not required. “The project will be expedited in the stretch where the trees are not coming in the way of the alignment. The service road on Airport Road is one stretch where tree removal is not required for taking up the project,” he explained. The BMRCL had identified 2.21 lakh square metres of the land for the project, out of which 2.10 lakh sq.m. land was acquired and handed over to the engineering section. Of the 23 acres of land required for Shettigere depot, 18 acres of the land was transferred by the State Government to the BMRCL, and the remaining 5 acres are under litigation and pending before the special deputy commissioner of Bengaluru Urban district for disposal. From Hebbal to Trumpet, the BMRCL is using 97,000 sq.m of land that was initially acquired by the NHAI for the High Speed Rail Link. The land was handed over to the BMRCL two years ago. On this stretch, the metro line will be built parallel to the expressway. The BMRCL has set 2024 as the deadline to complete the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-to-airport-preliminary-work-begins-on-ballari-road/article38045559.ece
27 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Christ statue vandalised in Ambala||A life-size statue of Jesus Christ at the British-era Holy Redeemer Church in the cantonment area of Ambala in Haryana was vandalised and the lighting on the church premises damaged by two unidentified men in the early hours of Sunday. A first information report has been lodged on charges of trespass and defiling a place of worship. Across the State, right-wing groups had attempted to disrupt Christmas celebrations. In Gurugram, celebrations at a private school were disrupted on Friday evening. However, formal police complaints have not been lodged. Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the police were investigating the Ambala incident from all angles, even personal rivalry. He said the pictures of the suspects in the closed-circuit television footage were being developed, and secret sources were activated to gather leads in the attack. “We are hopeful of a breakthrough soon,” Mr. Singh said. Father Patras Mundu, parish priest, Holy Redeemer Church, told The Hindu over the phone from Ambala that the attack took place between half past midnight and 1.40 a.m. with two men on a two-wheeler entering the church by jumping over the main gate and damaging the lighting and the decoration. Before leaving, they hurled bricks and broke the glass case at the entrance to the church which housed the statue of Jesus Christ. He said CCTV footage showed that the two vandalised the place and the statue “purposely”. “While one of them was pulling down the lighting, the other was recording it on his phone. They were also in contact with someone over the phone as if taking instructions,” said Fr. Mundu, who is the complainant in the case. “The face of one of the suspects is clearly visible and should not be difficult for the police to trace him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/christ-statue-vandalised-in-ambala/article38045510.ece
27 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Residents rue occupants of illegal sheds dumping waste on beach||Last month, Youngsters Panambur and other local residents cleaned the Meenakaliya Beach and collected waste weighing about 3,000 kg. When they launched another cleaning drive again on Sunday, they collected 5,000 kg trash on the Meenakaliya-Panambur stretch of the beach. Naveen Saliyan, president of Youngsters Panambur, said that a major part of waste comes from trash dumped by occupants of illegal structures and sheds that have come up on government land off the beach. “More than 150 sheds have come up and occupants of these sheds do not hand over waste to workers of the waste collection agency; instead they dump trash on the beach,” he said. Adding to this environmental misery, these occupants indulge in open defecation on the beach. Mr. Saliyan said that officials and elected representatives have not taken action to prevent open defecation and dumping of waste, despite a number of memorandums. Some of these sheds are given on rent and the occupants do not have Aadhaar cards. Residents in the vicinity are also concerned over the sale of drugs in the area, he said. In fact, Panambur Beach is one of the famous beaches of the coastal region which almost every tourist to Mangaluru, apart from local residents, likes to visit. Though the Panambur-Surathkal (7 km) and Surathkal-Sasihithlu (7 km) stretches of beachfront in Dakshina Kannada are the most sought-after visiting spots, open defecation by occupants on the beachfront early in the morning dissuades tourists from visitng these stretches. As part of a campaign demanding action against occupants of these illegal structures, Youngsters Panambur and the Baikampady Mogaveera Mahasabha have been conducting regular beach cleaning programme. On Sunday morning, students from Government High School of Meenakaliya, led by their Hindi teacher Permanath Marne, joined Youngsters Panambur and other residents in the cleaning campaign. Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar, who visited Meenakaliya Beach, said that shortly a survey will be carried out to identify sheds built illegally on government land. And, he said, necessary action will be taken to vacate them. Mr. Sridhar said that occupants of these sheds, though they have toilet facility, are openly defecating on the beach between Meenakaliya and Hosabettu. “We will take the help of the police to act against those defecating on this stretch,” he said. Mangaluru North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty said that there is no question of allowing open defecation on the beachfront.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/residents-rue-occupants-of-illegal-sheds-dumping-waste-on-beach/article38045937.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,||10-day night curfew in Karnataka from tomorrow||Night curfew will be imposed for 10 days starting December 28, while all New Year celebrations in public places have been banned amidst rising cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19. This was decided at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday with members of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and Health Department officials. Timings Speaking to presspersons after the meeting, Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said that the curfew would be from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. “No New Year celebrations will be allowed in public places,” he said. The Minister said that hotels, restaurants, clubs, and pubs would be allowed to function with only 50% seating capacity from December 30 to January 2. All the staff members should have negative RT-PCR reports, while visitors were to be fully vaccinated with two doses. In addition, a Government Order stated that all gatherings, including marriages, meetings and conferences from December 28 should have no more than 300 people and COVID-appropriate behaviour should be followed. The Chief Minister also made it clear that there would be no reversal of the new guidelines. Earlier, the 50% occupancy rule was missing from the guidelines despite Mr. Bommai announcing the same, allegedly due to lobbying from the industry. Possible third wave Dr. Sudhakar said that they were also preparing for a possible third wave and added that the Government would have 3,192 more ICU beds in addition to the existing 4,000. Oxygenated beds would also be increased, he added. The Minister said that the Government would give booster doses for citizens above 60 years with co-morbidities and health and frontline workers from January 10. Vaccination for around 43 lakh children between 15 to 18 years would begin from January 3. Vaccination status The Minister further said that 97% of the eligible population had received the first dose and 75% of them had taken the second dose. “Around 45 lakh people have surpassed the due date for their second dose. We will take up measures to ensure that these people take their second dose,” he said.   Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has made it clear that there would be no reversal of the new guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-day-night-curfew-in-karnataka/article38045561.ece
27 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Executive shows a trend to disrespect court orders: CJI||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said here on Sunday that the executive showed a growing tendency to disregard and even disrespect court orders, though it was supposed to assist, and cooperate with, the judiciary for the rule of law to prevail in the nation. Chief Justice Ramana was delivering the Fifth Lavu Venkateswarlu Endowment Lecture on “Indian judiciary — future challenges”. Highlighting the challenges before the judiciary, he said a “non-cooperative executive” was one of the concerns. “Courts do not have the power of the purse or the sword. Court orders are only good when they get executed... Unless the executive and legislature make sincere efforts to fill the judicial vacancies, appoint prosecutors, strengthen infrastructure and make laws with a clear foresight and stakeholder analysis, the judiciary cannot be held responsible alone,” he said. On appointment of judges, the CJI said, “It is nowadays fashionable to reiterate phrases such as ‘judges are themselves appointing judges’. I consider this a widely propagated myth.” “The fact is the judiciary is merely one of the many players involved in the process. Many authorities are involved including the Union Law Ministry, State governments, Governor, High Court Collegia, Intelligence Bureau, and lastly, the topmost executive,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/executive-shows-a-trend-to-disrespect-court-orders-cji/article38045515.ece
27 December 2021||Belagavi,||Six boys arrested for rape, remanded in judicial custody||The police arrested six 17-year-old boys on the charge of raping a minor girl in Dharwad district. The police did not name the accused as they are considered children in conflict with law. A team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Anusha G., conducted an investigation of a complaint by the 15-year-old victim’s family in one of the police stations in Dharwad. The team arrested the accused and produced them before court. The boys now face the charge of repeatedly raping the girl at various places, over a period of three months. On some occasions, they filmed the offence on their mobile phones. A police officer said that the accused were planning to earn some money by uploading the videos on the Internet. The college boys had befriended the schoolgoing girl through her acquaintances a few months ago. Doctors conducted a medical examination on the victim. The accused have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-boys-held-for-rape/article38045578.ece
27 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KSRTC cuts online reservation charges||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has announced reduction in rates for online reservation for commuters from the New Year onwards. The reservation charges have now been reduced from Rs. 30 to Rs. 10. There will be no cancellation charges for cancelling tickets till 72 hours before the journey. Cancellation charges of 10% of the ticket base rate will be charged for cancelling tickets between 72 hours and 48 hours before the journey, while the same will be 25% for cancelling between 48 hours and 24 hours, 40% for cancelling between 24 hours and 12 hours and 50% for cancelling between 12 and 2 hours before the journey. Cancellation will not be allowed after the two-hour limit. Change in reservation dates will be allowed for tickets booked from KSRTC franchises or counters. Through the link-ticket system, reservations can be made in two separate buses for connected travelling. For booking tickets for more than four passengers, the reservation charges for only one person will be deducted. A reduction of 10% in the base ticket rate will be provided for booking the onward and return journey together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ksrtc-cuts-online-reservation-charges/article38045859.ece
27 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||App fraud: probe reveals shocking facts||The police investigating the multi-crore online fraud committed through a mobile app, much to their dismay, found that the organisers neither had a head office nor branch offices anywhere. The company executives were not seen anywhere and did not leave any contact numbers. Many from A.P., Telangana and other States paid huge amounts to the organisation which promised customers that the money invested by them would be used to buy medical equipment and lease it to needy clients. The rent so generated would be paid to the investors. The organisers gave wide publicity to their business plan through various social media groups, and offered incentives to those who brought new customers into the business. The organisers reportedly paid returns to some investors to encourage new customers into the business but payments had been stopped for the last few months and the app ceased responding. Realising that they were deceived, many victims approached the Cybercrime police and lodged complaints. Cybercrime inspector K. Srinivas, who is investigating the case, said that unidentified persons floated the online multi-level marketing app, and invited investments. They offered commission to the people who introduced new customers. “Customers deposited amounts ranging from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 1 lakh in the company and also brought new customers for commission,” he said. The investigation officers are trying to find out the activities of the fraudulent app, the persons behind the multi-crore scam, and details of the bank accounts into which the money had been deposited. Medical equipment Many victims had submitted to the police the details of the financial transactions made through the app in the last few months. “I had paid about Rs. 40,000 to the medical equipment firm which claimed to have purchased some material and leased it to patients. Some of my family members and friends too transferred money to the app. Initially, I received some rent for the equipment said to have been procured on my name but later payments stopped,” said a victim at the Cybercrime police station. “We are investigating various aspects like the State or country from which the app was operated, how many people were duped and to what extent, into which bank accounts the money was deposited, if any agents were appointed to develop business and the purchases made,” an investigation officer told The Hindu on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-on-into-mobile-app-fraud-in-ap/article38045461.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. gears up to tackle Omicron||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday visited Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where a cluster of COVID-19 cases was detected over the past 10 days. He inspected the ward for patients infected with the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus, the intensive care unit, oxygen plants and other infrastructure. “The Chief Minister has instructed officials to publish information on the arrival of international passengers and the details of the Omicron variant in the medical bulletins issued daily,” an official release said. As part of the precautionary measures against the spread of COVID-19, especially the Omicron variant, more than 1.15 lakh beds are being readied at the government and private hospitals across Tamil Nadu. Orders have been issued to provide special COVID-19 centres with 50,000 more beds. During the last wave of the pandemic, a total of 222 oxygen plants were established by the State and Central Governments and voluntary organisations. They were capable of producing 244 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen a day. Mr. Stalin also visited the Directorate of Medical Services at Teynampet and inspected the godown for storing oxygen cylinders and other life-saving equipment. He went around the emergency control room and the State war room and reviewed their preparedness. The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, in a representation, has appealed to Mr. Stalin to go for online classes for schools and colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-gears-up-to-tackle-omicron/article38045600.ece
27 December 2021||PEDDAPALLI,||Post-partum mother found hanging at hospital||In a shocking incident, a 30-year-old woman, who had delivered a baby boy through c-section on December 12 at the Government Area Hospital in Godavarikhani, committed suicide in a toilet on the premises of the State-run hospital, triggering a massive protest by her relatives in the coal town on Sunday. G Uma of Rompikunta village in Kamanpur mandal was found hanging in a toilet at the maternity ward of the hospital at around 4.30 a.m. Infuriated over the incident, the relatives of the deceased staged a dharna in front of the hospital alleging medical negligence as the reason behind her extreme step. They alleged that Uma resorted to the drastic step unable to bear severe pain and mental trauma caused by the infection in stitches post-caesarean section due to medical negligence. They sought stringent action against the staff “responsible” for the incident. Meanwhile, the father of the deceased lodged a complaint against the hospital superintendent and a doctor with the Godavarikhani One Town police later in the day. The police registered a case and are investigating.  Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/post-partum-mother-found-hanging-at-hospital/article38046019.ece
27 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Youth object to Hindus celebrating Christmas||A group of boys claiming to be members of the Bajrang Dal stopped Hindus from celebrating Christmas in Silchar of southern Assam on December 25. They manhandled a few non-Christian revellers in a Presbyterian church near the Cachar district police headquarters, local people said. In a video uploaded on social media, one youth claiming to be a leader of the Bajrang Dal’s local unit, said: “We have nothing against Christians who have every right to celebrate Christmas. Our issue is with the Hindus who went against their dharma to sing Merry Christmas instead of observing ‘Tulsi Divas’.” In the video, Bajrang Dal activists donning saffron scarves and chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ also said they locked the church after 11 p.m. as there were too many people violating the COVID-19 protocols beyond the time allowed by the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youth-object-to-hindus-celebrating-christmas/article38045521.ece
27 December 2021||MYSURU,||No review of restrictions: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Sunday that the night curfew for 10 days from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. was a precautionary measure against a possible outbreak of third wave and surge in COVID-19 and the Omicron variant. Speaking to presspersons here, he said the steps were necessitated in the wake of a surge in the neighbouring States and in foreign countries. In reply to a question, Mr. Bommai said the decision on night curfew won’t be reviewed. “We discussed the issue during the Belagavi legislature session and decided to impose curbs as a precautionary measure,” he said. On the handling of the pandemic and the Omicron variety in the State, the Chief Minister said the numbers were not high, but one had to be cautious and hence certain measures were in place such as restrictions on New Year celebrations etc. Mr. Bommai said the first two waves hit the country after it first swept through Europe and hence there were projections that a possible third wave might hit the State or the country in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bommai-rules-out-review-of-restrictions/article38045562.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Heavy lifting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-lifting/article38045682.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A welcome ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-welcome-ritual/article38045786.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||With high hopes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-high-hopes/article38045861.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Cool company||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cool-company/article38045517.ece
27 December 2021||Vijayawada,||Ramana hints at appointing more judges to HC||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N. V. Ramana said that a large number of cases were pending in the Andhra Pradesh High Court which did not have adequate number of judges to deal with them. There was a possibility of appointing new judges in the High Court, he said. He was speaking at a meeting jointly organised by the AP High Court Advocates’ Association and AP State Bar Council near the High Court at Nelapadu on Sunday. The associations felicitated Justice Ramana and his wife Sivamala on the occasion. They presented a memento and a shawl to the couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cji-hints-at-appointing-more-judges-to-hc/article38045518.ece
27 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will not bring back farm laws: Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday clarified that the government was not planning to bring back the farm laws that were recently repealed, adding that the Congress was spreading rumours to cover up its own failures. On Friday, Mr. Tomar said the government took a step back on the farm laws for some reasons, but would go forward again. This led the Congress to allege that the Centre was planning to bring back the contentious laws, which were repealed after over a year of protests by farmers. Mr. Tomar tweeted on Sunday that the Centre had no such plan. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided to withdraw the laws to “keep the honour of the farmers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-not-bring-back-farm-laws-tomar/article38045520.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Anti-apartheid icon Desmond Tutu dies||South African anti-Apartheid icon and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu died on Sunday aged 90. A tireless activist, Tutu won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984 for combatting white minority rule in his country. Famously outspoken even after the fall of the racist apartheid regime in the 1990s, Tutu never shied away from confronting South Africa’s shortcomings or injustices. Calling him a “guiding light for countless people globally”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his tribute, said: “His emphasis on human dignity and equality will be forever remembered. I am deeply saddened by his demise, and extend my heartfelt condolences to all his admirers. May his soul rest in peace.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-apartheid-icon-desmond-tutu-dies/article38045523.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to impose night curfew in Delhi||With the Capital reporting 290 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, sources in the Chief Minister’s office said night curfew between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. will be announced on Monday. The city also recorded one death. The positivity rate rose to 0.55% after 52,947 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-impose-night-curfew-in-delhi/article38045680.ece
27 December 2021||MANGALURU,||‘Reconversion to Hinduism should become a priority’||Bharatiya Janata Party Yuva Morcha national president and MP Tejasvi Surya on Saturday said that merely stopping conversion of Hindus is not enough but reconverting those who have left Hinduism should become a priority. He was speaking at Vishwarpanam, a series of programmes culminating in the valedictory of the Paryaya of Sri Admar Mutt in Udupi. It was necessary to evolve a reconversion process, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reconversion-to-hinduism-should-become-a-priority/article38045941.ece
27 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Students stage protest in Dharwad against UGC||Some students who came to Dharwad to appear for the National Eligibility Test conducted by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on Sunday, staged a protest against errors in a question paper. They said that while they had come to appear for the Kannada paper, they found questions in Hindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-stage-protest-in-dharwad-against-ugc/article38045782.ece
27 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||MLA urges youth to defend Hindutva||BJP MLA from Hyderabad Raja Singh Thakur inaugurated Hindu Sneha Milan, a get-together organised by some pro-Hindu organisations, in Belagavi on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mla-urges-youth-to-defend-hindutva/article38045783.ece
27 December 2021||MANGALURU,||‘Reconversion to Hinduism should become priority’||Bharatiya Janata Party Yuva Morcha national president and MP Tejasvi Surya on Saturday said that merely stopping conversion of Hindus is not enough but reconverting those who have left Hinduism should become a priority. He was speaking at Vishwarpanam, a series of programmes culminating in the valedictory of the Paryaya of Sri Admar Mutt at Sri Krishna Mutt in Udupi. It was necessary to evolve a reconversion process to save the religious and cultural wealth of Hinduism, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reconversion-to-hinduism-should-become-priority/article38045784.ece
27 December 2021||Patna,||6 killed in explosion at noodle factory in Bihar||At least six persons were killed and seven others injured on Sunday after a boiler at a noodle factory exploded in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the incident and announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each to the families of the victims. According to eye witnesses a loud explosion was heard on Sunday morning when about 20 people were working inside the noodle factory at Bela phase-II industrial area of Muzaffarpur in north Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6-killed-in-explosion-at-noodle-factory-in-bihar/article38045678.ece
27 December 2021||Bagdogra,||Chancellor issue: Guv. lashes out at TMC govt.||A couple of days after suggestions were made that he should be replaced from the titular post of Chancellor of State-run universities in West Bengal, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday lashed out at the State government. “I was astonished that the Education Minister, who should have interacted with me, instead said that the Chief Minister will be made Chancellor,” Mr. Dhankhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chancellor-issue-guv-lashes-out-at-tmc-govt/article38045896.ece
27 December 2021||Kalaburagi,||Denial of information on border raises eyebrows||The denial of information pertaining to details of the survey conducted by Survey of India (SoI) to demarcate Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh, in the backdrop of allegations of illegal mining in Ballari district, has raised eyebrows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/denial-of-information-on-border-raises-eyebrows/article38045952.ece
27 December 2021||Belagavi,||‘Our issues given short shrift in Winter session’||Farmers have been hit hard by crop loss and house damage in floods over the last three years. However, these issues barely came up for discussion in the Winter session. Conspicuously missing was also any discussion on the amendments to laws here, farmers say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/our-issues-given-short-shrift-in-winter-session/article38045953.ece
27 December 2021||MYSURU,||‘Law ensuring statutory guarantee for MSP a must’||The former chairperson of the Agricultural Price Commission, Prakash Kammardi, has called for a law to accord statutory guarantee for minimum support price for agricultural produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/law-ensuring-statutory-guarantee-for-msp-a-must/article38045955.ece
27 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Panel to look into AFSPA withdrawal from Nagaland||Weeks after a botched ambush by an elite armed forces unit killed 13 civilians at Oting in Mon district of Nagaland, a recent high-level meeting in New Delhi decided to constitute a committee to study the possibility of withdrawing the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) from the State. The Act gives immunity to armed forces when they use force in a notified area.. The committee will be headed by the Additional Secretary (Northeast) in the Union Home Ministry and will include Nagaland’s Chief Secretary and Director-General of Police. The other members will be the Inspector-General of Assam Rifles (North) and a representative of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), an official statement issued by Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, Deputy Chief Minister Y. Patton and former Chief Minister T.R. Zeliang said on Sunday. The decision to form the panel was made during Home Minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Mr. Rio, Mr. Patton and Mr. Zeliang, along with Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, in New Delhi on December 23. Report within 45 days The statement said the committee would submit its report within 45 days. The withdrawal of the “disturbed area” notification and the AFSPA from Nagaland will be based on the recommendations of the committee, it added. “A court of enquiry will initiate disciplinary proceedings against the Army unit and Army personnel, who are directly involved in the Oting incident. The identified persons who will face the enquiry will be placed under suspension with immediate effect,” the statement said. It said the State government would provide jobs to the next of kin of the deceased and to initiate this process, the Deputy Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police of Mon district would carry out necessary procedures in consultations with the village councils concerned. Government jobs will be given on compassionate grounds on the basis of eligibility. The Nagaland delegation requested Mr. Shah to replace the Assam Rifles unit in Mon with immediate effect, the statement said. The Nagaland government lauded Mr. Shah for taking the matter with utmost seriousness and the Government of India for taking the required steps to ensure justice. The State government appealed to all sections to remain calm and maintain peace. “The democratic and peaceful nature of the civil society groups, tribal hohos (apex community-based body) and mass-based organisations in our collective quest for justice and truth has been well received and has created a positive image of the Naga people to the rest of the global community,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-to-look-into-afspa-withdrawal-from-nagaland/article38045413.ece
27 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Shah says BJP will take whole society forward||Dismissing the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) as “casteist” and “dynastic”, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said only the BJP, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, could take forward sarv samaj or the entire society. Mr. Shah, referring to BSP chief Mayawati and SP president Akhilesh Yadav as “ bua-babua ”, asked whether their regimes had brought development to everyone. “They are jativadi [casteist] and parivarvadi [dynastic] parties,” Mr. Shah said at a rally held in Kasganj district in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Shah appealed to voters in Uttar Pradesh to “score a boundary” and “hit a four” by ensuring a fourth consecutive win for the BJP in the State after 2014, 2017 and 2019. Targeting the previous SP government, Mr. Shah said that earlier there used to be a ‘ bahubali’ (political strongman), a mini-Chief Minister and a scam in each district. In contrast, under the BJP government, there was one product (One District, One Product scheme), one industry and one medical college in each district, the Home Minister said. Mr. Shah also praised the legacy of former Chief Minister and OBC leader Kalyan Singh, who died earlier this year, for “clearing the way” for a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, in a reference to the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992. Mr. Shah said Mr. Singh was the first person who spoke about “ sushashan ” (good governance) and placed emphasis on providing the backward caste communities their rights. “Had babuji [Singh] not provided me margdarshan [guidance], the victories in 2014, 2017 and 2019 would not have been possible,” Mr. Shah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-says-bjp-will-take-whole-society-forward/article38045435.ece
27 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Spike in Maharashtra, curbs in Delhi||Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day increase in COVID-19 cases in nearly two months, with 1,648 cases taking its tally of active cases to 9,813 on Sunday. Cases of the Omicron variant in the State increased by 31, of whom 29 were asymptomatic and the other two mild, according to officials. Of the new Omicron cases, 27 were in Mumbai, two in Thane district and one each in Pune and Akola districts. Six children and three senior citizens were among the cases of Omicron reported on Sunday. The number of Omicron cases reached 141, of whom 61 had been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, said the State Health Department. Various States continued to announce measures to control the spread of COVID-19, with fears of the Omicron variant leading to a spike in cases, particularly in view of the New Year’s celebration. In Delhi, where 290 new cases and one death were recorded on Sunday, sources in the Chief Minister’s office said curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. would be announced on Monday. In view of the festive season, the Andhra Pradesh government imposed some restrictions to ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour in public places, according to an order issued recently. “In the coming months, various festivities such as New Year, Sankranthi and Sivaratri will follow one after the other till March 31. This is a critical period as there may be a tendency to ignore COVID appropriate behaviour during festivals resulting in large gatherings, events and fairs,” the Health Department said. Among the measures put in place in Andhra Pradesh was a 500-person cap on gatherings to ensure effective physical distancing. District Collectors were asked to engage volunteers to aid thermal screenings in public places and to enforce use of masks and physical distancing. The Telangana government prohibited rallies and public meetings till January 2 in response to recent High Court directions to check the spread of the Omicron variant. It issued an order under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 on Saturday, in the light of suggestions by the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry and the directions of the Hight Court. Positivity rate The Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry on Sunday said 6,987 new COVID-19 cases were recorded in the previous 24 hours, taking the count of active cases to 76,766. The daily positivity rate had stayed below 1% for the past 83 days, with it being 0.74% for the past 24 hours, the Ministry said. Similarly, the weekly positivity rate was less than 1% for the past 42 days, with the latest being 0.62%. The number of Omicron variant infections increased by seven from Saturday’s Health Ministry bulletin to reach 422, of whom 130 had recovered, been discharged or migrated, Sunday’s bulletin said. A total of 67.19 crore tests had been conducted so far. On vaccination, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday would be opened for the 15-18 age group on January 3, the Ministry said 141.37 crore doses had been administered as of 7 a.m. on Sunday, with 32.9 lakh in 24 hours. The Ministry said the Centre had supplied the States and the Union Territories with 148.37 crore doses so far and over 17.90 crore doses were still available with the States and the UTs The number of Omicron cases in Kerala jumped to 57 with the State registering the highest daily tally of 19 on Sunday. Ernakulam with 11, recorded the highest number of new cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram with six and Thrissur and Kannur one each. Health Minister Veena George advised extreme caution in view of the mounting cases of Omicron. She called for adherence to COVID protocols including wearing of masks and social distancing.  (With inputs from   State bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spike-in-maharashtra-more-curbs-in-ap/article38045448.ece
27 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP sets up panel on Brahmin vote in U.P.||The BJP has decided to form a four-member committee to decide on outreach programmes for to the Brahmin community in Uttar Pradesh covering all 403 constituencies in the State. Members of the committee include former Union Ministers Shiv Pratap Shukla and Mahesh Sharma, BJP leader Abhijat Mishra and former party national secretary Ram Bhai Mokariya. The decision to set up the committee was taken at a meeting in New Delhi on Sunday of leaders from the Brahmin community in U.P., along with Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is the party in-charge of polls in U.P. According to sources present at the meeting, the setting up of a committee and its outreach programme “is nothing out of the ordinary organisational work” being done before polls. “The BJP always tries to reach as many groups and sections of society as possible every time,” said a leader who was present at the meeting. Brahmins are said to comprise 17% of the vote in Uttar Pradesh and are a significant community in terms of having influence far beyond their own actual numbers. Several Brahmin leaders in Poorvanchal or eastern Uttar Pradesh have recently switched to the Samajwadi Party, especially those who were earlier with the Bahujan Samaj Party. Role for Ajay Mishra Significantly, controversial Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ would also be roped in for events in his area, sources said. Mr. Mishra has been in the eye of a controversy because of his son’s involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident that resulted in the death of eight people, including four farmers. The theme of Brahmins in the State feeling aggrieved has proven to have remarkable tenacity despite BJP’s stellar performance in Uttar Pradesh during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. That performance, senior leaders said, was because the 2019 polls was to elect the Prime Minister, and Mr. Modi enjoying huge popularity. Assessments have shown that the community has certain grievances against the party and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath who they feel favours Rajputs over Brahmins in the State, said a source. Among those present at the meeting were Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, and Ministers in the Yogi Adityanath government — Shrikant Sharma, Jitin Prasada and Brijesh Pathak and Lok Sabha member Rita Bahuguna Joshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-sets-up-panel-on-brahmin-vote-in-up/article38045433.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Uneasy truce in Uttarakhand BJP||An uneasy truce seems to have been declared in the ongoing intra-party travails of the BJP in Uttarakhand, with rebel Minister Harak Singh Rawat, who had dramatically walked out of a Cabinet meeting on Friday evening in Dehradun, declaring his intentions of quitting his post and party, being brought around to reconsider after a shared meal at Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s residence on Saturday. Mr. Rawat, who joined the BJP in 2016 from the Congress, is Forest Minister in the Dhami-led BJP government in Uttarakhand. He walked out of a Cabinet meet in Dehradun on Friday ostensibly because his demand for a medical college in Kotdwar was not being acceded to. Using strong words, Mr. Rawat had said he was not being treated well in the Cabinet and that no importance was being given to promises that he had made. BJP sources confirmed to The Hindu that Mr. Rawat was told of a policy decision made by the State government that no more than one medical college per district would be funded by the State. Mr. Rawat had asked for a fund of Rs. 25 crores. Congress sources, on their part, said that they had been in talks with Mr. Rawat for a while through their senior leader Pritam Singh and a package deal for Mr. Rawat and MLAs loyal to him, such as Umesh Sharma Kau, to return to the Congress was in an advanced stage. Dousing the fire BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni, however have managed to douse the fires a bit with Mr. Rawat having dinner at Mr. Dhami’s residence on Saturday night and singing his praises, including calling Mr. Dhami his “little brother”. Mr. Rawat claimed that his issue with regard to the setting up of a medical college in Kotdwar had been resolved. “He [Pushkar Singh Dhami] is the son of a soldier as am I. I have known him for more than 30-40 years, even when he was a boy. He has a heart full of compassion and mercy, and for the first time the State has got a Chief Minister like that. I bless him as an elder brother that he returns the BJP to power in full majority in the State,” he said in an audio clip released by his office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uneasy-truce-in-uttarakhand-bjp/article38045444.ece
27 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Be alert and disciplined to fight pandemic, says PM||A day after announcing booster doses of COVID-19 vaccines for health and frontline workers and senior citizens and starting vaccinations for teens in the 15-18 age group from early January, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday used his monthly radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat , to sound a repeated note of caution on the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus, saying “individual alertness and discipline” were the country’s big strength in the fight against the pandemic. In his last broadcast for the year, the Prime Minister asked people to maintain caution against the new variant. “This new Omicron variant is being constantly reviewed by our scientists. Every day, they are getting new data and steps are being taken based on their suggestions,” Mr. Modi said. “Our experience of the past two years is that our own effort as citizens is very important to defeat this pandemic. It is our collective strength which will defeat corona. We have to enter 2022 with this sense of responsibility.” “Crossing the 140 million vaccine doses is an achievement of each and every Indian. This shows the trust of every Indian in the system; shows trust in science and in scientists; and is also a testament to the willpower of we Indians who are fulfilling our responsibilities towards society,” he said. Nurturing roots Prime Minister Modi also spoke about Group Captain Varun Singh, who died of injuries sustained in the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, that had taken the lives of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others. He referred to the letter Group Captain Singh had written to the students in his school about success. “After reading this letter, the first thought that came to my mind was that even after reaching the pinnacle of success, he did not forget to nurture his roots. Second, when he had time to celebrate, he showed concern for the generations to come. He wanted the lives of students of the school that he studied in also be a celebration,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/be-alert-and-disciplined-to-fight-pandemic-says-pm/article38045451.ece
27 December 2021||Patna,||Six killed in boiler blast at noodle factory in Bihar||At least six persons were killed and seven injured on Sunday after a boiler at a noodle factory exploded in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the incident and announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each to the families of the victims. The government has also sent a team from Patna to probe the incident. According to eye witnesses a loud explosion was heard on Sunday morning when about 20 people were working inside the noodle factory at Bela phase-II industrial area of Muzaffarpur in north Bihar. “We were working at the factory and soon a loud explosion was heard and the injured people were seen running outside from the factory while others were buried under heavy machines. The explosion was heard one kilometre away from the factory,” said the injured workers of the factory Dipesh and Pankaj Kumar. The Muzaffarpur District Magistrate and Senior Superintendent of Police, later confirmed to media persons in Muzaffarpur that “bodies of six persons have been recovered”. “Six persons were killed and six others have been injured in the explosion,” Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said. The reason for the explosion, though, could not be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-persons-killed-in-explosion-at-noodle-factory-in-bihar/article38045411.ece
27 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India hands over food aid, defence equipment to Mozambique||India handed over two Fast Interceptor Craft (FIC) and other self-defence equipment to Mozambique to assist in its capacity building as the Central African nation battles growing terror threats. Naval ship INS Kesari entered Port of Maputo in Mozambique to deliver 500 tonnes of food aid as well as the defence equipment, under the eight edition of Mission Sagar by the Navy to assist friendly foreign countries in the region. These deployments were conducted in solidarity with India’s extended Maritime Neighbourhood and highlights the importance accorded by India to these special relationships, the Navy said on Sunday. As much as 500 tonnes of food aid has been shipped by INS Kesari to support the efforts of the Government of Mozambique to cope with ongoing drought and concurrent challenges of pandemic, it stated. IS threats “India also remains committed to supporting the capacity building efforts of the armed forces of Mozambique. To this end, INS Kesari is carrying two Fast Interceptor Craft and self defence equipment to be handed over to the armed forces of Mozambique,” the Navy said. The equipment will be useful as Mozambique is hit by terrorism in its North, a defence official said. The terrorist group Islamic State, also known as Da’esh, and its affiliates have rapidly spread in Central Africa. Of late, capacity building has been a major focus area in India’s engagements with Indian Ocean littoral states, with hardware and equipment supplied to many countries. This also helps in tackling common maritime challenges in the region. Similar missions  INS Kesari , a landing ship tank (large), had undertaken a similar mission in May-June 2020 to provide humanitarian and medical assistance to the Maldives, Mauritius, the Seychelles, Madagascar and Comoros, including deployment of medical assistance teams of the Navy in multiple locations. Since May 2020, ships have been deployed to 15 friendly countries under SAGAR missions, the Navy said. These deployments, spanned over 215 days at sea, have delivered a cumulative assistance of more than 3,000 tonnes of food aid, over 300 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), 900 oxygen concentrators and 20 ISO containers. Separately, INS Sudarshini , which is on deployment to the Gulf region as part of Navy’s efforts towards familiarising friendly Navies on various facets of operations and training on board sail training platforms, visited Port Sahid Bahonar at Bandar Abbas in Iran on December 22 on a three-day visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-hands-over-food-aid-defence-equipment-to-mozambique/article38045419.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Swadeshi Jagran Manch calls for ban on crypto trading||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) has urged the government to impose an ‘outright ban’ on dealing in cryptocurrencies for Indian residents while granting a short time window for those already holding them to sell or exchange them with disclosures to the Income Tax authorities. The government should also ban online trading platforms for buying, selling or otherwise dealing in cryptocurrencies or crypto assets in circulation at present, it said in a resolution passed at its national conclave that concluded on Sunday. While the SJM called for financial penalties on those who flouted the ban, it also mooted an aggressive awareness campaign to inform investors not to “fall prey to deceptive advertisements” from cryptocurrency exchanges. “Although there is no official information about this, it is estimated that about 20 million people have put their money in cryptocurrencies. People [mostly youth] of small and big cities and even villages are getting attracted towards it, because they feel that they can get quick profit by putting their money in it,” the SJM noted. The Centre is working on a law to regulate cryptocurrency and grant legitimacy to a digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swadeshi-jagran-manch-calls-for-ban-on-crypto-trading/article38045429.ece
27 December 2021||Pune,||Can communal politics influence Goans?||Goa Chief Minister and BJP leader Pramod Sawant’s remark that “temples destroyed by the Portuguese need to be rebuilt to preserve Hindu culture” has stirred a hornets’ nest ahead of the Goa Assembly elections slated early next year. While the comment has drawn flak from the Congress and other opposition parties, the remarks may be reflective of the BJP’s strategy in Goa which appears to combine Hindu and Konkani symbolism. According to a Panjim-based analyst, the BJP’s ploy appears to be to consolidate the Hindu majority bloc. The 2011 Census shows that the Hindu population is more than 65% while the Christian population has declined below 30%, to around 25% in the State. The recent resignation of two BJP MLAs — Alina Saldanha and Carlos Almeida — from the party is viewed by some as evidence of the BJP’s Hindu vote bank consolidation stratagem. Ms. Saldanha, MLA from Cortalim who had served as a Minister in the Parrikar-led Cabinet, had quit the BJP to join Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party citing ‘loss of principles’ in the BJP. Mr. Almeida, a two-time MLA from the Vasco da Gama constituency in south Goa, left the BJP along with seven councillors to join the Congress. Mr. Almeida said that the BJP in Goa had changed from what it was under the leadership of the late Manohar Parrikar. “It is no longer the party it was when Parrikar was alive and who I regard as my ‘guru’,” said Mr. Almeida after his induction in the Congress. In November, the Vasco MLA had urged the BJP’s top brass to continue Parrikar’s policy of giving adequate representation to minorities, urging the party heads to allot 35% seats to Catholic candidates. Goa-based academic Manoj Kamat, however, says politics along purely communal lines has never really worked in Goa. “The majority and minorities have by and large had a long history of communal harmony in the State. While the BJP may have tried to play the communal card in the State, as evinced in the Curchorem-Sanvordem incident in March 2006 [where a mob demolished a madrasa], it has not been successful in rupturing the State’s diverse social fabric,” Mr. Kamat said. According to him, Goa’s voters have never considered religion as a factor while exercising their franchise, nor have political parties, including the BJP, when poaching a candidate from other parties. Reacting to Mr. Sawant’s temple remark, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar said the Chief Minister’s statement was a last throw of the dice on the BJP’s part to divert attention from its misgovernance. “He is suddenly remembering God, temple and religion because he can foresee his and the BJP’s defeat in the coming Assembly elections… Why didn’t the BJP build these temples [destroyed by the Portuguese] when they were in power in the last 10 years?” Mr. Chodankar asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/can-communal-politics-influence-goans/article38045431.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Anti-dumping duty on five Chinese goods||India has imposed anti-dumping duty on five Chinese products, including certain aluminium goods and some chemicals, for five years to protect local manufacturers from cheap imports from the neighbouring country. According to separate notifications of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), the duties have been imposed on certain flat-rolled products of aluminium — sodium hydrosulphite used in the dye industry, silicone sealant, used in manufacturing solar photovoltaic modules and thermal power applications, and hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) component R-32 and hydrofluorocarbon blends, both used in refrigeration. These duties were imposed following recommendations of the Commerce Ministry’s investigation arm, the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR). The DGTR, in separate investigations, has concluded that these products have been exported at a price below normal value in Indian markets, which has resulted in dumping. The domestic industry has suffered material injury due to the dumping, the DGTR said. The CBIC has imposed the duty on a vehicle component — axle for trailers in CKD/SKD (complete and semi knocked down) form to protect domestic makers from cheap Chinese imports. It has also slapped the duty on imports of calcined gypsum powder from Iran, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the UAE for five years. While the DGTR recommends the duty to be levied, the Finance Ministry imposes it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-dumping-duty-on-five-chinese-goods/article38045455.ece
27 December 2021||Batala,||Sidhu targets Channi govt. again||Taking on his own party’s government, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday asked people whether they were able to get cable TV connections and sand at the cheap rates announced recently. “There may be many announcements. Are you getting cable at Rs. 100? Are you getting sand free of charge? Its price is Rs. 3,700-4,400 [per trolley],” he said, addressing a public meeting at Batala in Gurdaspur. At the same rally, he also dared senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, to face the law. Last month, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had announced that the charges for a cable TV connection had been fixed at Rs. 100 a month. He also announced that sand will be sold at Rs. 5.50 per cubic feet. Batting for his ‘Punjab model’ of governance, Mr. Sidhu said that if it was cleared by the party leadership, a sand trolley would be available at just Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-targets-channi-govt-again/article38045442.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘35% population yet to get second dose’||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced booster shots for frontline workers and those with co-morbidities, the Congress said that with just five days left for the year to end, the government was way off the mark from its submission to the Supreme Court where it had claimed that all people above the age of 18 would get both doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Thirty-five per cent of the country’s population above the age of 18 has not got the second dose of vaccine, Congress general secretary (Communication) Randeep Singh Surjewala said on Sunday. “According to the facts released by the government, 11.45 crore people above the age of 18 have not received even a single dose of corona vaccine,” Mr. Surjewala said. There were another 22 lakh health care and frontline workers who had not received the second dose. The other “harsh reality” was that “where are the vaccine doses”, and as per the Modi government, they had availability of 17.74 crore doses only, he said. Mr. Surjewala said the Prime Minister’s announcement on Saturday would mean that 25.69 crore people would be entitled to 35.7 crore more vaccine doses. So the total need of vaccine doses was over 90 crore. India’s capacity was to produce 16.8 crore vaccine doses per month, he said. “So, how and by when, till which date, will all these Indians be administered these vaccines,” he asked. The Modi government had failed on all accounts in handling the pandemic, he said. “The need of the hour is that the Prime Minister follows the raj dharma , adopt a clear vaccine policy, provide vaccine to the children in the age group of five to 15 and suggest a way to save the country from the danger of the Omicron virus,” he said. Mr. Surjewala attacked the Prime Minister over holding of rallies in U.P. While in marriages the cap was on 200 visitors, the BJP’s own rallies were going on without any monitoring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/35-population-yet-to-get-second-dose/article38045454.ece
27 December 2021||Srinagar,||IS militant killed in Anantnag operation||A fresh militant recruit, allegedly behind the killing of a police officer, was killed in an operation in Anantnag in south Kashmir on Sunday. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the militant, Faheem Bhat from Kandipora, Anantnag, was killed in an operation in K. Kalan Sirgufwara area of Anantnag. “Bhat was affiliated to Islamic State-J&K. He had recently joined the outfit and was the main accused behind the killing of assistant sub-inspector Mohammad Ashraf near the Bijbehara Police Station,” Mr. Kumar said. The police said during the search operation, which was launched on Saturday evening, the trapped militant was “given ample opportunities to surrender, which he turned down”. Six militants have been killed in four operations in the past 48 hours in south Kashmir. Meanwhile, two policemen were injured in a grenade explosion in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Sunday afternoon. “Terrorists had hurled a grenade at a joint deployment of the police and CRPF near the Post Office area of Washbug Pulwama. Two police personnel got splinter injuries and were shifted to nearby hospital for the treatment of their injuries,” a police source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/is-militant-killed-in-anantnag-operation/article38045437.ece
27 December 2021||Pune,||Election of Maharashtra Speaker hangs fire||The suspense over the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s nominee for the Speaker’s post in the Maharashtra Assembly continued as a three-Minister delegation from the MVA called on Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to apprise him of the government’s intent to hold the election on December 28 and seek his approval for the same. While Mr. Koshyari’s sanction for the election process remained elusive, the three-member delegation, which consisted of Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat, Shiv Sena’s Eknath Shinde and the Nationalist Congress Party’s Chhagan Bhujbal, said they hoped the Governor would agree to the election which is to be held by voice-vote. “We have given the intimation of the election to the Governor and requested him to approve the programme at the earliest. We have adopted the same change as in the Lok Sabha. So, we have not done anything different. He said he needs to take information on some technical aspects and said he would let us know tomorrow [Monday],” Mr. Thorat said. The long-pending election to the Speaker’s post, pending for over 10 months now since Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole’s resignation in February this year, has been a flashpoint between the MVA and the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/election-of-maharashtra-speaker-hangs-fire/article38045438.ece
27 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deeply regret loss of lives in Nagaland, says Army||Expressing “deep regret” at the loss of lives in Nagaland earlier this month in the case of mistaken identity and the ensuing violence, the Army said on Sunday that its own inquiry into the incident was progressing “expeditiously” and all efforts were being made to conclude it at the earliest, adding that it was cooperating with the State government’s investigation. “The inquiry ordered by Army is progressing expeditiously and all efforts are being made to conclude it at the earliest. We have taken out notices for people to come forward and assist us in the inquiry by providing any information including videos, photos or any other material from original sources and will be grateful for the same,” the Army said in a statement. The details and information can be conveyed on WhatsApp Messenger at +916026930283 or Army Exchange Helpline +913742388456, the statement said. “We once again deeply regret the loss of lives during the December 4 incident in Mon District. Loss of lives is indeed sad and unfortunate.” Stating that the Army is also fully cooperating with the Special Investigation Team (SIT) inquiry ordered by the State government, the Army said required details are being shared in a timely manner. The people of Nagaland have always cooperated and assisted the security forces in maintaining peace and tranquillity over the past many decades, the statement said. “We request all brothers and sisters of Nagaland to be patient and wait for the findings of the Army inquiry. We assure you that action will be taken in accordance with the law to secure justice for all.” Fourteen civilians, six of them in firing by security forces, and a soldier were killed in a case of mistaken identity and the violence that erupted as angry local people attacked security forces at Oting in Mon district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deeply-regret-loss-of-lives-in-nagaland-says-army/article38045415.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Shah lied to Parliament on Naga killings: Cong.||Accusing Union Home Minister Amit Shah of lying to Parliament, the Congress on Sunday, presenting its report on the killing of 14 civilians at Oting village, Mon District of Nagaland, said the incident as recounted by Mr. Shah was vastly different from the truth. The Congress demanded his immediate resignation and setting up an inquiry commission under a judge of the Gauhati  High Court. No visits Presenting a fact-finding report, party’s in-charge for Nagaland Ajoy Kumar said not a single Cabinet Minister of the Narendra Modi government visited the site of the dreadful incident. “The Home Minister, instead of visiting the spot, went to Jaipur to address political rallies and try his hand at destabilising the Ashok Gehlot government,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar said the Home Minister had told Parliament that when the para-commandos of the Army signalled the vehicle they suspected was carrying the insurgents to stop, it tried to flee. In the ensuing encounter, six of the eight occupants of the vehicle were killed. A Minister in the Nagaland government and State BJP chief have contradicted his statement, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-lied-to-parliament-on-naga-killings-cong/article38045421.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Two more booked for Haridwar hate meet||Earlier this year, his comments about Prophet Muhammad during a press conference in Delhi led the Delhi Police to file an FIR against him. The Haridwar FIR was filed after video clips of the event went viral. Reacting to the video, former Navy chief Arun Prakash had tweeted: “WHY IS THIS NOT BEING STOPPED? With our Jawans facing enemies on two fronts, do we want a communal blood-bath, domestic turmoil and international disgrace? Is it difficult to understand that anything which damages national cohesion and unity endangers India’s national security.” Letter to CJI A group of lawyers wrote to Chief Justice of India N.V Ramanna on Sunday to take suo motu cognisance of two separate events organised in Delhi (by the Hindu Yuva Vahini) and Haridwar (by Yati Narsinghanand). They involved hate speeches with open calls for genocide of Muslims in order to achieve ethnic cleansing by Yati Narsinghanand Giri, Sagar Sindhu Maharaj, Dharamdas Maharaj, Premanand Maharaj, Sadhvi Annapoorna, Swami Anand Swaroop, Ashwani Upadhyay, Suresh Chavhanke and Swami Prabodhanand Giri. The letter signed by Anjana Prakash, former judge of Patna High Court, and senior advocates Prashant Bhushan, Dushyant Dave, Meenakshi Arora, among others, stated that the speeches made at the events were not mere hate speeches but amount to an open call for the murder of an entire community and pose a grave threat not just to the unity and integrity of the country but also endanger the lives of millions of Muslim citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-booked-for-haridwar-hate-meet/article38045422.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Statue of Christ vandalised in Ambala||“The face of one of the suspects is clearly visible and should not be difficult for the police to trace him.” The priest said the suspects were youngsters and seemed to be acting at someone’s behest. He said he did not recognise the vandals, but ruled out the possibility of someone from his own community carrying out the attack out of vengeance. He said there were reports of disruptions of Christmas celebrations at several places in the State and the desecration incident, if not linked to those, could be the handiwork of the people with “same mentality”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/statue-of-christ-vandalised-in-ambala/article38045423.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Parents of Kathua victim anguished by bail order||The parents of an eight-year-old nomad girl, who was brutally raped and murdered in Kathua district of Jammu, are anguished that while their appeal for enhancement of sentence against six people remains unheard, two convicts were released on bail in the case described by a court as a “devilish and monstrous crime”. The man who had adopted the eight-year-old girl, and her biological father, said they had heard that two culprits — former sub-inspector Anand Dutta and head constable Tilak Raj — had been released on bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which suspended the rest of their sentences pending an appeal. “I am surprised that two accused have been left on bail. Our appeal for enhancement of sentence is still pending while their appeal has been addressed,” her biological father said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parents-of-kathua-victim-anguished-by-bail-order/article38045425.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Executive shows a trend to disrespect court orders’||“I am sad to note that the well-informed also propagate the aforesaid notion. After all, this narrative suits certain sections.” Stating that he appreciated the government’s effort in appointing several judges in recent times, Chief Justice Ramana said, “However, some recommendations made by High Courts are yet to be transmitted to the Supreme Court by the Union Law Ministry. It is expected that the government needs to strictly adhere to the timelines laid down in the Malik Mazhar Case.” ‘Liberate prosecutors’ Stressing the need to liberate the institution of public prosecutors (PPs), the Chief Justice of India said PPs under the government did nothing to prevent frivolous and non-deserving cases from reaching the courts and automatically oppose bail applications, without independently applying their minds. “They attempt to suppress evidence during the trial which could benefit the accused. A holistic rework needs to be undertaken and to insulate the public prosecutors, an independent selection committee may be constituted for their appointment,” he suggested. The Chief Justice reiterated his concerns over the absence of well-considered legislations. “There is usually no impact assessment or basic scrutiny of constitutionality before passing of legislations. The minimum that is expected while drafting laws is that they abide by settled Constitutional principles. They must also think of providing effective remedies for issues that may arise out of the law. But these principles seemingly are being ignored. This directly results in the clogging of courts,” Chief Justice Ramana said. Attacks on judges Raising concerns over the increasing attacks on the judges, Chief Justice Ramana said, “At times, there are also concerted campaigns in print and social media against judges if parties do not get a favourable order. These attacks appear to be sponsored and synchronised.” Stating that the law enforcement agencies need to deal with such attacks effectively, he said authorities do not proceed with the investigation unless the Court passes orders. “Another aspect that affects the fair functioning and independence of the judiciary is the rising number of media trials. New media tools have the enormous amplifying ability but appear to be incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong, good and bad and the real and fake,” he said. On average, judges heard about 40 cases a day and holidays were devoted to completing pending work. Even after two-three decades of service, after retirement, judges were not given basic security, housing or healthcare, he said and added that the judge-to-population ratio in India was 21 judges per million people, he said. He further said that there was a requirement for domain expertise in the judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/executive-shows-a-trend-to-disrespect-court-orders/article38045426.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Youth object to Hindus celebrating Christmas||In a video uploaded on social media, one youth claiming to be a leader of the Bajrang Dal’s local unit, said: “We have nothing against Christians who have every right to celebrate Christmas. Our issue is with the Hindus who went against their dharma to sing Merry Christmas instead of observing ‘Tulsi Divas’.” In the video, Bajrang Dal activists donning saffron scarves and chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ also said they locked the church after 11 p.m. as there were too many people violating the COVID-19 protocols beyond the time allowed by the administration. Cachar SP Ramandeep Kaur said: “A few Hindu boys came and asked the Hindus [among the Christmas revellers] not to participate.” Ms Kaur said the police had not received any formal complaint yet. “But other legal procedures against those involved are being undertaken,” she told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youth-object-to-hindus-celebrating-christmas/article38045428.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bhushan to brief EC on COVID-19 situation||As the Election Commission prepares for Assembly elections in five States early next year, its top brass is slated to interact with Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Monday. The commission is likely to seek updates from Bhushan on the COVID-19 situation and the emergence of Omicron, the new coronavirus variant, sources said on Sunday. The terms of Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Manipur Legislative Assemblies are ending on different dates in March next year, while the Uttar Pradesh Assembly’s term will end in May. The Election Commission is expected to announce poll dates next month. The commission may also seek suggestions from Mr. Bhushan on improving its COVID-19 protocol for campaigning by parties, polling days and the dates of counting. On Tuesday, the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) and Election Commissioners are scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh to take stock of the poll preparedness. An Allahabad High Court Bench had on Thursday urged the government and the poll panel to consider postponing the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections for a month or two and banning all political rallies amid fears of a third wave of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhushan-to-brief-ec-on-covid-19-situation/article38045497.ece
27 December 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. decides not to hold panchayat poll||The Madhya Pradesh government on Sunday decided not to conduct the panchayat elections and sent a proposal to this effect to Governor Mangubhai C. Patel. “The Cabinet has decided to postpone the elections as of now. The government has sent the ordinance to the Governor to rescind it. However, further action is the prerogative of the Raj Bhavan followed by the State Election Commission,” Home Minister and spokesperson Narottam Mishra told the media here. He said the Cabinet had accepted the proposal of Minister for Panchayat and Rural Development Mahendra Singh Sisodiya to withdraw the ordinance for conducting the elections. On Thursday, the Assembly had unanimously passed a resolution stating that no panchayat election will be held without reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) after the Supreme Court had directed the State to stay the poll process for seats reserved for them in the local body polls. The Opposition Congress had staged a walkout demanding a resolution not to conduct the elections without OBC reservation during the five-day winter session, which concluded on Friday. The BJP had not held the panchayat polls citing the pandemic, Leader of the Opposition in the House Kamal Nath said. “When they finally agreed to hold the polls, they were doing so without rotation and reservation. That is why we went to court,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-decides-not-to-hold-panchayat-poll/article38045441.ece
27 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bids of Rs. 47.58 lakh invited for floral art||The government has invited bids for floral arrangements with thousands of dozens of roses, lilies, carnations, orchids and other varieties to decorate the offices of the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry (MoHUA) and Central Public Works Department (CPWD) for one year at an estimated Rs. 47.58 lakh. The CPWD tender, floated by its horticulture division on December 23, invited bids till December 30. It called potential bidders for “providing and arranging of cut flowers and flower arrangement for Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and senior officers of the CPWD at Nirman Bhawan.” Among the items for bidding were 3,996 bunches of a dozen multi-colour gladiola each, 2,052 bunches of 20 roses, 3,888 bunches of 20 carnations, 864 bunches of 10 oriental lilies, 1,728 bunches of 10 asiatic lilies, 756 bunches of 10 orchids each and 600 flower baskets or bunches of a mix of flowers. The CPWD had invited similar tenders for buildings that it maintains including other Ministries’ offices in the past. The latest tender was called for the offices of the MoHUA and top CPWD officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bids-of-rs-4758-lakh-invited-for-floral-art/article38045449.ece
27 December 2021||Pune,||Malik blames NCB for actor’s death||Training his guns at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik on Sunday accused the Central agency of running a private army in Mumbai and indulging in wholesale extortion allegedly leading to an actor’s suicide. “An actor has taken her life in the limits of the Oshiwara police station … It has come to light during investigations that some men were posing as NCB officials and extorting money from her. Fearing defamation, the actor took her own life,” he alleged. Mr. Malik has been targeting the NCB since the Aryan Khan case of October 2. The Mumbai Police arrested two persons on Sunday for posing themselves as NCB officers and extorting money from people including a Bhojpuri actor, who took her life on Thursday. Authorities said the two fraudsters had tried to extort Rs. 20 lakh from her. A case under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide), 170 (impersonating a public servant), 420 (cheating), 384 (punishment for extortion) and other relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malik-blames-ncb-for-actors-death/article38045452.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating rivers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/celebrating-rivers/article38045460.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||War of words continues over Parliament session||In an unabated war of words between the government and the Opposition, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi fired another salvo at Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh, saying that to err is human but to repeatedly “justify” the wrongs is foolish. Mr. Joshi’s latest remarks follow his Friday statement where he accused Mr. Ramesh of casting aspersions on the functioning of the Rajya Sabha Chairman, calling it a disfavour not only to the truth but to democracy itself. Tweeting on Sunday, Mr. Joshi said it is the duty of people’s representatives to respect the Chair and behave in a manner worthy of their standing. “However Mr@Jairam_Ramesh, your colleagues chose disruption over debate. It was unfortunate as the whole country witnessed their sheer hooliganism,” he said. He also posted again a CCTV footage of the events of August 11, when the Upper House cleared the controversial General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Bill, amid fierce protest from the Opposition. Mr. Joshi further added, “To err is human but to repeatedly justify it is foolish.” He said the government was ready to withdraw suspension if the Opposition had apologised. “You must not lose your way while pleasing RaGa (Rahul Gandhi). Do tell him about respect being commanded and not demanded,” Mr. Joshi said. The Minister’s comments was in response to Mr. Ramesh’s comment on Friday that respect had to be commanded and not demanded. Jairam Ramesh responds Responding to the latest comments by Mr. Joshi, Mr. Ramesh re-posted a letter written by Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge to the Rajya Sabha Chairman on illegally circulating CCTV footage of the House proceedings. The letter also had flagged that no officer other than those from Rajya Sabha security personnel should be allowed inside the chambers and lobbies of Parliament. “By putting out illegal footage you are reiterating our point on what were unfamiliar Delhi Police personnel doing in the lobbies that day,” Mr. Ramesh asked Mr. Ramesh said the onus was always on the government to ensure that Parliament functions. He reasserted his comments made inside the House that “if the Government is accommodative then Opposition is responsive.” “Further, you must not lose your way spreading lies to please NaMo (Narendra Modi), who himself is the Jagadguru (world leader) of j hoot  (lies)!” Mr. Ramesh tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/war-of-words-continues-over-parliament-session/article38045440.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rajnath lays foundation stone for two DRDO centres in Lucknow||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh laid the foundation stone for a Defence Technology & Test Centre and a BrahMos manufacturing centre to be established by the Defence Research and Development Organisation in Lucknow. The DTTC is being set up to implement the MoU between the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) and the DRDO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-lays-foundation-stone-for-two-drdo-centres-in-lucknow/article38045417.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||CBI books textile firm for bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked Ample Textile Corporation Private Limited, its directors and others for allegedly cheating the Union Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 35.44 crore. The company, which has its corporate office in Mumbai approached the bank’s textile market branch in Surat for credit facilities. The bank sanctioned Rs. 39.79 crore.The bank later found out that funds were allegedly transferred to the accounts of two directors. More than Rs. 4.71 crore was also withdrawn from the account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-textile-firm-for-bank-fraud/article38045424.ece
27 December 2021||IMPHAL,||UNLF rebel arrested in Manipur, arms recovered||A combined team of police and personnel of the 16 Assam Rifles arrested a rebel of the outlawed United National Liberation Front (UNLF) from Khabam Lamkhai near Imphal on Saturday night. He led the combined team to his residence after disclosing that some arms and ammunition were stashed there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unlf-rebel-arrested-in-manipur-arms-recovered/article38045427.ece
27 December 2021||Belagavi,TAMIL NADU||Our issues were given short shrift in Winter session, say farmers||Farmers have been hit hard by crop loss and house damage in floods over the last three years. Also, harvested crops were either not sold or sold for less than remunerative prices during the lockdown. However, these issues barely came up for discussion in the just-concluded Winter session. Conspicuously missing was also any discussion on the withdrawal of amendments to the laws in the State, despite the Union Government repealing the farm laws, farmers say. “Neither the Government nor the legislators initiated any discussion on issues concerning farmers. The Opposition did not appear interested in raising questions on farmers’ welfare and the ruling party was not interested in suggesting solutions,” said Choonappa Pujari, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader. Collapsed houses Over 1.3 lakh houses were damaged in the two floods that hit in 2019, 2020, and 2021. Of them, 40% were completely destroyed. At government rates of a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh per house that needs to be completely rebuilt would add up to Rs. 2,600 crore. But this has not been paid fully, farmers say. “Of the Rs. 5 lakh, only around Rs. 1 lakh per house has been paid to farmers. There is no hope that they will receive the pending amount soon. What is more, there are errors and deliberate mistakes in the selection of beneficiaries and the distribution of compensation. There have been cases where MLAs have included their supporters in the lists and removed the names of those opposed to them,” Mr. Pujari alleged. Sidagouda Modagi, Bharatiya Krishik Samaj president, blamed legislators for holding the Government accountable. He describes MLAs and MLCs as “paper tigers” who do things only for publicity. “There is a clash of interest between their two roles. On the one hand, they own sugar factories and other agri-related business. On the other, they are making rules to regulate these businesses. How can they be fair and neutral in these situations?” he asked. “The issue of sugar factories delaying payments to sugarcane supplying farmers remains unresolved,” emphasised Badagalapura Nagendra, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha president. “All the owners says that they will pay Fair and Remunerative Price to farmers. But that is not enough to cover the costs. And almost none of them pay Minimum Support Price, which is higher than FRP. The problem is that we can not bind the factories to MSP,” he added. “According to our calculations, we can be paid up to Rs. 6,000 per tonne of sugarcane. Farmers are hardly getting Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 2,900 per tonne now,” he said. According to him, factories pay farmers only for the sale of sugar and not other products like molasses and other chemicals, bio-fertiliser and electricity. ‘Not allowed’ Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president, maintained that several attempts were made by the Congress members to raise issues related to farmers, but were brushed aside by the Government. “Our members wanted special discussions under Rule 69 about two issues – pending irrigation projects in north and south Karnataka and the protest of farmers against the new farm laws. But both were not allowed. Even the discussion on north Karnataka was wound up in a short time. The Government is not giving the legislature the importance it deserves,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/our-issues-were-given-short-shrift-in-winter-session-say-farmers/article38045465.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||e-toilets, most of them dysfunctional, present picture of neglect||When the concept of e-toilets was first introduced in Chennai five years ago, it was touted as one that required minimal maintenance and the public could always count on it to be clean. But a visit to over a dozen of these toilets showed broken taps, cracked structures, no water, foul smell and stains all around. Take the case of the e-toilet situated at the entrance of Bagavandham Street in T.Nagar. The flower vendors here have to bear the stench that comes out from the toilet on a daily basis. Residents say it is cleaned rarely and only upon request. And there is no water most of the time. This toilet is located close to two schools and opposite a temple, but no one uses it because it is kept untidy. “With COVID-19, the Corporation should be extra cautious about cleaning these places. Look at the mosquitoes around the toilet,” said Ramu, a resident. He also said that there was an app to track these toilets and that has become defunct too. “The government starts such projects with great fanfare but over a period forgets about maintaining it,” he lamented. At some of the e-toilets, there were condoms, empty liquor bottles and needles. Residents and shopkeepers said the e-toilets are being misused at times for other purposes. Pointing at an e-toilet next to the Vidyodaya School, the owner of a commercial establishment on Thirumalai Pillai Road said that school / college going students get inside these spaces, drink and dump bottles. This particular e-toilet was clogged. And between the men’s and women’s toilets there were 10-15 empty liquor bottles. The e-toilet right opposite the Greater Chennai Corporation divisional office on Velachery Main Road near the Dhandeeswaram temple pond was worse. This non-functional e-toilet has become a spot for open urination. R. Maasaanam, who resides in the locality, said that people stopped using it as there was no water in the overhead tank most of the time. “The doors will not open if there is no water. Hence, people started urinating outside,” he said. The electronic indicators outside the toilet appeared fully damaged. While one of the doors appeared broken, the other was jammed. Of the two e-toilet units near the Metropolitan Magistrate Courts complex in Egmore, one appeared to be partially functional while the other was dysfunctional. “There is no maintenance. On weekdays, when there is more crowd in the area, everyone urinates near the toilet as the doors mostly remain jammed,” said M. Dinesh, an autorickshaw driver. An e-toilet in Anna Nagar West has been closed from the time the COVID-19 pandemic broke out and continues to remain under locked as there is no water supply. One of the e-toilets in T.Nagar was completely covered with creepers and plants and was rusting. In many places, the public pointed out that there was absolutely no requirement for an e-toilet in that zone. They suggested that the Corporation should remove it and install it at places where there was a need.  On weekdays, when there is more crowd in the area, everyone urinates near the toilet as the doors mostly remain jammed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-toilets-most-of-them-dysfunctional-present-picture-of-neglect/article38045628.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases climb to 610||As many as 610 people were found to have been infected with the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, out of 1,00,058 persons tested. Among them were six passengers from the United Arab Emirates and one traveller each from Kenya and Ghana. So far, 27,44,037 people have been infected in the State, and 6,629 patients are under treatment. Chennai led the table with 171 fresh cases. The district also accounted for 24 cases of the Omicron variant; 12 of them had been discharged after treatment and 12 others are under treatment. The other districts where the Omicron variant was identified are Madurai (4 cases), Tiruvannamalai and Chengalpattu (2 each), and Salem (1). All of them are under treatment. While no fresh infection was reported in Theni and Mayiladuthurai, Coimbatore (89), Erode (45), Tiruppur (40), Salem (26) and Chengalpattu (48) continued to report a high number of infections. In 22 districts, the cases were in a single digit. With the discharge of 679 people, the number of recovered patients went up to 27,00,673. The State also recorded 10 deaths, pushing the toll to 36,735. Five of them died at government hospitals and the rest at private hospitals. All of them had pre-existing health conditions, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. Three of the dead were aged over 80. An 88-year-old man from Tiruppur, who tested positive on December 19, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on December 24. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia a few hours later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-climb-to-610/article38045614.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flood mitigation: Corpn. to develop stormwater drains||The Greater Chennai Corporation will develop stormwater drains to mitigate flooding at 144 locations. On Monday, the civic body is expected to issue orders for the work to develop stormwater drains in areas prone to flooding, such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam and Adyar. Minister for Municipal Administration and Water Supply K. N. Nehru has ordered the civic officials to start the work based on the detailed project report prepared after the floods during the Northeast monsoon this year. Work orders for at least 39 packages is expected to be given this week. Four packages will be re-tendered shortly. The stormwater drains will be developed at an estimated cost of Rs. 120 crore over a distance of 45 km with funding from the World Bank. At least 568 locations in various parts of the city had reported flooding during the rain. In addition to the work to be undertaken by the Chennai Corporation, line agencies such as the Highways Department have also planned to develop drains to mitigate flooding in residential areas along stretches such as Poonamallee High Road, Anna Salai, Jawaharlal Nehru Salai and Grand Northern Trunk Road. Egmore MLA I. Paranthaman said a representation has been made to develop stormwater drains and pumping stations by CMWSSB in various areas, including Periamet, Vepery and Pulianthope to mitigate flooding. T. Nagar MLA J. Karunanidhi said residential areas and commercial hubs in his constituency were flooded during the recent rain. “We have requested for stormwater drains in 27 areas in T. Nagar constituency. At least 17 locations have been approved. On Monday, the work order is expected to be issued for development of stormwater drains to mitigate flooding in areas such as Rangarajapuram in Ward 134.” “Work to mitigate flooding on Usman Road will start soon. We need drains at a few more locations. I am planning to start work utilising Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development Scheme,” he said. Residents have requested officials to complete the work before the next monsoon, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-mitigation-corpn-to-develop-stormwater-drains/article38045620.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin extends birthday wishes to Nallakannu||Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday visited the Communist Party of India (CPI) office and extended birthday wishes to veteran leader R. Nallakannu. Minister for Water Resources Durai Murugan, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, CPI State Secretary R. Mutharasan, Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan, CPI leader C. Mahendran were present during the occasion. In a statement, V.K. Sasikala, aide of late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa extended her birthday greetings to the CPI leader. She wished him good health and a long life. She said that Mr. Nallakannu was a crusader who committed himself to public life to work for the rights of the Tamils and to improve the qualify of life of the poor and the downtrodden. In a social media post, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran extended his birthday greetings to Mr. Nallakannu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-extends-birthday-wishes-to-nallakannu/article38045604.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro Rail floats fresh tenders||Nearly two weeks after cancelling six tenders for construction of underground stations in the phase II project, Chennai Metro Rail has floated them afresh, hoping to find new contractors. Early this month, the decision to cancel six tenders for building several underground stations in two corridors in the phase II project — Madhavaram to SIPCOT and Madhavaram to Shollinganallur — had to be made when the lowest bidders had given exorbitant quotes for carrying out the work. In the six tenders, they had to build underground stations along the stretch from Madhavaram to Taramani and Kolathur to Nathamuni. But since they had submitted a quote which was nearly 40-50% higher than the estimate made by the Chennai Metro Rail, the tenders were cancelled recently. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), they have now began rolling out these tenders afresh and this process would be finished in the next 3 - 4 months and new contracts would be awarded. “This time, unlike before, the cost estimate for construction of each work has also been published in the tender so that contractors know the amount and quote accordingly,” an official said. For instance, the estimated value for building five underground stations from Kilpauk Medical College to Thousand Lights is Rs. 1,176 crore. Similarly, the prices have been mentioned for the other tenders involving underground station construction work. Revised deadlines for finishing the project is being worked out now by the officials since there will be delays owing to the cancellation of these tenders. Meanwhile, two contractors who are engaged in building tunnels have been carrying out the excavation work now. The immediate priority is to finish building the diaphragm wall in specific locations between Madhavaram to Taramani after which the tunnelling work may start sometime next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-metro-rail-floats-fresh-tenders/article38045634.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only Aavin ghee, butter in temples||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) department has directed temples under its purview to procure ghee and butter from Aavin to light lamps and make Neivedhyam (offering for the deities) and prasadam . In an order issued to temple joint commissioners and executive officers, Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran said that this was to ensure quality of food items prepared in temples and prevent environmental damage due to use of poor quality ghee to light lamps. This order comes into effect from January 1, 2022. Aavin Managing Director N. Subbaiyan had recently written to the HR and CE Commissioner requesting that temples use ghee and butter from the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation, whose popular brand is Aavin. Official sources in Aavin said that the 25 Unions had also written to the respective temples asking them to place orders for ghee and butter. “We are making ghee available in various packings including 15 ml pouches to 15 kg tins for use in temples. We will ensure timely supply,” the official said. With this move, Aavin will be able to sell 150 - 250 tonnes of ghee and butter every month to the 1,200 temples in the States alone. M.G. Rajendran of the Tamil Nadu Milk Producers Welfare Association, who welcomed the decision, thanked Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for taking steps to help Aavin. “The move to supply ghee as part of the Pongal gift packs was a brilliant move. The latest one, will help Aavin, which is saddled with large quantities of butter, in a big way,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-aavin-ghee-butter-in-temples/article38045625.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Maintenance, far from easy||A key problem with public toilets is sustainable maintenance. Though e-toilets gave the promise of addressing this crucial problem when they were introduced, activists say that the promise has proven to be false, at least for use in a wider number of places. M. Elangovan, executive director of Gramalaya, a non-governmental organisation that works in the area of sanitation, said that the technology in e-toilets proved to be not easily useable for a large number of people, particularly from the low income neighbourhoods. He said that Gramalaya’s experience showed that relying completely on technology without human intervention may not be an ideal solution with respect to public toilets in the Indian context, at least not in all the places. He stressed on the need for involving people to regularly monitor and maintain the toilets. Govindaraj Murugan, convenor of Dhagam Foundation, which conducted an audit of public toilets in Chennai three years ago, concurred. He said that e-toilets did not prove to be any better than other toilets when it came to maintenance. “It appeared as if any malfunctioning required more effort to fix when compared to other toilets,” he said. He added that no solutions to tackle the issues with public toilets would work unless a proper mechanism to ensure regular monitoring and maintenance was put in place. R. Mahalakshmi, also associated with the foundation, said the audit showed that people in many places were not comfortable with using the e-toilets as they were not aware of how exactly they worked. She said the audit also showed that problems with toilets were fixed only when a complaint was raised and proactive maintenance was lacking in most places. With Greater Chennai Corporation planning a project to revamp the public toilet infrastructure in the city, a senior official from the Corporation acknowledged that a fully technological solution like the e-toilets may not be the right solution. He, however, added that the Corporation was keen to use technology for the purpose of monitoring and maintenance. While GCC may not opt for more e-toilets, the official said that the existing dysfunctional e-toilets would be fixed and put back to use. Highlighting that e-toilets in some of the places were being used properly, he said that the difference was that these places had proper maintenance. He said that the proposed project would focus more on implementing a supervisory structure and ensuring regular monitoring of several key indicators and proper maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintenance-far-from-easy/article38045635.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,000 people team up for coastal clean-up||Over 1,000 people participated in the coastal clean-up event ‘Team up to clean up My city, My coast, My environment’ organised by G Square Group along with The Hindu at 10 hotspots on East Coast Road on Sunday. The event started at 7 a.m. and went on for two hours. The volunteers, called ‘Green Warriors of Chennai,’ collected plastic, footwear, thermocol waste, glass pieces and some discarded college certificates too. In total, they cleared about 5.6 tonnes of waste during the clean up. N. Eshwar, Chief Executive Officer of G Square Realtors Private Limited said, “With a long coastline, Chennai boasts some of the most vibrant beaches that are perfect for fun time and beach experience. While it is the government’s obligation to keep these beaches clean, as citizens it is our responsibility to lend a hand towards the cause wherever we can.” The clean-up was undertaken in various places, including Broken Bridge to Olcott Kuppam, Ashtalakshmi temple beach, Arupadai Murugan temple beach, 4th Seaward Road beach (Thiruvanmiyur), Palavakkam beach, Beach Road (Neelankarai), Injambakkam north beach (North of VGP), Injamabakkam south beach (South of VGP), Akkarai beach and Panaiyur beach. Wildlife suffers Arun Krishnamoorthy, founder of Environmentalist Foundation of India (EFI), which was the knowledge partner of the event, said, “People should stop treating oceans as a dumping site. December to March is turtle nesting season. With garbage from rivers getting dumped in the oceans and people dumping waste on beaches, it is ultimately the marine life that suffers.” He noted that protecting the beaches in Chennai was essential to bring back their ecological and economical value and it should be done by organising the clean-up activities regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1000-volunteers-team-up-for-coastal-clean-up/article38045631.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||85.75% get the first dose of vaccine||At the end of the 16th mega vaccination camp on Sunday, 85.71% of Tamil Nadu’s population received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and 57.85% received the second dose, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. A total of 17,31,277 people were vaccinated on Sunday, including 5,17,126 persons who received their first dose and 12,14,151 persons who got their second dose. So far, 8,31,92,973 persons have been inoculated. They include 4,96,48,907, who received the first dose, and 3,35,44,066 persons, who got their second dose. The Minister said that between May 7 and December 25, 31,068 persons had benefited from the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. A sum of Rs. 182.64 crore had been allocated for RT-PCR tests, and this measure helped 32,23,064 persons. A team of experts, including epidemiologists and scientists, would visit health facilities to assess the State’s preparedness to tackle the infection. Launching the camp in the city earlier in the day, the Minister said the State had a population of 33,20,000 persons aged 15-18. As per the Union government’s advisory, they would be administered the vaccine from January 3. Around nine lakh frontline workers would also receive their booster dose, he said. Mr. Subramanian said that as on Sunday, only 16 persons were under treatment for the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus in the State. The State had 34 cases of the variant, and 22 patients were treated and discharged. He said more than 100 persons whose samples had exhibited the S-gene dropout were considered suspect cases for the Omicron variant. But with the delay in receiving the results from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, there were concerns that they could be discharged, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8571-get-first-dose-of-vaccine/article38045616.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department plans to add 28,000 hectares to Point Calimere sanctuary||The Forest Department has decided to approach Chemplast and the Department of Industry to hand over parts of the unsurveyed salt-pans and the swamp areas, measuring about 28,000 hectares, to be added to the Point Calimere Wildlife and Bird Sanctuary. The aim is to make it one of the best flamingoes’ and waders’ habitats in the world. The decision was taken after Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj visited the sanctuary on Saturday to record the migratory bird population in the swamp area. During the day-long estimation and monitoring, the teams of the Forest Department and the Bombay Natural History Society counted close to 10,000 birds near the Chemplast salt-pan near the Kalwakarai pump-house, west of the Great Vedaranyam Swamp. “We observed the flamingoes from a distance of about 600 metres and monitored the Great Flamingos Wall formed by them in the swamp area. The most notable fact was the sighting of two chicks in one of the congregation of the flamingoes, indicating that flamingoes would be nesting and breeding somewhere closer and most probably in the Trincomalee or Mannar area of Sri Lanka in the Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean,” Mr. Niraj said. Steps would be taken to put the sanctuary, including the unsurveyed swamp areas, on the global ecotourism map by adding high-quality facilities and conservation tools, he said. Besides the flamingoes, the team, led by Mr. Niraj, listed major migratory species in large numbers such as painted storks, pelicans, curlew sandpipers, ringed plover, red-beaked Caspian tern, white ibis, wood sandpiper, seagulls, crested tern, stilt and redshank. Some of these species have come all the way from Russia and the Arctic regions. The arrival of migratory birds has been phenomenal this season, giving rise to great conservation hopes, the team members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-plans-to-add-28000-hectares-to-point-calimere-sanctuary/article38045618.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MKU researcher develops kit to diagnose COVID-19 in 12 seconds||A researcher in the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has come up with a diagnostic kit to detect COVID-19 infection in 12 seconds. The kit has been patented in India and the researcher has applied for patent at Geneva as well. T. Arokiyadoss, Assistant Professor and in-charge head of the Department of Physics at the Directorate of Distance Education, developed the diagnostic kit based on lab-on-a-chip technology. The research team included B. Ashokkumar, Associate Professor, Genetic Engineering Department, and P. Varalakshmi, Assistant Professor in the Molecular Microbiology Department in the School of Biotechnology. The then Vice-Chancellor of the university, M. Krishnan, partly funded the research. “The RT-PCR kit requires 30 minutes to do the test. Our kit can perform the same in just 12 seconds. The kit directly interacts with the virus. When the virus enters the body, it attaches itself to ACE2 (antigen converting enzyme 2) and multiplies. Out kit takes the mRNA from the virus, amplifies and quantifies the virus,” explained Mr. Arokiyadoss. The researchers then sought the support of Madurai Medical College officials, including the then Dean J. Shangumani, and the college’s Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory, Institute of Microbiology, to test the kit. The college formed an ethical clearance board to approve the proposal. “We took 200 swab samples from COVID-19 infected patients to assess the performance of the kit. We were given 3 ml from the sample while another 3 ml went for the RT-PCR test. The results from both kits were similar,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mku-researcher-develops-kit-to-diagnose-covid-19-in-12-seconds/article38045610.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police seize 1,642 kg of gutkha in city||Greater Chennai police have seized 1,642 kg of gutkha, two vehicles and arrested 61 persons for selling banned tobacco products. According to a press release, Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal launched a drive to prevent the sale of banned tobacco products. As many as 57 cases have been filed in 7 days from December 19 to 25 during the drive. On December 20, two residents of Poonamallee, S. Arunachalam, 37, and B. Prabhu, 31, were arrested for possessing 1,200 kg of gutkha. A resident of Choolaimedu, Mohammed Mudazir, 24, was arrested in Aminjikarai after the police conducted a vehicle check and found him carrying 223 kg of banned tobacco products. Police also arrested Mohammed Sherif, 43, in Pallikaranai for transporting 82 kg of banned tobacco products in his vehicle. Police have warned commercial establishments to stop sale of banned tobacco products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-seize-1642-kg-of-gutkha-in-city/article38045622.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Begin NEET coaching classes, Palaniswami urges government||In the wake of two NEET candidates ending their lives, AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday demanded that the government commence coaching classes for the medical entrance test. Coaching should be provided till the State gets an exemption from the test, he added. He said the DMK had politicised the issue repeatedly. Its assurance, before and after coming to power, that NEET would be cancelled was the reason behind the emotional distress among the students. “I urge this government to explain the actual status of NEET to the students and provide special coaching classes until it is cancelled,” the former Chief Minister said. He also demanded that a financial assistance of Rs. 25 lakh be given to the families of deceased students. Mr. Palaniswami appealed to the students against taking the extreme step. “Medical education alone is not life. There are at least 40 medicine-related programmes. Students should not get emotionally distressed over scoring less in NEET,” he said. Last week, two girls, one from Gudalur in the Nilgiris district and another from Peravurani in Thanjavur district, were distressed over scoring low marks in NEET, and ended their lives due to their inability to pursue medical education, Mr. Palaniswami said.   Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at State's health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.     I urge this government to explain the actual status of NEET to the students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/begin-neet-coaching-classes-palaniswami-urges-government/article38045607.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Early treatment can prevent hospitalisation, says Italian study||Early treatment of COVID-19 can help to prevent hospitalisation and complications, shows a study done in Italy. The study, which covered the period between November 2020 and August 2021, was done by Professor Serafino Fazio and his team and published in Medical Science Monitor . It was made available online on December 8. It recommends early treatment instead of a “wait and watch” approach towards mild or moderate infections. Many countries continue advising home isolation and paracetamol for symptomatic relief during the onset of the disease. The Italian researchers studied 157 patients, including those with co-morbidites, who were administered a set of medicines, along with low-dose aspirin and food supplements. These patients were given azithromycin, steroids and heparin, if needed. Professor Fazio’s article quotes the studies published by the Chennai-based nephrologist and renal transplant surgeon, Rajan Ravichandran, who had used indomethacin to treat COVID-19 patients. Incidentally, the Italian team followed his lead and used the drug. Dr. Rajan said indomethacin is used to treat inflammation in transplant patients. Dr. Rajan published two case studies in April 2020 when he had started treating COVID-19 patients with indomethacin. He also conducted a randomised control study, which too was published. The Italian study, he said, is important as it recommends starting treatment within 2-3 days of the onset of symptoms instead of the standard norm of waiting and administering only paracetamol. “The Italian study has shown that if you start early, they [the patients] don’t get pneumonia and inflammation of the lungs. When the lungs get inflamed, they desaturate, requiring a higher dose of steroids. Of late, the use of paracetamol has been questioned as it leads to reduced anti-oxidants in the lungs, thus increasing the susceptibility to COVID-19 pneumonia,” Dr. Rajan said. The study is important, he said, given that during the first and second waves of the pandemic only paracetamol and remdesivir were administered. Steroids came into play later. The authors have discussed the antiviral and anti-inflammatory action of indomethacin and the need to start empirical treatment even before the RT-PCR test results come in, he said. “Steroids actually worsen the replication of the virus, though they reduce inflammation of the body, which produces pneumonia and other complications. Whereas indomethacin has anti-viral and anti-inflammatory action,” he said. The Italian study identified two groups and included 39 patients with hypertension;18 patients with diabetics; and 10 persons with ischaemic heart disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-treatment-can-prevent-hospitalisation-says-italian-study/article38045611.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products worth Rs. 29 crore seized||The police have seized gutkha worth Rs. 4.2 crore, ganja worth Rs. 1.8 crore and heroin valued at Rs. 23 crore and arrested over 6,623 persons in various parts of the State. According to a press release, the police began the operation on December 6 to prevent the sale of gutkha, ganja and lottery in the State. In Thoothukudi, 23 kg of heroin worth Rs. 23 crore was seized and seven persons were arrested. In the past three weeks, 1,774 kg of ganja and 164 vehicles used for smuggling the contraband were seized and 871 persons have been arrested. A total of 21 kg of ganja in Kancheepuram district, 21 kg in Madurai and 82 kg in Thanjavur have been seized by the police. Following the arrest of wholesale dealers of ganja, the supply and sale of banned tobacco products has been prevented significantly in the State, the release stated. The Namakkal police have arrested two persons, Periyasamy, 39, and Srinivasan, 39, in Vijayawada. A total of 40 tonnes of gutkha has been seized, 5,457 cases filed and 5,037 persons have been arrested. In Poonamallee, 1,200 kg of gutkha was seized. In Tiruchi, 540 kg of gutkha and 66 vehicles used for smuggling were also seized. As many as 1,091 persons were arrested for selling banned lottery. Lottery worth Rs. 35.4 lakh has seized in the past three weeks. Residents can call 100 or 112 for passing on information about sale of banned tobacco products near educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-worth-rs-29-crore-seized/article38046001.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. BJP will oppose Hindi imposition in NEP’||The Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP will oppose Hindi imposition in the New Education Policy if the Central Government has any such plans, said its president K. Annamalai. No language should be imposed on any State and if there was imposition of Hindi in the NEP, the State BJP itself would oppose it, he told reporters here after the Prime Minister’s Mann Ki Baat episode on Sunday. The New Education Policy did not make Hindi compulsory and students were free to choose a third language of their choice, he said. The State unit was not bothered about “any second, third or fourth front” in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The alliance in which the BJP was a partner would win the maximum number of seats and those MPs would become a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet. The party, he said, would return to power “with 400 plus seats”. Separately, Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Information and Broadcasting, L. Murugan said the Centre was taking steps to secure the release of over 50 fishermen held by Sri Lanka. “Ever since Mr. Modi took over as Prime Minister, no Indian fishermen have been shot dead at sea. There have been arrests but the government has quickly secured their release,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-bjp-will-oppose-hindi-imposition-in-nep/article38045739.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ministers visit Foxconn employees’ hostel||Ahead of Foxconn resuming operations on Monday, Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises T.M. Anbarasan and Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan on Sunday visited the hostel where the firm’s employees were staying and inspected the basic amenities there. They inspected the employees’ rooms, rest rooms, dining halls and the quality of drinking water, among others, an official release said. Kancheepuram MP G. Selvam, MLA C.V.M.P. Ezhilarasan, Collector M. Aarthi, Superintendent of Police M. Sudhakar and senior officials were present during the inspection. Last week, hundreds of women workers of Foxconn blocked the Chennai-Bengaluru highway after food poisoning resulted in over 100 women getting hospitalised. Eventually, Foxconn announced paid leave for workers till Sunday. According to the Tiruvallur Collector, there was an outbreak of acute diarrhoeal disease among the employees staying in the International Maritime Academy at Pudhuchathiram village of Poonamalle block in Tiruvallur district, after they had hostel food on December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-visit-foxconn-employees-hostel/article38045608.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vandalur zoo gets 12,000 visitors||Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur received 12,000 visitors on December 25 and 26. The officials had made a host of arrangements to ensure COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, from having additional counters to avoid congestion to allowing visitors entry after temperature checks and issuing tickets online. A special team headed by the deputy director inspected the zoological park periodically as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vandalur-zoo-gets-12000-visitors/article38045632.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for abducting retired railway employee||Police have arrested three persons on charges of abducting a retired railway employee in Nazarathpet. According to a police press release, G. Chandrakumar, 40, a resident at Bajanaikoil Street in Veppampattu, R. Subash, 25, of Chembarambakkam and S. Kantha, 23, of Veppampattu, were arrested for abducting former railway employee K. Ramamurthy, 67, of Kolathur. Chandrakumar had reportedly contacted Ramamurthy, claiming that he wanted to sell his plot of land measuring 2,400 sq ft in Perumalpattu. Mr. Ramamurthy, who had started real estate business after retirement, had reportedly paid an advance of Rs. 25,000 to Chandrakumar for the plot of land, after visiting the layout in Perumalpattu. He had also received a copy of the ownership document. Two days later, the accused had called Mr. Ramamurthy and demanded Rs. 5 lakh, promising that the original documents and patta would be handed over. On December 11, Mr. Ramamurthy had visited Poonamallee in his car with Rs. 5 lakh at 7 p.m. to meet Chandrakumar. The trio took Mr. Ramamurthy in his car from Poonamallee 400 feet road to a rented house in Malayambakkam and detained him for a day, after taking the money from him. They released him on December 12. Mr. Ramamurthy had lodged a complaint with the Nazarathpet police. On investigation, the police found that Chandrakumar had been accused of murder in Sevvapet police station, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-abducting-retired-railway-employee/article38045621.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Media course graduates can apply for govt. jobs in T.N.||Candidates who have qualified in M.Sc Electronic Media offered by Anna University can now apply for government jobs. The Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education recently approved of the qualification as equivalent to a three-year B.Sc degree and two-year M.Sc degree in visual communication. TANSCHE passed a resolution to this effect in November. The State government issued an order on Nov. 30. The university had been trying to get equivalence status for the degree programme for several years to enable the graduates apply for government jobs. Though a panel of professors constituted to approve of the programme content was convinced that more than 75% of the course structure was equal to that of what was offered in the conventional degree of B.Sc and M.Sc visual communication in arts and science colleges, the TANSCHE did not provide equivalence. The then council officials maintained that the programme was a specialised degree and should be approved either by the All India Council for Technical Education or the University Grants Commission. As a result, in 2019 when the Teachers Recruitment Board advertised for vacancies in government arts and science colleges in the State, the AU department candidates could not apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/media-course-graduates-can-apply-for-govt-jobs-in-tn/article38046006.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP’s district units likely to be revamped||Many district units of the BJP in Tamil Nadu are likely to be overhauled in a few months. This would be in line with State president K. Annamalai’s keenness on strengthening the party at the grassroots to increase its prospects in the 2026 Assembly election. According to party sources, Mr. Annamalai is keen on building his own team and plans are afoot to ensure that the district presidents fight the next Assembly election rather than just being figureheads. The reorganisation of the leadership of the party’s 60 districts may be undertaken after six to eight months, a source said. While there was talk that over 30 district presidents might be shunted out, the source said there was no such plan now; but there might be a change eventually as the party worked on its goals for 2026. The source further said the BJP was trying to woo former MPs and former MLAs of other parties, leaders with oratory skill and senior leaders who were sidelined, especially in the DMK. Recently, AIADMK steering committee member K. Manickam quit the party and joined the BJP. When asked about these developments, Mr. Annamalai said, “I believe every karyakarta matters to the party in Tamil Nadu, right from the booth workers to the top leadership. Everyone is working very hard to build the party. Of course, we also need horses for courses. When the time is right, the party will make an appropriate decision.” He said it was his belief that the district presidents were powerful in their areas. “We are delegating them a lot of work to make them strong,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjps-district-units-likely-to-be-revamped/article38045602.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t impose GST on power bill, says OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin not to impose the Goods and Services Tax on the electricity bill. In a statement, he said the Chief Minister had criticised various aspects of the GST while in Opposition, but was collecting the tax for items which were left out when the AIADMK was in power. The DMK had promised that the electricity bill would be generated every month and it would consider increasing the free power supply to weavers to 300 units. But it imposed the additional burden of the GST on the people, Mr. Panneerselvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-impose-gst-on-power-bill-says-ops/article38045605.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Hold online classes for school, college students’||The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association has appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to opt for online classes for school and college students. The representation dated December 24 has urged the State to restrain people from gathering in large numbers for functions, marriages, deaths, temple celebrations and even meetings. The association has called for strict surveillance over mask-wearing besides seeking closure of schools and colleges. “It is better that schools and colleges go for online classes as Omicron variant spreads four time faster than the other known variants,” said K. Senthil, president of the association. “This is the stage where we can stop the spread. Students in schools and colleges could become super spreaders. When the infection starts spreading, the hospitals will be loaded and we will run out of resources if it is anything like the second wave,” he said. Booster shots Already healthcare and frontline workers were being advised to take booster dose to enable them continue to offer their services. The association has welcomed the decision to administer booster dose to senior citizens and community workers and has called for stocking up on medicines, oxygen and personal protective kits for healthcare workers in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hold-online-classes-for-school-college-students/article38045612.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Books penned by ex-Minister nationalised||The books authored by former Minister 'Navalar' V.R. Nedunchezhiyan have been nationalised. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday handed over a royalty cheque to Nedunchezhiyan’s family members. Mr. Stalin unveiled a bust of the former Minister in the new government guest house at Chepauk in Chennai to mark the completion of his birth centenary celebrations. CM pays tribute The Chief Minister also paid floral tributes to the statue. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Information Minister M.P. Saminathan, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/books-penned-by-ex-minister-nationalised/article38045719.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Plot owners in HACA areas languish without regularisation||In the last 21 months, there is probably no plot owner from panchayats that are covered under the Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA) regulations in Coimbatore who has successfully obtained regularisation. After applying to their respective panchayat – there are 35 covered under HACA – the plot owners continue to wait for approval because the district offices of four departments that are to issue no-objection certificate (NOC) for regularisation have reportedly issued none. The president of a HACA-covered panchayat said the village body had sent letters seeking NOC to all the four departments – Revenue, Agriculture Engineering, Geology and Mining, and Forest – and had not got approval from anyone. The panchayats covered under HACA are supposed to send details of unapproved layouts to the four departments, obtain the NOC and then apply to the Local Planning Authority for approval. The LPA approves the layout applications and sends it back to the panchayats. And, based on the approval that the panchayats regularise the plots in the layouts. The State government came out with an order in March 2020 detailing guidelines for regularisation of plots in HACA-covered panchayats. It asked the plot owners to apply to the respective panchayats. A few panchayat presidents The Hindu spoke to said that since March 2020 they had knocked on the four departments’ doors without any positive result. The presidents said in their estimate there should be at least 10,000 such plots in Coimbatore that awaited regularisation. Collector G.S. Sameeran said the district administration was aware of the problems as well as a few instances of irregular regularisation. It was a complicated issue, which the administration was trying to resolve. Meanwhile, the panchayats had also taken the problem to the notice of the Housing and Urban Development Minister S. Muthusamy, who had also promised to look into it. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said the officials of the four departments in the district appeared to be insensitive to the plot owners’ sufferings. Though the panchayats sought the NOC, it was the plot owners who stood to lose. The government should bring in changes so that if the four departments failed to issue NOC within a specified time, it should be construed as having given NOC. Further, the approach of these officials to the regularisation issue seemed to undo the good the government tried to do through the order last year.   It is a complicated issue, which the administration is trying to resolve.G.S. Sameeran,Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plot-owners-in-haca-areas-languish-without-regularisation/article38045658.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||College students help Forest Department remove invasive species in Valparai||In a novel initiative, the Forest Department has roped in college students from Coimbatore to assist in clearing an invasive alien species that has covered large portions of forest areas in Valparai and Manombolly forest ranges within the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Coimbatore district. Manambolly Forest Range Officer A. Manikandan said around 100 students from two private colleges participated in the drive held to clear the invasive species Montanoa hibiscifolia at Waterfall Estate area in Valparai on Saturday. Around one tonne of its flowers and seeds were cleared. “The growth of Montanoa hibiscifolia affects the growth of the trees and plants in the locality. This could lead to a shortage of food for herbivores and also could cause the disruption of food chain of the wild animals in their natural environment,” he said. Deputy Field Director (Pollachi) of ATR M.G. Ganesan, who led this initiative, told The Hindu on Sunday that the college students and the forest staff targeted the removal of the flowers alone as removal of the whole plant could prove to be a difficult task, given the extent of its spread. The process was done in a “scientific manner” and the flowers and seeds of Montanoa hibiscifolia that weighed around one tonne were incinerated to prevent further spreading of the invasive alien species, he said. What was seen in small patches in Valparai region in 2012 had now managed to spread to two forest ranges, Mr. Ganesan said. As Montanoa hibiscifolia would not allow the growth of other plants and trees through its extensive spread and elephants would not eat this invasive species, it could drive the tuskers towards human habitations in search of food and possibly cause an increase in human-animal conflicts, he noted. “We thought that it would not be possible to clear this invasive weed species only with our 100-odd staff members of Forest Department, hence we approached the two colleges,” he said. The college students will be given certificates by the Forest Department. However, a substantial removal of this invasive weed species in Valparai and Manombolly ranges would require at least three weeks of sustained efforts, Mr. Ganesan said. “The flowers have started spreading in the downward slope of the hills towards Aliyar Dam through wind pollination,” he said. Assistance The Department would seek the assistance of conservationists, non-governmental organisations and educational institutions for human resources and material support to scale-up this initiative and curb the spread of this invasive species, he said. Those interested to help the department can reach out to the ATR by contacting 88832 26662 and 98425 95826.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-students-help-forest-department-remove-invasive-species-in-valparai/article38045660.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Garment makers seek reduction of GST||The South India Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association has appealed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to retain 5 % GST on garments that are priced less than Rs. 1,000 or at least for garments of less than Rs. 500 value. In a memorandum submitted to Finance Minister in Chennai on Friday, the Association president A.C. Eswaran said the GST will be up from 5 % to 12 % from January 1 for garments, irrespective of the value of the product. Basic hosiery garments are purchased by all sections of society as these are essential for every one. The notification on hike in GST is a blow to the poor, he said. A delegation from the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association, and Tanstia submitted a memorandum to the Finance Minister seeking withdrawal of Section 194 Q of the Income Tax Act 1961 and withdrawal of section 206 AB of Income Tax Act. The delegates also sought extension of time for filing of GSTR Annual Return for the financial years 2017 to 2020. The Codissia demanded increase in turnover criteria for MSMEs for registration and taxability under GST from Rs. 40 lakhs to Rs. 1 crore for supply of goods and from Rs. 20 lakhs to Rs. 60 lakh for supply of services. The Tamil Nadu State office-bearers of Laghu Udyog Bharati, who also met the Finance Minister, said the Ministry of MSME and the National Small Industries Corporation should have a tie-up with steel manufacturers and supply the raw material to MSMEs through the NSIC. The former president of Dyers’ Association of Tiruppur S. Nagarajan said in a separate memorandum said that with the levy of 12 % GST on processing at Common Effluent Treatment Plants two years ago, the processing units were unable to take input tax credit and nearly Rs. 150 crore is the amount pending for reimbursement. However, with the increase in GST for job working processing units to 12 % from 5 %, this amount will be set off over a period of time.  The notification on hike in GST is a blow to the poor A.C. Eswaran President, The South India Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-makers-seek-reduction-of-gst/article38045645.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 89 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 89 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The Health Department reported two new deaths and the toll increased to 2,508. As many as 103 persons recovered on Sunday and the district had 1,021 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 40 new cases on Sunday. The district had 457 active cases and 51 persons recovered. The Health Department reported two new deaths and the toll went up to 1,023. The Nilgiris district reported two new cases. The district had 128 active cases and 21 patients recovered on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-89-new-covid-19-cases/article38045665.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Girl from Tiruppur dies of dengue||A 11-year-old girl from Tiruppur suffering from dengue, who was referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), died on December 23. According to sources in the Health Department, the girl was initially admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur. She was subsequently referred to CMCH as she was diagnosed with viral haemorrhagic fever with hypotensive shock (severe drop in blood pressure levels). Mechanical ventilation Upon her admission, the CMCH doctors provided the girl with mechanical ventilation and began treatment. However, within five hours of admission, she died of cardiopulmonary arrest, according to the sources. As of Sunday, 28 patients comprising 15 children and 13 adults were undergoing treatment for dengue at CMCH, the sources said. Preventive steps Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said on Sunday that the Health Department had taken preventive steps in Tiruppur district to control the spread of dengue. Between January 21 and December 26 this year, the district had recorded 212 dengue cases, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-from-tiruppur-dies-of-dengue/article38045668.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Disunity among cadre led to DMK’s defeat in Coimbatore’||Disunity among cadre was one of the reasons for the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s defeat in Coimbatore in the 2021 Assembly election, youth wing secretary and MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin said here at booth committee members’ meeting on Sunday. “During my campaign in the run-up to the election, I could see overwhelming enthusiasm and support from voters in Coimbatore, but the result from the 10 Assembly constituencies was otherwise.” The other reason for the party’s defeat was the money power unleashed by former Minister S.P. Velumani, Mr. Udhayanidhi alleged and appealed to the DMK members to work hard in the ensuing urban local body polls to ensure 100% victory. The party’s Pollachi candidate for the Assembly election, Varadharajan, had referred to the disunity among cadre and called for identifying such cadre for disciplinary action. Disciplinary action Mr. Udhayanidhi said he would like to assure him that disciplinary action would follow and so would the action against Mr. Velumani, as said by party president M.K. Stalin during election campaign. To reverse the DMK’s electoral fortunes here, booth committee workers should meet every voter to highlight the government’s achievements in the past eight months, from bus fare waiver for women to reduction in milk price. Mr. Udhayanidhi also said the booth committee workers should ensure that the party won all the 100 wards in Coimbatore Corporation, the mayor and deputy mayor posts, seven municipalities and all town panchayats in the district. Minister for Electricity V. Senthilbalaji said each booth committee member should meet at least 10 families to talk to them about the government’s achievements. They should also work to enrol persons to the party so that one third of the 30 lakh voters in the district were DMK members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disunity-among-cadre-led-to-dmks-defeat-in-coimbatore/article38045662.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||India needs unity, not uniformity: Jairam Ramesh||India needs unity rather than uniformity and one way to preserve the unity is to respect all languages, senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh said here on Sunday. “Language has become a very emotive issue in our country. Language must also unite,” Mr. Ramesh said. He was the chief guest at the annual Vishnupuram Award Ceremony organised by the Vishnupuram Literary Circle. Alleging that the Union government's support for Sanskrit is “100 times more” than regional languages such as Tamil, the MP said that “the day India's diversity is destroyed, India will be destroyed.” Mr. Ramesh recalled that the Union government under the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had declared Tamil as a classical language in the year 2004 and credited the efforts of former Chief Minister Karunanidhi to this declaration. Poet Vikramadithyan was felicitated with the annual Vishnupuram Award during the event in the presence of Mr. Ramesh, authors Jeyamohan and Cho. Dharman, film director Vasanth S. Sai and poet Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu. The award comprised a statuette and Rs. 2 lakh cash. A collection of 19 essays on Mr. Vikramadithyan written by eminent literary personalities, including Mr. Jeyamohan, was also released. Prior to the award ceremony, a documentary on the awardee was screened. The Vishnupuram Literary Circle has been honouring personalities in Tamil literature every year since 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-needs-unity-not-uniformity-jairam-ramesh/article38045672.ece
27 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hotel, industry in Coimbatore win energy conservation awards||The Residency Towers, Coimbatore, has won the first prize in the “building - hotel sector” category of the National Energy Conservation (NEC) Award. Chief Operating Officer B. Gopinath accepted the award at a function held recently. A press release from the company said the Residency Towers, Coimbatore, has set benchmarks for energy conservation and monitoring of fuel, power, water and LPG consumption. “In the upcoming projects, we are working with our management, architect, and energy consultant to select energy-efficient products and sustainable materials right from the project stage. This will be in compliance with the energy conservation building code norms and international benchmarks,” said D. Charles Fabian, Director - Operations, The Residency Towers. CRI, a Coimbatore-based pump manufacturer, has also won the NEC Award for 2021. With its energy efficient pumps, the company has saved 21,500 million units of electricity for its consumers.CRI has installed over two million star-rated pumps and 50,000 IoT-enabled solar pumps. G. Selvaraj, Joint Managing Director of CRI, received the award recently. WelcomHotel, Coimbatore, has won the Excellence Award in the hotel building category of the IGBC Performance Challenge Award 2021, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotel-industry-in-coimbatore-win-energy-conservation-awards/article38045655.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. turns away 5 persons||The Forest Department sent back five persons from various organisations who allegedly attempted to visit the Kallarkudi tribal settlement in Anamalai Tiger Reserve near Valparai without permission. According to a statement from Manambolly Forest Range Officer A. Manikandan, Sethupathi from Tamil Nadu Tannurimai Meetpu Iyakkam, Subramania Prabhakaran from Tamil Nadu Dravidar Kazhagam, law student Sigamani and journalists Tamilkumaran (a member of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi) and Navaneethan allegedly attempted to visit the tribal settlement. They were eventually sent back as they did not have permission to enter the forest range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-turns-away-5-persons/article38045675.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||UN grants special status to No Food Waste||The Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the United Nations (UN) recently granted the Special Consultative Status to Coimbatore-based NGO No Food Waste. The NGO’s founder Padmanaban Gopalan said the ECOSOC granted the Special Consultative Status on November 1 based on a recommendation of the Committee on Non-Governmental Organisations and that a communication from the United Nations was sent on December 17. Mr. Padmanaban said he was made aware of this initiative in 2019, while being an invitee of the UN at the STI Forum held in New York. The NGO subsequently applied for the Special Consultative Status and submitted supporting documents. “We wanted to align ourselves with the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN,” he said. The Special Consultative Status would provide access to meetings conducted by the UN, allow the NGO to make oral presentations at meetings and allow its members to utilise the facilities of the UN such as documents and libraries, according to the communication. Founded in 2014 in Coimbatore, No Food Waste is a food recovery and food waste management network that focuses on collecting surplus food from weddings, parties and other places to distribute among the people in need. As of 2021, the NGO is functioning in 20 cities in southern India with around 500 volunteers in each of these cities. Mr. Padmanaban said No Food Waste had been working with Food Safety and Standards Authority of India in all the districts of the State at present and planned to scale up to other cities in India next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/un-grants-special-status-to-no-food-waste/article38045667.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Coimbatore Vizha Marathon will be held on January 2 as a physical event for the first 500 registrations. The virtual event will be held from January 2 to 8. The physical event will be for 5 km, 10 km and 21 km. The Coimbatore Vizha Cyclothon event will be a virtual event and the participants can choose to ride in the identified 16 locations in the city between January 2 and 9 and record it on Strava app. For details and registrations, visit:www.coimbatore vizhamarathon.com   Bharathi and Everest Rotary Clubs in Tiruppur recently distributed educational aids to rescued child workers who have joined colleges, polytechnics, and ITIs for higher education. Assistance worth Rs. 45,000, including notebooks, calculator and bags were given to the students who were rehabilitated by the National Child Labour Project, said a release from D.V. Vijayakumaar, project director of NCLP, Coimbatore. The students are studying in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article38045664.ece
27 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Marathon||The Coimbatore Vizha Marathon will be held on January 2 as a physical event for the first 500 registrations. The virtual event will be held from January 2 to 8. The physical event will be for 5 km, 10 km and 21 km. For details and registrations, visit:www.coimbatorevizhamara thon.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marathon/article38045781.ece
27 December 2021||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 positive samples sent for whole genome sequencing||The Health Department has sent the samples of a couple and their seven-year-old child, who recently arrived in Chidambaram from South Africa and tested positive for COVID-19, to the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai to determine whether they had contracted the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. Negative on arrival Sources said the couple and their two children arrived on December 15. Their samples tested negative and they were under home quarantine. As per the Health Department’s protocol for international travellers, the samples of the couple and their two children were tested again on December 23, the eighth day of their return. The test results of the couple and one of their children returned positive for COVID-19. They have been admitted to the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital (RMMCH). Their samples were sent to Chennai for whole genome sequencing. The results are awaited, sources said.  The test results of the couple and  one of their children returned positive for COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-positive-samples-sent-for-whole-genome-sequencing/article38046010.ece
27 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Three drown||Three youth drowned when they went for a swim at Varadamanadhi near Palani here on Sunday. The victims were identified as twin brothers, Vignesh and Yogesh, 22, sons of Rajiv of Arumbakkam in Chennai, and Ganesh, 21, son of Palani of Karaikal. They, along with Harish, 23, son of Kothandam of Tiruverkadu, were swimming in the river. One of them drowned and the others tried to save him. The bodies were sent for post-mortem. Fire and Rescue Service personnel retrieved the bodies. Following a complaint from Harish, police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-drown/article38045924.ece
27 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID probe begins||The CB-CID police began investigation into the death of a 12-year-old girl identified as Preethika of Pachalur, near Kodaikanal, about a week ago. Following the DGP’s directive, the case was transferred to CB-CID police. A team led by Inspector Santhanalakshmi visited the scene of crime and conducted inquiry with the victim’s family, police sources said. About a week ago, the girl was found dead with burn injuries on her body on her school campus at Pachalur near Kodaikanal. The Thandikudi police had registered a case of suspicious death under Section 174 of CrPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-probe-into-girls-death-begins/article38045743.ece
27 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Good response to vaccination drive in Erode district||With rising cases of the Omicron variant, there was good response to the COVID-19 vaccination drive held in the district on Sunday. The drive was held in 512 centres in government hospitals, government primary health centres, urban primary health centres and in schools across the district where there was good turnout of people in the morning. Camp was held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and the public turned out mostly to administer the second dose. Also, 2,048 health staff were on a door-to-door drive covering the unvaccinated, both in the Corporation limits and in rural areas. Likewise, the drive was held at 469 camps in Namakkal district while health staff, through 38 mobile vehicles, administered vaccines to people at their doorsteps across the district. Officials said doctors, nurses, anganwadi workers and teachers were pressed into service for the drive. The officials said 6,11,779 people had been vaccinated in the 15 vaccination drives held so far in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-vaccination-drive-in-erode-district/article38045778.ece
27 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Properties destroyed in fire at shops||A fire broke out at a shop selling paints that soon spread to four other shops near the bus stand destroying properties in the late hours of Saturday. Three shops selling paints, tiles, doors, windows, electrical items, plastic pipes were located on Sakthi Road. Also, godowns were attached to the shops where materials were stocked. Two other shops selling wooden items were located near these shops. The fire was noticed by passers-by after the shops were closed at around 11 p.m. Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot. The fire soon spread to nearby shops and materials in all the five shops started to burn. Dark smoke engulfed the entire shops making it difficult for fighters to put off the fire. Water from private tanks was utilised. Since the fire could not be controlled, additional four fire services from Bhavani and Pallipalayam were pressed into service. The fire was brought under control at 5 a.m. on Sunday. No one was injured in the incident reported. The cause of the fire is under investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/properties-destroyed-in-fire-at-shops/article38045777.ece
27 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Asian palm civet trapped in a cage, released||An Asian palm civet that accidentally was caught in a trap set for rats was rescued and released into Vilamundi Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) here on Saturday. Soundarrajan of Oppalavaadanur, near Shenbagapudur, a banana trader, placed a cage near his house to trap rats. On Saturday evening, he found a Mongoose-like species in the cage and alerted Vilamundi forest range officials. Officials identified the species as Asian palm civet that is widely found in Southeast Asian countries and also a least-concern species that has been categorised by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Officials said that it is found in trees and is not commonly sighted during day time. It could have entered the village in search of food, they said. Officials said that it is the first time in two years that they had spotted the species in human habitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asian-palm-civet-trapped-in-a-cage-released/article38045649.ece
27 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 26 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 45 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,07,608. While 56 persons were discharged, 513 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 26 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,02,366. While 36 persons were discharged, 385 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 22 cases taking the tally to 54,473. While 33 persons were discharged, 370 continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-26-new-covid-19-cases/article38045770.ece
27 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Eighth Century hero stone discovered in forest area||A hero stone dating back to eighth Century with Tamil inscriptions in Vatteluttu was discovered at Koothampalayam forest area in the district here recently. Members of the Yaakkai Voluntary Organisation comprising Chithalingan, Sudhakar Nalliyappan and Kumaravel Ramasamy, found the hero stone on the premises of Veerabhadra Swamy temple that is located along the forest stream at the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border. The stone is 86 cm high and 75 cm wide and the characters are not fully readable, except a few words that are recognisable. The stone is erected in the memory of a warrior who died during a cattle raid. The warrior is depicted with a sword in his right hand and a bow in his left hand, facing the enemy with courage. “This type of iconography is unique to Tamil Nadu, which can be seen in the early Pallava period hero stones. It seems the artists, who sculpt sculptures, have gone from Pallava country to Karnataka since the hero stone is not culturally mixed and follows the Tamil script and tradition even though it is located near the border”, said Mr. Kumaravel Rangasamy. Members said that many rare archaeological sites, including prehistoric burial sites, rock paintings and ancient Tamil writings were found in hamlets in Bargur, Kadambur and Talavadi, including a hero stone with inscriptions of 5th and 6th Centuries AD in Bargur.The hero stones are evidence to confirm the large number of settlements in forest areas that were occupied by people for a long time. “Further, there is ample evidence to support the fact that major trade routes began and continued about 1,500 years ago on the current route through Bargur, Thamaraikarai and Eratti”, they added. Hero stones inscriptions record the cultural features of a land and Yaakkai has so far documented more than 100 hero stones from the hilly and terrestrial areas of the Erode district, members added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eighth-century-hero-stone-discovered-in-forest-area/article38045773.ece
27 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha seized, four arrested||Over 60 lakh worth of gutkha and tobacco products were seized by Krishnagiri town police on Sunday. The seizure was made from a vehicle based on a tip-off near Anjaneya temple on Krishnagiri highway. The vehicle from Bengaluru was Chennai bound. According to the police, the vehicle was found transporting 300 sacks of gutkha and tobacco weighing over 6.5 tonne. According to the police, the seizure was worth Rs.60 lakh. Four persons John Joseph of Kandikuppam and Mannan, Akash and Yuvaraj all from Krishnagiri were arrested and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gutkha-seized-four-arrested/article38045769.ece
27 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||First dose given to 80% of eligible persons||Madurai Corporation had administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to 80% of the eligible population in the city’s 100 wards, said Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan here on Sunday. Speaking to The Hindu , the Commissioner said that administering the second dose had been completed for nearly 50% of the eligible populace. In the coming days, more people would get the shot. The first dose coverage had increased from 72% to 80% in the last 30 to 40 days alone, he said. According to Health Department sources, there is no shortage of vaccine which is being administered at Government Rajaji Hospital and many PHCs and UPHCs. Some people, whether educated or not, are still hesitating to get themselves vaccinated and protected against the coronavirus. Only on showing people who had the jab, doctors could remove their fear and get themselves vaccinated. Road relaying When asked about relaying roads damaged by the recent rains, Mr. Karthikeyan said that the city had 1,574 km of metalled roads in the 100 wards. It was impossible to relay roads across the city at the same time. They would be reliad in phases. As some of the contracts were awarded only a week ago, the contractors had been mobilising men and materials. The works would begin from the first week of next month. The city would have good roads soon, he said. The contractors had been instructed to lay roads as per the tender conditions. Payments would be released only on fulfilment of those conditions, he said. The functioning of the newly-opened Periyar bus stand was being studied for improvement of vehicular and pedestrian movement. Some minor corrections would be to made as the pattern of vehicle flow at different timings was being studied. A pedestrian underpass would be constructed between Periyar bus stand and Netaji Road. The Detailed Project Report had been prepared and the work would get completed in 14 months, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-dose-given-to-80-of-eligible-persons/article38045931.ece
27 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Resume crushing at sugar mills in Alanganallur: MP||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin should order resumption of crushing at National Cooperative Sugar Mills at Alanganallur near here to help farmers who have raised over 1.70 tonnes of cane, said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. Addressing cane farmers who are protesting for the 14th consecutive day on the factory premises on Sunday, the MP said that the State government had allowed resumption of crushing in two sugar mills recently. “However, the cane available for Alanganallur factory was much more than what is available for those two factories. Hence, the State government should allow crushing at Alanganallur also,” he said. So far 60,000 tonnes had been registered and another 17,000 tonnes were available for registration. Besides, the over one lakh tonnes of cane from the cane area of Dharani Sugars in Tenkasi district were available for diversion to Alanganallur also. The State government should immediately sanction Rs. 10 crore loan assistance for the factory to enable it to resume crushing at Alanganallur, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-crushing-at-sugar-mills-in-alanganallur-mp/article38045926.ece
27 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns of stern action against people intervening in functioning of DPCs||Following widespread criticism over functioning of some of the Direct Purchase Centres (DPC), Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar warned of stern action against people who intervened in their functioning, here on Sunday. Ahead of harvest of ‘samba’ crop, now in progress, the district administration had opened 42 DPCs. The officials informed that as per the State government’s order, ‘A’ grade variety of paddy would be purchased at Rs. 2,060 per quintal and ‘C’ grade at Rs. 2,015. In the last ‘kuruvai’ season, the district administration opened about 25 DPCs and purchased 17,416 tonnes of paddy from farmers. However, there was criticism from farmers over functioning of DPCs at the grievance redress meetings. The farmers also wanted more DPCs opened in the district. To look inot these issues, the Collector formed a committee comprising Agriculture Department officials and farmers’ representatives. It was proposed to open DPCs based on crop coverage in a particular region. The Collector also urged the farmers to register their names in the e-portal with details such as extent of crop, survey number, name of the farmer and bank account details. On the one side, farmers could avoid middlemen and secondly delay in purchse could be avoided, he said. Mobile DPCs would also be stationed in villages, based on demand. Intervention in the working of direct purchase centres by unauthorised persons or merchants would be dealt with an iron hand. If the unauthorised persons were found to be interfering repeatedly, they would even be detained under Goondas Act, the Colelctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-of-stern-action-against-people-intervening-in-functioning-of-dpcs/article38045932.ece
27 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to life||The district court has sentenced a man to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife in 2016. Madurai V Additional District and Sessions Judge M. Balakumar convicted and sentenced R. Kannan to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 for murdering his wife Sivagnanaselvi in Keerathurai. He was booked under Section 302 (murder) of IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-sentence-for-murder/article38045718.ece
27 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled man moves HC for setting up milk booth||A differently abled person moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the district administration to allot him an Aavin milk booth. The petitioner, C. Sivakumar of Madurai, said that he had sought allotment of milk booth under provisions of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995. He also suggested a few places where he could put up the booth. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan directed Madurai Corporation to look into the representation and examine whether the petitioner could put up the milk booth. The Corporation was also directed to look into the places suggested and see whether it would affect the flow of traffic or be of hindrance to pedestrians. The court directed the Corporation to consider these factors before granting the permission. It must also be checked whether the petitioner had obtained a licence. If the conditions were satisfied, the Corporation Commissioner can take a decision with respect to the representation made. The petitioner could also be invited for a personal hearing. The decision can be taken as per the prescribed rules in six weeks, the court said and disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-man-moves-hc-for-setting-up-milk-booth/article38045717.ece
27 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gita chanting contest held||As many as 216 students were qualified for the final rounds of Gita chanting competition held at Sethupathi Higher Secondary School here on Sunday. Over 4,000 students from 24 schools participated in the first round of the competition, being organised by Chinmaya Mission for the past 22 years. Inaugurating the finals, Canara Bank Deputy General Manager K.S. Pradeep lauded the Chinmaya Mission for conducting the event so that children could know about Gita. Nalini Ravindranath lit the lamp. Chinmaya Mission president T. Thilagar presided. In the evening, State Bank of India DGM H. Anand distributed prizes to winners in five categories. The prizes included gold coins worth Rs. 80,000 and silver coins worth Rs. 10,000. Citations were given to all participants. In a brief address, Swami Sivayogananda touched upon the nuances of Gita and the objective behind conducting the competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gita-chanting-contest-held/article38045934.ece
27 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Complete trial in Kachanatham case in two months: HC||Dismissing the criminal appeal filed by an accused in the case of murders of three Scheduled Caste persons in Kachanatham in Sivaganga district in 2018, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the trial court to dispose of the case in two months. On May 28, 2018, three members of a Scheduled Caste were murdered and five members injured when a group of people from a dominant community attacked them with deadly weapons following a dispute over presenting temple honours in Kachanatham. The court was hearing the criminal appeal filed by Muthu Servai, one of the accused. The Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under SC/ST (PoA) Act in Sivaganga had dismissed his bail petition. The case of the prosecution was that 33 persons were accused in the case. A total of 65 witnesses were examined in the case. The trial was getting delayed due to the failure of the accused to attend court, it was submitted. The prosecution prayed that the appeal be dismissed. Justice R. Tharani observed that on the direction of the High Court the case before the trial court was being taken up on a day-to-day basis. Under these circumstances, if the appellant was released on bail, there was a possibility of a delay in conducting the trial. There were 33 accused in the case, and if one of them was absent the trial would be delayed. There was no necessity to release the appellant at the present stage, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-trial-in-kachanatham-case-in-two-months-high-court/article38045748.ece
27 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery, cash stolen from house||Gold jewellery weighing 60 sovereigns and cash were stolen from a house in Tirumangalam on Saturday. Police said retired coperative bank official Thirumavalavan, 62, had gone to the church and his wife Ebenezer Beulah, a teacher, was also away. When Thirumavalavan returned home, he found the front door locked from inside. When he went to the rear side, he found the locks on the door broken and the jewellery and cash stolen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-cash-stolen-from-house/article38045935.ece
27 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 141.65 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 458 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.55 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 414 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,840 mcft. There was no rainfall in the region during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday.    Three youth drowned when they went for a swim at Varadamanadhi near Palani here on Sunday. The victims were identified as twins, Vignesh and Yogesh, 22, sons of Rajiv of Arumbakkam in Chennai, and Ganesh, 21, son of Palani of Karaikal. They, along with Harish, 23, son of Kothandam of Tiruverkadu, were swimming in the river. One of them drowned and the others tried to save him. The bodies were sent for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38045753.ece
27 December 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||17th anniversary of tsunami observed||The 17th anniversary of Tsunami that struck the coastal region was observed by the Nagapattinam administration on Sunday in memory of those who had perished in the natural disaster. Accompanied by senior officials, District Collector A. Arun Thamburaj laid floral wreaths at the Tsunami Memorial on the premises of the Collectorate. Inmates of the Annai Sathya Government Home for Children whose parents had died in the natural disaster also joined the officials in paying floral tributes to the departed souls. Thoothukudi Marking the 17th anniversary of the tsunami, which claimed the lives of hundreds of people, local residents and fishermen lit candles along Threspuram beach on Sunday. As a mark of respect, the fishermen stayed off the sea and offered milk and flowers to the departed souls. Earlier in the day, many fishermen and boat owners also paid their respects by organising special prayers at the church. In Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram districts, the fishermen observed a minute’s silence and lit candles. In some of the coastal hamlets in Rameswaram and Thangachimadam, bereaved families placed the portraits of their loved ones near the sea and paid their respects by offering flowers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17th-anniversary-of-tsunami-observed/article38045654.ece
27 December 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||93-year-old school building to be restored to former glory in Nagercoil||Those who have read Sundara Ramasamy’s short story, Nadar Sir , will know the red brick majestic Travancore-style building that houses Sethu Lakshmi Bai Government Higher Secondary School in Nagercoil. The 93-year-old school, once preferred by all parents in Kanniyakumari district for its excellence in academics and sports, was gradually overshadowed by proliferation of private English medium schools. Years of neglect took a heavy toll on its structure, particularly on the roof. Now the heritage division of the Public Works Department (PWD) has launched a project to restore and conserve the building. “We are restoring the building as part of a project to conserve 14 heritage buildings in Kanniyakumari district. The total allocation is over Rs. 4.43 crore,” said S. Manikandan, Executive Engineer, Heritage Division of PWD. Constructed in 1928 on a sprawling campus with exclusive courts for football, basketball, volleyball and other games, the enormity of the campus is explained by fact that the district administration chose it for late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to address a public gathering and the dais erected for the purpose is still there. The building covering 21,864 sq. ft. has giant size windows and the ceiling is paved with teak wood and Mangalore tiles The building leaked during rain since the roof was damaged and the water destroyed the teak frames. Instead of preserving the structure in its original form, PWD paved concrete on the roof in some places and fixed tiles. Mr. Manikandan said it happened before creation of the heritage division. “Now, all works strictly follow the traditional conservation and preservation methods.” Erode-based Kadal Constructions has bagged the project to restore the building. “Before paving the tiles, the frames are covered by galvanised iron sheets [GI sheets] to prevent leakage. We are also repairing the windows and painting them with varnish. The floors will be paved with Athangudi tiles,” said R. Rajesh, manager, Kadal Constructions. He said in the beginning it was difficult to find workers as they were not ready to climb the high ceiling. “Many came, but opted out saying it was risky. Somehow we managed. We will start work early and wind up before the arrival of the scorching sun. We will resume work in the afternoon,” Mr Rajesh said, expressing hope that the work would be completed by the end of February next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/93-year-old-school-building-to-be-restored-to-former-glory-in-nagercoil/article38046035.ece
27 December 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in domestic dispute||A 20-year-old woman was killed while her lover was battling for life after a dispute between them led to both attacking each other with knives at Paramathi Velur on Saturday night. The police said Thulasi from Chhattisgarh was in love with Rupesh Kumar (24) and both were working at a spinning mill at Paramathi Velur. Police said that Thulasi came to her house after work and Rupesh reportedly visited her. The woman and the youth had an altercation, and in a fit of rage, the two attacked each other with knives. Both suffered serious injuries. Other workers admitted them to the Government Hospital at Paramathi Velur. But, doctors declared Thulasi as brought dead. First-aid was given to Rupesh Kumar and he was shifted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Namakkal. Doctors said that his condition is critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-in-domestic-dispute/article38045774.ece
27 December 2021||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Thai Poosam to be celebrated in Palani on Jan. 18||The annual Thai Poosam festival at Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple at Palani will be conducted on January 18 next year, according to Dindigul Collector S. Visakan. Chairing a meeting with officials from multiple departments on Saturday, he said the holy flag would be hoisted on January 12 at 6.45 a.m. The celestial wedding would take place on January 17 at 5 p.m.. On the following day, Thai Poosam — the highlight of the celebration — would be held followed by the Car festival at 4.45 p.m. The float festival would be held on January 21 and the holy flag would be unfurled at 11 p.m. the same day, Mr Visakan said Devotees would be allowed only upon adhering to COVID-19 protocol issued by the State government. Eight ticket counters would be opened them. There would be dormitory halls with bathrooms and restrooms. For those planning to take a dip at Idumban kulam, Fire and Rescue Services personnel would be posted at the spot, HR&CE Joint Comissioner N. Natarajan said. Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan said CCTV cameras in and around the temple campus and watchtowers would be installed in 12 different locations to monitor the crowd. Revenue officials, in coordination with the HR&CE department, would have a 24x7 control room for the benefit of devotees. The padayatris , who were expected to reach out to the temple on the penultimate day (January 18), would be permitted as per the Standard Operating Procedures enforced by the State government in view of the pandemic, the officials said. District Revenue Officer V. Latha, senior officials from TNSTC, PWD, Rural Development and other departments participated in the meeting.  There will be dormitory halls with bathrooms and restrooms for devotees S. Visakan District Collector, Dindigul||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thai-poosam-in-palani-on-january-18/article38045652.ece
27 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Crumbling infrastructure, poor amenities call for maintenance of Goubert Market in Puducherry||Located in the heart of the Boulevard, the Goubert Market, popularly known as ‘Periya Kadai’ is the city’s biggest vegetable market. Established by the French, the market has stood the test of time through several decades and remained the most preferred location for meat, fish and fresh vegetables. However, the market has now become unsafe and unhygienic due to crumbling infrastructure, poor water supply and lack of sanitation, traders say. For long, there has been no maintenance or measures to improve facilities at the market. While the main thoroughfares around the market underwent change and development, the traders continue to function more or less out of the age-old market complex with very little amenities. When it started, the Goubert Market, spread over 11,500 square metres, had around 536 permanent stalls and 450 temporary stalls for vegetables, groceries, fish and flowers. However, the number of vendors has doubled now and they have taken over every available space in the facility, including the pathways, selling everything from books, shoes and bags. There was a plan to modernise the market in 1985 with Central assistance. But the proposal has been gathering dust, say traders. “Though the government has promised to renovate the heritage market, it has not kept its promise so far. There are over 600 stalls in the market and all these families are dependent on the trade for survival. The market has not even been whitewashed over the last several years,” S. Lakshmi, a flower seller, said. Traders here are waiting for the promised makeover. “The market is plagued by poor sanitation and waste management systems. It has a sanitary complex with 12 toilets each for men and women. They cater to over 4,000-odd vendors and shopkeepers in the market and are insufficient,” said A. Prabhu, a trader. Traders said there was need for at least two more free public toilets in the complex. The market and its surrounding lanes lack parking spaces. Many customers have stopped coming for want of parking space, Mr. Prabhu said. The market has nine entrances on J.N. Street, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bharathi Street and Rangapillai Street. Most of them are heavily encroached by hawkers. Motorists have a harrowing time passing through the stretch, resulting in frequent traffic snarls. The market complex too needs serious attention as its walls have developed cracks and leaks at several places, Mr. Prabhu added. A senior official of the local administration department said improvement works had been planned in the market along with a multi-storied parking lot under the Smart City project at an estimated cost of Rs. 78 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crumbling-infrastructure-poor-amenities-call-for-maintenance-of-goubert-market-in-puducherry/article38046014.ece
27 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre will grant Statehood for Union Territory, says CM||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Sunday expressed confidence that the Centre would grant Statehood for the Union Territory of Puducherry. Addressing the inauguration of the Puducherry Print and Television Journalists' Association, Mr. Rangasamy, who heads the AINRC-BJP coalition government in Puducherry, said Statehood status had been a long-standing demand of the Union Territory. "We have been making a plea for full Statehood to Puducherry. I am confident that the Centre under Prime Minister Narendra Modi will accede to the demand." The Chief Minister said the government was implementing several schemes for the betterment of journalists and promised to consider the proposals submitted by the office-bearers of the Association. Mr. Rangasamy called upon media professionals to stick to truthful reporting and promised to take all steps to protect the Fourth Estate in fulfilling its duties. Later, he honoured senior journalists by presenting mementos. In her inaugural address, Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said Puducherry had taken the lead by being the first State in the country to declare mediapersons as frontline workers. “We have shown the way to the rest of the country and have also vaccinated mediapersons on a priority basis," she said. She recorded her appreciation for the vital role that the media played during the COVID-19 pandemic notwithstanding the risks, in creating awareness, promoting vaccination and debunking myths. On the occasion, Health department officials were felicitated for COVID-19 management. Speaker R. Selvam; Rajya Sabha MP S. Selvaganabapthy; Ministers K. Lakshminarayanan and A. Namassivayam; MLAs, K.S.P. Ramesh, A.K.D. Aroumougame and Richards John Kumar; T. Arun, Industries Secretary; E. Vallavan, Information Secretary; R.K. Raja, the Association president and M. Sridhar, secretary, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-will-grant-statehood-for-puducherry-says-cm/article38045685.ece
27 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G, CM take part in river festival||The first river festival, hosted by the Tourism Department, was organised at the Thirukanchi Gangai Varaha Nandeeswarar temple on the banks of Sankarabarani river on Saturday. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Speaker R. Selvam, Tourism Minister K. Lakshminarayanan, Agriculture Minister C. Djeacoumar, MLAs and other officials participated in the ceremonies at the river festival in Villianur commune panchayat. The river festivals were hosted as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, to celebrate India’s 75th year of independence and also to raise awareness on river rejuvenation. Various folk art forms were organised to celebrate rural heritage. A river cleaning drive and a sapling planting programme were also organised. A similar river festival — the Cauvery river festival — was held in Karaikal on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-cm-take-part-in-river-festival/article38046008.ece
27 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs nine fresh COVID-19 infections||No death due to COVID-19 was reported in the Union Territory even as nine fresh cases were detected on Sunday. Puducherry recorded eight of the fresh cases, which were detected from 1,149 tests, Mahe logged one. No fresh cases were reported in Karaikal and Yanam. The test positivity rate was 0.78%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.45%. With 27 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 127. Of these, 34 patients were in hospital and 93 in home isolation. The cumulative toll remained at 1,880, with Puducherry logging 1,468, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has registered 1,29,415 cases and 1,27,408 recoveries so far. Meanwhile, 1,754 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. Other districts Cuddalore reported one more death death and 12 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 64,573. The official toll stood at 876. The district saw 63,615 recoveries and the active case count stood at 82. In Villupuram, seven persons tested positive, taking the total cases to 46,103. Kallakurichi recorded one positive case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-nine-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38046011.ece
27 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Rameswaram fishermen to continue agitation||Thanking Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and the State government for taking their plight to the Centre for release of jailed fishermen and retrieval of vessels seized by Sri Lanka Navy on December 18-19, fishermen associations said here on Sunday that they would continue with their agitation. Fisheries Minister Anitha Radhakrishnan had a meeting with association leaders at Rameswaram and assured them that he would soon lead a delegation to New Delhi to meet External Affairs Minister Jaishankar. Speaking to The Hindu , fishermen association leader Jesu Raja said they were highly moved by the State government’s initiative. “We will take a call on withdrawal of the strike after return from New Delhi.” He added that the Sri Lankan government had announced that they would not release the vessels. Such unilateral decisions by the Sri Lankan government and authorities resulted in the fishermen staying away from fishing. “What else can we do other than fishing if our boats are with held by the Sri Lankan authorities,” the fishermen leader asked. In the past too, such seizures had resulted in public auction in Sri Lanka and the fishermen had ended up with huge losses, Mr Jesu Raja recalled. The agitation to block the train at Thangachimadam on the evening of January 1, 2022 by fishermen was resolved at a meeting hurriedly convened here on Sunday. Though some fishermen in Mandapam and Pamban had planned to withdraw the stir and go to the seas, they withdrew the plan, the fishermen leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-to-continue-agitation/article38045651.ece
27 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||150 kg of sea cucumber seized, one arrested||Forest Department officials attached to Mandapam Wildlife Range in Ramanathapuram district have seized 150 kg of sea cucumber and arrested one A. Realdhin in this connection. The forest officials found the sea cucumber in 12 gunny bags kept in a van on Mandapam north seashore. Acting on a tip-off, a joint patrol team, headed by Mandapam Forest Range Officer G. Venkatesh and comprising Forest guards and local police personnel, checked the van used by the accused and found the sea cucumber in it. The accused was booked for wildlife crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/150-kg-of-sea-cucumber-seized-one-arrested/article38045752.ece
27 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Roads leading to Yercaud choked due to heavy tourist inflow||Tourists, mostly from Kerala and Karnataka, thronged Yercaud as the hilltop witnessed traffic congestion during the day here on Sunday. Most roads witnessed huge crowds as tourists arrived in cars and other vehicles despite heavy fog and cold conditions. Anna Park, Rose Garden, Pagoda Point, Shevaroyan Temple, Lady’s Seat and Gent’s Seat saw heavy crowd, while tourists waited in a long queue for boat rides at the Boat House. Since Sunday falls after Christmas, tourists from other States arrived at Yercaud right from the early morning. Shops selling tea, snacks and food items saw good business after many months. In the absence of adequate parking space, cars were parked indiscriminately on the roads leading to congestion. Police personnel had a tough time to regulate the traffic. Shopkeepers said that since schools would be closed for a week, they expect inflow to be steady in the coming days till January 2. Many shopkeepers feared that spread of Omicron variant and restrictions would affect their business that was yet to recover after COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-leading-to-yercaud-choked-due-to-heavy-tourist-inflow/article38045780.ece
27 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Mettur dam||The water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur stood at 119.04 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet here on Sunday. At 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 4,424 cusecs while the discharge was 15,000 cusecs into River Cauvery and 600 cusecs into East-West canal. The storage was 91.94 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 93.47 tmc. Meanwhile, the water level at the Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district stood at 103.72 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 698 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-mettur-dam/article38045771.ece
27 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inspection of railway works on Dec. 27, 28||As the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bangalore, will conduct statutory inspection of the railway electrification works between Salem Junction and Virudhachalam Junction railway stations on December 27 and 28, people residing in the vicinity of the railway line are asked to be cautious. A release from the Salem Railway Division said the Commissioner would also conduct a high-speed trial run from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on December 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspection-of-railway-works-on-dec-27-28/article38045775.ece
27 December 2021||SATTUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Call teachers’ union to discuss blended mode of learning’||The Higher Education Minister should call teachers’ union to discuss the disadvantages of blended learning programme proposed by the Union government, teachers’ union has said. Speaking at a the Sixth Education Conference organised by Madurai Kamaraj University and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University Teachers Association (MUTA) held here on Sunday, general secretary of State Platform for Common School System P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu said the blended mode of learning and teaching was against the interests of rural students. The government had proposed to conduct 40% of classes in online mode and 60% in offline mode. “The University Grants Commission wants the students to come to college only for hands-on learning like workshop and laboratory education and the other classes are intended through online programme,” said Mr. Babu said. The UGC had asked for redesigning of the syllabus to comply with the blended learning programme. “The rural students face network connectivity problems and they are at a disadvantage when compared to urban students,” he said. Classroom education was meant for interactive learning sessions while online programmes did not have such a facility. Besides, the online programmes would reduce teachers to coaches and mentors, whereas the teachers taught the students more than what was prescribed in the syllabus in physical classroom environment. “The first generation students will be at a disadvantage as online classes would deny democratic space, social transformation and human development,” he said. MUTA wanted scrapping of the New Education Policy. The colleges should be reduced to produce students with vocational skill under it, he said. General secretary of Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artistes Association Adhavan Dheethanchya and MUTA general secretary M. Nagarajan were among those who spoke at the education conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-teachers-union-to-discuss-blended-mode-of-learning/article38045755.ece
27 December 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘561.85 mm surplus rainfall recorded in Theni district’||Against the normal average rainfall of 829.80 mm till December, Theni district recorded 1,391.65 mm, which was 561.85 mm surplus, according to Collector K.V. Muralidharan. Presiding over the monthly farmers’ grievance meeting at the Collectorate on Friday, he said the normal average rainfall for December was 56.2 mm, while 118.4 mm had been recorded till now, which was 62.20 mm surplus. Hence, farmers must make use of the availability of water judiciously and benefit with high yield. When some farmers complained about crop damage during the northeast monsoon, the Collector suggested that they look for alternative crops. By switching over to alternative produce, they could avoid loss from conventional paddy and other varieties. The district, according to agriculture and horticulture department officials, had 42,157 hectares of coverage including paddy (10,239 ha), cotton (2682 ha) and sugarcane (2598 ha). Complaints Responding to complaints from some farmers about fertilizer dealers, Mr. Muralidharan said after carrying out simultaneous checks between December 16 and 19, the licence of 11 dealers was cancelled and 21 others had been let off with a warning. The farmers could lodge their complaint on the issue on 83001-08666 or 98949-47952 (Assistant Director, Quality Control). They were also asked to remit the premium for crop insurance before December 31. District Forest Officer S. Vidya, Periyakulam Sub-Collector C.A. Rishabh, DRO T. Subramanian, PA to Collector (Agriculture) R. Vishnuram Methi, RDO B. Kousalya, Joint Director (Agriculture) T. Alagu Nagendran and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/56185-mm-surplus-rainfall-recorded-in-theni-district/article38045745.ece
27 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over dilapidated school building at Vilathikulam||A century-old primary school building, which has 491 students on roll, is in dilapidated condition in Thoothukudi district. Apprehending that it may collapse anytime, parents and activists have appealed to the district administration to take note of the school’s condition and order its demolition. Submitting a memorandum to the School Education Department and the Collector, parents, who were signatories to the petition, said on Sunday that the institution, one of the oldest in the district, was started in 1906. Teaching in both Tamil and English medium, the school had one HM and nine teachers. Located opposite to Vilathikulam bus stand, the Panchayat Union Primary School had 323 students in 2019-20 and 386 students in 2016-17. According to the parents, following the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, many of them could not pay fees for their wards in private and matriculation schools. Hence, they admitted their children in the government school. While there were 15 teachers in the school, six opted for transfer through the counselling process. With rise in student strength, the number of teachers had to be increased. Also, there were two sections in each class from Class 1-5 and the administration should create additional sections. they said. Also, the school did not have a sanitary worker. In the interest of the children and to ensure a hygienic environment, some teachers and a few parents contributed money and engaged conservancy workers. The district administration should direct the School Education Department to appoint sanitary workers under the Pudu Vaazhvu scheme. Also, the compound wall on the northern side of the premises had been allegedly encroached. A CPI(M) functionary P Pooviraj, who spearheads awareness programmes in the locality, and a few activists said the Collector should immediately direct the PWD to carry out inspection and order demolition wherever it was required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-dilapidated-school-building-at-vilathikulam/article38046038.ece
27 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen observe 17th tsunami anniversary||Marking the 17th anniversary of the tsunami, which claimed the lives of hundreds of people, local residents and fishermen lit candles along Threspuram beach on Sunday. As a mark of respect, the fishermen stayed off the sea and offered milk and flowers to the departed souls. Earlier in the day, many fishermen and boat owners also paid their respects by organising special prayers at the church. In Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram districts, fishermen observed a minute’s silence and lit candles. In some of the coastal hamlets in Rameswaram and Thangachimadam, bereaved families placed the portraits of their loved ones near the sea and paid their respects by offering flowers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17th-tsunami-anniversary-observed/article38045744.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Poor crowd management at Srirangam disappoints devotees||Poor crowd management at Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam has irked the devotees whose footfall has been on the rise. The temple, which is considered the most important of the 108 main Vishnu temples (Divyadesams), in the country, receives devotees from various parts of the country. The number of devotees from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala, in particular, has been increasing manifold in recent years. According to a rough estimate, the temple receives on an average 20,000 devotees daily. It received about 1.30 lakh devotees on December 14 on account of opening of ‘Paramapadavasal’ and over 1.37 lakh devotees on December 19. On the other 18 days of Vaikunda Ekadasi festival, arrival of devotees ranged between 15,000 and one lakh. Besides festival times, the crowd swells on Fridays and weekends. Devotees complain that the crowd management leaves much to be desired. There are three queues, one for open darshan (free darshan), the second for Rs. 50 and other for Rs. 250 ticket darshan. While affluent devotees prefer the Rs. 250 queue, others go for either Rs. 50 queue or open darshan queue. They complain that they are forced to wait for hours to have a darshan of Sri Ranganathaswamy, the presiding deity. Except for a few changes on crowd management, they say that the old system of forcing the devotees to stand in the queues sans sufficient basic amenities has remained so for many years. The devotees, particularly the elderly and women, find it difficult to wait for hours in the queues. If they go out of the queue to attend to nature’s calls, they get pushed behind in the queue. Moreover, have to go far to find washrooms. There were many instances of devotees returning to their native places, in the recent past, without having darshan of the presiding deities as the “Moolavar” sannadhi was closed before their turn came. It often disappoints the devotees, who come from far-off places by spending huge amounts of money. “We managed to get the darshan after waiting for three hours. Several devotees returned without having darshan as the sannadhi was closed,” said A. Dilip, a devotee from Chennai. The change in schedule of darshan during festival days also causes problem to the devotees. The devotees, who visit the temple without knowing the darshan timings, also end up disappointed. They say that the temple administration should disseminate the regular time schedule and the schedule being followed in the festival days so as to avoid disappointment Devotees are of the view that the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) should explore the possibilities of providing waiting halls with basic amenities inside the temple so as to avoid the long waiting hours in queue. S. Selvakumar, a long time resident of Srirangam, said that the arrival of devotees, which was in hundreds in eighties and nineties, had gone up in thousands. It was one of the rich and high revenue earning temples in the State. It could be made as a model in crowd management by introduction of some best practices being followed in some of the leading temples in the country, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-crowd-management-at-srirangam-disappoints-devotees/article38045729.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||BUDS Think 2021 deciphers labour market and minimum wages||With a view to creating awareness among students about Nobel Prize for Economics, the Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University, teamed up with Internal Quality Assurance Cell of the varsity to conduct 'BUDS Think 2021'. There were deliberations by economics professors and experts during the day-long event recently on whether or not payment of minimum wages to workers would reduce employment, in the backdrop of the assertions by Nobel Prize winners that minimum wage does not lead to unemployment. In his lecture on ‘Labour Market Effect on Immigration’, Jebamalai Vinanchiarachi, former Principal Advisor to General Director, UNIDO, Vienna, Austria, shared his observations on migrants of Nuba mountain region of South Sudan, the story of migration in Africa, and European Union interventions to emphasise on enhancement of productivity. S. Iyyampillai, Senior Professor of Economics (Retired), Bharathidasan University, observed that productivity in excess of supply leads to unemployment, in his special address titled ‘Labour Market Effect on Minimum Wages’. Government intervention through any form (for enforcement of minimum wages payment), though made with good intention, would lead to negative result, he said, adding that knowledge workers were in an advantageous position owing to the attributes of creativity, efficiency, productivity and innovative thinking. Citing the proof portrayed by Nobel Laureate David Card through Phillips Curve that minimum wage does not lead to unemployment, S. M. Suriyakumar, faculty, Bharathidasan Institute of Management, Tiruchi, detailed the background for introduction of minimum wages in countries across the globe. With nearly 45 crore of migrant labourers and 90 crore of employees in informal sector in India, every one should have a role in production, Prof. Suriyakumar said, quoting Indian philosopher and economicst J. C. Kumarappa, in his lecture on ‘Labour Market Effect on Education’. In his inaugural address, M. Selvam, Vice-Chancellor, opined that minimum wage to workers would not reduce employment, as long as the demand exists, while advocating exploration of uncharted areas. The event on Nobel Prize has been initiated as an innovative practice to create awareness among students about the Nobel Prize, M. Selvam, Professor and Head, Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University, said, noting that ‘right job to right person’ would smoothen functioning of the job market. The programme enabled about 100 students to look for every opportunity as a learning experience and be flexible to adapt to situations and succeed, Prof. Selvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buds-think-2021-deciphers-labour-market-and-minimum-wages/article38045737.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic wrings out Kollidam washermen financially||Battered by COVID-19 pandemic for the last two years, washermen making a living on the banks of the Kollidam river are slowly coming to terms with the harsh situation they are in. Many are, in fact, leaving the vocation to eke out a living elsewhere. For P. Kannan and his family who have been living on the banks of the Kollidam, near the old bridge, the crisis has caused a financial crisis. “Our preceding generation washed clothes and dried them along the bank, and we grew up learning the profession. However, remaining in the vocation now is a huge question mark”, Kannan says. While at least 300 families used to live in the washermen colonies, now less than 100 remain. A washerman charges Rs. 10 per piece of cloth, and will be able to wash around 100 clothes a day. But, they have to invest more than half of the money they make into buying various products they require for washing, starching and ironing clothes. “We use more than 10 different products, including bleaching powder, soap powder and soap oil, fabric whiteners for washing, starch and also coal for the iron boxes,” Kannan says. With no orders from hotels and private hospitals that used to provide them with a large chunk of work, they are unable to make ends meet. “Many do not give us clothes to wash due to lack of business as number of visitors has fallen apparently due to fear of contracting the viral infection,” Kannan's mother, who also takes part in the business says. The washermen also complain that contaminated water is let off into the river, due to which they are contracting infections. “I had a skin infection on both my legs. I had to spend nearly Rs. 1,000 on hospital bills. But I have to continue to feed my family and have to return to work,” Kannan says. The government, too, has paid no heed to their woes. The washermen lament that they have not received any solatium from the government for the losses incurred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-wrings-out-kollidam-washermen-financially/article38045734.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Misuse of tactile pavement a cause for concern||Parking of two-wheelers on tactile paving on the pedestrian paths along the Karur bypass road has defeated the purpose of their formation. When the Tiruchi Corporation upgraded the Karur bypass road from the Salai Road and Shastri Road junction to Anbil Dharmalingam statue a year ago, a provision was made in the form of tactile paving so as to facilitate the visually impaired people to walk on the pedestrian pavement on both the sides. The tactile paving was coloured with yellow painting. By sensing the tactile paving by their foots the visually impaired could easily walk on without having to depend upon the helpers. Similar provision had also been made along the pavements near Teppakulam post office. But, the pavements have been used for other purposes. The tactical paving on the Karur bypass road has been used for parking two-wheelers, thereby preventing the visually impaired from using the facility. In some spots, the shopkeepers have kept notice boards of their establishment. N. Jamaludeen, a civic activist, said that it was an important facility aimed at helping the visually impaired people to use the pavements easily. The facility should not be allowed to be misused. The Tiruchi Corporation should take necessary action, he said.  It is an important facility aimed at helping the visually impaired N. Jamaludeen Civic activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/misuse-of-tactile-pavement-a-cause-for-concern/article38045731.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Six peafowls found dead||Six peafowls were found dead at Maradi village near Thuraiyur on Sunday. According to sources, the feathers of the birds were found scattered on the river banks of Ayyar. Forest personnel of Thuraiyur range rushed to the spot and conducted enquiry with the locals. A veterinary team was also pressed into service to study the cause of death. After post mortem, the dead birds were buried. Similar incidents had occurred over the last six months in Manapparai and Thuvarankurichi. It was said that the birds were poisoned by farmers, whose standing crops were affected by the peacocks. A senior official of the Forest Department said that the issue were being closely followed. Action would be taken against those responsible for the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-peafowls-found-dead/article38045723.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bamboo saplings planted||Central Workshops, Southern Railway, Golden Rock, has undertaken mass plantation with a special variety of bamboo on its premises, which has commercial and environmental benefits. On Saturday, authorities arranged for planting 2021 saplings as a mark of respect to late Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, on his birth anniversary. The ‘Beema Bamboo’, a tissue-cultured variety, has a higher capacity to absorb carbon dioxide and produce oxygen, a press release said. This variety of bamboo helps in substantial reduction of Green House Gas emission. Accordingly the garden was named as ‘MMXXI Atal Prana Garden’, signifying 2021 in Roman letters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bamboo-saplings-planted/article38045726.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||38 COVID-19 cases reported in central region||The central region reported 38 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, in continuation with the declining trend prevalent across the State. One death due to the viral infection was reported in Tiruchi district. All nine districts in the central region reported 10 or lesser number of cases. A total of 10 patients reported positive for the viral infection in Tiruchi, while Karur reported nine and Thanjavur, eight. Four patients reported COVID-19 positive in Tiruvarur, three in Perambalur. Two patients contracted the infection in Nagapattinam. Meanwhile, Pudukkottai and Ariyalur registered one case each while Mayiladuthurai reported none on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-covid-19-cases-reported-in-central-region/article38045732.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 118.84 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 4,944 cusecs and the discharge 14,999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article38045736.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Thirumoorthy dam||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Sunday raised the shutters of Thirumoorthy dam in Tiruppur district to release water for irrigation of over 94,000 acre of agricultural land in Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts. According to a release, the State government has ordered the release of water for the benefit of 94,521 acre of agricultural land under the first zone ayacut of Palar basin in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project. Water not exceeding 9,500 mcft, including conveyance losses, will be released for 135 days from Sunday in five rounds with gaps in between. As per this, 250 cusecs was released from Thirumoorthy dam into Parambikulam main canal on Sunday, which would be gradually increased to 912 cusecs. This water would benefit agricultural land spread across Udumalpet, Madathukulam, Tiruppur, Palladam, Dharapuram and Kangeyam taluks in Tiruppur district along with Pollachi and Sulur taluks in Coimbatore district. Tiruppur Collector S. Vineeth was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-thirumoorthy-dam/article38045674.ece
27 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Owners of 3 pharmacies booked||Sleuths of the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) on Sunday registered cases against the owners of three pharmacies in Tiruppur on charges of selling drugs without valid prescriptions. Sources said the NIB-CID received a tip-off, following which they alerted the Drugs Control Department. Officials from the NIB-CID and Drugs Control Department conducted a joint search at the three pharmacies – one on Dharapuram Road and two in Boyampalayam. The officials seized the purchase vouchers from the three pharmacies and booked the three owners under provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940. Further action would be initiated after due investigation, the NIB-CID sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owners-of-3-pharmacies-booked/article38045669.ece
27 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 200 beams erected to support damaged bridge in Vellore||After four days of hard work, more than 200 support beams have been erected under the damaged railway bridge across the Ponnai river in Vellore district. The repairs have come to an end, and the trial run of trains is expected to begin on Monday, railway officials said on Sunday. Senior officials, including Chennai Divisional Railway Manager Ganesh and a team of experts from Structural Engineering Research Centre (CSIR-SERC), had camped at the site for the past two days to monitor the repairs to the British-era bridge. “Regular run of express trains will take a few more days because a safety audit has to be done,” a railway official said. Railway officials said each steel beam is 6 feet long, 1.5 feet high and 2 feet wide and weighs 180 kg-200 kg. More than 200 beams have been erected around the damaged brick-and-mortar pillar. They have been buttressed by dozens of sandbags. As ordered by Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian, water release into the Ponnai, a tributary of the Palar, has been stopped to prevent damage to the beams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-200-beams-erected-to-support-damaged-bridge-in-vellore/article38046003.ece
27 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Experts to study tremors, earthquake in Vellore||An expert research team from New Delhi will soon undertake a detailed study on earthquake and mild tremors in Pernambut town in Vellore district. This was disclosed by Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian after inspecting the affected areas in Pernambut town, connecting Vellore and Tirupattur districts, on Sunday. Officials said the team would comprise experts from IIT Delhi and the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences. Accompanied by S. Dhananjayan, Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Gudiyatham, the Collector interacted with the affected families in the town. “More than 40 houses have developed cracks due to the impact of the earthquake,” the Collector said. Mild earthquake measuring 3.5 on the Richter scale were reported from the Pernambut town and surrounding villages, especially Tharaikadu and Kuppamedu, and the Aravatla Hills bordering Chittor (A.P) and Tirupattur districts since December 21 at regular intervals, said officials. Most of the damaged houses had tiled roof. As they were constructed along the hillock, most of them did not have a strong foundation, officials said. As a stop-gap measure, the district administration, along with local NGOs, have set up three temporary camps for affected families where food, water and other basic facilities were provided. Simultaneously, the district administration is also doing paper work to provide alternative housing sites for affected families. Houses under Centrally sponsored schemes would also be built for those affected, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-to-study-tremors-earthquake-in-vellore/article38046004.ece
27 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 11 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,445 with 11 fresh cases reported on December 26. With 49,196 having been discharged, the active cases stood at 108. The district's toll is 1141. In Ranipet, two fresh cases were reported and the total number of cases stood at 43,669. In Tirupattur, four cases were reported and the total stood at 29,463. Tiruvannamalai reported one fresh case, which took the total to 55,339. The number of active cases stood at 52.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-11-fresh-cases/article38046009.ece
27 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.3 lakh get jabs in Vellore and nearby areas||The district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur vaccinated over 1.3 lakh people in 3,029 camps during the 16th mega vaccination camp held on Sunday. Tiruvannamalai topped the table with 1,075 camps, where 65,653 people were vaccinated. So far, 76% of the district’s population has been vaccinated. In Vellore, more than 800 camps were organised, covering 247 villages, four town panchayats and two municipalities. A total of 36,369 people were vaccinated. The newly formed Tirupattur and Ranipet districts organised 421 and 500 camps, respectively. A total of 16,562 people were vaccinated in Tirupattur while 19,619 people got the jabs in Ranipet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-13-lakh-get-jabs-in-vellore-and-nearby-areas/article38046005.ece
27 December 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Officials honoured in Virudhunagar||Honouring officials from Revenue, Rural Development and Water Resources departments for keeping the waterbodies intact, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meganath Reddy has said that it is for farmers to utilise the copious water for irrigation in a judicious manner. Speaking at the monthly farmers’ grievance meeting at the Collectorate on Friday, he said effective planning by the district administration at different levels and coordination with Water Users’ Association, among others, enabled filling up of all major tanks across the district. The timely removal of encroachments in waterbodies helped in conservation of rainwater in tanks and ponds, he said and added that steps would be taken to contain the wild boar menace reported in parts of Aruppukottai, Sivakasi, Virudhunagar, Kariapatti and Rajapalayam. Pamphlets were distributed by officials to farmers on the dos and don’ts in this regard during the meeting. When some farmers pointed out the need for opening direct purchase centres (DPCs) in the district, the Collector said he had ordered the setting up of 22 DPCs. After there were appeals, he said the modalities would be examined and a DPC would be opened at Watrap. The officials explained the simple steps to be followed by the farmers for registering their names on the e-portal through which they could sell their produce. By doing so, middlemen and tout menace could be prevented. On farmers’ complaints on crop loss/damage due to the northeast monsoon, Mr. Meganath Reddy said surveys conducted revealed that 447 farmers lost Rs. 27.32 lakh and the details had been sent to the government for approval. The farmers were urged to take insurance coverage for their crops before December 31. District Revenue Officer Mangala Ramasubramanian, Project Director (DRDA) Thilagavathi, Joint Director (Agriculture) Uthandaraman and other officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-honoured-in-virudhunagar/article38045746.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spiritual congregation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spiritual-congregation/article38045657.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cool company||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cool-company/article38045479.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. gears up to tackle Omicron||Mr. Stalin also visited the Directorate of Medical Services at Teynampet and inspected the godown for storing oxygen cylinders and other life-saving equipment. He went around the emergency control room and the State war room and reviewed their preparedness. The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association has appealed to Mr. Stalin to go for online classes for schools and colleges. The representation, dated December 24, has urged the State to restrain people from gathering in large numbers for functions, marriages, deaths, temple celebrations and even meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-gears-up-to-tackle-omicron/article38045740.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||An important road connecting 70 Feet Road with SBO Colony and SS Colony is blocked with a big mound of garbage for the past two weeks. The road, which runs along Kirthumal Nathi, was much used by the residents as they could avoid the heavy traffic and multiple junctions on Bypass Road. It seems the block is done wantonly by a nearby TASMAC outlet to create parking space for its customers. The district administration must clear the garbage and retrieve the road, lest it will be gone forever. Mohamed Ismail N, SBO Second Colony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article38045929.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||READERS MAIL||A five-km stretch from Perakambi Government Primary Health Centre to Melaseethevimangalam village under the purview of Mannachanallur Panchayat Union has worn out at many locations. The condition of the road causes difficulties for drivers of TNSTC buses that operates service from Thuraiyur to Lalgudi via Perakambi, Melaseethevimangalam and Padalur. Protruding vegetation has narrowed down the road space. Farmers use this road stretch to transport their produce. The public expect the administration to arrange for relaying of the stretch from Perakambi to Melaseethevimangalam on a priority basis. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   The media has highlighted the demand of residents along Vayalur Road for an elevated corridor from Puthur to Somarasampettai. Of equal importance is the requirement for an elevated corridor from Gandhi Market to Palpannai. Dimple R. Mohan Sangliandapuram   The on-going work at the culvert and new over bridge near Poovalur Electricity Board office along the Trichy - Ariyalur highways is causing discomfort to motorists and pedestrians. Most of the students of Government Arts and Science College, Kumulur; Agriculture University Engineering College, Kumulur; and Government Teacher Training Institute, Kumulur, use this road frequently. Lorries laden with cement loads use the subway where the absence of directions to destinations is acutely felt. To avoid accidents and confusion, the Highway department should install proper road directions reflector symbols in Tamil, English and Hindi to help the drivers from across the country. M. Raja Tiruchi   The stretch of road connecting Manchanallur with Bhoominathar Temple is in poor shape. The condition of the inner roads in Mannachanallur town is also poor and requires relaying for the convenience of visitors to the temple. Anjana Tiruvanaikoil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article38045722.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Trust: Margazhi programme, Sree Venugopalaperumal and Sree Kalyanavenkatesaperumal temple, Kovaipudur, 5.30 a.m. onwards    Quality Circle Forum of India: National convention on Quality Concepts, PSG iTech, 9 a.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Talk on “Innovation and Entrepreneurship”, 10.30 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College: Talk on “Data Mining Applications and Trends, 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article38045663.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||RELIGION  Sri Ananthakrishna Varadharaja Perumal Temple, Angarai: Dhanur masa bhajans, Namavali veedhi bhajans, 5.30 a.m. GENERAL  National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi: National-level AICTE-ATAL-sponsored Faculty Development Program on Life Skill Management, Krishna Paul, Principal Engineer, Intel Corporation, Bengaluru, inaugurates; Usha Natesan, Director, NITTTR, Chennai, delivers Theme Address, NIT-T Director In-Charge G. Kannaibiran presides, online mode, 9 a.m.  CARE College of Arts and Science: Film-making Workshop by Creative Arts Department, session by Varun, 10 a.m.  Government Arts and Science College, Lalgudi: Inauguration of English Literary Associagtion, V. Chandra Chowdry, Head, Department of English, Srinivasan College of Arts and Science, Perambalur, delivers special lecture on 'Literature for Social Building', 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article38046031.ece
27 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Youth urged to defend Hindutva||BJP MLA from Hyderabad Raja Singh Thakur inaugurated Hindu Sneha Milan, a get-together organised by some pro-Hindu organisations, in Belagavi on Sunday. He said that Hindutva was under threat from rising Islamic and Christian forces. He gave a call to youth to defend Hindutva from destructive forces. “Hindus should protect themselves. That is because neither the BJP Government at the Centre nor the one in the State will protect Hindutva,” he said. “I will give a call to youth to come to the streets wielding swords and protect Hindutva,’’ he said. He said that some Christian groups were trying to finish off Hindus by forcible mass conversion and through fraud. Hindu groups should form teams in each village to fight forcible conversions. He said that some Congress leaders were trying to create division among Hindus, on the lines of caste, sub-caste and language. Congress leaders want to organise fights between Hindus and watch from the sidelines, to gain political benefits, he said. Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi, Member of Legislative Assembly Anil Benake and other leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-urged-to-defend-hindutva/article38045789.ece
27 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Students stage protest against UGC||Some students who came to Dharwad to appear for the National Eligibility Test conducted by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on Sunday, staged a protest against errors in a question paper. They said that while they had come to appear for the Kannada paper, they found questions in Hindi. Some of these students complained to their examination staff that as much as 90% of the paper contained Hindi questions. Some of them walked out of the hall only to stage the protest. They demanded that the examination be held again. What is more, the online examination that began in the morning was delayed by over half an hour owing to technical issues. But when the paper was released, the students were dumbfounded. Aspirants had travelled to Dharwad from Bagalkot, Vijayapura and other districts. A similar incident was reported in BITM College in Ballari, where aspirants came out of the hall and staged a protest against the UGC. By Sunday evening, the UGC website carried a message saying that the examination will be conducted again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-stage-protest-against-ugc/article38045788.ece
27 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||No end to students’ woes despite renewal of Arivu educational loan scheme||The State Government’s decision to renew the Arivu educational loan assistance scheme for students from minority communities does not seem to have ended their woes. Even though the scheme by Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation (KMDC), discontinued in 2019, was renewed in November this year following protests, the two-year break in the scheme seems to have added to the problems of students. Problem of arrears “Colleges are demanding that we pay the arrears of fees for two years. For some courses like medicine, it comes to Rs. 2 lakh per year. Unless we pay it, colleges will not renew the admissions. That is difficult for a poor family like ours,” said Mohammad Mustafa, a medical student. “If we had the money to pay arrears of two years, why would we seek education loans?” asked Shanti David, an architecture student. What is more, the Government has renewed the scheme with a rider. It says that the scheme will not be applicable for any courses other than those of the medical and professional courses selected by the Karnataka Examination Authority in the new (fresh) cases. Guidelines laid down by the Government Order dated August 17, 2020, will be followed while approving new applications, said a notification on the KMDC website. The new order reduces the scope of courses and lays down conditions. They include non-sanction of tuition fees for fresh students of degree, diploma, and ITI courses and upfront payment by students of 12% of the total loan outstanding from the corporation when submitting a renewal application online at district offices. It also says that the maximum loan available for CET/NEET approved courses would be 50% of the course fee or Rs. 2 lakh, whichever is higher. Similarly, the upper limit for loans for dental/MBBS under Government quota is maximum of 50% of tuition fee, including renewal. For students selected through CET for engineering, M.Tech, MCA, BSc. (agri), Ayurveda, ISMH, D.Pharm, B.Pharm, and others in government or private colleges, the upper limit is half of tuition fees. Students and parents say this is worrying, as it restricts their choices. Not eligible Baburao Utture, who runs a streetside store in Chikkodi, said he was discouraged from applying for the scheme as it did not cover diploma courses that his son had got into. Alla Baksh from Sedam, who plans to join a private ITI college, said he was disappointed as KMDC officers told him he was not eligible. Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu said he would ask officers to resolve these issues. “We understand the problems of students. We will see if the provisions in the scheme are unfavourable to them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-end-to-students-woes-despite-renewal-of-arivu-educational-loan-scheme/article38045594.ece
27 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Showcasing art created using ballpoint pens||Residents of Belagavi had an interesting experience on Sunday as they were treated to a painting exhibition of Shirish Deshpande, renowned artist who uses ballpoint pens to create his works. His works created over the last decade were put on display at the K B Kulkarni art gallery in Varerkar Natya Sangha in Tilakwadi. Govind Kale, former programme director of the Kala Academy in Goa, inaugurated the exhibition ‘exploring the ballpoint’. Dr. Kale said that it was the first time in his experience as an art critic that he had seen an artist who used ballpoint pens. Rajesh Kumar Maurya, director of Belagavi airport, spoke of the soothing effects of painting and music on the stress filled modern life. Mr. Shirish Deshpande spoke of his experiments with colours in the late 90s. He described in detail how he contributed to making creative Devanagari fonts. The exhibition will be on display until December 28 from 11 a.m. to 7p.m. daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/showcasing-art-created-using-ballpoint-pens/article38045798.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restaurants to cancel reservations, refund money||Pub and restaurant owners are a worried lot as the State Government on Sunday announced night curfew for 10 days. They will now have to cancel reservations made for New Year’s Eve and give customers a refund for the bookings already made. The industry is unhappy with the sudden change of plans. Ajay Nagaraj of Total Environment Hospitality said that the move was “disastrous” for the hospitality industry as it was the peak season for them. “We had planned to have a live band and will have to cancel it. Our last orders will have to be at 9 p.m.,” he said. Agreeing, Veerendra Kamat, Secretary of Bruhat Bangalore Hotel Association, said as there was a 10 p.m. curfew, people would choose not to venture out after 8 p.m. “It is the holiday season and our revenues would be massively affected,” he said. He also questioned how a night curfew would prevent transmission of COVID-19 or a possible third wave. The general manager of a brewery said they would have to reduce the seating capacity and would have to rework their dinner reservations. “We may have to cancel some of our reservations as the number of tables will reduce,” she said. Some are planning to approach the Government. P.C. Rao, president, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike said they had already made a lot of arrangements for New Year’s Eve. “We will try to meet the Chief Minister or the Health Minister to at least change the night curfew timings. We also want to request the Government to do away with the 50% reservation in hotels and bars. When they allow theatres to function in full capacity, why should they only penalise us,” he asked. Many customers who made bookings too have decided to cancel reservations and find other ways to celebrate the new year. Anand S., a software engineer, said that he had planned to visit a popular brewery in the city on New Year’s Eve. “Now, I will either celebrate New Year’s Eve at home or book a homestay in Chikkamagaluru,” he said. Apart from the hospitality industry, taxi drivers’ associations have also questioned the Government’s move. Tanveer Pasha, president of Ola, Taxi for Sure and Uber Owners and Drivers’ Association, said many industries were just bouncing back after facing hardships over the past two years. “Why curfew and guidelines are not applicable for political rallies," he asked, and urged the Government to revoke its decision to curtail the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restaurants-to-cancel-reservations-refund-money/article38045573.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NET: Kannada paper questions appear in Hindi||Thousands of candidates, who appeared for the University Grants Commission National Eligibility Test (UGC NET) Kannada paper on Sunday were in for a shock as a majority of the questions were in Hindi and only a few were in Kannada. Following this, the National Testing Agency (NTA) said the examination will be rescheduled. The agency said that due to “technical difficulties in some centres”, the examination could not be conducted and they decided to reschedule the exam. The revised date will be uploaded on the website, the agency said. The test is a gateway to obtain eligibility for Assistant Professorship, Junior Research Fellowship or both in Indian universities and colleges. A candidate, who appeared for the UGC NET Kannada subject paper on Sunday in Bengaluru, said, “We write a common General Knowledge paper and were supposed to write our Kannada subject paper in the online test. Only 10 questions were in Kannada and the rest of the questions were in Hindi. Our centre heads tried to reupload the questions, but nothing helped. I could attempt only 10 questions and did not even understand the remaining 90 questions,” he said. At many centres, the students staged a protest outside the examination centre. In many exam halls, there was chaos as the invigilators tried to reload and refresh the questions of the Kannada subject but were shocked to see only Hindi questions in the Kannada subject. A public notice by NTA stated: “NTA has decided to reschedule the examination of impacted candidates. The revised date for the rescheduled examination will be uploaded shortly along with the revised admit card for these candidates. Candidates are advised to regularly visit NTA website(s) www.nta.ac.in, https://ugcnet.nta.nic.in for the latest updates regarding the examination.” But a student said, “We want the Kannada test to be rescheduled for all candidates and not just for those students who had trouble logging in.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/net-kannada-paper-questions-appear-in-hindi/article38045570.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two killed, four injured in separate accidents||An autorickshaw passenger was killed and two others injured when the vehicle turned turtle on Rajajinagar Ring Road in the early hours of Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Murthy Kumar, 30, of Andhrahalli. Putturaju and driver Kiran are being treated in hospital. The incident occurred when Kumar and Puttaraju boarded the autorickshaw in the early hours and were heading towards Majestic. The driver was allegedly overspeeding and lost control and the autorickshaw overturned. Kumar was killed, and the driver and Puttaraju were injured. The Rajajinagar traffic police booked the driver under rash and negligent driving and death due to negligence. In another incident, a 28-year-old autorickshaw driver was killed and two of his friends injured when he tried to do stunts with his vehicle. According to the police, the deceased Muthu, a resident of Janakiram Layout, was returning home with friends after a party on Saturday night. When he reached Nehrunagar, he started doing stunts with his autorickshaw, and the vehicle turned turtle. The vehicle fell over Muthu injuring him seriously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-four-injured-in-separate-accidents/article38045568.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BEO found dead||A 52-year-old Block Education Officer (BEO) allegedly ended his life by at his house in Kodigehalli on Sunday. The police said he was depressed over a health issue. The deceased has been identified as T.N. Kamalakar, working as a BEO in Yelahanka. According to the police, the incident took place around 1.30 p.m. while he was alone at the home. He shot himself and mentioned in the suicide note that his family has taken enough care of him for over two decades . Kamalakar hailed from Shivamogga and had a licensed gun since a few years. Based on a statement from his family, a case of unnatural death has been registered and further investigations are on.  Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beo-found-dead/article38045581.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 348 new cases, three deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 348 new cases of COVID-19. Of these, 248 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With three deaths, the toll rose to 38,312. There were also 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 198 persons were discharged on Sunday. The State now has 7,418 active case patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.47%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.86 %. As many as 73,894 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 58,921 lakh RT-PCR tests, the health department’s bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-348-new-cases-three-deaths/article38045571.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hampana’s Charu-Vasantha translated into English||The English version of Ham.Pa. Nagarajaiah’s epic poem Charu-Vasantha , translated by P.P. Giridhar was released recently by Sapna Book House. It has already been translated into 13 Indian languages. The epic poem is the re-interpreatation of the ancient tale of Charudatta and Vasanthalathike. Mr. Nagarajaiah, scholar, critic and poet, says that this epic-poem is not a chronicle of wars or heroic deeds, but an attempt at uncovering layers of human nature and human values in their complexities. The octegenarian scholar better known as “Hampana”, specialising particularly in Jain traditions and literature, is the author of several academic and creative works. He has travelled the world giving lectures of Jainism and Jain literature. Prof. Nagarajaiah is the recipient of many awards including Naadoja Award by Kannada University at Hampi in 2006. He has won Karnataka Sahitya Academy award in 1993-94, Janapada Yakshagana Academy award in 1995, National award for the best child literature in 1990, Chavundaraya award in 1996, and Karnataka Rajyotsava award in 1998.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hampanas-charu-vasantha-translated-into-english/article38045566.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mall fined for flouting COVID norms||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has levied a fine on Garuda Mall for flouting all norms of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. With the rise in cases of Omicron variant, the State Government has made it mandatory for operators of malls and shopping complexes to ensure that all those visiting their premises are fully vaccinated. However, during a surprise inspection of the mall on Sunday, the BBMP’s health officials found that visitors were not being checked for their vaccination status and neither were norms being enforced or followed inside the mall. As a result, the BBMP levied a fine of Rs. 20,000 on the mall, a press release from the BBMP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mall-fined-for-flouting-covid-norms/article38045567.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cops go on wild goose chase after call on kidnap||An SOS call to the control room about a five-member gang kidnapping a man in a car on Sunday baffled the K.R. Puram police. The police rushed to the spot and verified CCTV footage to find visuals that looked like an abduction. They stepped up investigation and traced the car to a rehabilitation centre in Hoskote. According to the police, the victim, aged around 35 years, was a chronic alcoholic and his family sought the help of the rehab centre to to treat him. The rehab centre traced him and took him in a car amidst the ruckus he created before he was whisked away in a car. Passers by noticed the drama and called the control room. The episode concluded after the police questioned the rehab centre officials and reported to their higher ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cops-go-on-wild-goose-chase-after-call-on-kidnap/article38045579.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sudanese held for peddling drugs||The Chennamanakere Achukattu police on Sunday arrested a 22-year-old Sudanese national and recovered 28 ecstasy tabs from him. Based on a tip-off, a team of police rushed to the spot and arrested Nafi Ibrahim Mareg Satoor, red-handed near a college where he was waiting for his clients in Hosakerehalli. The total number of seized drugs estimated to be over Rs. 10 lakh. The accused had come to the city in 2018 and overstayed in city after his visa expired. He was jobless and presumably peddling drugs to make money. The police have booked him under NDPS and further investigating to ascertain the source of drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sudanese-held-for-peddling-drugs/article38045580.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Savadi is BJP State V-P||Laxman Savadi, MLA and former Deputy Chief Minister, and Nayana Ganesh have been appointed vice-presidents of the BJP’s State unit. Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel made the announcement on Sunday. Capt. Ganesh Karnik has been appointed Anivasi Bharatiya Division State convener, while the State chief spokesperson is M.G. Mahesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/savadi-is-bjp-state-v-p/article38045563.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS’s appeal||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has urged people, cutting across party barriers, to participate in the proposed padayatra from January 9 to demand speedy implementation of the Mekedatu project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dkss-appeal/article38045564.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug menace: ‘Install CCTVs near colleges’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday that he would instruct police to install CCTV cameras around all prominent colleges in the State to eradicate drug menace, warning of stringent action against sellers and users of drugs in the State. At a function organised on the steps of the Vidhana Soudha, inaugurating a campaign against drug menace, he said colleges would also be instructed to install CCTV cameras on the campus to catch those consuming and selling drugs. “College managments will be held accountable too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-menace-install-cctvs-near-colleges/article38045588.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||E-buses to hit the road today||Bengalureans will finally get a chance to travel in an electric bus. After years of delay, the BMTC will roll out e-bus services on Monday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will flag off the service at Vidhana Soudha. BMTC has received 40 e-buses and 50 more e-buses will be inducted within January. For the first time, the BMTC is also inducting BSVI diesel buses into its existing fleet. On Monday, services of 150 BSVI buses will be launched. By February, a total of 565 buses will be operated. The BMTC is inducting new buses after a gap of two years. The BMTC is utilising funds available under Smart City Project to induct nine metre non AC e-buses which will be operated as feeder services to Namma Metro. Initially, the buses will be operated from Kengeri depot. The buses are likely to be operated on routes such as Kengeri – Electronics City, Kengeri – Banashankari, and Kengeri – Yeshwanthpur. Fares will be charged on a par with ordinary services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-buses-to-hit-the-road-today/article38045569.ece
27 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Girl hit by tractor dies||A two-year-old girl was killed and a woman suffered injuries after they were hit by a tractor at Kabbinahalli in Holenarsipur taluk on Saturday. Janushree, 2, and her relative Bhagya, 38, were sitting in front of their house when a tractor hit them. A relative took both of them to a private hospital in Hassan, where the doctors declared the baby dead. Bhagya is undergoing treatment. Complaint Janushree’s father, Dinesh, has filed a complaint against the tractor driver at the Holenarsipur police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-hit-by-tractor-dies/article38045957.ece
27 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man found murdered||A person was found murdered at Halli Mysuru in Holenarsipur taluk on Saturday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Ravi, 46. His sister, Manjula, in her complaint to Halli Mysuru police alleged that he was murdered by four people over his conversation with a married woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-murdered/article38045794.ece
27 December 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Denial of info by SoI on border demarcation raises eyebrows||The denial of information pertaining to details of the survey conducted by Survey of India (SoI) to demarcate Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh, in the backdrop of allegations of illegal mining in Ballari district, has raised eyebrows. In its reply to applications filed under the Right to Information Act by Ballari-based miner and activist Tapal Ganesh, who had been questioning the survey methodology, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Geo-Spatial Data Center (AP&T GDC), the Survey of India, Hyderabad, has declared that details sought is “classified information covered under Section 8(1)(a) of RTI Act, 2005, and cannot be supplied.” Mr. Ganesh, who has time and again alleged that the SoI survey team had “deliberately adopted the incorrect survey method” to protect BJP leader and mining baron G. Janardhan Reddy in illegal mining cases, had filed two applications in May, 2021, – one before the Deputy Director of Land Records, Ballari and other before the SoI’s AP&T GDC, Hyderabad. The former had forwarded the application to the latter. The information sought included the proceedings of survey and demarcation, survey sketch/map, survey DGP survey readings with altitude level of each survey (boundary) point, drone survey, objection for the survey, if any, and maps showing the contour and stream levels in geo-coded Ballari Reserve Forest Map of 1896. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) refused to disclose the information by declaring it as classified under Section 8(1)(a) of the RTI Act. Mr. Ganesh approached the appellant authority which also, on December 10, 2021, upheld the CPIO’s decision. As per Section 8(1)(a) of the RTI Act, a public authority is not under obligation to furnish the information disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with foreign State or lead to incitement of an offence. Mr. Ganesh, speaking to The Hindu , insisted that he had not sought sensitive information that would affect the sovereignty and integrity of India or harm national interest. “I have not sought any defence secrets discolour,” he said. He has now approached the Central Information Commission. Mr. Ganesh pointed out that the apex court had, in 2017, directed SoI to complete the survey and align the interstate boundary in six weeks. Backdrop of survey The survey was taken up in the backdrop of allegations that Obulapuram Mining Company, owned by Mr. Reddy, had illegally carried out mining along the Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border in Ballari district and altered the inter-State boundary to show the mined area as a part of Andhra Pradesh. Upon the Supreme Court’s directions, SoI had taken up the survey to demarcate the actual boundary between the two States. It recently completed its task. Mr. Ganesh has, however, been raising objections to the survey methodology. In its reply to an earlier query by Mr. Ganesh, the Director of AP&T GDC had insisted that “inter-State boundary between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh has been aligned taking into consideration the contentions/ consensus of both Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka Governments.” It said that “the alignment of the boundary has been agreed upon by the Governments of both Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/denial-of-info-by-soi-on-border-demarcation-raises-eyebrows/article38045587.ece
27 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kharge recalls association with Dharam Singh||Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge recalled his five-decade friendship with former Chief Minister N. Dharam Singh and said “we worked for the overall development of the region and the State”. Mr. Kharge was speaking after laying the foundation stone for a mother and child hospital, a convention hall, a library, and prasada nilaya in Jewargi town of Kalaburagi district on Saturday. The function was organised to commemorate the 85th birth anniversary of the late Dharam Singh. Lauding his services to the State, Mr. Kharge reiterated that a strong bond and unconditional affection developed between them. He said that Dharam Singh was committed to strengthening the party and advocated a ‘healing touch’ policy to reach out to people. Dharam Singh’s son Ajay Singh, Jewargi MLA, shared his memories of his father and said he would continue to serve the people of the region and fulfill his father’s wishes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kharge-recalls-association-with-dharam-singh/article38045799.ece
27 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Shivaprakash’s poems seek to reconstruct society’||Terming H.S. Shivaprakash as a renaissance poet in Kannada context, Shivamogga-based writer and literary critic Siraj Ahammad said that Mr. Shivaprakash’s poetry questions everything that exists, including the State, and seeks its reconstruction through the characters of common people. “Mr. Shivaprakash’s poetry questions the State not through the elite people but through the ordinary people. The poet believes that change doesn’t come from the people at the top but from those in the bottom. His poems talk of a past long gone to change the present,” Mr. Ahammad said. He was delivering a special lecture on Mr. Shivaprakash’s poetry at a programme held for releasing Mr. Shivaprakash’s collected poems at the Kannada Department of Gulbarga University here recently. Pointing to the diversity of the topic dealt with in Mr. Shivaprakash’s poetry, Mr. Ahammad said that poetry, not confining itself to a particular time and space, is on a constant move, from place to place and time to time, dealing with diverse issues. “A thorough reading of Mr. Shivaprakash’s poetry will enable you to understand the poet’s efforts at constant exploration. The beauty of his poetry is its dynamism. His poems address shattered dreams and starving people. They seek reconstruction of people’s lives. You cannot confine his poetry to a particular set of ideas or time or space as it constantly roams societies across the world searching for a place free from arms, oppression and exploitation,” he said. In his opening remarks, Vikram Visaji, a writer, pointed out that Mr. Shivaprakash had an amazing quality of breaking time-tested formats and models of writing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivaprakashs-poems-seek-to-reconstruct-society/article38045792.ece
27 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Reconversion to Hinduism should become a priority: Tejasvi Surya||Bharatiya Janata Party Yuva Morcha national president and MP Tejasvi Surya on Saturday said that merely stopping conversion of Hindus is not enough but reconverting those who have left Hinduism should become a priority. He was speaking at Vishwarpanam, a series of programmes culminating in the valedictory of the Paryaya of Sri Admar Mutt at Sri Krishna Mutt in Udupi. It was necessary to evolve a reconversion process to save the religious and cultural wealth of Hinduism, the MP said. Mr. Surya said that Hindus should exercise political power. While numerical strength decides political power in a democracy, demography decides a nation’s destiny. The only way left for Hindus is to reconvert those who have left Hinduism, he said. The MP noted that every temple and mutt across the State should set annual targets to undertake the reconversion process to ensure Hinduism is rejuvenated. He said that the invasion of Islam from the North towards the South was first successfully tackled by the Kingdom of Vijayanagara as per the history of Karnataka. Vijayanagara rulers drove away the “Mlechchas”, he said, referring to the Islamic invasion period. He said that there cannot be a Hindu without Hindutva. Hindutva ideology preaches revolt against assaults on Hindu religion, he said. Paryaya Admar Mutt seer Sri Ishapriya Tirtha Swami, Kukke Subrahmanya Mutt seer Sri Vidyaprasanna Tirtha Swami, Kondevoor Nityananda Yogashrama seer Sri Yogananda Saraswathi Swami and others were present. In an interaction with intellectuals earlier, Mr. Surya said that all Muslims and Christians living in India at present are a generation of people whose ancestors were forcibly converted from Hinduism hundreds of years ago. The anti-conversion law, he said, was introduced for a reason that it is inevitable in the current scenario. Democracy can survive and thrive only if Hindus are a majority in India. The Constitution begins with the words, “India that is Bharat”. And, if India has to retain its original essence, it has to be a Hindu-majority nation, Mr. Surya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reconversion-to-hinduism-should-become-a-priority/article38045582.ece
27 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Logistics firm directed to pay Rs. 70,000 as damages||The Udupi District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed Mangaluru-based Anjaneya Packers and Movers and its branch in Udupi to jointly pay a total of Rs. 70,000 to a bank employee for damaging the latter’s television and other household articles while transporting it from Manipal to Bengaluru. In the complaint, S.V.S. Sainath, senior manager of Canara Bank (e-syndicate inspection department), said he took services of the logistics firm’s branch in Udupi on September 10, 2020 for shifting his household items from Manipal to Bengaluru, following his transfer. He paid Rs. 27,700 and the firm issued a receipt dated September 12, 2020. When the articles were delivered on September 14, 2020, Mr. Sainath said the television set worth Rs. 1.5 lakh was completely damaged. The authorised service centre for the television set gave an estimate of Rs. 45,000 for repair. A wooden sofa, an iron almirah, and a wooden cot were also damaged. He demanded payment of Rs. 49,000 towards the damage of articles and also compensation for harassment and mental agony caused to him. The firm contended that the complainant agreed to their terms and conditions given in the consignee copy. Upholding the complaint, district commission president Shobha C.V. and member Sujata Koralli, in their order dated December 14, said the logistics firm failed to give to complainant the original of the consignee copy, which has terms and conditions of the firm. Hence it is clear case of deficiency of service and the question of complainant agreeing with terms and conditions does not arise. The commission directed the Logistics firm and its Udupi branch to pay Rs. 45,000. They were also asked to pay compensation of Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 10,000 towards cost of the litigation. The payment should be made within a month of the judgement. If the firm fails to pay the amount, the total amount of Rs. 70,000 shall carry interest of 10% per annum from July 27, 2021, which is the date of complaint, till its realisation, the commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/logistics-firm-directed-to-pay-rs-70000-as-damages/article38045944.ece
27 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Gurukiran presented Rangachavadi award||Music director Gurukiran said of all recognition and awards, the ones coming from the hometown are precious and he felt blessed to receive them. He was speaking after receiving the Rangachavadi 2021 award from Rangachavadi Mangaluru at Surathkal near here on Saturday. Having grown with Rangachavadi, he would always cherish the award, Mr. Gurukiran said. MRG Group founding president K. Prakash Shetty inaugurated the Rangachavadi annual festival. Speaking on the occasion, he complimented Rangachavadi for nurturing theatre and allied art for the last 22 years and also recognising people contributing to art and culture. Having started his career from Tulunadu, Mr. Gurukiran has spread the flair for music across the world, Mr. Shetty complemented. He wished Rangachavadi recognise more and more talents in the coming days. Mr. Shetty also complimented the organisation for organising a musical tribute to late actor Puneeth Rajkumar and recalled his association with the late actor. Mangaluru City Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said he was overwhelmed by the gesture of coastal people in aiding and assisting police force to maintain law and order. Their love to art and culture is laudable, he noted. Girish Sagar and his team offered the musical tribute to Puneeth Rajkumar on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gurukiran-presented-rangachavadi-award/article38045583.ece
27 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Principals trained in enrolment of new voters’||To enrol new voters to the electoral roll, the Dakshina Kannada district administration is training principals and other staff members of government and aided colleges in online enrolment of students aged 18 and above to the electoral roll. Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara said of the estimated 60,000 new voters only about 10,000 people have enrolled so far. “We are involving principals and other staff of the government and aided colleges in enrolling new voters,” he told reporters on Thursday. Mr. Kumara said all those who are aged 18 as on January 1, 2022 can enrol themselves using the voter helpline app or the website of national voters services portal, www.nvsp.in. Voters can upload the necessary documents and get enrolled, he said. On Thursday, representatives from 174 colleges took part in the training programme. A separate programme will be held for college students on December 27 and 28. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said a special enrolment drive will be held on January 3 in all colleges across the district where staff members will help students to complete formalities for online enrolment to the electoral roll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/principals-trained-in-enrolment-of-new-voters/article38045949.ece
27 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Facilities for tourists will improve at Panambur’||The district administration will shortly finalise the new agency for development of Panambur beach and further improve facilities for tourists, said Mangaluru North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty here on Sunday. Speaking at the launch of an awareness drive and run at the beach, Dr. Shetty said the process of the finalisation of the agency got delayed due to the model code of conduct. More toilets and washrooms will be made available at the beach that has good tourist footfall. The district administration has planned to add more watersports activities. It is working on holding a beach festival at Panambur and a river festival in Bangra Koloor, he added. Inaugurating the programme, Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said the State and the Union Governments are giving impetus to improving tourism sector. He said said it was not just enough the city remains clean, but its surroundings, particularly the beaches that attract thousands of tourists too should remain clean. Mr. Kateel said there was a need to create enhanced awareness among the public about keeping beaches clean as it also involves protection of the environment. Government machinery, non-governmental organisations, and the media should join hands in this initiative, he said. The programme was jointly organised by the district administration, MCC, KIOCL, DK Working Journalists Association, CREDAI, and Mangaluru University’s National Service Scheme unit. Later, the dignitaries joined about 140 NSS volunteers and public in the drive. A truckload of trash was collected during the drive, the bulk of which was collected on the road leading from NH 66 to Panambur Beach. The road belongs to New Mangalore Port Trust and visitors to the beach have been ruing about coal dust and trash along the stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/facilities-for-tourists-will-improve-at-panambur/article38045947.ece
27 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Alarm bells over shifting rainfall pattern||The post-monsoon rainfall from October through November across Karnataka this year was the highest in the last 50 years. This accentuated the growing concerns that the shifting monsoon patterns being witnessed in recent years is induced by climate change and, in turn, could have a bearing on agriculture and crop output. Two years ago, there was a prolonged dry spell during the south-west monsoon and the reservoirs in the State had only 4% of their gross storage capacity till the end of July. But between August 3 and 10, 2019, the State received 224 mm of rainfall and the departure from normal for the period was the highest for more than 120 years. Since the last few years, the timely onset of south-west monsoon in the first week of June is followed by a monsoon-break during July. But come August, and there is a downpour that neutralises the rainfall deficit in a span of a week, resulting in loss of life and widespread damage to property. ‘August rains’ Kodagu has been witnessing such a trend since the last few years and the local community have come to dread “August rains”, as it is termed colloquially. This year, the rainfall during the south west monsoon – from June through September – saw a deficit. But post-monsoon rains made up for the shortfall. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Karnataka received 332 mm of rainfall against a normal of 173 mm from October 1 to November 30h this year and the cumulative rainfall for the period was the highest in five decades. Though the post-monsoon rains neutralised the shortfall for the period June through September and ensured that the reservoirs were full, they brought in heir wake crop damage and misery to farmers. “All reports indicate a shift in the monsoon pattern and this may have an impact on the agricultural pattern in the long run,” according to N. Narendra Babu, Research Associate at the Agro Met Field Unit of Indian Meteorological Department at Naganahalli in Mysuru. A team of scientists at KSNDMC who analysed the rainfall pattern and data from 1960 to 2017, published their findings in “Climate Change Scenario in Karnataka: A Detailed Parametric Assessment.” The scientists say that there is a shift in rainfall pattern over Karnataka and the quantum, intensity and distribution varies across the regions. While the amount of annual rainfall and number of rainy days have increased in south interior Karnataka and Malnad regions, there is a reduction in the amount of rainfall in Kodagu, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts. Drought and flood The findings also indicate an increase in extreme weather events such as drought and flood. Across the State, there is an increase in annual rainfall in 39 taluks, pre-monsoon rains have increased in 28 taluks and north east monsoon rains have increased in 33 taluks. The study indicates that areas with steady rainfall experience extreme precipitation events and regions are experiencing longer spells of little or no rainfall between two heavy rainfall events. Between 2001 and 2019 the State has experienced drought of various severity for 15 years, according to the KSNDMC study. In 2016, 139 out of 176 taluks in the State were drought-affected in the Kharif season and 162 taluks in the Rabi season. In 2018, about 100 taluks were drought affected in Kharif and 156 taluks in Rabi season, underlining the severity of the impact on agriculture. The emerging evidence, according to the scientists, calls for measures to mitigate the impact of such extreme weather events on agriculture which otherwise, could have a bearing on food, nutritional and water security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alarm-bells-over-shifting-rainfall-pattern/article38045577.ece
27 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Last rites’ of trees performed to mourn their felling||Citizens from different parts of Mysuru and NGOs paid ‘homage’ to three trees that were felled recently and performed their “last rites’’ on Sunday to underline the seriousness of such acts in the present times of global warming and climate change. Three trees were felled on the night of December 13 and hence the peeved environmentalists decided to observe the last rites on the 13th day which was on Sunday. Citizens brought flowers and garlands and mourned the demise of the trees while a priest performed the rites. ‘Be vigilant’ Parashurame Gowda, convener of Parisara Balaga, who addressed the gathering urged the citizens to be vigilant and complain whenever they see illegal felling of trees. After the formal rites, Bhamy V. Shenoy of Mysore Grahakara Parishat said the Forest Department refused to take any action unless it was pinpointed as to who was responsible for the felling. It wanted a written complaint before initiating any action. He said that the ‘shraddhanjali’ to the trees was also held to highlight the ‘dereliction’ of duty by the Forest Department. Another activist, Srikanth Bhat of Koti Vruksha, recalled that similar rites were conducted when a giant tree was felled in Srirampur a few months ago and officials had given permission for it without considering the alternatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-rites-of-trees-performed-to-mourn-their-felling/article38045958.ece
27 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Separate directorate for secondary farm activities’||The State Government will constitute a new directorate to promote secondary agricultural occupations in a bid to enhance the income of the farmers, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Sunday. He also said that the existing rural credit scheme has to be overhauled so as to increase the credit limit extended to farmers. Mr. Bommai was speaking at the Farmers’ Day celebrations organised by Federation of Farmers Association and Karnataka State Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association. Mr. Bommai said that though agricultural production has increased, so has the crisis and issues plaguing the sector and the farmers. He said it is in this context that the State Government was keen on establishing a separate directorate for promoting secondary agricultural occupations including processing of all agro products to shore up farmers’ income. Mr. Bommai said he had discussion with experts on the subject and said that the focus all these years was on agriculture while the plight of the farmers had been ignored. This led to a situation where food producers were in dire straits, he added. Scholarship scheme Mr. Bommai said he had extended the Mukhamantri Raitha Vidya Nidhi scholarship to children of farmers studying in high school as well to arrest the drop out rate. Education coupled with farming will help farmers to secure alternative source of income besides agriculture, he added. On the institutional lending to the farmers, the Chief Minister said the existing rural credit scheme needs to be overhauled. At present, there are limits to the extent of loan farmers can avail based on the type of crop they cultivate. This, he said, was a pittance compared to the requirements. Referring to some of the demands made by the farmers, the Chief Minister said the State Advisory Price for sugarcane and the demand for a share in the sale of sugarcane by-products, will also be reviewed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/separate-directorate-for-secondary-farm-activities/article38045592.ece
27 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bommai inaugurates oxygen plant in Mysuru||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai inaugurated an oxygen generator plant at JSS Hospital in the city on Sunday. The plant has been installed in anticipation of the third wave of the pandemic and has now been commissioned. The authorities said the two VSA oxygen generator plant produces 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute and will be able to ensure supply to an additional 300 beds. This has also increased the number of oxygenated beds to 1,060. The new facility is in tune with the Government’s directives to hospitals to prepare for a surge in the pandemic. With the new facility the authorities said they are confident of handling any exponential increase in cases. The Chief Minister also released an Android app JSS Shravana Mitra, developed by the hospital’s ENT Department in collaboration with the Department of Electronics and Communication, JSS Science and Technology Uniersity. It is an audiometry app and helps in hearing test. The authorities said conventionally hearing is tested using expensive auditometry equipment in soundproof rooms. But the new app can be used as a pre-diagnostic tool with one’s smartphone. If the results show hearing loss, the app will advise the users to consult the doctors for further evaluation, said the authorities. The results are interpreted as per the WHO norms and the languages available are English, Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, and Hindi. Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami of Suttur Mutt; Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar; Nagendra, Tanvir Sait, and S.A.Ramdas, MLAs; Pratap Simha, MP; and staff of JSS Hospital were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-inaugurates-oxygen-plant-in-mysuru/article38045796.ece
27 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||All set for TMC elections||All preparations are in place for the elections to the town municipal councils of Kakkera and Kembhavi in Shorapur taluk of Yadgir on December 27. In Kakkera, there are 18,427 eligible voters and of them 9,807 are males and 9,119 females. In Kembhavi, there are 16,024 eligible voters: 8,090 are males and 7,933 females.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set-for-tmc-elections/article38045793.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cake art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cake-art/article38045575.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Water release soon from Yennehole project’||Minister V. Sunil Kumar on Sunday said that water from the Yennehole Lift Irrigation Project will be released on experimental basis shortly. The Minister inspected the project work at Yennehole village in Karkala taluk where a dam is being built across the Swarna. Mr. Kumar asked the Minor Irrigation Department engineers to ensure that water is impounded by January 5 and is released on experimental basis by January-end. The lift irrigation project is expected to irrigate about 1,500 hectares of land in the region. Project Engineer Prasanna, Marne Gram Panchayat president Jyothi Poojari and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-release-soon-from-yennehole-project/article38045946.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||The BJP’s bid to bring in an anti-conversion law in Karnataka led to some heated exchanges between treasury and Opposition Benches in the just-concluded Legislature session. Amidst serious discussion on how the proposed law can potentially impede two interfaith adults’ wish to be married, the Assembly was also witness to some light-hearted banter on love. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, while narrating what could be the plight of such couples, said: “Suppose I am in love with a girl from another faith and I wish to marry her, I would have to take permission from the authorities.” This would have probably passed without drawing too much attention if he had not gone on to clarify that he was “only giving an example” but actually cannot do any of these things considering his age. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri jumped in and asked: “Do you really think there is a link between age and love?” Mr. Siddaramaiah said: “Not really, one can fall in love at any age, but one cannot marry again and again.” Senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa asked: “Who says you are old?” And Mr. Siddaramaiah replied, all smiles, “Nobody has told me. I have myself come to such a conclusion.” It was a while before everyone got back to the more serious matter at hand.   Ramesh Jarkiholi(in picture)did not attend the Winter session of the State Legislature in Belagavi. This is even though the BJP had issued a whip to all legislators and asked them to be present, especially on the day the Anti-conversion Bill was to be tabled. Mr. Jarkiholi is learnt to have told his close friends that he had vowed not to attend the sessions till he was re-inducted into the Cabinet. He resigned from the Cabinet about nine months ago, following allegations of involvement in a sex scandal. Though he has publicly maintained that he had not demanded a berth, news of his frequent visits to BJP and Sangh Parivar leaders in Bengaluru and New Delhi are no secret. But those efforts have remained unsuccessful so far. However, when journalists who bumped into him at a private function asked him the reason for his absence, he came up with an ingenious reply, “Belagavi can get very cold in winter. It does not suit me.”   Even though political dynasties come under public scanner and evoke sharp criticism, veteran politicians continue to promote family members. But, former Minister S.R. Mahesh, ironically belonging to the JD(S) that has drawn flak for promoting family members of its patriarch H.D. Deve Gowda in the party, appears to be wary of the “dynast” tag. For, he issued an elaborate clarification that his son has no political ambition even though he was deputing him to attend some functions. Considering the suggestions from party workers, seniors and well-wishers, Mr. Mahesh said he was deputing his younger son S.M. Jayant, who had finished his business management course from Singapore, to attend private functions on his behalf. He hastened to add that neither his son had political ambitions nor did he want to promote his children in politics. B.S. Satish Kumar Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Laiqh A. Khan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article38045590.ece
27 December 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Chief Minister opens regulator-cum-bridge||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the regulator-cum-bridge at Palai in Neeleswaram on Sunday. The project is expected to improve irrigation facilities on 4,865 hectors of farmland by preventing saltwater intrusion. The bridge connects Palai in Neeleswaram Municipality with Kukkottu in Kayyur-Cheemeni grama panchayat. The project will also provide irrigation facilities, drinking water and transport facilities to Neeleswaram Municipality, Kinanoor-Karinthalam, West Eleri, East Eleri, Kayyur-Cheemeni and Cheruvathur grama panchayats. Along with the project, the Neeleswaram-Kayyur boat service, which existed years ago, is expected to be restored. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine presided. M. Rajagopalan, MLA, district panchayat president Baby Balakrishnan, and Rajmohan Unnithan, MP, were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-opens-regulator-cum-bridge/article38045866.ece
27 December 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||‘Cooperative movement a way of resisting globalisation’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said the cooperative movement in Kerala was an alternative way of resisting globalisation and caution should be exercised against the move to destroy the cooperative sector. Speaking at the inauguration of Kodakkad Bank Auditorium, he said the cooperative sector introduced the banking system in the rural areas of Kerala. “Earlier, the country had given a lot of support to the cooperative sector. That changed after the country supported globalisation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cooperative-movement-a-way-of-resisting-globalisation/article38045867.ece
27 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Special team to investigate Kizhakkambalam incident||A special team led by Perumbavoor Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Anuj Paliwal has been constituted to probe the alleged attack on police personnel at Kizhakkambalam early on Sunday morning by workers from other States employed at a garment factory. The 19-member team comprises two Inspectors and seven Sub Inspectors, the Ernakulam Rural police informed. A total of 156 workers from the factory were taken into custody and held at three different police stations under Ernakulam Rural. Their role, if any, in the attack, which left five personnel injured, is being ascertained. In the meantime, senior police officers, including Deputy Inspector General Neeraj Kumar Gupta and District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik, visited the scene of attack near the workers’ camp and took stock of the situation. A total of 500 police personnel are camping at the site. Mr. Karthik said measures would be taken to prevent the recurrence of such incidents. Mr. Gupta and Mr. Paliwal visited the injured personnel at a private hospital. Parties’ demand Meanwhile, the unprecedented violence involving the workers of Kitex has turned political, with the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]renewing their demand for a thorough probe against the company and the Twenty20 party controlled by it. P.V. Sreenijin, legislator from the CPI(M) representing Kizhakkambalam, alleged in a conversation with The Hindu that there had been apprehensions of several unlawful activities which prompted him to seek an inquiry against the firm. “But then Sabu Jacob, Kitex MD, raised the bogey of harassment of business establishments and claimed Kerala was being investor-unfriendly. This forced the State to go for a compromise,” he said. The demand for a probe against the company also found its echo on social media, with Congress and Left-leaning accounts flaying Twenty20 for allegedly trying to establish a neo-feudal stranglehold over the panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-team-to-investigate-kizhakkambalam-incident/article38045870.ece
27 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Violence coincidental, will help in probe: KITEX||The Kitex group of companies has said it will extend all support to the police inquiry into the violent incidents on Saturday night in which a police vehicle was burned, another damaged and several police personnel were injured. “The group will support all police follow-up action to punish the guilty,” said managing director of the Kitex group Sabu M. Jacob here on Sunday. Use of intoxicants He said the violence unleashed by a group of workers was coincidental and those trying to politicise the incident were part of a group working against the company. He said an inquiry should be made into who supplied intoxicating materials to the workers from other States as he expressed his suspicion that those involved in the violence might have used these substances. The Kitex group will not support any law-breakers and that the police verification certificates were compulsory for all those working in the company from outside the State. He said fewer than 40 workers from other States were involved in Christmas celebrations on Saturday night. When carols were sung about 9 a.m., a group of workers complained about the disturbances. An argument followed between the groups. Private security personnel, who tried to stop the altercation, were not successful as the group attacked them. The police was called in but the police personnel were also attacked. A company spokesperson said the inquiry was aimed at finding out what happened at the spot of the incident, using eye-witness accounts as well as video recordings available. There are around 1,200 employees in a hostel near the incident site. The company was in the news early this year after it complained of repeated inspections at its factory sites by various government departments. Meanwhile, the departments of labour and industries said the incident had been taken note of. Since the incident was basically one of law and order, it would monitor the developments before launching any action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/violence-coincidental-will-help-in-probe-kitex/article38045891.ece
27 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Night traffic curbs on Goshree bridge||Traffic has been banned on the first Goshree bridge between 9 p.m. and 7 a.m. from December 26 to 28 as part of the work to resurface the potholed bridge, the Public Works Department (PWD) has informed. Thus, two and three-wheelers and light vehicles from the High Court Junction proceeding to Vypeen and back must reach the other side of the bridge through Abraham Madamakkal Road, Chatiath, Vaduthala, Chittoor Bridge, Shappumpady Junction, Aster Medcity, Container Terminal Road, Moolampilly, Mulavukad and Bolghatty. Heavy vehicles must take the Edappally-Cheranalloor-Bolghatty stretch of the Container Road. Vehicles from Vypeen side too must use these corridors to reach the High Court Junction. The PWD is undertaking the repair works although the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) owns the trio of Goshree bridges. The GIDA, which has limited number of employees, had repeatedly demanded that the government hand over the bridges, which develop potholes frequently, and their approach roads to the PWD to ensure their upkeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/night-traffic-curbs-on-goshree-bridge/article38045872.ece
27 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Youths arrested on charge of threatening bar manager||The Munambam police arrested five youths on Sunday on the charge of threatening the manager of a bar hotel at Cherai at knifepoint and destroying liquor bottles and glasses on Friday. They allegedly unleashed the attack saying that waiters at the bar had refused to provide them food free of cost. The arrested are Vivek, 27, Ambadi, 20, Jithus, 20, Arjun, 21, and Adityan, 24. Three among them had been arrested on the charge of murder. History-sheeters held The Thrikkakara police arrested two history-sheeters on the charge of shooting a video threatening the police and circulating it on social media. Edathala natives Mohammed Ramnas and Ayub were arrested under the provisions of the Kerala Police Act and IT Act. Manhunt launched The Ambalamedu police have launched a manhunt for four persons who allegedly attacked residents of Karimugal using swords on Saturday evening. Three persons were injured, including one who sustained injuries to his leg. The gang is said to have attacked the residents who questioned the use of narcotics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youths-arrested-on-charge-of-threatening-bar-manager/article38045873.ece
27 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police associations decry attack on personnel||The Kerala Police Officers Association (KPOA) and the Kerala Police Association (KPA) have decried the attack on police personnel by migrant workers employed by Kitex Garments at Kizhakkambalam on Sunday morning. “We condemn the attack on personnel engaged in law and order duty. The government must extend full support to the police in such situations, including by bearing the treatment expense of the injured personnel. There should be no leniency towards the attackers,” said K.P. Praveen, KPA general secretary. The situation at Kizhakambalam would have taken a turn for the worse if more personnel had not arrived and rescued the injured personnel with the help of residents of the locality. General secretary of the KPOA C.R. Biju said the factory management — which arranged accommodation for its workers — was responsible for their conduct. There was no use blaming workers alone for “procuring drugs”. This was the first time that migrant workers in Kerala unleashed such an organised attack on police personnel. The probe must cover who motivated them to indulge in such a blatant attack on the police, he said. DCC flays attack The Ernakulam DCC flayed the attack on police personnel and termed it an aftermath of the “arrogant attitude” of the factory management “which has challenged the law of the land”. The management was duty bound to keep tabs on workers who might have been using drugs, said DCC president Mohammed Shiyas. He said its MD Sabu M. Jacob must be held responsible for the violent incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-associations-decry-attack-on-personnel/article38045877.ece
27 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A farm that has 65 varieties of amaranthus||The Department of Agriculture and the National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR) have joined hands to set up a demonstration farm comprising 65 leafy vegetables (amaranthus), including the traditional varieties grown in the State, at St. Phelomena’s Higher Secondary School at Koonammavu, near Kochi. The demonstration farm is the result of a programme jointly organised by the Kottuvally Grama Panchayat Krishi Bhavan and NBPGR and will serve both as a demonstration farm as well as a centre for familiarising the young generation to the traditionally grown leafy vegetables in the country. The 60-cent plot on which the demonstration farm has been set up is basically meant to encourage young people, especially school students, to take up farming in their spare time and to generate seeds of these plants, including those that are extremely rare, said sources in the department. There are around 500 students from the school involved in the programme. Just as the demonstration farm will draw attention to traditional varieties of amaranthus, it will also be a centre for seed production. The programme is meant to increase the spread of the cultivation of these leafy vegetables all over Kerala, sources added. Seed conservation The NBPGR has facilities to conserve seeds for long years, with a view to spreading the cultivation of traditionally grown varieties in the country. The Department of Agriculture has taken its own initiatives to collect the seeds of varieties grown dominantly in Kerala like Ponnakanni and Vlathankara cheera as part of the demonstration farm at Koonammavu. As a follow-up action, the Krishi Bhavan is likely to set up a demonstration farm for 160 varieties of brinjal (vazhuthana) with the the help of the NBPGR. It is estimated that there are around 1,400 varieties of brinjal cultivated across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-farm-that-has-65-varieties-of-amaranthus/article38046000.ece
27 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sanskrit varsity expels eight students||The Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit has expelled eight students who secured admission to postgraduate programmes in the new academic year without clearing the qualifying examination. Prof. M.K. Jayaraj, Vice Chancellor in-charge, had sought a report on the matter after it emerged that nearly 30 ineligible students had gained admission to the programmes in violation of rules. Prof. Jayaraj said on Saturday that the candidates had been expelled on the basis of reports from those responsible for the admission process. The varsity Syndicate will decide on the action to be taken against those responsible for admitting ineligible students. It is learnt that they were admitted as part of spot admission, he said. The candidates had reportedly failed to clear the final semester undergraduate examination. It was also alleged that a re-examination was held to help them clear the final semester exams. The university had earlier denied the allegations, saying that students who were awaiting results of the sixth semester undergraduate exams were permitted to appear for the entrance test for postgraduate programmes. They were allowed, as the results of the sixth semester exams were not published at the time of the notification of the entrance test. Only those who had cleared the qualifying examination held in April / May 2021 will be eligible for admission to postgraduate courses in the new academic year, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanskrit-varsity-expels-eight-students/article38045874.ece
27 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vigil teams formed to tackle wild boar menace in Kollam||While crop-raiding wild boars continue to be a major threat for farming community, many LSGs in the district have formed vigil groups led by forest officials to address the issue. Currently, teams under various forest ranges go on night patrols in panchayats that report wild boar menace. Around 200 animals were killed in Punalur forest division alone since September. “We have formed Jana Jagrata Samitis with the panchayat president as chairperson and range officer as convenor. Culling happens near residential parts and often department shooters will not be familiar with the topography. The vigil group members alert them about residential parts or areas having the presence of livestock. The gunning down of the animals start only after 11 p.m.,” said an official. The nocturnal animals eat tubers, the primary crop of many farmers on the forest fringes. “Wild boars plough through the farmland uprooting tapioca, yam, taro and banana plants. Cultivating theses crops is a risk. The animals also destroy the rubber plants,” says Karavaloor grama panchayat vice president Muhammed Anzari. The 10-member vigil groups mainly include volunteers willing to accompany the forest officials during night patrol. According to farmers, culling is the only option. “Earlier, we used to beat tin drums to scare away the animals, but now they come in droves,” says the farmers, adding the animals cause less distress after the department started shooting them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-teams-formed-to-tackle-wild-boar-menace-in-kollam/article38045916.ece
27 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Christmas celebration held||Ashraya Charitable Society, Kalayapuram, organised a Christmas celebration for its residents on Saturday. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal inaugurated the celebration and Yuhanon Mar Thevodoros Metropolitan delivered the Christmas message on the occasion. Ashraya president K. Shantasivan presided over the function while NSS taluk union President G. Thankappan Pillai and YGM Trust chairman Geevarghese Yohannan were the guests of honour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/christmas-celebration-held/article38045917.ece
27 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||ANERT project: spot registration on Dec.29, 30||Spot registration of the ANERT-Soura Tejas project for setting up solar power plants at subsidised rates will take place on December 29 and 30 at the ANERT district office. Plants for domestic use with a capacity of two to three kilowatts will get 40% subsidy and those with a capacity of three to 10 kilowatts will get 20%. For more details, call 04742797078, 9188119402.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anert-project-spot-registration-on-dec29-30/article38045918.ece
27 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man killed in accident||In a late-night accident on Saturday, a 22-year-old man lost his life after losing control over his motorcycle and falling into a waterbody near Manarcad. The deceased was identified as Aravind T.C., a native of Kavumpadi, near here. The accident took place around 12 midnight when the motorcycle lost control near the Manarcad bridge and rammed barrier of the bridge. Investigation Preliminary investigations into the accident suggested that the man fell off the bridge while the motorcycle remained stuck on the bridge. The local people, who rushed to the spot, launched a search operation though to no avail. A fire and rescue team, which reached the scene on Sunday morning, fished out the body. A case was registered into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-killed-in-accident/article38045919.ece
27 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Decision to recruit temporary staff in Calicut varsity kicks up a row||While a group of activists and academics have objected to Calicut University’s decision to appoint temporary staff on contract basis at the Pareeksha Bhavan, the authorities have downplayed the allegations. Online applications have been sought for the posts. Thiruvananthapuram-based Save University Campaign Committee, in a recent letter to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the Chancellor, claimed that the move would impact the credibility of the examination system. It claimed that the move was to have at least 100 temporary staff for a year. Only residents of Tenhipalam, Pallikkal and Chelembra grama panchayats, which surround the university campus, can apply. They should be aged below 36 and graduates. The committee claimed that jobs such as false numbering of answer scripts, packing of question papers, decoding of counter foils, and details of teachers evaluating the answer scripts would be given to the temporary staff. It will affect the secrecy of the examination process. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj, however, said on Sunday that the university had only planned to set up a panel from which the required number of temporary staff would be appointed. Their number might not be 100. The appointment is only for a month, not a year. The process has just begun, Mr. Jayaraj added. Those who object to the move alleged that their tenure could be extended. As per rules, permanent appointments to non-academic posts in the university should be filled only by the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC). Temporary posts should be filled only through the Employment Exchange. The committee urged the Chancellor to direct the university authorities to make appointments to the posts from the rank lists prepared by the KPSC. It is learnt that some people are also planning to approach the court against the university. P. Rasheed Ahammed, Syndicate member, had earlier urged the Chancellor to stay the decision. He had also sought creation of permanent posts based on a scientific study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decision-to-recruit-temporary-staff-in-calicut-varsity-kicks-up-a-row/article38045864.ece
27 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Move to reduce runway length flayed||M.K. Raghavan, Kozhikode MP, has condemned the move to reduce the length of the runway at the Calicut International Airport in the guise of expanding the runway end-safety area, which is a buffer zone at the end of the runway. In a press release on Sunday, he alleged that it would only damage the interests of the airport. If the runway gets reduced, wide-bodied aircraft will not be able to operate from here, Mr. Raghavan pointed out. He said none of the studies conducted after the 2020 air crash had highlighted any safety lapse at the airport. The instrument landing system will have to be relocated. Also, runway lighting and marking will have to be completely shifted to reduce the runway length. It involves huge financial cost and takes time, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-reduce-runway-length-flayed/article38045865.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State ready for vaccination of teenagers: Health Minister||Kerala is fully prepared to administer the COVID-19 vaccine to teenagers in the 15-18 age group as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Health Minister Veena George has said. The Minister said arrangements would be made to vaccinate about 15 lakh teenagers in the target group after assessing their health status. Omicron threat She said efforts would be made to complete the vaccination for children at the earliest, in view of the emerging threat posed by the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Ms.George said the vaccination of citizens above the age of 18 was in the last phase. The State, she said, was geared up to administer the precaution dose for health workers, frontline warriors and senior citizens, as per the guidelines prescribed by the Centre. Meanwhile, the government has directed all citizens to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest, before January 3 when the priority shifts to the inoculation of children. The State currently has a stock of 26 lakh vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-ready-for-vaccination-of-teenagers-health-minister/article38045885.ece
27 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assault on girl, father: three arrested||Four days after a gang allegedly attacked a father and daughter in a road rage incident near Kattayikonam in the Pothencode police station limits, the accused were taken into custody from Karunagapally on Sunday. The arrested have been identified as Ashique, 22, from Andoorkonam; Faizal, 23; and Noufal, 27, from Kaithoorkonam in Velloor. ‘Space for U-turn’ The incident occurred around 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday. Venjaramoodu native Sheikh Muhammed and his 17-year-old daughter who were heading to Venjaramoodu from Kazhakuttam were confronted by the gang near Kattayikkonam allegedly for not giving enough space for them to take a U-turn. Muhammed was unable to reverse his car, as the gang had demanded, as there were other vehicles behind. The gang allegedly got out of their car and began thrashing and abusing the duo. CCTV and mobile phone visuals of the incident showed the gang reaching into the car and attacking them. Police intimated The daughter managed to call the police on the emergency number. Though the police arrived in a short while, the attackers had fled the spot by then. The father and daughter were admitted to the Nedumangad taluk hospital. The gang was also allegedly involved in another attack against a group of youngsters on the same day. They had allegedly smashed beer bottles on the head of a youth. According to the police, Faizal is one of the main accused in the roadside robbery of gold from a jewellery shop owner at Pallipuram earlier this year. There is a case related to assault against one of the other accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-girl-father-three-arrested/article38046026.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NCC cyclothon for clean coasts||The National Cadet Corps (NCC) Directorate Kerala and Lakshadweep, on Sunday, launched a cyclothon-cum-awareness campaign as part of the Puneet Sagar Abhiyan to keep the coasts clean. Minister for Transport Antony Raju inaugurated the event and flagged off the cyclothon that will cover main beaches from Thiruvananthapuram to Kozhikode along the coastal road in five days.  300 cadets Nearly 300 cadets and NCC staff are participating in the cycle rally-cum-awareness campaign, which includes beach-cleaning activities at select beaches with the support and involvement of cadets of the area in which the beach is located. The waste collected will be handed over to local self-help groups for further disposal. Street plays  Cadets will also perform street plays, and sensitise the local population to keeping the shores clean and their importance for environmental health. The campaign also promotes fitness and clean environment through cycling. Major General Mandip Singh Gill, Additional Director General, and Brigadier P.K. Sunil Kumar, Deputy Director General, NCC Directorate Kerala and Lakshadweep, were present at the flag-off at Veli Tourist Village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncc-cyclothon-for-clean-coasts/article38045875.ece
27 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ranjith likely to be appointed Kerala Chalachitra Academy||Filmmaker and screenwriter Ranjith is tipped to take over as the new chairperson of the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy while singer M.G. Sreekumar is likely to be appointed chairperson of the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi. The names were reportedly cleared by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretariat. An official order is yet to be issued. Ranjith is set to replace filmmaker Kamal who has had a stint of more than five years at the helm of the academy. Though Kamal had expressed his desire to step down from the post when the new government took charge after Assembly elections earlier this year, he was asked to continue until a replacement was identified. A rejig is often carried out at the top of the cultural organisations soon after a change in government. Incidentally, Ranjith began his career in Malayalam cinema as a screenwriter for a bunch of successful films directed by Kamal. He turned director with Ravanaprabhu and had a change in direction with films, including Nandanam , Kaiyoppu , Paleri Manikyam and Prachiyettan and the Saint , all of which won him critical acclaim too. Several hits M.G. Sreekumar is set to replace KPAC Lalitha, who also had a stint of over five years as the chairperson of the Sangeetha Nataka Akademi. Over close to four decades, Sreekumar has sung thousands of film songs in several languages. A winner of multiple national awards and State awards, he has several of the biggest hits in Malayalam film music to his credits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ranjith-likely-to-be-appointed-kerala-chalachitra-academy/article38045868.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP moves Governor against SDPI, police||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has moved Governor Arif Mohammed Khan against the attacks on its party workers at the hands of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). BJP national executive member Kummanam Rajasekharan met Mr. Khan at his residence and handed over the party’s petition. He said the SDPI assailants had used an ambulance as a cover to ambush OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Srinivasan in Alappuzha early on December 19. They used the exact vehicle to get away from the murder spot. The slaying had happened barely 200 m away from the local police station. On November 15, SDPI activists ambushed RSS worker and Theneri mandal boudhik pramukh at Mambaram, Sanjith, in Palakkad. Mr. Rajasekharan told Mr. Khan that 22 BJP leaders had been killed ever since Pinarayi Vijayan assumed power in 2016. The CPI(M), SDPI, and PFI were hand in glove in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-moves-governor-against-sdpi-police/article38045883.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,824 more test positive||As many as 1,824 persons in the State tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday when 38,929 samples were analysed, registering a test positivity rate of 4.68. The COVID death toll rose to 46,586 with 16 mortalities recorded on Sunday and 252 deaths accounted for as per the Supreme Court guidelines. Data released by the Health department said 931 of the 1,824 new cases were breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated citizens, while 111 cases had received one dose of vaccine. As many as 3,364 COVID patients were discharged on Sunday after they tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1824-more-test-positive/article38045887.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12 arrested||The Nagaroor police on Sunday arrested 12 persons after a fight between two groups. The police said rivalry between Vishnu and Sooraj, two local youths, led to the tit-for-tat attacks. On Saturday, Vishnu and a friend who were on a motorcycle were attacked. Vishnu’s friends barged into the house of Afzal, Sooraj’s friend, and attacked them both, injuring Afzal’s family members too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-arrested/article38046027.ece
27 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||374 new cases||The district logged 374 COVID-19 cases and 817 recoveries on Sunday. The number of active cases stood at 3,755.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/374-new-cases/article38046028.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||19 more cases take Omicron tally to 57||The number of Omicron cases in Kerala jumped to 57 with the State registering the highest daily tally of 19 on Sunday. Ernakulam with 11, recorded the highest number of new cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram with six and Thrissur and Kannur with one each. While 16 fresh infections were confirmed in international travellers who arrived from the U.K., UAE, Ireland, Spain, Canada, Qatar, Netherlands, Ghana and Sharjah, three others were infected through contact. Health Minister Veena George advised extreme caution in view of the mounting cases of Omicron. She called for strict adherence to the COVID protocols, including wearing of masks and physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/19-more-cases-take-omicron-tally-to-57/article38045888.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Attacks on Christians: Satheesan writes to Prime Minister||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has drawn the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the “recent wave of attacks by right-wing outfits against minority groups in the country.” In an open letter on Sunday expressing concern at the turn of events, Mr. Satheesan said: “It is disturbing to see the right-wing groups with allegiance to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) have recently carried out horrific attacks against Christians in several States, including Karnataka and Gujarat. These occurrences are in stark violation of the right to life and religious freedom guaranteed by our Constitution.” On December 11, a mob attacked Christians at Kolar in Karnataka and set their religious books on fire. The same day at Belagavi, an armed man pursued a priest menacingly. There have been no arrests in both incidents. Mr. Satheesan sought the Prime Minister’s urgent intervention to halt the targetting of minorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attacks-on-christians-satheesan-writes-to-prime-minister/article38045881.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lights to lead the way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lights-to-lead-the-way/article38045921.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Solid base||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solid-base/article38046030.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||To keep the hearth burning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/to-keep-the-hearth-burning/article38045997.ece
27 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine more held in Shan murder case||The police have arrested nine people, including five alleged assailants, in connection with the murder of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) State secretary K.S. Shan here. The arrested assailants were identified as Athul O.S., 27, of Mannancherry, Vishnu K., 28, of Aryad, Dhanesh D., 25, of Aryad, Abhimanyu K.U., 27, of Mararikulam South, and Sanand K.U., 36, of Mannancherry. RSS, BJP sympathisers Their arrests were recorded on Saturday. They were arrested by a team led by Alappuzha Crime Branch Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Benny. The police said all five arrested were Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh/Bharatiya Janata Party activists or sympathisers. Besides, the police on Sunday recorded the arrest of four others in connection with the case. They were Pranav P.V., 28, and Sreeraj P.K., 30, both from Mannancherry, Suresh, alias Sudheesh, 49, and Umesh, 27, the duo hailing from Thrikkur in Thrissur. Pranav and Sreeraj helped the killer gang identify Shan. Suresh and Umesh were booked for harbouring the killer gang. Incident on Dec. 18 Shan was attacked by assailants at Kuppezham Junction in Mannancherry in Alappuzha around 7.30 p.m. on December 18. He succumbed to injuries around 11.30 p.m. He was heading home on his motorcycle when a car knocked him down. A group of persons came out of the car and attacked him. The police have so far arrested 14 people in connection with the murder. The other five were Rajendraprasad, alias Prasad, 39, of Mannancherry, Ratheesh, alias Kuttan, 31, of Mararikulam South, Akhil, 30, of Cherthala, Maneesh, 33, and Sanalkumar, 39, both from Cherthala South. Following the murder, a gang hacked Ranjith Sreenivas, BJP’s OBC Morcha State secretary, to death in his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha municipality on December 19 morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nine-more-held-in-shan-murder-case/article38045464.ece
27 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TIDCO houses progressing at a snail’s pace in Anantapur||The progress of the economically weaker section housing units grounded under the Andhra Pradesh Township And Infrastructure Development Corporation (APTIDCO) in 2017 is at a snail’s pace due to various factors like shortage of cement and sand recently. During the Telugu Desam Party regime, 61,556 units were sanctioned in the district to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 3,351 crore. About Rs. 374.9 crore was spent on partially built houses by the time Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s government assumed office in 2019. Not much progress has been made in the past two and a half years even after truncating the project to just 16,272 units under different phases for three different sizes of houses. According to Nodal Officer for TIDCO Project and Executive Engineer Shyam Sundar, work was in progress on 3,696 units under Phase-II Reverse Tendering and 46.49% completion was achieved. In the Phase-III Reverse Tendering, 5,280 units were being built at 11 urban locations in the district with 22.15% of work completed as on Thursday. Currently, 13,472 units of 300 sft, 1,744 units of 365 sft, and 1,056 units of 430 sft were being constructed. Rain effect At Prasannaipalli in Anantapur city, the construction site where 2,112 units of three different sizes were being built by the D.S. Max Properties Private Ltd. was inaccessible for the past one and a half months due to rains, and the slushy soil made it impossible for the construction material or men to reach the under-construction houses. “The common amenities to be developed by the State government have not yet been sanctioned and estimates have been prepared and sent to the government,” said the Nodal Officer. Only when the estimates by the local officers are approved, the tendering process for the laying of roads, drains, power lines, and water facilities can be created. When The Hindu visited the project site, it could see that while a miniscule number of units were nearing completion with internal tile work in progress, the majority are at foundation level or had reached the lintel level. While the company had begun work in April 2020, COVID-19 had badly impacted the progress and the rains followed. While NJR Constructions has been executing the works in Tadipatri, the Shapoorji Pallonji & Company is taking up some works in Anantapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tidco-houses-progressing-at-a-snails-pace-in-anantapur/article38045525.ece
27 December 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Consent must to establish and operate fuel pumps, says NGT||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the State Pollution Control Boards and the Central Pollution Control Board to make it mandatory for new petroleum outlets to obtain consent to establish and consent to operate. The NGT also directed the retail petroleum outlets, irrespective of their turnover, to obtain consent to operate within six months. If they did not do so, the State Pollution Control Boards could take action. Verify siting criteria The Bench said the State Pollution Control Boards could verify the siting criteria for the fuel stations and directed them to penalise the outlets that did not install the vapour recovery system. It said these measures were required for the protection of the environment. The Bench passed the order on an application on the non-installation of the vapour recovery system by petroleum outlets, in violation of the order of the Principal Bench. The applicant submitted that though the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas decided to establish more fuel outlets, none of them was complying with the directions of the Principal Bench. ‘No action taken’ The existing petrol pumps in Tamil Nadu did not comply with the directions; even after this was brought to the notice of the authorities, no action was taken, the applicant submitted. “As regards the new petroleum outlets of Stage 1 and Stage 2 (having a turnover of 100 kl/month to 300 kl/month) and for Stage 1A (storage depots), the vapour recovery system will have to be installed by both the public and private sector undertakings within the extended time fixed by the Central Pollution Control Board,” the Bench said. Target not met The status reports filed by the public sector undertakings showed that none of them had met the target set by the Central Pollution Control Board. If the target was not met, the Board should impose environmental compensation as directed by the Principal Bench, the Bench said.  The Bench passed the order on an application on the non-installation of the vapour recovery system by petroleum outlets, in violation of the order of the Principal Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/consent-must-to-establish-and-operate-fuel-pumps-says-ngt/article38045624.ece
27 December 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mekedatu march apolitical event, says Congress leader||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar has said that he will take out a 10-day march from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, beginning on January 9, to put pressure on the State Government to take up the Mekedatu project. Addressing a press conference in Hassan on Saturday, Mr. Shivakumar said the construction of a balancing reservoir for the purpose of drinking water and power generation did not require permission from the Centre. “The State Government does not require much time to clear the hurdles in executing the project. However, the government has not held a meeting with the Centre so far. This is an apolitical event. We are inviting leaders of all parties and pro-Kannada organisations”, he said. He appealed to the public to take part in the march in support of the cause. Those who take part after registering their names in advance would get certificates. Every day the participants would cover 15 to 18 km, he said. Further, Mr. Shivakumar said the party has begun a membership campaign. The party had set the target of enrolling 25,000 members in each assembly constituency. Those interested could enrol their names either online or offline. Later, he addressed a meeting of party workers and appealed to them to strengthen the party keeping aside self-interests. “The Congress has potential to win all seats in Hassan district. The workers should work for the party, not individuals”, he said. KPCC working president R. Dhruvanarayan, M.A. Gopalaswamy, MLC, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mekedatu-march-apolitical-event-says-congress-leader/article38045501.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||K.T. Rama Rao dares BJP to reveal jobs it created||Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao dared the BJP to publish a white paper on the jobs that it created or employment notifications issued either in Central government or States where it was in power. Did the BJP give jobs more than Telangana in any of the States ruled by it, he asked in an open letter to party State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on the eve of his proposed hunger strike here on Monday to highlight the failure of TRS government on employment front. He reminded Mr. Sanjay Kumar that Telangana was among the States that had least unemployment and paved way for reverse migration of people with employment opportunities. The State government gave over 1.33 lakh jobs against its promise of only one lakh jobs and generated another 16n lakh jobs moreby ensuring investment to the tune of Rs. 2.20 lakh crore. The government had an umbilical chord with unemployed youth of the State. Mr. Rao asked BJP to spell out its achievement in the promise to provide two crore jobs a year across the country. How many jobs did youth in Telangana get from them? The unemployment rate was the highest in the country in the last 40 years due to the failures of BJP-led government at the Centre. The Centre had not even given a rupee after announcing a stimulus package of Rs. 20 lakh crore to tide over financial constraints on account of COVID. Mr. Sanjay should use his hunger strike site to apologise to people at not being able to confront the Centre over its failure to fill 15 lakh jobs under its purview, he said. He reminded the BJP leader that no country or government could give jobs to lakhs of youth who passed out of universities with degrees. But, it was no reason for Telangana government to shirk its responsibility like the manner in which Centre did. Mr. Sanjay wanted to go on fast unable to stomach the successes of the State government. He was trying to provoke youth, divert them from education and attempts to explore jobs and play havoc with their lives. The BJP leaders closed their eyes to lathicharge by police on unemployed youth during receipt of applications for jobs in States ruled by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kt-rama-rao-dares-bjp-to-reveal-jobs-it-created/article38045467.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension over Revanth’s ‘Rachabanda’ at Erravalli||Tension is building up at Erravalli in Murkook mandal of Siddipet district, with both the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the opposition Congress party mobilising their cadre for the proposed ‘Rachabanda’ programme by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy in the village on Monday. The TPCC has announced the Rachabanda programme to interact with farmers to understand their problems in addition to exposing the ‘double standards’ of the TRS in the State and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre over paddy procurement from Telangana. Mr. Revanth Reddy has stated that the programme will be held in all Assembly constituencies of the State starting from Erravalli, the village in which the farm house of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is located. Two days ago, Forest Development Corporation chairman V. Pratap Reddy held a programme in the village and announced that the programme will not be allowed to be held. Some people in the village objected when District Congress Committee (DCC) president T. Narsa Reddy visited the village on Saturday to examine a suitable place for the programme, while some welcomed it stating that every political party has a right to give their voice. On Sunday, TRS and Congress leaders clashed with each other physically and police had to intervene and pacify both the groups. They raised slogans against each other. Mr. Narsa Reddy said that they would visit the village on Monday and conduct the programme wherever possible. Police said that there was no permission to conduct Rachabanda programme in the village. Murkook Sub-Inspector Srisailam said that the government had prohibited all rallies and public meetings on orders of High Court till January 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-over-revanths-rachabanda-at-erravalli/article38045463.ece
27 December 2021||KIRLAMPUDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Mala Mahanadu, BC leaders call on Mudragada||A group of political leaders led by Mala Mahanadu national president R.S. Ratnakar and BC leader K. Suryanarayana on Sunday held talks with Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham here at his residence, wherein they reportedly discussed the possibilities of floating a new political party. The meeting, attended by East Godavari-based BC leaders, gained importance as Mr. Padmanabham was being persuaded by many political parties to join them. Mr. Padmanabham chose to remain silent on the purpose of the meeting. Recently, special invitee to the Congress Working Committee Chinta Mohan met Mr. Padmanabham to convince him to join the party. In October, Mr. Chinta Mohan had said he would convince the Congress leadership to project a Kapu leader as the Chief Minister candidate for Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Padmanabham has been keeping himself away from politics since he quit the Kapu reservation movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mala-mahanadu-bc-leaders-call-on-mudragada/article38045986.ece
27 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers clash with police||The Ernakulam rural police have recorded the arrest of 24 migrant workers in connection with the violence at Kizhakkambalam in Kerala, in the early hours of Sunday. Those arrested are from among the 156 workers of Kitex Garments who had been taken into custody following the violence. The workers, mostly hailing from various northeastern States, Jharkhand and West Bengal, had set fire to a police jeep and attacked police personnel who arrived at the spot. More arrests are likely, it is learnt. Special team A special team led by Perumbavoor Assistant Superintendent of Police Anuj Paliwal has been constituted to probe the alleged attack on police personnel. The police said cases had been registered in three police stations in the area and the situation was under control now. The clash began between workers hailing from northeastern States and those from other States over the conduct of late-night Christmas celebrations in a camp where the two groups of workers were staying. The workers, who were allegedly under the influence of liquor and narcotic drugs, refused to heed to directives issued by security personnel of the factory, following which police help was sought. They then turned their ire on the police. They set afire a jeep in which Kunnathunad circle inspector V.T. Shajan and four other police personnel arrived, while two other police jeeps too were damaged. The personnel were also roughed up and some of them suffered head injuries in the stone pelting. The workers reportedly snatched away some phones of residents of the locality who were recording the incident. Policemen injured Mr. Shajan suffered injuries in his head and fractured his hand. Those injured were admitted to the Medical Mission Hospital, Kolenchery. While the others have been discharged, civil police officer Subair is still in the hospital with injuries to his face. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik was among those who arrived at the spot early in the morning to quell the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/migrant-workers-clash-with-police/article38045469.ece
27 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF, Fire personnel take part in river rescue drill||Personnel from the Department of Fire Service, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), and the Andhra Pradesh Special Protection Force (APSPF) participated in a five-hour river rescue drill on Krishna river from Srisailam to Nagarjunasagar Dam on Sunday. Twenty-four personnel from the three departments led by Director General Fire Services Madireddy Prathap, Kurnool District Fire Officer Sreenivasa Reddy, Yogeeswar Reddy and others went in four boats. With the water level being above 560 feet in Nagarjunasagar Dam, the backwaters of the reservoir touched Srisailam and the personnel tried out all logical possibilities of accidents in the river and it was a smooth rescue affair enhancing the confidence levels of the personnel, Mr. Sreenivasa Reddy told The Hindu . “With a vast experience in such rescue and travel in Inflatable Rescue Boats (IRBs), Mr. Prathap gave us some directions on how to coordinate with other departments,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-fire-personnel-take-part-in-river-rescue-drill/article38045968.ece
27 December 2021||MULUGU,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRPF constable shoots dead SI in Telangana||A head constable of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) allegedly shot dead a Sub-Inspector of the CRPF with his service weapon and later attempted suicide by shooting himself in their barracks at Venkatapuram police station in Mulugu district on Sunday morning. The head constable identified as Stephen allegedly opened fire at SI Umesh Chandra with his service weapon killing the latter on the spot, before turning the gun on himself at around 8.30 a.m., sources said. A seriously injured Stephen was shifted to the MGM Hospital in Warangal. His condition was stated to be critical. The deceased CRPF SI, aged around 55 years, hailed from Bihar. Venkatapuram police are yet to determine the exact reason behind the incident. Sources, however, said that the duo allegedly had an altercation over a mess-related issue on Sunday morning and, in a heat of the moment, Stephen, who is in-charge of the staff mess, allegedly opened fire at Umesh Chandra. Mulugu Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil said the matter is under investigation.  Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crpf-constable-shoots-si-to-death-in-telangana/article38045477.ece
27 December 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Statutory guarantee for MSP a must’||The former chairperson of the Agricultural Price Commission, Prakash Kammardi, has called for a law to accord statutory guarantee for minimum support price for agricultural produce. He was speaking at a conference organised to mark World Farmers’ Day by the Federation of Farmers’ Association and Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association. Mr. Kammardi said policies and debates on agricultural issues and problems of farmers should also result in formulation of law to shore up their economic well being. The announcement of a minimum support price is of no avail if it does not help sustain the farmers, he added. Mr. Kammardi said that the year-long agitation of farmers against the three contentious farm laws, which forced the Centre to repeal it, showed the unity and integrity of farmers in the face of challenges. He said the farmers have acquired a distinct identity transcending caste and it was evident in the agitation at Delhi. Just as the Centre has repealed the three farm laws, the State Government should also do a rethink and withdraw the amendment to the APMC Act and the Land Reforms Act which, he said, are inimical to the farmers and agriculture. The conference saw participation of experts from across Karnataka besides the presence of a few invitees from other States. Later in the day, Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami said that the present Government was farmer-friendly and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was striving to strengthen and empower the farming community. Though there are major issues, the farmers should not lose self confidence or resort to extreme measures, said the seer. He referred to the modern day agricultural practices and said there was emphasis on use of chemical pesticides and fertilizers as a result of which the soil was losing fertility besides having a deleterious effect on the health of the consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/statutory-guarantee-for-msp-a-must/article38045476.ece
27 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials on alert as one tests positive for Omicron||A 48-year-old returnee from South Africa has tested positive for the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, according to Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli. Panic gripped residents of Ongole, which has been slowly limping back to normal as infections have come to bare minimum of late. “We have isolated all the seven primary contacts of the man, who has come from South Africa to Dubai and then to Hyderabad and Ongole, at the Government General Hospital here,” Dr. Ratnavalli said. “Their health condition is stable,” she told The Hindu on Sunday. “Thirty-two primary and secondary contacts of the foreign returnee have been subjected to testing,” she added. In all, 1,200 persons who had returned from abroad to different parts of Prakasam district were subjected to testing. Three of them had tested positive for other variants of COVID-19, Dr. Ratnavalli said. The health officials had sought the assistance of police to trace about 60 foreign returnees who could not be located yet. Meanwhile, the officials have geared up to scale up testing from about 4,500 per day to 9,000. Testing facilities have been put in place in Markapur and Kandukur to conduct the tests as the third wave is expected sooner than later. “People can no longer be complacent and they have to strictly adhere to the COVID-appropriate behaviour,” they said. Police warning Hefty fines would be imposed on those found moving without face masks in public places, Special Branch Deputy Superintendent of Police Mariya Das said. People have to clean their hands with sanitisers from time to time. Public gatherings during marriage and other social occasions should be restricted to 50, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-on-alert-as-one-tests-positive-for-omicron/article38045989.ece
27 December 2021||Palakol,ANDHRA PRADESH||RSS meet held amid tight security in Palakol||The West Godavari district police arranged tight security for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) meeting which was attended by the Sarsangchalak (chief of RSS), Mohan Bhagwat, in Palakol on Sunday. Mr. Bhagwat reached Palakol from Antarvedi in East Godavari district for the programme, the police said. Speaking to The Hindu , Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma said that foolproof security had been arranged for Mr. Bhagwat, who is a Z Plus category VIP. “We are doing security arrangements for the RSS chief in coordination with the East Godavari district police,” Mr. Sharma said. Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) P. Veeranjaneya Reddy said that special and road opening parties had checked culverts and the venue located on Penumadam road on the outskirts of the town. Kshetra Saha Sangachalak Dusi Ramakrishna and Pranta Sangachalak Nagareddy Hari Kumar, Bhimavaram Vibhaag Sangachalak Manthena Ramachandra Raju and Rajahmundry Sangachalak Rimmalapudi Subba Raju visited the venue and reviewed the arrangements. RSS activists conducted rehearsals and decked up the venue for the State-level event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rss-meet-held-amid-tight-security-in-palakol/article38045966.ece
27 December 2021||PALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Join hands to fight terrorism, RSS chief tells activists||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has called upon the activists to fight against terrorism and save the country. Participating in the RSS meeting titled ‘Godavari Sangamam’ in the town on Sunday, Mr. Bhagwat asked the people to stay with unity to achieve the goal of Akhanda Bharat. “Now, we are celebrating Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav on the occasion of 75 years of Independence. This is the time to recall the services of Alluri Sitaramaraju and other leaders who fought for the country,” he said. Mr. Bhagwat said some people were making forcible conversions by offering money. Stringent measures should be taken against religious conversions. “I request the people to follow the principles of Swami Vivekananda and protect ‘dharma’, and fight against ‘adharma’,” the RSS chief said adding that all activists should take Sangh Prardhana. Nagarjuna Construction company director A.S.N. Raju, Kshetra Saha Sangachalak Dusi Ramakrishna and Pranta Sangachalak Nagareddy Hari Kumar, Bhimavaram Vibhaag Sangachalak Manthena Ramachandra Raju, Rajahmundry Sangachalak Rimmalapudi Subba Raju and thousands of activists participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/join-hands-to-fight-terrorism-rss-chief-tells-activists/article38045984.ece
27 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mandala puja performed at Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala||Marking the culmination of the 41-day annual Mandalam pilgrim season in Sabarimala, mandala puja was performed at the Ayyappa temple here on Sunday. The rituals during the day were led by the chief priest (Tantri), Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu, and the head priest (Melsanthi) N. Parameswaran Namboothiri. The mandala puja was performed between 11.50 a.m. to 12.40 p.m. Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan, TDB president K. Ananthagopan, and Kottayam District Collector S. Jayasree were present. The Ayyappa temple will remain closed till 5 p.m. on December 30 and the devotees will be permitted from December 31 onwards. According to the Devaswom Minister, the pilgrims will be permitted to ascend the Sabarimala through the forest routes from Erumneli and Vandiperiyar. Those travelling from Erumeli between 5.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. will be allowed to travel through Azhuthakadavu. Only 10,000 people, who have registered in the virtual queue system, will be permitted to take the route on a daily basis. The Petta Thullal at Erumeli will be held on January 11 while the customary procession carrying the Thiruvabharanam to Sabarimala will set off from Pandalam a day later. The Makaravilakkuday falls on January 14 and the Guruti ritual marking the culmination of the annual Makaravilakku festival will be performed on the Malikappuram Devi temple premises on January 19 evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mandala-puja-performed-at-ayyappa-temple-in-sabarimala/article38045471.ece
27 December 2021||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 Odisha workers found dead on railway track||Two migrant workers from Odisha were found dead on a railway track at Unguturu in West Godavari district on Sunday. According to Tadepalligudem Government Railway Police SI G. Srihari Babu, who is investigating the case, the Renigunta-Kakinada Express train hit the workers when they went to attend nature’s call. They came here to work in the AP Fibernet project. Police shifted the bodies to Tadepalligudem Government Hospital, the SI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-odisha-workers-found-dead-on-railway-track/article38045537.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tharoor told to stick to Congress stand||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership appeared to have run out of patience with Shashi Tharoor, MP. Mr. Tharoor’s “tacit approval” of the government’s K-Rail (SilverLine) project had arguably given ammunition to the ruling front to disparage the United Democratic Front’s (UDF) “studied” opposition to the flagship semi-high-speed railway project. Consequently, the KPCC resolved to ask Mr. Tharoor why he declined to sign a petition by the UDF MPs seeking a Central direction to the State to stop forging ahead with the scheme, including land acquisition and demarcation of the railway line. It was unclear whether Mr. Tharoor has explained his position. In Kannur, KPCC president K. Sudhakaran seemed to reach the end of his tether when beset by questions about Mr. Tharoor’s allegedly stiff-necked recalcitrance to toe the party line on SilverLine. “Shashi Tharoor is not the Congress. He is just another Congress worker. Mr. Tharoor is only a single man in the party. People are entitled to their opinion. But in organisational matters, they have to be subservient to the party line. Mr. Tharoor will continue in the party if he toes the party line. If not, he will not be in the party,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. It seemed not to help that Mr. Tharoor is reckoned to be part of the “rebel” group of 23 leaders (G-23) in the All India Congress Committee (AICC). The collective has repeatedly clamoured for organisational elections, a euphemism for opposition to the practice of nomination to top party positions. Earlier, Mr. Tharoor had also come under criticism for “staying away” from party programmes. Endorsement of CM What seemed to have irked the KPCC most was Mr. Tharoor’s perceived endorsement of K-Rail and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s development initiatives. His controversial tweet had come on the day the UDF was poised to launch a Statewide agitation against the K-Rail. It seemed a slap on the face of the KPCC leadership. The tweet drew flak from top Congress leaders. Former KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said Mr. Tharoor had made a habit of putting the party in a spot. Mr. Ramachandran had demanded the high command to discipline Mr. Tharoor if he did not fall in line with the party. Other Congress leaders also made their displeasure evident. Some said the tweet had undermined UDF’s studied position on K-Rail and advantaged Mr. Vijayan. Mr. Tharoor, on his part, appeared to maintain that he had not endorsed K-Rail. He needed time to take a studied position on the ambitious project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tharoor-told-to-stick-to-congress-stand/article38045503.ece
27 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Directive on mother tongue of school heads||The mother tongue of headmasters or headmistresses (HMs) appointed to Tamil or Kannada-medium schools in the State should be the medium of instruction of these schools, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. A single bench of commission member Reny Antony was acting on a petition by Joby K. Thomas, president of the parent-teacher association of Government Lower Primary School, Vellathooval, Adimali, Idukki. The complaint As per the complaint, Tamil teachers appointed to Malayalam medium schools in Idukki and other districts directly or through transfer were not able to teach students or peruse other teachers’ notes. Only those proficient in Malayalam should be appointed as heads of Malayalam-medium schools. Reports of the Director of General Education (DGE) and the Idukki Deputy Director of Education (DDE) said that appointments of primary head teachers through promotion were not done separately for Malayalam/Tamil. No separate seniority list was prepared. Even while inviting applications for primary head teacher transfers, no distinction was made between Tamil and Malayalam schools and the process was effected through a single link ‘Primary HM’ on the transfer portal. The only guidelines for promotion were 12 years of service and passing departmental-level examinations. There was no stipulation for clearing language tests. Academic standard The commission observed that appointment of head teachers not proficient in the medium of instruction of Malayalam, Tamil, and Kannada-medium schools was affecting implementation of teaching-learning activities and the academic standard of schools. As per the Right to Education Act, for all-round development of the child it was important that the medium of instruction be the child’s mother tongue. The appointment of head teachers not fluent in students’ mother tongue was a violation of children’s rights, the panel said.  Panel says the appointment of head teachers not fluent in students’ mother tongue is a violation of children’s rights||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/directive-on-mother-tongue-of-school-heads/article38045499.ece
27 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to get tomatos from Andhra today||Ten tonnes of tomato will arrive in the Kerala markets from Andhra Pradesh on Monday as part of a market intervention measure launched by the Agriculture Department. Procured by the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) from farmers in Mulakalacheruvu, the tomatoes will be available to the public through the Christmas-New Year markets which are on till January 1, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad said on Sunday. In the capital The tomatoes will reach the World Market at Anayara, Thiruvananthapuram, in the morning. The department had launched the market intervention programme after vegetable prices shot up in November following crop damage in the southern States. At one point, tomato retail prices had touched Rs. 120 per kg in the markets in the State. Subsequently, Horticorp started direct purchases from farmers in Mysuru and Tirunelveli to keep prices down in the open market. Last week, the Agriculture Department also launched the ‘Thakkali Vandi’ (tomato van) for retail sales of tomato at Rs. 50 per kg. From Tenkasi Meanwhile, vegetables from Tenkasi district of Tamil Nadu will start arriving in Kerala from next week, the Minister said. Horticorp had struck a deal with seven farmer-producer organisations in Tenkasi district last week. T.V. Subhash, Director, Agriculture department, will receive the tomato consignment at Anayara on Monday morning.  Procured by Horticorp from farmers in Mulakalacheruvu Horticorp also inks deals with farmer-producer organisations in Tenkasi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-get-tomatos-from-andhra-today/article38045475.ece
27 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKIT on the verge of closure||Sri Kalahastheeswara Institute of Technology (SKIT), launched amid much hype and hoopla by Sri Kalahastheeswara Swamy Devasthanams, is now a closed chapter. The college was built in 1998 in the temple town of Srikalahasti, as the then legislator Bojjala Gopalakrishna Reddy contemplated to offer quality engineering education to the aspiring youth of rural areas. As the craze for engineering was at its peak, the move turned out to be an instant hit among the two dozen villages scattered around Srikalahasti. Pursuing ‘dollar dreams’, most students of the first batch had discussed HiTec City, Y2K problem and Silicon Valley, which were the ‘in thing’ in the late 90s. SKIT was rated among the top in combined Andhra Pradesh, as many of today’s top ranking colleges were not even born then. After raking in the moolah in its first decade, the college had to face several stumbling blocks from around 2010. Though political interference at various levels was blamed for its administration going haywire, there was no improvement even after the Endowments Department started wielding total control. The officers, busy as they were with handling the affairs of the world famous Saivite temple, apparently lost focus of the college. It is said that the governing body had not met even once during 2014-2017, making things slip out of the hand. All attempts to give a facelift to the college failed and the situation started going from bad to worse, as could be seen from the year-on-year drop in admissions, forcing the maintenance expenditure to be met from the temple’s earnings. Today, the non-functional college has 30 students and over 120 employees, including non-teaching staff. In fact, the attempts to hand over the college to private managements also failed. “Good days are ahead for its takeover, as we are in talks with a prominent institution”, says Srikalahasti MLA B.Madhusudhan Reddy, who hopes to revive the college. However, attempts are being made to get rid of all the existing staff, severing their two decades of association. As most of them are in their late 40s and early 50s, they stare at a bleak future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/skit-on-the-verge-of-closure/article38045527.ece
27 December 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blocking of channels blamed for unprecedented floods||“I came to Tirupati 40 years ago, but have never seen floods of this scale in my life,” says Araveti Padmavathamma of Sri Krishna Nagar in the temple town, which was among the areas that remained submerged in knee-deep water for days together following the flash floods witnessed this November–December. Tirupati has a natural geographical disadvantage in the form of Tirumala Hills on the north that allows flow of excess rainwater. Similarly, a broad hint on the inherent risk to the town with the likelihood of breach to Avilala, Rayalacheruvu, Peruru and Thummalagunta tanks on the southern and western sides also became evident this year. Amid tense moments of a possible disaster for three days, the breach to Rayalacheruvu bund was plugged with nearly 20,000 sand bags, which averted inundation of 16 panchayats and the southern periphery of Tirupati. Peruru and Thummalagunta tanks flooded western Tirupati. The ‘conversion’ of Thummalagunta tank bed into a cricket stadium and storage of water in Peruru to its brim were widely blamed for the fiasco. The sudden release of water from Perur to prevent breach naturally flooded M.R. Palle, Avilala and Gandhipuram areas. For the first time, the arterial and posh Annamayya Road witnessed people wading through waist-deep water to reach their destinations. “We have instructed the irrigation department to study letting the excess water from tanks into Swarnamukhi river. We have also asked the engineers to study linking the tanks that allows cascading of excess water”, says Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan. The new rainfall pattern has also prompted the authorities to consider replacing causeways with high-level bridges. The continuous downpour on Tirumala for 24 hours made Malavadigundam and Kapila Theertham falls swell in size, but the channels, shrunken in width due to rampant encroachment over decades, created a bottleneck and flooded colonies in the heart of the city. The 60-ft wide channel at NGO’s Colony becomes 10 feet near Abbanna colony that spilled water over and submerged the low-lying colonies. “We are considering digging a trench along the Seshachalam hills from Kapila Theertham, probably parallel to Karakambadi Road, to let the flood water into Mallemadugu reservoir in Renigunta to save the city”, says MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, also stressing the need to desilt and remove encroachments in Korramenugunta on the east, which is a major catchment for flood water after Vinayakasagar. In what is termed the ‘botched up’ Kalyani operation, the lifted gates were not closed on time as floodwater swept away the electric poles and the generator backup also reportedly failed. It is hard to believe that the irrigation department has no power connection on its name, though operating for decades here. The gushing water entered Swarnamukhi that washed away Tiruchanur and Chiguruvada bridges, snapping connectivity to the scores of southern villages, besides inundating Auto Nagar and Korramenugunta. The sad part is that the floods were not caused directly by rainfall, but the city had to bear the brunt of water flowing from elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blocking-of-channels-blamed-for-unprecedented-floods/article38045982.ece
27 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||UBI offers agri loans to beat COVID crisis||Union Bank of India(UBI) has announced to extend agricultural loans up to Rs. 1.35 lakh per acre depending on the crop variety, and up to Rs. 50,000 under Kisan Tatkal loan to eligible farmers without additional mortgage. The bank has come forward to offer Rs. 68,000 for paddy, Rs. 1.35 lakh for sugarcane, Rs. 50,000 for groundnut, Rs. 1.20 lakh for chilli and tomato, besides scale of finance up to 180% for other crops. According to the bank’s Regional Manager (Tirupati) P.D.V. Sarma, cattle rearers will be provided Rs. 27,000 for a cow, Rs. 30,000 for a buffalo and Rs. 40,000 for twenty females and one male unit of sheep and goat. “This support is extended to farmers and merchants facing a tough time due to the COVID-19 pandemic.” People involved in business development and revamp of small medium and large scale industry can avail similar loans, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ubi-offers-agri-loans-to-beat-covid-crisis/article38045532.ece
27 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||New body for revenue association||M. Ashok Reddy, Deputy Tahsildar, Tirupati Urban, has been elected as the president of Andhra Pradesh Revenue Services Association’s Chittoor district unit on Sunday. Deputy Tahsildars G. Syam Prasad (Tirupati Urban), E. Sudheer (Srikalahasti) and A.K. Prem Kumar (Renigunta) have been elected the associate president, Secretary and Treasurer respectively in the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-body-for-revenue-association/article38045533.ece
27 December 2021||TUMMALA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tendu leaf collectors at their wits’ end||The State government owes Rs. 2 lakh to the family of Podiyam Lakshman of Aligudem hamlet. The amount is the bonus his six-member family, irrespective of age and gender, has earned by toiling hard for about 10 years to collect tendu leaves from the Naxalite-affected forest areas along the Andhra-Chhattisgarh border under the ‘Tendu Leaf Scheme’. The A.P. State Forest Development Corporation (APFDC) has not paid bonus of Rs. 30 crore accrued during the period 2012 to 2021, to nearly 15,000 registered individual tendu leaf collectors in the Chintoor Agency area, according to the Forest Department officials. Revenue from royalty The leaf collectors belong to the Koya, Konda Reddy, and Gutti Koya tribes, and more than half of them are women. During the period, the APFDC has earned Rs. 60.80 crore revenue by auctioning nine tendu leaf units in the Agency area. The revenue comes in the form of royalty paid by the bidders. After paying Rs. 23.30 crore towards leaf collection charges, its net revenue is Rs. 37 crore. “The forest officials have been telling us that the Chief Minister has to decide on the pending bonus issue. We have never been told this at any stage – collection, packing, and during payment of collection charges. Many Chief Ministers have changed since 2012, but my family has not received the bonus of Rs. 1 lakh,” said Mottum Rajayya, a 45-year-old member of the Koya tribe from Tummala hamlet. No tribal family can afford to boycott, or stop tendu leaf collection because of the pending payment, and as it is the only livelihood source during summer. A leaf collector gets a maximum of Rs. 2,100 as bonus for a standard bag (SB). A single SB contains 1,000 bundles, each comprising 50 leaves. The leaf collection is done between April and June. The APFDC pays the collection charges and bonus to the leaf collector. Almost 90% of tendu leaves are despatched to West Bengal. ‘Who is responsible?’ “We have staged dharna and submitted representations to the officials at various levels. We do not know the supreme authority, or the official who is holding our bonus for over a decade,” the 25-year-old Lakshman told The Hindu . For two seasons (2012-14), the leaf collectors were part of the Khammam district (now in Telangana) in the combined State. For this period, the net revenue was Rs. 13.10 crore out of the total revenue of Rs. 18.30 crore. “The bonus for the period of 2012-14 has to be settled by the Forest Departments of both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The details of the bonus pending (2012-21) and the list of beneficiaries have been sent to the APFDC head office,” Chintoor Divisional Forest Officer V. Saibaba said, and admitted that he was not privy to the reason for the delay in clearing the dues. Leaf collectors from the Gutti Koya tribe cannot even fight for their dues as they have migrated from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tendu-leaf-collectors-at-their-wits-end/article38045988.ece
27 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials inspect arrangements in place for Bhavani devotees||District Collector J. Nivas, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh along with other officials inspected the arrangements made for the Bhavani Deeksha relinquishment, currently underway at Kanaka Durga Temple on Sunday. According to officials, about one lakh devotees visited the temple on Sunday and over 2.45 lakh laddu prasadams were sold in the day. Mr. Nivas asked the officials to ensure cleanliness at the ghats and tonsuring centre. He asked the temple authorities to make frequent announcements about the COVID-appropriate behaviour to be followed in the queue lines and the temple premises. Joint Collectors K. Madhavi Latha, L. Siva Shankar, Vijayawada Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand, Kanakadurga Temple EO D. Bramaramba and others were present. Meanwhile, VMC chief Mr. Prasanna Venkatesh, along with VMC engineering staff, inspected roads around Indrakeeladri. Mr. Venkatesh and other officials went through the Chittinagar Junction, KT Road, TP Road, Brahmin Street, Canal Road and others barefoot to ensure a safe and clean walking path for the devotees. Officials were asked to remove any gravel and stones on the roads and maintain cleanliness round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-inspect-arrangements-in-place-for-bhavani-devotees/article38045529.ece
27 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSECM in mission mode to conserve energy||The Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) has initiated a series of measures to promote energy conservation. Informing this at a webinar organised to mark the valediction of the Energy Conservation Week-2021, attended by all State Designated Agencies and addressed by the Director General of Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) Abhay Bhakre on Sunday, the APSECM officials said, among several other activities, a rally was organised to promote energy conservation, webinars were conducted on application of Internet of Things to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and an awareness session was organised on the Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme. ECB Code Besides, a hybrid session was conducted to decipher the nuances of the Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC) and to reach out to students, awareness sessions were organised in colleges. Workshop for women A mega workshop on energy conservation engaging women belonging to the self-help groups, giving State Energy Conservation Awards to the best performing industries and institutions, and competitions in slogan-writing and short videos for schoolchildren on the theme, were other initiatives, they informed. Addressing the State representatives, Mr. Bhakre said the transition towards an energy-efficient economy required huge capital investment in the energy-efficient technologies. BEE Deputy Director General Ashok Kumar and Directors Milind Deore and Sunil Khandare were among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsecm-in-mission-mode-to-conserve-energy/article38045991.ece
27 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Come to rescue of cane farmers: CPI||The CPI has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to initiate steps to clear the dues of sugarcane farmers in the State. In a letter on Sunday, party State secretary K. Ramakrishna informed the Chief Minister that sugar factories had to clear dues of Rs. 120 crore to the farmers. Eight sugar factories had not been paying the dues for the last three years, forcing the farmers to take to the street, the CPI leader said. A farmer from Tandava in Visakhapatnam district had died in the melee that followed police lathi-charge, he said, and alleged that the police were filing false cases against the protesting sugarcane farmers. ‘No remunerative price’ Sugarcane cultivation has come down to 1.20 lakh acres as farmers have not been getting remunerative price for the produce. As many as 24 sugar factories had been closed, rendering many workers jobless, he said, and urged the Chief Minister to take steps to reopen the factories. “It is not correct to forget the promises made in the run-up to the elections,” he advised the Chief Minister. Price mechanism Meanwhile, CPI(M)State secretary P. Madhu, in a statement, accused the government of not coming to the rescue of the cane farmers. While other States were implementing the State Advisory Price (SAP) mechanism, Andhra Pradesh had done away with it in 2002. Resultantly, the farmers were incurring a loss of Rs. 600 per tonne, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/come-to-rescue-of-cane-farmers-cpi/article38045993.ece
27 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flesh trade racket: mahila panel chief directs strict action against accused||A.P. Mahila Commission chairperson Vasireddi Padma on Sunday about the alleged kidnap and luring of a minor girl into flesh trade in Guntur district. A 21-member gang had allegedly lured the COVID-19 patient after promising her better treatment. The girl was allegedly sold away to several organisers in Hyderabad, Nellore, Vijayawada, Guntur, West Godavari and other places in the last six months, the Guntur Urban police said. Additional Superintendent of Police Gangadhar and Deputy Superintendent of Police Supraja investigated the case and busted the flesh trade racket on Saturday. One of the accused, Swarna Kumari, had allegedly taken the girl under the pretext of providing COVID-19 treatment in June this year, and sold her away. The girl had escaped from the accused and explained the activities of the gang to her father, who later lodged a complaint with the Medikonduru police. In all, 21 persons were arrested in the case, Ms. Supraja said. Expressing concern, Ms. Padma directed the police to take stringent action against the accused. ‘Help to victim’ “We will provide help to the victim and take measures to prevent recurrence of such incidents,” Ms. Padma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flesh-trade-racket-mahila-panel-chief-directs-strict-action-against-accused/article38046047.ece
27 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shankar Dayal Sharma remembered||Congress leaders on Sunday paid glowing tributes to former President Shankar Dayal Sharma, marking his death anniversary. They garlanded his portrait and recalled his valuable services to the nation in various capacities. Party’s RTI Cell chairman P.Y. Kiran, Human Rights Cell chairman Mannam Rajasekhar, city Congress president Naraharisetty Narasimha Rao were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shankar-dayal-sharma-remembered/article38046051.ece
27 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayesha parents write to CJI seeking justice||The parents of 19-year-old Ayesha Meera, who was murdered in 2007, have written an open letter to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, who was here on Sunday, alleging that the hostel staff and police had colluded in the case to save the culprits. The pharmacy student from Tenali was killed after allegedly being sexually assaulted in Sri Durga Ladies Hostel at Ibrahimpatnam near here on December 26 midnight. Shamshad Begum and Iqbal Pasha, who have been waging an uncompromising war to bring the culprits in their daughter’s murder to book, faulted the investigation agencies for not being able to trace and arrest the culprits even after 14 years. “We are fighting for our rights, but do not have any trust on the investigating agencies. Hope that justice will be done to us,” Ms. Begum said in the letter. “We will remain silent, if the government clarifies that justice cannot be rendered in the case,” they said. The Mahila Court awarded life imprisonment to an accused in the case in 2010 but he was acquitted by the High Court in 2017. The High Court ordered a fresh investigation in the case and pulled up the police for the poor and false investigation. It directed the government to take action against all the investigation officers in the case. In 2018, the court directed the CBI to take up the case following which the agency sleuths exhumed the body and collected the remains. A case was registered against then Mahila Court staff for destroying evidences in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayesha-parents-write-to-cji-seeking-justice/article38046046.ece
27 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New body of cricket players’ assn. elected||The new body of the Men and Women Cricket Players’ Association of Andhra Pradesh was elected in the general body meeting held in the city on Sunday. According to a release, G.J.J. Raju was elected as the president of the association, V.S. Patel as vice-president, K. Ravi Shankar as general secretary, Ashfaq Rahim Khan as joint secretary and N. Madhukar as treasurer. K.S. Nagesh and Salma Banu were elected as executive members. Over 40 members of the association attended the meeting and elected the new office bearers. The election was overseen by Andhra Cricket Association’s Chief Finance Officer Y.V.S. Jagannadha Rao. Retired Income Tax Commissioner K. Ajay Kumar was the electoral officer. The association consisting of former Ranji players from across the country was formed in 2017 and now has 109 members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-body-of-cricket-players-assn-elected/article38046049.ece
27 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lone COVID-19 death reported from Krishna||The State reported one death due to COVID-19 and 82 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The lone death was reported from Krishna district. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,490 and 20,76,492 respectively . Only 25,086 samples were tested in the past day, and 0.33% of them turned to be positive for COVID-19. The overall test positivity rate of the 3.118 crore samples tested so far was 6.66%. The number of active cases came down to 1,166, while the recovery rate and total recoveries increased to 99.25% and 20,60,836 respectively. During the past day, 164 patients recovered. Chittoor reported 23 infections in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lone-covid-19-death-reported-from-krishna/article38045985.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||A year when bodies piled up at crematoriums||The cemeteries and the burial grounds in the city as well as in the districts would have never seen the piling of bodies, on a daily basis, in the last few decades, as seen in this year. Probably, the last time such a thing would have happened was in 1918, when the district and the then Vizagapatam town was ravaged by the influenza flu or the Spanish Flu. There were days in the months of April and May, when over 120 bodies wrapped up in plastic sheets were lined up for cremation or burial at the Chavulamadum crematorium, on a single day. And the authorities present at the cemeteries made a killing by demanding rates from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000 for a decent last rites, from the devastated family members. Many who had lost their near and dear ones lamented that package deals were struck at the hospitals for a decent send off to the dead and they had nothing to do but accept their offer. The second wave of COVID-19, hit the city hard and fast and within a span of two months, the health infrastructure was brought to its knees. Though the official death count due to the pandemic during the two months is shown around 350, the death certificates issued by the GVMC for the same period was over 5,600. “We never experienced such a scenario even during the smallpox epidemic. We have not seen the Spanish Flu and there is a very little detail on it. But the second wave of COVID was unprecedented, as we suffered from a plethora of issues,” said senior doctors from the COVID wards of KGH and VIMS. Right from shortage of medical oxygen to hospital beds and from shortage of medicines to black-marketing of medicines, were a few among the other issues. Though many households lamented of at least one person being infected with the virus and a few were bereaved of their near and dear ones, it was some private hospitals, some medical suppliers and black-marketers, who exploited the situation to the hilt and made a killing. There were days when Remdesivir were sold in the grey market with prices ranging from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 50,000 and oxygen cylinders from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 70,000. The billing section in many private hospitals just did bother to share the details of the treatment, but handed over bills that tuned up in lakhs. The first wave hit the city/district in March 2020. The wave reached its peak some time during July and August and started to taper down from mid of September. The curve flattened by the mid of February 2021 and in the first week of March the number of active cased dropped below 10. The cumulative case load after the first wave was around 50,000. It was the time when the people and the tired and battered medical and emergency staff started to relax, the Delta variant arrived with the second wave and swamped the city/ district with infected persons. The second wave saw infections go up over 1.10 lakhs within nine months, including about 50,000 coming up in the two months of April and May. The year is coming to a close with total case load tuning up to over 1.60 lakhs (covering both waves). It was again since September that the curve started to flatten, but still the active cases continue to hover over 100. Meanwhile, the Omicron variant has already arrived, with the first case being detected in the city on Thursday. Lessons learnt “While the first wave was a surprise element for the medical fraternity, the second was a learning experience. We are now prepared for the third wave,” said district COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. According to the medical fraternity, the prime learning aspects were preparedness and teamwork. “We need to be prepared for multiple waves with hospital beds, oxygen and medicine stock and coordination between various departments such as health, corporation, revenue and police,” said Dr. Sudhakar. Covering the entire population, especially the vulnerable, with vaccination and strict adherence of COVID protocols, are the other lessons learnt, said Rambabu, VIMS Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-year-when-bodies-piled-up-at-crematoriums/article38045972.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inclusion of tribal villages in 5th Schedule sought||The AP Girijan Sangham 5th Schedule Sadhana Committee has adopted a resolution seeking inclusion of non-scheduled villages in the 5th Schedule and their exclusion from the purview of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) at the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Governing Body meeting to be held on December 29. At the district-level meeting of the sadhana committee, held under the auspices of the district president Ch. Raju at Madugula in the district on Sunday, district general secretary E. Narasimha Murthy and honorary president K. Govinda Rao said that the State government was focussing on the problems of adivasis in non-Scheduled areas. It had directed the Tahsildar to hold gram sabhas in the 113 revenue villages in nine mandals of Visakhapatnam Agency and send a report to the ITDA. The sangham leaders alleged that when the ITDA was preparing to send its report to the government, the MLAs of Chodavaram, Narsipatnam and Madugula intervened forcing the ITDA officials to send the names of only five panchayats in Anantagiri mandal while deleting the names of other non-scheduled tribal villages from the list. They alleged that the MLAs were trying to sacrifice the rights of the tribal people by including the non-scheduled tribal villages under Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority and hand them over to mining and real estate agents for their vested interests. Condemning the attitude of the MLAs, the sangham leaders said there was no rule, as per the guidelines of the Central Government, that the consent of the local MLA should be taken for inclusion of a village in the scheduled area. ‘Don’t succumb to pressure’ They appealed to the Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officer not to succumb to pressures from the MLAs and send the complete list to the State government apart from including them in the 5th Schedule, failing which they would be forced to launch an agitation. Meanwhile, E.A.S. Sarma, former Secretary to the Government of India and the former Commissioner (Tribal Welfare) in undivided Andhra Pradesh has written to the Chief Ministers of both the Telugu States, on Saturday, saying that the basis adopted in 1986 for villages to be notified for inclusion in Scheduled Areas, should not be altered against the interests of the adivasis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inclusion-of-non-scheduled-tribal-villages-in-5th-schedule-sought/article38045974.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police conduct checks and awareness meetings||As part of visible policing for crime prevention, the crime wing of the city police conducted patrolling at places vulnerable to crimes, in their respective police station limits here on Sunday. The police also conducted checks around temples, gold shops, railway station, petrol bunks, parking places of various commercial establishments and isolated places. The police teams also interacted with the locals to create awareness over possible crimes in public places. Later, history-sheet holders under all the police stations were summoned to the stations by the police officials and counselled them.They asked the history-sheet holders to lead a peaceful life with their families and abstain from commiting crimes. The police also warned of strict action, if they were caught indulging in any offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-conduct-checks/article38045978.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Take back land allotted to Hayagreeva company’||Jana Sena Party (JSP) Corporator Peethala Murthy Yadav has demanded that the State government immediately take back the 12.50 acres of land at Yendada, allotted to Hayagreeva Farms and Developers, as it had failed to utilise the land for the purpose for which it was given. Addressing a media conference here on Sunday, he alleged that YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders were involved in corrupt practices in the said land deal. He said that the land was allotted to the company, at a cost of Rs. 45 lakh an acre, 12 years ago for construction of houses for senior citizens and an orphanage. He demanded that YSR Congress General secretary and Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, who had stated in the past that he would not allow even a single cent of land to be grabbed in Visakhapatnam, break his silence in the case. The Managing Partner in the company Ch. Jagadeeswarudu had entered into an MoU with two YSRCP leaders, and obtained financial assistance from them, and agreed to repay it along with interest in installments from the proceeds realised through the sale of plots in the proposed layout, Mr. Yadava alleged. The JSP leader alleged that the YSRCP leaders gave Mr. Jagadeeswarudu a loan of Rs. 15 crore and were trying to grab the land as he had failed to repay the loan. While Mr. Jagadeeswarudu had alleged that the YSRCP leaders had cheated him, the latter had complained to the Three Town police that Mr. Jagadeeswarudu had cheated them. BJP leader and Rajya Sabha Member Sujana Chowdary, whose name was also dragged into the controversy, has openly stated that he has no role in this land deal, but said that he would not remain silent, if injustice was done to Mr. Jagadeeswarudu. The JSP leader said it was strange that the State government was silent on the issue. The silence of the officials concerned also raises suspicion on the role of the ruling party leaders in the scam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-back-land-allotted-to-hayagreeva-company/article38045973.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to focus on overspeeding youth on New Year eve||The city traffic police are focussing on prevention of overspeeding and bike racing by youngsters during the New Year eve celebrations. While advising them against indulging in such activities, the police warn that cases will be booked against those involved in dangerous driving and violation of the norms, which may lead to cancellation of driving licences. “We are yet to receive orders from the State Government on the possible restrictions on New Year eve celebrations in view of the Omicron threat. If there are restrictions, all major roads will be closed with stoppers. If there are no restrictions, we are ready with our men with a plan of action. The only trouble we notice during the 31st eve is generally the dangerous driving by a few people,” said Additional DCP (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana. According to the police, bike races and rash driving are a common feature on New Year eve. A number of motorists, especially youth and college students, drive high-end vehicles in a very negligent manner, posing a risk to themselves as well as to others. A few youth indulge in races, sometime causing a risk to others. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, the traffic police used to book a number of cases on racing, dangerous/rash driving on the December 31st night. “There are a few stretches like R.K Beach to Tenneti Park, Tenneti Park to Bheemili via Rushikonda, BRTS Road between Hanumanthuwaka and Simhachalam, where the racings used to be held. Most of the youth use high-end bikes. They have groups in social media to discuss about the time and venue of the race. These stretches need to be monitored,” said a senior police officer from the city. The traffic police officials have been counselling youths, who have been caught driving in dangerous manner, in the presence of their parents. Over 500 youth were counselled during the last few months in the city. Mr. Adinarayana said that generally on December 31st eve, they would close the Telugu Thalli Flyover and keep a strict watch on Beach Road, apart from making the stretch between Park Hotel Junction and Naval Coastal Battery (NCB) as a ‘no-entry zone’ for vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-to-focus-on-overspeeding-youth/article38045976.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports six new COVID cases and 10 recoveries||The Visakhapatnam district recorded six new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,327. As many as 10 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the virus, have recovered during the same time period. The number of recoveries rose to 1,58,098. The death toll stands at 1,107 as no COVID-19 death was reported in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stands at 122.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-new-covid-cases-reported-in-vizag/article38045535.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight caught for rash and negligent driving||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) in coordination with the Arilova police conducted raids at several places in the city to crack down on dangerous driving cases on Sunday. The police teams caught eight motorists, who were mostly youth, caught driving in a very rash and negligent manner at Sagar Nagar. Further action will be taken against the, said the police officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-caught-for-rash-driving/article38045536.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation Day of CPI observed||Communist Party of India (CPI) State assistant secretary J.V. Satynarayana Murthy has said that the party has contributed to the nationalisation of banks and for solving the issues pertaining to workers and agriculturists, since its formation in India 96 years ago. He was speaking at the 97th Foundation Day of the CPI at the party office here on Sunday. Mr. Murthy alleged that the BJP government was watering down the labour laws and tribal Acts and spreading communal hatred by spreading the RSS ideology. It was trampling upon the rights of the people. He called upon people to oppose the policies of the BJP government. He also alleged that the YSR Congress Party government has pushed the State into a ‘debt trap’. Earlier, Mr. Murthy unfurled the party flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foundation-day-of-cpi-observed/article38046053.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical camp held||The Association of Alliance Clubs International organised a medical camp at Rythu Bazaar, Marripalem VUDA Layout on Sunday. Over 50 persons were screened for BP and diabetes at the camp held in coordination with Medicover Hospitals. Club district governor K. Rajeswara Rao, president P. Muralidhar and secretary Venkata Rao were among those who particiapted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-camp-held/article38045975.ece
27 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in road accident||A 49-year-old man died in a road accident at Maddilapalem Junction, here on Sunday. According to reports, the victim Sheikh (49) of PM Palem area was reportedly hit by a lorry while he was driving a two-wheeler, near CMR Central. III Town police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-road-accident/article38045977.ece
27 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Statutory licences, maintenance must for theatres, owners told||The district administration has directed all theatre owners to get statutory licences from municipal authorities, Fire and other departments as early as possible in order to continue to screen movies. Following the administration’s directive, officials sealed TBR Hall in Parvatipuram, Saikrishna theatre in Pusapati Rega, Gopala Krishna theatre-Bhogapuram, S-3 theatre in Nellimarla a few days ago. It was observed that Sai Krishna theatre failed to renew fire safety licenses for the last five years. Lack of cleanliness, and sale of tickets at higher prices are also other reasons for sealing the theatres. Senior officials, including Collector A. Suryakumari, Joint Collector G.C. Kishore Kumar and Parvatipuram Sub-Collector Bhavana, who are inspecting theatres, said licenses and proper maintenance were statutory irrespective of losses and profit of theatres. “The government will not compromise on the safety of people. Cleanliness and arrangements to ensure social distancing are important to prevent spread of coronavirus,” said A.Suryakumari. Expressing disappointment over the stringent norms, the exhibitors said that they would not be in a position to run the theatres for long if the restriction on ticket rates continues. The ticket rates were fixed between Rs. 5 and Rs. 20 in gram panchayats and go up to Rs. 35 in nagar panchayats. In municipal areas, ticket rates were fixed between Rs. 30 and Rs. 100. The multiplex theatre owners can collect between Rs. 75 and Rs. 250 on each ticket. “We need at least Rs. 3.5 lakh per month for the maintenance of theatres in rural areas and Rs. 4 lakh in urban areas. With the advent of OTT platforms, occupancy ratio has come down significantly, leading to a drop in revenue. Four theatre owners have already converted their cinema halls into commercial complexes in Vizianagaram. The government should look into the grievances of the exhibitors since they provide huge employment directly and indirectly,” said Narayanam Srinivas, Vizianagaram Cine Exhibitors Association president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/statutory-licences-must-for-theatres/article38045473.ece
27 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union, State govts. adopting ‘anti-people’ policies: CPI||Communist Party of India Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district units vowed to fight against the ‘anti-people’ policies of both Union and State governments. Party Vizianagaram unit secretary Ommi Ramana and assistant secretary Bugata Ashok participated in the party 97th foundation day celebrations. Mr. Ramana alleged that the successive governments had failed to meet the expectations of the people as their policies were helping only the rich and corporate sections of society. In Srikakulam, party district secretary Sanapala Narasimhulu said that the CPI had been playing a historic role in protecting the interests of people since its inception in 1925 in Kanpur. He alleged that the Narendra Modi government’s policies were detrimental to the interests of the country. ‘Diluting labour laws’ Special Correspondent from Visakhapatnam adds: Communist Party of India (CPI) State assistant secretary J.V. Satynarayana Murthy has said that the party has contributed to the nationalisation of banks and for solving the issues pertaining to workers and agriculturists, since its formation in India 96 years ago. He was speaking at the 97th Foundation Day of the CPI at the party office here on Sunday. Mr. Murthy alleged that the BJP government was watering down the labour laws and tribal Acts and spreading communal hatred by spreading the RSS ideology. It was trampling upon the rights of the people. He called upon people to oppose the policies of the BJP government. He also alleged that the YSR Congress Party government has pushed the State into a ‘debt trap’. Earlier, Mr. Murthy unfurled the party flag and administered the oath to the party workers that they would strive to uphold freedom, equality, social justice and other values as part of the 97th Foundation Day of the party. CPI State executive member A.J. Stalin, district secretary Balepalli Venkataramana, city secretary M. Pydiraju, leaders A. Vimala, K. Satyanjaneya, K. Satyanarayana, SK Rehaman, Allu Babu Rao, Md, Begum, R. Srinivasa Rao and G. Vamana Murthy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-state-govts-adopting-anti-people-policies-cpi/article38045970.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJI hints at appointing more judges to HC||Justice Ramana said that efforts were being made to address the issue. A letter was written to the High Court regarding the appointment of judges and a list was sought. The names would be approved once the list was received, he said. Advocates were like guiding lamps for society. They should strive for the rights of the people and on people’s issues. The advocates’ knowledge and capacities should be useful for the well-being of people. “Advocates from various places have come in good numbers but I am unable to meet them all due to time constraints,” he said. The CJI, rather in a jocular way, said, “For the last three days, I participated in many programmes. I tried to keep the speeches different at every meeting and did not repeat the subjects. Telangana High Court Chief Justice excused himself as he was tired. There is a possibility that Justice L. Nageswara Rao, Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice P.S Narasimha too will follow suit.” The CJI promised to make some time to discuss more issues and subjects in future. AP High Court Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra, Telangana High Court judge Lalita, Advocate General S. Sriram, APHCA president K. Janakirami Reddy and Bar Council Chairman Ganta Rama Rao were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cji-hints-at-appointing-more-judges-to-hc/article38045995.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Propitiating goddess of water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/propitiating-goddess-of-water/article38046056.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hostile civic infra keeps people away from public spaces||Hundreds of morning walkers and joggers used to pound the pavement lining the road of Osmania University. Now, about 800-1,000 walkers show their passes and enter the leafy avenue of the university established by Nizam Osman Ali Khan in the 1930s. “There used to be more walkers and joggers but the number has come down. The entry pass is voluntary, we are not sending away anyone who doesn’t have a pass,” says an OU official. But walkers have to get past the security guards posted near the entrance with a signboard about registration. The Rs. 200 monthly pass is just one more example of pushing out citizens from public spaces. “The Tank Bund, even after 400 years, remains the only open, egalitarian, and equitable public space,” says architect Shankar Narayan. Benches at bus shelters have spikes so that passengers don’t get comfortable. At the waiting stand for hired vehicles near Begumpet Metro, the benches have small projects making the place inconvenient to lie down. Other benches at bus bays are too short to stretch. GHMC public parks get padlocked by 7 p.m. to prevent people from loitering. Hostile public infrastructure is becoming a norm in Hyderabad. From park shelters carved with stones that lined the Musi to comfortable bus bays built with concrete, Hyderabad has come a long way. Making spaces unusable are GHMC and Hyderabad Police signages that are too low to allow pedestrians to walk past them without bumping a head or nose. How citizens use the footpath or step onto the road with dangerously fast vehicles zipping by is another question. “Only the able bodied use footpaths during their morning walks,” says B. Sanjay, an architecture photographer. Even motorists are not spared of the hostile infra with road dividers wrapped in razor wire to prevent pedestrians from using them. Even outside the CM’s Camp Office, the barricade in the middle of the road is wrapped in razor wire to prevent pedestrians walking close to it. Incidentally, the GHMC is in violation of its own laws that ask the municipal body to “remove obstructions and projections in or upon streets, bridges and other public places.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hostile-civic-infra-keeps-people-away-from-public-spaces/article38045836.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tragedies, tears tinged with hope, healing||After a disastrous 2020 that left many paralysed in different ways, the year 2021 began with great anticipation, hopes and also doubts about vaccines against COVID-19. The inoculation drive was launched across the country on January 16 and lakhs of people started taking the jab. The hope was complemented by a continued drop in the daily COVID caseload. School gates were opened in February. All these were indications of life limping towards normalcy. However, it was all short-lived. Another wave of the contagious coronavirus struck around the second week of March, this time deadlier, and dealt a tragic blow to the optimism and hopes of people. Clusters of cases were detected in schools and other educational institutions. The COVID patient load in ICUs doubled that month. COVID peak and polls The number of cases and deaths peaked in April. It was on April 26 that the State’s daily caseload crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time. Amid the big spikes, allegations of under-reporting of infections and fatalities were levelled by doctors and healthcare staff, who were stretched to their limits. Health officials, for their part, refuted all charges of data-tampering. Then surfaced desperate pleas for hospital beds and medicines such as Remdesivir, considered critical in treating severe COVID cases. While the infections continued to spread like wildfire and people struggled to access medical resources, elections were held in the State — the Nagarjunasagar bypolls on April 17 and elections to seven Urban Local Bodies on April 30. April-end witnessed a dramatic event. Land-grabbing allegations were levelled against the then Health Minister Eatala Rajender, who asked the State government to institute inquiries by the highest agencies in the country or a sitting judge to prove the charges. The following day, he was stripped of his portfolio, which was transferred to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. New threat Even as the second wave was raging, a new trouble surfaced — Mucormycosis. Doctors started to flag the cases from May second week. As days passed, more people with Mucormycosis were admitted to hospital and the shortage of medicines in treating the infection was raised. Owing to availability of the medicines at government hospitals, people across economic backgrounds as well as from the neighbouring States opted for treatment at the public health facilities in Hyderabad. Another round of lockdown was imposed from May 12. Meanwhile, the State government launched a special vaccination drives for high-risk groups. In June, the wave started to show signs of receding. The gradual decline in cases continued over the months. COVID vaccination drive was intensified and immunisation gave confidence to people that they could finally put the pandemic behind them. It’s not over Towards the end of November, there were reports of a new, more contagious variant of COVID called Omicron being detected in a few countries. The first case of the variant was detected in the State on December 14. Until December 26 night, 44 cases of the variant had been recorded. Currently, the daily COVID caseload is comparatively low. Senior officials of the Health department have, however, warned that the cases may surge again in mid-January or February 2022, and so, one must continue to maintain safety precautions. The Health staff is pacing to vaccinate maximum number of people. Of the 2.77 crore beneficiaries above 18 years, around 99.3% have taken the first dose and 63.39 % the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tragedies-tears-tinged-with-hope-healing/article38045809.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Allotment of employees over||The allotment of about two lakh employees and officers of State government to the new districts, zones and multi-zones as part of implementation of the new zonal system for local cadre in the State has been completed. This has led to taking up the next phase of giving them seniority-based postings in their respective departments within their units. While the guidelines for posting in respect of 56,000 employees at the district level have already been issued by the government, the same are expected to be finalised for zonal and multi-zonal posts by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar at a meeting with senior officials on Monday. Mr. Somesh Kumar asked all the heads of departments to complete the process within a week on the basis of options given by the staff. About 1.21 lakh employees and officers were identified for local cadre allotment in seven zones and about 21,000 in multi-zones. The details of allotment were fed to the Integrated Financial Management and Information System of the Finance department. Messages of allotment together with links of the orders were despatched to employees’ phones. The process has ensured that employees on `orders to serve’ in other districts returned to their native districts. After allotment to the districts, zones and multi-zones, sources said the number of vacancies in all posts were likely to be in excess of 85,000. The actual figure with the employees and officers occupying their posts was likely to emerge after January 20. It was exactly a year ago that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had indicated the number of vacancies to be around 50,000 and promised to issue job notifications shortly after the amended Presidential Order on local cadre allotment was issued. He had assured that all eligible employees would be promoted to the next rank and vacancies arising thereafter at lower levels would be filled with job notifications. Meanwhile, the government allowed individual objections and appeals for accommodation of spouses at a single place. Teachers in several districts protested that the seniority lists prepared by education officials were faulty. However, the resentment was not so high in other departments because most of the division of staff at district level was among teachers. About 20,000 teachers were expected to be shifted to other districts. They would be posted to schools by counselling in the districts of their allotment, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allotment-of-employees-over/article38045849.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Celebrating 50 glorious years of Sarvail school||Great institutions guide students on exciting journeys, towards greater accomplishments. When the institute itself reaches a milestone, the celebrations should be a fitting tribute to the achievements. The golden jubilee celebrations of the Telangana State Residential School, Sarvail, were precisely that as former students came together and paid tributes to P.V. Narasimha Rao, the person who established the institution with a vision of providing quality education to the economically disadvantaged boys of Telangana’s villages. The alumni ensured that their respect for the former Prime Minister will remain intact forever by inviting his daughter and MLC Vani Devi and his son P.V. Prabhakar Rao as guests for the day. Prominent alumnus of the school and presently Telangana DGP M. Mahender Reddy was the guest of honour while Principal Secretary-Education Sandeep Sultania attended as chief guest. The alumni also felicitated the family members of Maddi Narayan Reddy who donated 50 acres for realising PV’s dream. Ms. Vani Devi and Mr. Prabhakar Rao recalled the vision of P.V. who went on to establish Navodaya Vidyalayas inspired by the Sarvail school’s success. This school is the torch-bearer of all residential schools in the country and history will remember the school and P.V.’s vision forever, they said. Mr. Mahender Reddy acknowledged that his personality was shaped by the school culture and continues to guide him in his professional life. Venue shifted Mr. Sultania said he wished he had studied in the school, after learning of its history. The celebration venue was shifted from the school premises in Sarvail village to the city for administrative reasons. More than 1,000 alumni along with their families participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/celebrating-50-glorious-years-of-sarvail-school/article38045817.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Textile traders launch postcard campaign against GST hike plan||Textile traders in Telangana have launched a postcard campaign opposing the proposed hike in Goods and Services Tax (GST) on textiles and certain apparels from January 1. With ‘Save textiles trade, roll back increase in GST’ stamped on them, the postcards are addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister of Finance Nirmala Sitharaman, Union Minister of Textiles Piyush Goyal and Chief Secretary to the office of the GST Council Secretariat. “We are expecting 40,000-50,000 postcards from across the State to be sent,” Telangana State Federation of Textile Associations leader Prakash Ammanabolu said. Many of the member-associations such as Secunderabad Cloth Merchants Association, which posted 3,000 letters in a day, are through with the campaign, the remaining will be sending the postcards in another 2-3 days, he said. Expressing concern over the more than two-fold increase in GST from 5-12% on textiles and garments, he said the change will impact all those in the textile trade, be it wholesalers or retailers. In particular, it will hurt the small shops in semi-urban and rural areas and their customers, as the government has decided to levy 12% on garments priced below Rs. 1,000. The decision to increase the levy is only bound to make matters worse for the textile trade whose business was “badly affected” due to the pandemic. Compounding the worries is Omicron, the new variant of Coronavirus. A higher rate of tax would also translate into more working capital getting blocked as the wholesale textile trade is a credit-oriented business. From 3-4 months previously, the time frame for realising payments from the retailers has increased to 6-8 months after the pandemic, Mr. Ammanabolu said, adding the higher levy may also result in evasion. He said there were 75,000-1 lakh textile shops, both wholesale and retail, in Telangana, of which about 80% are small shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/textile-traders-launch-postcard-campaign-against-gst-hike-plan/article38045825.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI national secretary: learn patriotism from communists||National secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI) Atul Kumar Anjan said that both BJP and RSS should learn patriotism from communists who stayed in jails during the freedom struggle. Participating as a chief guest during the 97th Foundation Day of CPI held here at Makdoom Bhavan on Sunday, Mr. Atul Kumar said that several party leaders were in jails for 10-20 years while neither the leaders of the BJP nor RSS took part in the freedom struggle. “CPI was the party that demanded total Independence during the freedom struggle. Even Mahatma Gandhi changed his mind and turned towards complete freedom. Fight against forces that are trying to divide the nation. Nagapur Narangi (RSS) and Hyderabad Biryani (AIMIM) are most dangerous for the nation. Both BJP and MIM are on the same side,” he told the gathering. Stating that a conspiracy was on to divide the nation in the name of religion, he alleged that the BJP has been trying to change the name of Hyderabad. Informing that several political parties were being registered in the country, the CPI leader said that changing parties had become a fashion. National committee member Syed Azeez Pasha said that the BJP had conspired to remove communists with the help of corporate forces. State CPI secretary Chada Venkat Reddy also participated in the programme. Earlier in the day, a rally was held from Satyanarayana Bhavan at Narayanaguda to Makdoom Bhavan at Himayatnagar with a 97- metre party flag and 97 flags by party activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/learn-patriotism-from-communists/article38045828.ece
27 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police incumbents take charge||It was a festive atmosphere at various police units in Hyderabad and across the State on Sunday with newly-posted incumbents taking charge. Senior IPS officer Shikha Goel took charge as the director of Telangana’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) while Joint Commissioner of Police A.R. Srinivas assumed office from Ms. Goel. An IPS officer of the 2012 batch, G. Chandana Deepti took charge as DCP (North Zone), Hyderabad, a post previously occupied by her batchmate Kalmeshwar Shingenavar. He assumed office as DCP (Crimes), Cyberabad, from his batchmate Rohini Priyadarshini, while the latter took charge as Medak Superintendent of Police. DCP (Shamshabad) Nyalakonda Prakash Reddy took charge as DCP (Traffic-I), Hyderabad, by relieving his predecessor L.S. Chowhan. Senior police officers (non-cadre SsP) Gone Sandeep, K. Shilpavalli and R. Jagadishwar Reddy took charge as Deputy Commissioners of Police, Balanagar, Madhapur and Shamshabad zones, respectively. In districts, Sharath Chandra Pawar, an IPS officer of the 2016 batch, took charge as Superintendent of Police, Mahabubabad, and K. Manohar and N. Venkateshwarlu took charge as the SsP of Nagarkurnool and Narayanpet respectively. N. Swetha took charge as Commissioner of Police, Siddipet. K.R. Nagaraju, who has been conferred IPS recently, assumed the office of Commissioner of Police, Nizamabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-incumbents-take-charge/article38045832.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Solapur NTPC unit to get Singareni coal for 25 years||Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has entered into an agreement with NTPC Ltd for supply of about 25.4 lakh tonnes coal every year to the first unit of its super thermal power plant at Solapur in Maharashtra. The fuel supply agreement was signed here recently by the officials of the two public sector entities. According to officials of SCCL, the Solapur thermal plant of NTPC has been getting coal supplies from Coal India Ltd so far, but the major public sector energy producer decided to switch over to Singareni for fuel needs of the plant. The long-term agreement signed would be in force for 25 years. Earlier, the NTPC had moved the Ministry of Coal for change of fuel suppliers from Coal India to SCCL on the grounds of quality, uninterrupted supplies and transportation costs. The Ministry had given its nod recently as it was convinced that taking coal from Singareni would be more economical and viable for the Solapur plant. The SCCL officials said they have already been supplying 135.3 lakh tonnes of coal every year to NTPC power plants in eight States including in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The agreement was signed by Executive Director (coal movement) J. Allwyn, General Manager (marketing) K. Ravishanker on behalf of SCCL and Regional ED Manish Jawahari, Chief GM N.N. Rao on behalf of NTPC. Meanwhile, Managing Director of Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd (KPCL) V. Ponnuraj complimented the coal company for its seamless supply of coal to Raichur (1,470 mw), Yeramarus (1,600 mw) and Bellary (1,700 mw) power plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/solapur-ntpc-unit-to-get-singareni-coal/article38045839.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Outees of Gudatipally continue protest||Despite chilly winter nights, the oustees of Gudatipally under Guravelli project limits in Siddipet have been continuing the protest. Even on Sunday night they continued their protests at project site under temporarily erected tents. On Saturday, BJP MLA and former Minister E. Rajender had visited the oustees and extended support to them. He had demanded that the government pay the rightful compensation to the oustees and construct double bedroom houses like in other irrigation projects constructed in the state. On Sunday, BJP leader Vivek Venkata Swamy and advocate Sravan Kumar visited Gudatipally and extended their support. They said that the demands put forth by the oustees are genuine and they need to be addressed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/outees-of-gudatipally-continue-protest/article38046024.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Use of urea reduced, but yield is good||Ibrahimpur village in Narayanaraopet mandal of Siddipet district, once in the news by attracting several VVIPs from across the country for its innovation on community activities, is in the news once again. This time it has reduced the use of urea to the best possible extent. As much as 450 bags of urea worth Rs. 5.4 lakh given for the village was unused and sent back . Take the case of Kumbh Nagesh Reddy, a farmer from the village. He is having about 4.2 acres of land cultivating paddy. Farmers usually use higher quantity of urea to get bumper harvest with a staunch feeling that additional urea will give strength to the crop for better yield. Nagesh Reddy was no exception. He was accustomed to using as much as nine bags (405 kilograms) of urea in his field every season for paddy cultivation. However, his perspective has changed for the better. In the present season, he used only half of what he used to. The urea consumption was reduced to five bags (225 kilograms) as against the previous nine bags. He used urea in three phases – first basal dose of 15 kilograms in the first week after rains, followed by another 15 kilograms at tillering stage and third dose of last 15 kilograms in the panicle stage per acre. With this, the urea he saved was worth Rs. 4,800 as per open market rate of Rs. 1,200 per bag while farmers are getting each bag of urea at a subsidized price of Rs. 280. “Fertilizer plays an important role in agriculture. The plant requires major nutrients, NPK, for growth. Chief source of artificial nitrogen fertilizer is urea. According to reports, NPK consumption in India is 8:4:2 whereas the standard was 4:2:1 ratio and the result is one and the same. Paddy growers depend on urea resulting in adverse impact on soil fertility — the organic carbon essential for normal growth of plant is getting reduced and salinity in soil increasing — leading to saline soil. The average yield per acre stood at 25 quintals,” T. Nagarjuna, agriculture extension officer (AEO), Narayanraopet told The Hindu adding that not following crop rotation was one of the main reasons for soil degradation. The village farmers used to apply 1,250 bags of urea for 600 acres and this season they used only 800 bags and saved 450 bags of urea. This is worth Rs. 5.4 lakh. The farmers in the village have also came forward to cultivate green manure. In more than 360 acres green manure was sown and incorporated in soil after flowering stage. “One acre of green manure crop adds 10 tonnes of bio-mass to soil. One tone of green manure contain 7.5 kg of nitrogen, two kilograms of phosphorus and five kilograms of potash as this results in increase in organic carbon and reduce the salinity in soil,” said Mr. Nagarjuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/use-of-urea-reduced-still-yield-is-good/article38045842.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Mallanna should open eyes of Centre’||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao invoked the blessings of the presiding deity at Komuravelli Mallanna temple to impart knowledge to the Centre and let it take a right decision on procurement of paddy from Telangana. Addressing a gathering after offering the traditional silk clothes to Lord Komuravelli Mallikarjuna Swamy at the temple along with Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav and Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy on Sunday on the occasion of three- month-long Brahmostav, Mr. Harish Rao said that the comments made by Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar that the three farm laws withdrawn by Centre would be reintroduced were highly objectionable. “The three farm laws were cancelled after more than one year of agitation and sacrifices of about 700 farmers. Mr. Tomar’s comments that the laws would be reintroduced were nothing but humiliating the entire farming community in India. It seems that these acts were repealed only in view of elections scheduled for next year in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab,” said Mr. Harish Rao, demanding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi give clarity on the issue. He said that Mr Tomar should offer open apology to the farming community for his comments. Earlier in the day, the Minister participated in the Kalyana Mahotsavam of Komuravelli Mallikarjuna Swamy. He said that with the blessings of Lord Mallanna the Mallannasagar project was completed and irrigation was being provided for lakhs of acres. “We sought the blessing of Lord Mallanna last year to complete the project and this year we have completed the project and got 10 tmcft water filled in the reservoir. As much as Rs. 30 crore was spent in the last seven years for the development of the temple,” said Mr. Harish Rao adding that three silver entrances were completed as promised last year. He stated that Mr. Srinivas Yadav had decided to offer golden crown to Lord Mallanna next year. Bhogir Lok Sabha member Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, Jangaon MLA M. Yadagiri Reddy and ZP Chairperson V. Roja Sharma were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallanna-should-open-eyes-of-centre/article38045844.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Purchase of crops under MSP Act must’||Exhorting farmers to opt for paddy cultivation in the yasangi (rabi) season, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy asserted that it was the responsibility of the State Government to purchase crops including paddy enlisted in the Minimum Support Price Act produced by farmers till the last bag. He asserted that the government should procure entire paddy paying the MSP irrespective of how the purchase would be utilised later. “How the procured grain will be utilised later is not the problem of farmers. The government can export rice, use it for supply to schools or use it in any other way it likes, but it is its the responsibility to purchase paddy from farmers,” he said. He expressed concern that farmers were undergoing severe hardship on account of the policies of the State and Central Governments that were unwilling to positively resolve the issues raised by them. The TRS president had “colluded” with millers and corporate houses to deny farmers their due in spite of his repeated claims on empowering farmers. “Farmers should grill the TRS leaders, including MLAs and MPs, whenever the latter approach them to educate them against paddy cultivation,” he said. He ridiculed the government’s assertion asking farmers not to go for paddy cultivation claiming that it was “drama” played by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to avoid losses that would be incurred on account of purchase of paddy. Paddy when milled as raw rice entailed 15 per cent of brokenrice which would not be procured by the Central Government. Yield of rice in respect of parboiled variety was however 65 per cent and the government was therefore harping on procurement of parboiled rice by the Centre. The government should instead introduce viability gap funding for purchasing the entire commodity from farmers and could apply for permission from the Centre for exporting rice after milling. “Farmers are totally protected under the MSP Act and the government has to purchase all the 23 crops listed under the MSP Act. Failure of purchasing the grain amounts to violation of the Act,” he said. Displaying photographs of what he claimed paddy crop in the fields owned by the Chief Minister and his family at Yerravelli, Mr. Revanth Reddy wanted to know how Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao was cultivating paddy when he wanted over 90 per cent of farmers to refrain from doing so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/purchase-of-crops-under-msp-act-must/article38045846.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR asked to clarify stand on Tomar’s remark||TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy has demanded that TRS president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao clarify his stand on the recent claims by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar that the Centre was planning to bring back the controversial agricultural laws after making changes. Mr. Revanth Reddy expressed concern that the statements of Union Ministers Tomar and Amit Shah came within days of the government withdrawing the “black legislations”. “Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao should clarify on whose side his party stands, whether it is on the side of the farmers who agitated till the withdrawal of the black laws or whether the corporates that are behind the moves to re-enact them,” he said. He alleged that the Chief Minister had “surrendered” himself to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the reasons best known to him and this could be seen from the fact that the TRS remained silent in spite of the claims of the Union Ministers. The party’s commitment to the farmers stood exposed as no effort was made to collect details of over 750 farmers who died during the agitation for whom the Chief Minister had announced a compensation of Rs. 3 lakh each. “No effort has been made to contact the families nor are any funds sanctioned so far,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-asked-to-clarify-stand/article38045847.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ball badminton legend Pichaiah passes away||Ball badminton legend and Arjuna Award winner J. Pichaiah, passed away in Hanamkonda on Sunday. He was 104 and is survived by two daughters. Pichaiah, who was born in Kuchipudi of Krishna district of the then united Andhra Pradesh, moved to Warangal post-Independence to work in Azam Jahi Mills. Arguably one of the finest ball badminton players of the country, Pichaiah, who inspired many to take up the sport, played 15 nationals between 1955 and 1970, winning nine of them, including bagging the rare distinction of scripting a hat-trick for both Hyderabad and Andhra separately. He was also a runner-up thrice. His last Nationals was in 1970 when he was 53 and he won it in style. Pichaiah took pride in playing a sport which was followed by many, even in rural areas. And, to the delight of his admirers, he played the sport till he was 91 and often engaged in serious discussions about promoting the sport, according to Vijay Prasad Reddy, former vice-president of Ball Badminton Federation of India and also ex-general secretary of Hyderabad Ball Badminton Association. In recognition of his outstanding contribution to the sport and his achievements, Pichaiah was presented the prestigious Arjuna Award in 1970. He was also a very successful doubles player, partnering Kareem with whom he had an unbeaten record for close to a decade at national level from 1944. ‘Played barefoot’ “The great Pichaiah was known for his power and precision with the racket and was famed for hitting the one-rupee coin placed in any part of the badminton court. He was also Star of India Awardee and played the game mostly barefoot,” said Tandava Krishna, treasurer of Telangana Ball Badminton Association. Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, TBBA president Ramakrishna Rao and general secretary Ravinder Goud were among those who condoled the death of the ball badminton legend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ball-badminton-legend-pichaiah-passes-away/article38045815.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||In a first, IMA Lifetime Award for TS doctor||Indian Medical Association’s ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ has been conferred on Duvvuru Dwarakanatha Reddy, an ENT specialist from Telangana. “He is the first from the State to achieve this honour,” said a press release. The award would to be presented at the 82nd annual meeting of the Central Council of IMA on December 27 and 28 in Patna, Bihar. Dr Dwarakanatha practises in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-a-first-ts-doctor-gets-ima-lifetime-award/article38045810.ece
27 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drunk youth rams car into scooter, kills teen||A 22-year-old drunk youth rammed his speeding car into a scooter at Moinabad leading to the death of a teenager and injuring two of her cousins on the Bijapur-Hyderabad National Highway on Saturday evening. The accused, T. Sampath Reddy, a graduate from Attapur, was returning home after attending a party at Kanakamani village when the road accident took place around 7 p.m. “He hit a scooter coming from the opposite direction. As a result, Premika (19) died on the spot, while Archana and Sowmya suffered severe injuries and are battling for life at a corporate hospital at Gachibowli,” Moinabad police said. The girls were going to Kanakamani from Moinabad. When subjected to a breathalyser test, Reddy’s blood alcohol concentration was 228 mg/100 ml against the permissible limit of 30mg/100 ml.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drunk-youth-rams-car-into-scooter-kills-teen/article38045833.ece
27 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||President’s Sojourn postponed||The Southern Sojourn of President Ramnath Kovind, scheduled to begin here on December 29 and go on till January 3 next year, has been postponed. This is the second postponement after the President’s visit was finalised first from December 23, reportedly due to spike in COVID cases. The government machinery has been involved in making arrangements for his stay at Rashtrapati Nilayam in Bolarum. No new date was announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/presidents-sojourn-postponed/article38045829.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI donates ambulances to hospitals||The State Bank of India (SBI) has donated an emergency response ambulance vehicle each to AIG Hospitals and Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad, as part efforts aimed at augmenting medical infrastructure facilities for the public. SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara handed over keys of the ambulances to the hospitals at an event organised here on Sunday, the Hyderabad Circle of the bank said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-donates-ambulances-to-hospitals/article38045811.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three new Omicron cases in State||Three more Omicron cases were detected in Telangana on Sunday, taking total cases of the variant in the State to 44. This number includes 10 persons who have recovered and discharged from hospital. The three new cases includes one who came in contact with an Omicron patient. The other two flew into Hyderabad from countries not on the ‘at-risk’ list. Genome sequencing results of 16 more samples were awaited. Till Sunday night, two contacts of Omicron patients had been detected with the variant. 109 COVID cases The State registered 109 cases of COVID-19 and one related death on Sunday. With this, the case tally has gone up to 6,80,662 and death toll to 4,022. Usually, around 35,000 to 40,000 samples are examined in a day. However, on Sunday, only 20,576 samples were tested. The new 109 infections included 69 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region and 10 from Rangareddy. Of the total cases, 3,417 were active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-new-omicron-cases-in-state/article38045807.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ARCI’s focus on new indigenised projects||Department of Science & Technology’s International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy & New Materials (ARCI), here, celebrating its silver jubilee, has initiated new projects of indigenisation of Solid Oxide Fuel cell (SOFC) for environmentally benign energy generation and sol gel-based anti-bacterial and anti-corrosion coatings and activities on semiconductor-based solar thermal power generation. ARCI could transfer technologies to 40 companies, said in-charge director T. Narasinga Rao on Saturday. Regional director for Chennai centre R. Gopalan spoke about the developments in Li-Ion battery line, magnetic materials and fuel cell technologies. A mega project on rare earth magnets is in the pipeline. Associate director Roy Johnson said the Centre demonstrated its capability though commercialising technologies in the area of ceramic honeycombs, transparent ceramics and silicon carbide space components. A project on low glass expanding ceramics is ongoing. ARCI governing council chairman Anil Kakodkar, DST secretary S. Chandrasekhar and scientist P.K. Jain also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arcis-focus-on-new-indigenised-projects/article38046020.ece
27 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engineer found dead||A 26-year-old woman was found dead at her hostel room at Addagutta of Kukatpally on Saturday afternoon. Shanthi Sri, who worked as an engineer with MEIL, Balanagar, ended her life by hanging from a ceiling fan, reportedly due to ill-health. The incident took place around 1.30 p.m. on Saturday but came to light only on Sunday afternoon when her roommate Palaparthi Ratnasri returned from her holiday.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engineer-found-dead/article38046023.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Environment film festival||An environment film festival was held at Sarathi Studios on Saturday and Sunday under the aegis of Babul NGO and Hyderabad Film Club. E D E N from Spain bagged the first prize carrying an award of $200, Painting by Numbers was second with prize money of $100 and Finite Soil from Spain stood third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/environment-film-festival/article38045837.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR, Harish invited to Chhattisgarh||Mr Revanth Reddy asserted that the Congress was committed to protecting the interests of farmers as could be seen from the steps its government had initiated in Chhattisgarh. The Congress government in Chhattisgarh was paying Rs. 2,540 a quintal for paddy that was close to Rs. 600 over and above the MSP. Advocating crop diversification, the neighbouring State Government was paying Rs. 9,000 an acre for those opting for diversification from paddy besides assuring total procurement of the alternative crop. He invited Ministers K.T. Rama Rao and T. Harish Rao to Chhattisgarh to study the model adopted there so that it could be adopted in Telangana. “I am assuring that they will be treated as State guests by the Congress government there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-harish-invited-to-chhattisgarh/article38045840.ece
27 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Homemaker mowed down by lorry||A 40-year-old woman riding pillion on a bike was run over by a lorry at Dundigal on Sunday morning. Gade Vijayarani, a homemaker from Old Alwal, was going home with her husband Thomas Reddy. When they reached Kaiser Nagar around 10 a.m., Thomas lost control of his bike, and they fell on the road. “A lorry ran over Vijayarani and she died on the spot,” police said. A case was registered against lorry driver Peddamukala Chennaiah (27). Engineer found dead A 26-year-old woman was found dead at her hostel room at Addagutta of Kukatpally on Saturday afternoon. Shanthi Sri, who worked as an engineer with MEIL, Balanagar, ended her life by hanging from a ceiling fan, reportedly due to ill-health.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homemaker-mowed-down-by-lorry/article38045830.ece
27 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Centre should clarify on NEP: Vinod Kumar||State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar said that the onus was on Central government to allay the fears of States on the New Education Policy. Addressing a gathering after launching Edu X at Hitex in Madhapur on Sunday, he said it was Union government’s responsibility to clarify doubts before implementing NEP. Concerned about the loss to the education sector during the pandemic, he urged both the Centre and State to declare 2022-23 the year of making up the losses. Telangana Residential School Management Association (RSMA) representatives Y.S. Shekhar and Madhusudhan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-should-clarify-on-nep-vinod-kumar/article38045827.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala consoles family of labourer||BJP MLA and former minister Eatala Rajender has visited the family of Anjaneyulu, the labourer who fell into a well and died near Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s farm house, a few day ago. Mr. Rajender went to Varadarajapur in Murkook mandal on Sunday and interacted with the family members of Anjaneyulu and extended a financial assistance of Rs. 50,000. He demanded an inquiry into the incident and government assistance to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-consoles-family-of-labourer/article38045853.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||page 4 briefly Srinivas Goud visits Buddhavanam project||Excise and Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud visited Buddhavanam project at Nagarjunasgar on Sunday along with local MLA Nomula Bhagat and examined the works. He also participated in meditation with the visiting media delegation. Project Special Officer Mallepally Laxmaiah, Tourism managing director Manohar, Press Academy chairman Allam Narayana, ad IJU president Srinivas Reddy were there on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-4-briefly-srinivas-goud-visits-buddhavanam-project/article38045852.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||page 3 Women conductors to complete duties by 8 pm||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation management has directed depot managers of Secunderabad region to ensure that women conductors complete their duties by 8 pm. “The VC & MD, through the letters under references cited, wherein it was instructed to adjust/allot the duties to the lady conductors which would be incoming to depots by 8 pm. In addition to the above, it is also advised, in case if any lady conductor is performing duties wherein incoming timings are beyond 8 pm, justification should be submitted to the head office,” an excerpt from the letter to depot managers reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-women-conductors-to-complete-duties-by-8-pm/article38045854.ece
27 December 2021||WARANGAL,TELANGANA||Condolences pour in for sports icon||Condolences poured in from various quarters as the news of ball badminton player J. Pichaiah’s death trickled in. The legend, who brought laurels to the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh at the national level in the 1950s, died at Desaipeta here on Sunday. The legendary player contributed his mite to popularise the sport across the country and inspired scores of youngsters to become ace players, said noted archery coach P. Shankariah of Kothagudem. “He had a boundless passion for ball badminton and left an indelible impact on sports lovers with his pioneering contributions to the game,” retired sports officer of ITDA-Bhadrachalam Shankaraiah said, paying tributes to the player.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/condolences-pour-in-for-sports-icon/article38045818.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Post-reshuffle of IPS officials||For three IPS officers of the 2012 batch , the recent and much-awaited reshuffle was virtually a give-and-take. Hyderabad’s Deputy Commissioner of Police (North Zone) Kalmeshwar Shingenavar’s post was occupied by his batchmate and Superintendent of Police of Medak G. Chandana Deepti, whereas he assumed the post of Cyberabad DCP (Crimes) Rohini Priyadarshni, who is also his batchmate and wife. In this virtual game of musical chairs, Ms. Rohini Priyadarshini in turn took over the post vacated by Ms. Chandana Deepti, who was the first SP of the newly formed Medak district. Their batchmate and Cyberabad DCP (Traffic) Vijay Kumar S.M. who earlier worked with Ms. Rohini Priyadarshini, will continue to work from the same premises with Mr. Shingenavar. Their other batch mate and Kamareddy SP Nerellapally Swetha was transferred and posted Commissioner of Police, Siddipet. Interestingly, senior IPS officers Anjani Kumar and Shikha Goel will continue to be part of the same team in Anti Corruption Bureau after their recent long stint as Commissioner of Police and Additional Commissioner of Police of Hyderabad respectively.   Who is Shilpavalli, the new DCP of Madhapur zone? A former Special Intelligence Branch (SIB) officer in N Chandrababu Naidu government in the residuary Andhra Pradesh, surprisingly bagged the coveted post of DCP Madhapur. Several police officers, including top IPS officers, were taken aback by this unexpected twist. The immediate reaction from many was, who is K. Shilpavalli? This less-known non-cadre SP rank officer was allotted to Telangana a few years ago. Since then she has been working as Rachakonda Additional DCP (Admin) and later DCP (Admin) before she was transferred and posted as DCP Madhapur recently. Ms. Shilpavalli will be the second non-cadre SP rank officer to head the Madhapur Zone unit successively. Retired IPS officer A Venkateshwara Rao was the last IPS officer in Madhapur.   Officials of the Health department are on their toes as the December 31 deadline set by the government for achieving cent percent vaccination is approaching fast. The department is hard pressed to achieve the targets in at least 10 districts. Going by the information released by the department, 20 districts, including Hyderabad and Rangareddy, achieved 100 per cent administration of the first dose of the vaccine while vaccination was around 90 per cent in the remaining 13 districts. Interestingly, there are reports that several people in these districts who took their first dose did not turn up for the second. Intense campaign was launched to educate people on the need for completing two doses as a precautionary measure. The health staff have a stiff challenge to meet the target amid threat of spread of Omicron variant looming large.  (Abhinay Deshpande, M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/post-reshuffle-of-ips-officials/article38045848.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Cocktail of anger and angst||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cocktail-of-anger-and-angst/article38045822.ece
27 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Six arrested in Saurashtra University exam paper leak||Following complaints by Aam Aadmi Party workers that the question paper for the December 23 ‘Semester-III Economics’ exam for B.Com. students at Saurashtra University had been leaked, the university’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Nitin Pethani declared the examination void. Circulated on WhatsApp “After we received complaints and got evidence that the paper had been leaked, we approached the police with a complaint. Prima facie the probe has revealed that the paper had started circulating on WhatsApp groups an hour before the exam,” Prof. Pethani told mediapersons in Rajkot. Around 18,000 students had appeared for the leaked Economics paper at 80 centres. The exam will be re-conducted on January 3. Six persons have been arrested — the principal of the Sardar Patel Law College, its clerk, a peon and three students — for their alleged involvement in leaking the question paper. Police action against the college principal prompted the university to de-list the Sardar Patel Law College as a university exam centre. The university has also begun the process to de-recognise the college’s affiliation to the varsity. “Three students who have been arrested would not be allowed to take any exam in the university while principal Dilawar Kureshi’s educational qualifications will also be de-recognised,” a statement issued by the university said. Under scanner The university authorities have said that Surya Offset, the printing press being probed by the police for the alleged leak of the recent government head clerk recruitment exam papers, had also printed the Saurashtra University Economics question papers, but added that it was yet to be ascertained whether the paper had been leaked at the printing press. The episode has once again raised questions about alleged irregularities and malpractices in examinations in Gujarat.  Three students who have been arrested would not be allowed to take any exam in the university while principal’s educational qualifications will be de-recognised University statement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-arrested-in-saurashtra-university-exam-paper-leak/article38045708.ece
27 December 2021||Bagdogra,||Fresh row over talk of replacing Dhankhar as varsities Chancellor||A couple of days after suggestions were made that he should be replaced from the titular post of Chancellor of State-run universities in West Bengal, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday lashed out at the State government. The State’s Education Minister Bratya Basu had tweeted on Friday that there was need to “introspect” on whether the State needs to continue with the colonial legacy of Governor being ex-officio Chancellor of all State-run universities and eminent scholars should be appointed instead. He had later suggested to newspersons that the Chief Minister should be made interim Chancellor. “I was astonished that the Education Minister, who should have interacted with me, instead said that the Chief Minister will be made Chancellor,” Mr. Dhankhar said after landing at the airport here on a week-long visit to north Bengal. “You make the Chief Minister the Governor also in addition to making her the Chancellor,” he said sarcastically, terming Mr. Basu’s stance as inappropriate. Mr. Dhankar had earlier called a meeting of Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors of private universities in the State in his capacity as Visitor on December 18. However the meeting had fallen through as most heads of universities had excused themselves. An attempt to hold the meeting on December 23 also fell through, and the Governor had taken to the social media to vent his ire. An earlier attempt by him to call a meeting of Vice-Chancellors or executive heads of State run universities had also ended without any bothering to attend. Governor Dhankar has had several run-ins with the State Government under Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on a number of issues and the row over his attempts to exercise his powers as Chancellor. ‘Assent not given’ Mr. Dhankar also reiterated that he had not given his assent to the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, adding that a submission made by the State Advocate General before the Calcutta High Court to this effect may be erroneous. “There is no paper, letter, discussion, consideration before the Governor with regard to bifurcation of Howrah Municipal Corporation and creation of Bally municipality,” he said. The Governor had earlier said that he had sent back the Bill, for excluding areas of erstwhile Bally municipality from Howrah Municipal Corporation, on November 24 with queries which were yet to be answered. “It is wrong for the Advocate General to submit before the High Court that the Governor has given assent to the Bill,” he said. State Advocate General S.N. Mookherjee on Friday told the Cclautta High Court that the Governor has given his assent to the Bill, paving the way for holding separate elections to the two bodies. Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy however said that the State had sent its reply to the questions raised by the Governor regarding the Bill which was earlier passed in the West Bengal Assembly. BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh however charged that the Mamata Banerjee government is trying to turn the Governor into a rubber stamp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fresh-row-over-talk-of-replacing-dhankhar-as-varsities-chancellor/article38045912.ece
27 December 2021||Bagdogra,||Fresh row over talk of replacing Dhankhar as varsities Chancellor||A couple of days after suggestions were made that he should be replaced from the titular post of Chancellor of State-run universities in West Bengal, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday lashed out at the State government. The State’s Education Minister Bratya Basu had tweeted on Friday that there was need to “introspect” on whether the State needs to continue with the colonial legacy of Governor being ex-officio Chancellor of all State-run universities and eminent scholars should be appointed instead. He had later suggested to newspersons that the Chief Minister should be made interim Chancellor. “I was astonished that the Education Minister, who should have interacted with me, instead said that the Chief Minister will be made Chancellor,” Mr. Dhankhar said after landing at the airport here on a week-long visit to north Bengal. “You make the Chief Minister the Governor also in addition to making her the Chancellor,” he said sarcastically, terming Mr. Basu’s stance as inappropriate. Mr. Dhankar had earlier called a meeting of Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors of private universities in the State in his capacity as Visitor on December 18. However the meeting had fallen through as most heads of universities had excused themselves. An attempt to hold the meeting on December 23 also fell through, and the Governor had taken to the social media to vent his ire. An earlier attempt by him to call a meeting of Vice-Chancellors or executive heads of State run universities had also ended without any bothering to attend. Governor Dhankar has had several run-ins with the State Government under Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on a number of issues and the row over his attempts to exercise his powers as Chancellor. Mr. Dhankar also reiterated that he had not given his assent to the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, adding that a submission made by the State Advocate General before the Calcutta High Court to this effect may be erroneous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fresh-row-over-talk-of-replacing-dhankhar-as-varsities-chancellor/article38045702.ece
27 December 2021||Bhopal,||Remove music video in 3 days or face action: M.P. Minister to Sunny Leone||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Sunday warned actor Sunny Leone and singers Shaarib and Toshi to apologise and withdraw their music video ‘Madhuban mein Radhika, jaise jungle me nache mor’ within three days or else face action. The Minister alleged that the video hurts the religious sentiments of Hindus. “Some vidharmis are constantly hurting Hindu sentiments. The video ‘Madhuban me Radhika nache’ is one such condemnable attempt. I am warning Sunny Leone ji, Shaarib and Toshi ji to understand. If they don’t remove the song after apologising in three days, then we will take action against them,” the Minister said. Mr. Mishra, who is also the Madhya Pradesh government spokesperson, said Hindus worship Maa Radha and the song has hurt the sentiments of the people. On December 22, Leone had tweeted, “New Song Alert, Party Vibes only with #Madhuban!”, while sharing the video of the song..  On Saturday, priests in Mathura had demanded a ban on this latest video album of Sunny Leone, accusing the Bollywood actor of hurting their religious sentiments by performing an ‘obscene’ dance on the song ‘Madhuban mein Radhika nache’. In October this year, Mr. Mishra had issued a 24-hour ultimatum to fashion and jewellery designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw an advertisement with ‘objectionable and obscene’ portrayal of mangalsutra or else face statutory action. The designer had later withdrawn this advertisement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/remove-music-video-in-3-days-or-face-action-mp-minister-to-sunny-leone/article38045709.ece
27 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha CM confident in bringing down poverty level to 10%||Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday exuded confidence in bringing down Odisha’s poverty level to 10% in the next five years. “There is a huge difference between Odisha in 2000s and today. The State is leading in reducing poverty. The poverty level has come down from 63% to 29% while 80 lakh people have climbed out of poverty line,” said Mr. Patnaik while addressing the Biju Janata Dal’s (BJD) 25th foundation day celebration on Sunday. The Chief Minister said: “Odisha will create history in bringing down the poverty level to 10%. To achieve this goal, the government will take every step required.” “Once upon a time Odisha used to depend on other States for food. The situation has changed and the State is ranked third in supplying grains in the country,” he observed. NITI Aayog report Stating that Odisha has been recognised internationally for disaster management, Mr. Patnaik said, “The United Nations and NITI Aayog have praised the State for its achievement. We have shown the path of saving lives during disaster.” In a recently released NITI Aayog report, ‘National Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) 2021 – Baseline Report’, Odisha is ranked eighth from the bottom with 29.35% of the State’s population found to be multi-dimensionally poor. The NITI Aayog’s analysis indicates huge regional variation as far as poverty level is concerned. In Nabarangpur district, 59.32% are found to be poor. In neighbouring Malkangiri and Koraput district, more than half of the population are poor. Rayagada and Kalahandi districts follow closely with 48.14% and 47.28% poverty level respectively. Compared to southern districts, coastal districts have fared better. ¼The poverty level in rural Odisha is more prevalent with NITI Aayog finding 46.45% of the total population being poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-cm-confident-in-bringing-down-poverty-level-to-10/article38045707.ece
27 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||4 more Omicron cases reported in Odisha||Four more tested positive for Omicron variant of COVID-19, taking the total tally of the new variant to eight in Odisha. Of the four Omicron-infected persons, three had returned from Nigeria and one came from Saudi Arabia. Two of them hail from Jagatsinghpur district while one is from Ganjam district. As per official records, 9,000 people had returned from other countries since the last week of November. About 3,700 of them had undergone RT-PCR tests out of which 18 tested positive. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has imposed restrictions on New Year revelry from December 31 to January 2. “Gatherings at hotels, clubs, restaurants, parks and convention halls are completely banned. Zero night celebration and no celebration other than marriage is allowed across the State,” says a government notification. “There will be strict vigilance on gathering from December 31 to January 2. No community feast is allowed and no social gathering, rallies, orchestras and other cultural programmes are permitted,” the government said. Police Commissioners of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack and district police chiefs have been instructed to take strict action against violators. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 situation in the State appears to be under control. A total of 112 positive cases were reported on Sunday and there are 1,594 active cases in the State while two districts – Koraput and Kandhamal – did not have a single active case. Similarly, one person was reported to have died of COVID-19 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-more-omicron-cases-reported-in-odisha/article38045913.ece
27 December 2021||Chandigarh,||AAP declares 15 more names for Punjab polls||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday declared 15 more candidates for next year’s Punjab Assembly polls. It is the fourth list of the party and with this the total number of candidates announced by it so far reached 73. The announcement was made by party leader Raghav Chadha on his Twitter handle. From Rupnagar, the party gave ticket to Dinesh Chadha. Currently, Amarjit Singh Sandoa is AAP’s MLA from this constituency. According to the list, Ranjit Singh Rana will contest from Bholath, Inderjit Kaur from Nakodar, Gurdhian Singh from Mukerian, Karamvir Singh from Dasuya, Jasvir Singh Gill from Urmur, Lakhbir Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib and Tarunpreet Singh from Khanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-declares-15-more-names-for-punjab-polls/article38045712.ece
27 December 2021||Ferozepur,||BSF seizes heroin worth Rs. 200 cr. near Pak. border||The Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on Sunday seized 40 kg heroin worth Rs. 200 crore in two incidents in Ferozepur Sector, officials said. The recoveries come a day after over 10 kg of the substance was seized in the same region. In the first incident on Sunday, troops attached to 101 Battalion recovered 34 kg heroin concealed in 22 packets near the border outpost Mian Wali Uttar. The estimated cost of the consignment is pegged at Rs. 170 crore in the international market. In the second recovery, personnel from 116 Battalion seized six packets of heroin totally weighing 6 kg worth Rs. 30 crore near border outpost Mohammadi Wala. On Saturday, troops belonging to 136 Battalion had recovered 11 packets of heroin weighing 10.852 kg near Barreke along the Indo-Pakistan border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bsf-seizes-heroin-worth-rs-200-cr-near-pak-border/article38045683.ece
27 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Impact of misgovernance in Haryana visible all over: Hooda||In an all-out attack on the BJP-JJP government in Haryana at his ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh (Opposition Before You)’ programme in Nuh on Sunday, former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the impact of misgovernance in the State is visible all over with schools, hospitals and even the government treasury being empty. He said the people of Haryana have made up their mind to ensure that the seat of power will soon be vacated for a pro-people government. All three MLAs of the Congress party from Nuh — Aftab Ahmed, Mohammad Ilyas and Maman Khan — along with four dozen incumbent and former MLAs were in attendance. People who came for the programme put forth their problems. The local MLAs presented an account of the development works done during the Hooda government and the main development demands of the area. Mr. Hooda said his family has an old and emotional connection with Mewat region. “In 1947, my father Ranbir Singh Hooda brought Mahatma Gandhi to Mewat [now Nuh]. During the freedom movement, a large number of people of Mewat had given martyrdom for the country and their contribution can never be forgotten. Whatever I was able to do for Mewat as Chief Minister was my responsibility,” he said. Mr. Hooda, in a poetic style, cautioned his rivals that he was not yet finished and would make a comeback like the waves of the ocean. He assured that when he returned to power, all the demands like bringing a railway line to Mewat, building a university and developing the Mewat canal would be fulfilled. Interaction programmes The two-time Chief Minister said he is constantly interacting with the public through ‘the Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ programme and people are feeling that inflation and corruption are on the rise and employment is decreasing. Mr. Hooda has held similar interaction programmes at Karnal and Jind earlier this year.  During the freedom struggle, a large number of people of Mewat had given martyrdom for the country and their contribution can never be forgotten Bhupinder Singh Hooda Former Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/impact-of-misgovernance-in-haryana-visible-all-over-hooda/article38045705.ece
27 December 2021||Mumbai,||Salman discharged from hospital after snake bite||Superstar Salman Khan is “happy and absolutely healthy” after he was discharged from a hospital on Sunday following a non-venomous snake bite, said actor-politician Bina Kak, a close family friend. According to sources, the snake bit Mr. Khan’s hand on Saturday night at his farmhouse near Panvel in the adjoining Raigad district. The actor was then taken to a hospital at Kamothe in Navi Mumbai and was discharged on Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/salman-discharged-from-hospital-after-snake-bite/article38045703.ece
27 December 2021||Mumbai,||Salman discharged from hospital after snake bite||Superstar Salman Khan is “happy and absolutely healthy” after he was discharged from a hospital on Sunday following a non-venomous snake bite, said actor-politician Bina Kak, a close family friend. According to sources, the snake bit Mr. Khan's hand on Saturday night at his farmhouse near Panvel in the adjoining Raigad district. The actor was then taken to a hospital at Kamothe in Navi Mumbai and was discharged on Sunday morning. “Salman was bitten last night and taken to a hospital. He was discharged after six hours. He is back home and well,” sources close to the actor had said. Mr. Khan was back to his farmhouse, where he will be ringing in his 56th birthday on Monday. Ms. Kak, who has worked with Mr. Khan in films like “Maine Pyaar Kyun Kiya?” and “God Tussi Great Ho”, shared a health update of the actor on Instagram later in the evening. “Birthday tomorrow, all good and cheerful, happy and absolutely healthy today. Happy to be surrounded by family. I call him Khuda ki ‘Naimat’. All our blessings for a happy, healthy, long and meaningful life ahead,” Ms. Kak wrote alongside a selfie with Mr. Khan. The actor was recently seen on the big screen in “Antim: The Final Truth”, which released last month. He is also seen as the host of the Colors TV reality show “Bigg Boss” and has the third installment of his film “Tiger 3”, tentatively scheduled for a release next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/salman-discharged-from-hospital-after-snake-bite/article38045923.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||A second chance in life for prisoners||Among the Delhi Street Art group members is 36-year-old Virender* who chiselled his painting skills behind bars. His artworks can be seen at the Pacific Mall and Madhuban Chowk among other places. Serving a life sentence in a kidnapping for ransom case, he was released from Mandoli jail in April 2020,on account of good conduct. Virender has now moulded himself as a professional mural and graffiti painter. "Painting was my childhood passion and I was fortunate to get supportive teachers and prison staff who helped me change my outlook to life and build a career," he told The Hindu , while recollecting his first day when he made his way to the barracks from the prison gates. "I was petrified about spending the rest of my life there turning into an emotional wreck or indulging in criminal activities," he said. With city prisons under the scanner for custodial deaths and inmate infighting to extortion rackets and other petty crimes, various corrective measures to reform undertrials and convicts is a path forward for criminal justice. Several rehabilitative initiatives, including educational and vocational skill training programmes, meant to constructively engage the inmates in Delhi prisons have helped individuals like Virender and others to change their lives. Neeraj* (22), a rape accused on bail, works as a cashier in a city mall now, thanks to the computer course he did at Tihar. “I was taught tally and data entry and it has helped me tremendously," said Neeraj, who juggles his job and studies at Delhi University. For 24-year-old Shankar*, a murder accused out on bail, earns from repairing computers, mobiles and laptops. "I used to be frightened during my early days of incarceration, not knowing what lay ahead. But the opportunity to repair small appliances during two years of imprisonment and the crash course in computers helped me to polish my skills," he said. *Amit Kumar,33, fulfilled his dream of becoming a professional painter after entering the Tihar jail for a dowry death case in 2017. Kumar was working with a manufacturing company before his imprisonment and is out on interim bail from June last year due to COVID-19. “Everyone thinks we are good for nothing, but reform programmes, right guidance and support encourage us to begin life afresh,” he said. “When I saw the paintings made by other inmates, I felt I could do the same and enrolled myself for the course, " said Kumar, who is back working in the same company and also sells his paintings at various exhibitions for additional income. “When I first entered jail in 2016, I thought violence and torture will finish me. But social workers and prison staff motivated me to do n ukkad natak. We were given on-the-spot themes and asked to perform in different wards," said Geeta, 50, a single mother who worked as a school teacher before she was arrested for a murder case. "I also attended computer software classes and worked in the jail's administrative department earning Rs.80 as daily wage," she added. Geeta now takes home tuitions and will have to return to the jail once her interim bail ends. "But I will not rue anymore," she said. From painting, tailoring, baking to manufacturing candles, incense sticks, masks, and sanitisers, the 18,000 inmates across the three prisons, hone their skills with training from NGO and jail staff. They also get daily wage employment for skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled work. Products made by them are either used internally within the jails or sold at various exhibitions, including the annual Trade Fair at Pragati Maidan. Sunil Gupta, former law officer at Tihar, said the rehabilitation programmes make the inmates realise the dignity of labour and have a happy impact on them. "The jails now work beyond the safe custody of prisoners to their reformation and rehabilitation. It helps to reduce the recidivism rate — the tendency of a convict to commit another crime after being released," he said. "Judges also develop a positive outlook towards them,"' he added. Gupta cited a rape accused from his tenure who cracked the IAS exam from inside the jail and is now posted as a Collector in U.P. “Many prisoners bag respectable jobs after coming out of jail. Many enter as illiterates and go out with UG degrees," he said. Monica Dhawan, Director of India Vision Foundation, a prison reforms group, said most inmates tend to be aggressive at first but once they are enrolled in vocational activities through outreach efforts of NGOs like hers, they become keen learners and want to do something worthwhile to reintegrate themselves into the society. "We provide sewing machines to the women prisoners who are released and they earn anywhere between Rs.3,000 to Rs.7,000 a month," she said. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said the prisons at Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini have an adequate number of educational and vocational activities running now. "But the expansion of initiatives is a work in progress. It is our aim to wean off the prisoners from their earlier lives and train them to get good jobs," he said.  (*Names changed to protect the identity of the individuals)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-second-chance-in-life-for-prisoners/article38045696.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to impose night curfew in Delhi||With the Capital reporting 290 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, sources in the Chief Minister’s office said night curfew between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. will be announced on Monday. The city also recorded one death. The positivity rate rose to 0.55% after 52,947 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate needs to stay above 0.5% for two consecutive days for a yellow alert to be sounded that brings in the first level of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP). On July 9, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority had approved the GRAP with four levels of colour-coded alerts according to the prevailing number of cases so that there is no confusion over imposing lockdowns and lifting restrictions. For the first level — yellow alert — the positivity rate needs to be more than 0.5% for two consecutive days for the restrictions to kick in automatically. On Saturday, the positivity rate was 0.43% with 249 new cases being added to the tally. Yellow alert Under the yellow alert, a night curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. will be imposed and timings of shops and establishments of non-essential goods and services, and malls will be restricted between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. based on the odd-even formula. Only one weekly market per zone with 50% of vendors will be allowed. Schools and educational institutions will be shut and metro trains and buses will have to run with half the seating capacity. Restaurants will be permitted with 50% capacity from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., while bars will be allowed to operate from 12 p.m. to 10 p.m. Weddings and funerals will be allowed with 20 people in attendance, while all other types of gatherings will be prohibited. Other activities prohibited include cinema halls, banquet halls, spas, gyms, outdoor yoga activity, amusement parks, stadiums and swimming pools. Private offices can function with up to 50% of employees. Omicron variant After a high-level review meeting on the Omicron variant of COVID-19 on Friday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the variant was very mild but transmitted at an alarming speed and that the Government was making adequate arrangements for the situation keeping these characteristics in mind. The Chief Minister appealed to the public to not rush to the hospitals if they tested positive in order to avoid coming in contact with crowds as the Government was strengthening its home isolation system and was looking to monitor the patients at home so that the hospitals did not get overcrowded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-to-impose-night-curfew-in-delhi/article38045697.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Night shelters last hope for Delhi’s homeless during winter, but complaints remain||For 63-year-old Harisingh Gujjar, a migrant from Rajasthan, taking refuge at a night shelter near the city’s Nigam Bodh Ghat has become a regular affair. Ignoring the stained pillow and a dirty blanket that lay on his bed, Gujjar — who first arrived at the shelter about four years ago — said he had no family but was more than happy to have a place to sleep. “I get tea twice a day, and hot meals to feast on. I can’t earn anymore, so what else would I need during the winter?” he said with a wry smile. With temperatures in Delhi dipping to single digit earlier this week — going as low as 3.6 degrees Celsius — the city’s homeless have taken to night shelters to survive the bone-chilling cold. Gujjar is one among the many homeless men at the shelter, which has multiple porta cabins and tents that were established by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and has close to 500 beds and 30 toilets, according to the shelter’s caretaker. While the homeless like Gujjar living in bigger shelters are seemingly content with the amenities available, such as food, beds, toilets and ample space, to help survive the harsh winter, homeless families living at the smaller tent-based shelters are far from happy with most stating that the setup in their shelters is quite the opposite. Four years ago, Radha, a 27-year-old migrant from Madhya Pradesh, had first arrived at a container-based 40-bed shelter near the city’s Safdarjung Hospital after her husband’s kidney-related ailment took a turn for the worse. “For three years, my husband was taking treatment at AIIMS which included dialysis. His treatment was interrupted during the first lockdown and we returned to our village where he expired soon after. I have come back here because my health is deteriorating and I am undergoing tests. But this shelter is packed, it has no facilities and all we have is a bed and a public washroom located slightly ahead,” said the mother of two, adding that she was dependent on those who donated food and blankets. Adjacent to the shelter is a 16-bed tent set up by DUSIB where occupants said that the tents lacked provisions such as food and toilets. At a 16-bed tent-based shelter across the road, near AIIMS, space seemed to fall short with homeless individuals taking to the footpath alongside the shelter. The occupants in all three shelters were patients awaiting treatment at the nearby hospitals. While most of them said they were content with the provisions, they emphasised the need for a dedicated toilet facility instead of a public washroom. According to DUSIB’s occupancy report, while the original capacity of their shelters stood at 19,660, the revised capacity now stands at 9,026. DUSIB has shifted 2,594 homeless people to shelter homes since October 30. Sanjay Kumar, co-director at Aashray Adhikar Abhiyan, an organisation that has been working towards the betterment of homeless people since 2000, said that 20% of Delhi’s homeless are vulnerable people, which include “women, senior citizens, mentally ill people, drug addicts, disabled individuals and children”. Speaking of the shelter homes run by him, he added, “We are not just providing them shelter but also with vocational training and skill-building which has resulted in many of them getting jobs.” Ram Satya Tiwari, who looks after a 450-bed shelter building at Fatehpuri, near the old Delhi railway station, said that overcrowding has become a growing concern there. “Before the pandemic, we had mattresses on the floors but now we have beds and there aren’t enough of them. We try accommodating extra people by providing them with mattresses on the floor along with blankets but we still can’t accommodate everyone. We conveyed this to the authorities and they set up a few tents nearby but the space is insufficient. Another problem is that there are hardly any shelters for women in Old Delhi,” he said. Responding to these observations, DUSIB member Bipin Rai said Delhi had “20 shelter facilities for women and 25 for families”. He added that most of these shelters are based in the walled city, while some were located in east Delhi and north Delhi. “It depends on the demand; we provide the shelters for women according to the requirement and for a small number, we try accommodating them in nearby shelters. The container-like facility near Safdarjung was set up by a private agency and not DUSIB. However, if there are shortcomings in the DUSIB shelters then we will look into it. We have put a lot of effort into setting up shelters for the homeless. There are over 200 night shelters in the city, but many of the homeless people refuse to come,” said Mr. Rai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/night-shelters-last-hope-for-delhis-homeless-during-winter-but-complaints-remain/article38045691.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality in Capital ‘severe’ for sixth day||It was an overcast Sunday in the Capital with the air quality continuing to remain in the “severe” category for the sixth consecutive day, while the minimum temperature rose by a few notches. Parts of the city received light rain in the evening. The average 24-hour air quality index (AQI) based on data from 35 monitoring stations was 459 with PM2.5 as the chief pollutant. Other parts of the NCR like Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad were also in the “severe” level, while Gurgaon was in the “very poor” category. A forecast by the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research showed that air quality is likely to be “severe” on December 27 as winds are likely to be low reducing ventilation of pollutants. ‘Slight improvement’ “December 28 onwards, a slight improvement in air quality is likely due to relatively high wind speeds and on December 29, a significant improvement is expected due to high easterly winds resulting in strong ventilation of pollutants,” the forecast said. The minimum temperature in the city also rose to 9.8 degrees Celsius, which is two degrees above normal for this time of the year and the maximum temperature settled at 21.4 degrees Celsius, which is one degree warmer than normal for the season. The rise in temperatures, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said, can be attributed to overcast conditions and a change in the wind directions. The winds blowing towards Delhi from the east/south-east direction are warmer than the winds blowing from the north. The IMD has forecast light showers in the Capital as well as dense fog in some areas. The city’s forecast for December 27 said “generally cloudy sky with very light rain/drizzle. Shallow to moderate fog in the morning. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 22 and 10 degrees Celsius respectively.” The IMD attributed the change in weather to the influence of a western disturbance seen as a cyclonic circulation over east Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan and an induced cyclonic circulation that lies over south-west Rajasthan and neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels. “Under the influence of the above systems, light/moderate to fairly widespread rain/snowfall is very likely over western Himalayan region till December 28 and light rain at isolated to scattered places is very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Rajasthan between December 26 and 28.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-in-capital-severe-for-sixth-day/article38045698.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC suspends remaining jail term of former DIG||The Delhi High Court has suspended the remaining sentence of a former Deputy Inspector General of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), who was awarded 18 months of imprisonment after he was found guilty of committing certain irregularities while in service. A Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Navin Chawla said former DIG Upendra Prakash Balodi had already undergone 13 months of imprisonment out of the 18 months. “This court directs suspension of the sentence till further orders,” the Bench said while also seeking response of the Centre and the SSB to Balodi’s plea. Balodi was accused of having committed irregularities in purchase of horse feed and liquor, when posted as a DIG at Srinagar. The General Force Court of the SSB then awarded him the punishment of dismissal from service and 18 months of rigorous imprisonment. This order was later modified to the extent that the ‘punishment of dismissal from service’ was commuted to ‘compulsory retirement from service’ and the punishment of imprisonment for 18 months remained unchanged. Balodi challenged the order holding him guilty, and also sought directions to the authorities to reinstate him in service with all consequential benefits including and not limited to promotions from February 1, 2020. Balodi said he was appointed as an assistant commandant in the SSB in 1987 and was eventually promoted as DIG in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-suspends-remaining-jail-term-of-former-dig/article38045700.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||One killed, two hurt after car hits divider||A 35-year-old man was killed while two of his friends were injured after their car hit a divider and turned turtle in south-west Delhi’s Mahipalpur early on Sunday, the police said. The police have identified the deceased as Ankit and the injured as Aditya and Rajkumar. Ankit was declared brought dead and the injured are undergoing treatment at the AIIMS Trauma Centre. According to DCP (Southwest) Gaurav Sharma, the Vasant Kunj South police station received information about an accident near the Mahipalpur flyover on the Gurugram-Delhi carriageway. The Station House Officer along with his staff rushed to the spot and found a damaged car. “As per preliminary investigation, the car seems to have hit the divider and turned upside down,” DCP Sharma said. The police said the statements of the injured victims will be recorded after they are declared fit by doctors. “Their families have been informed and the exact sequence of events will be known only after those who are injured give their statements,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-killed-two-hurt-after-car-hits-divider/article38045689.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Duo who duped several metro commuters held||Two persons were arrested by the Delhi police for allegedly duping several people of their valuables by narrating them concocted stories, in Anand Vihar, officers said on Sunday. According to the police, a complainant was cheated by the two accused, identified as Vishnu and Saddam, who tricked him to part with his valuables.  During interrogation, Vishnu told the police that he operated a racket of fraudsters where he used to cheat innocent people by luring them into a trap. Vishnu said that he and his co-accused used to take turns and travel in Delhi Metro with a child. While the elder gang member posed as a doctor, the child was the storyteller. They looked for innocent persons who could be easily fooled, DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said. After identifying the victim, the person playing doctor used to befriend him following which the child, on his signal, used to come to them and claim that he was working for a well-off person who used to beat him, so he ran away with the owner’s bag containing money and now wanted to return to his home in Bihar. They convinced the victim to arrange for the child’s travel to Bihar in return for the stolen bag which contained fake Rs. 500 notes. In case the victim agreed but did not have enough money, they used to ask him to hand over his phone or other valuables and fled with them, the DCP said. The police are trying to find the other gang members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/duo-who-duped-several-metro-commuters-held/article38045690.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Man arrested for posing as magistrate||A 35-year-old man impersonating as a Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) of Gurgaon was arrested during a vehicle checking drive at Paharganj circle, the police said on Sunday.  Lovleesh Sharma, a resident of Narela, used to introduce himself as CJM to throw weight around. The police seized a pistol, a fake CBI public prosecutor ID card, fake CJM shield and medals, fake visiting cards printed in the name of Lovleesh Sharma with CJM as the designation, and a fake CJM stamp from his car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-posing-as-magistrate/article38045688.ece
27 December 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra reports 31 new Omicron cases, tally now 141||Maharashtra reported 31 new Omicron cases on Sunday while witnessing its highest single-day case surge in nearly two months after the State recorded 1,648 fresh COVID-19 infections, as the active case tally surged to 9,813. Twenty-nine of the new Omicron cases are asymptomatic while the other two have reported mild symptoms, said officials. The total number of Omicron cases in the State have now risen to 141 of whom 61 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, said the State Health Department. Of the 31 new Omicron cases reported on Sunday, 27 are from Mumbai city alone, while two are from Thane district and one each from Pune and Akola districts. Six among the new cases are below 18 years of age while three are senior citizens. All persons among the new infections had a travel history while one was a high -risk contact of an international traveller. Thus far, Mumbai city has reported the maximum Omicron cases with nearly 55 infections, followed by Pune district with 42 infections of whom 19 are from Pimpri-Chinchwad, six from Pune city and the remaining 16 from Pune rural region. Meanwhile, the State’s active cases witnessed a sharp rise with 1,648 new COVID-19 cases being reported on Sunday as against just 918 new recoveries. 17 fatalities pushed the total death toll to 1,41,433. Recovery cases dip The State’s recovery rate dipped incrementally to 97.67%, said Health Department authorities. The case positivity rate stands at 9.73% while the total recoveries are currently at 65,02,957. Mumbai city reported the maximum new cases in the State (896) followed by Pune district, which reported 268 new ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-reports-31-new-omicron-cases-tally-now-141/article38045900.ece
27 December 2021||Siliguri,||Tourists stuck near Changu Lake in Sikkim||Hundreds of tourists were stuck near the Changu Lake in Sikkim due to heavy snowfall, following which the Army began a rescue operation, officials said on Sunday. As the Jawaharlal Nehru Road closed due to the heavy snowfall on Saturday, hundreds of tourists got stuck near the Changu Lake, they said. The Army rescued them and provided them shelter at their camp in the area during the night, officials said. As the weather conditions improved a bit on Sunday morning, the tourists were divided into small groups and Army personnel were guiding them to reach Gangtok, around 40 km away, on foot, officials said. The rescue operations, which were under way till the last reports were received, are likely to continue till Monday as hundreds of tourists were visiting Tsongmo or Changu Lake, near India’s boundary with China, during the Christmas holidays. Among those stuck were around 250 people from different districts of West Bengal.  As the weather conditions improved a bit on Sunday morning, the tourists were divided into small groups and Army personnel were guiding them to reach Gangtok Officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tourists-stuck-near-changu-lake-in-sikkim/article38045714.ece
27 December 2021||Uttarakhand,||Students refuse mid-day meals after SC cook sacked||Dalit students at a government school in Champawat district refused to eat mid-day meals cooked by an upper caste woman after a cook belonging to the Scheduled Castes was sacked. The district administration, however, said on Sunday that the issue has been resolved after members from both communities arrived at a consensus. “I hope the Dalit students will resume eating the food prepared by the new Bhojan Mata [cook] from tomorrow [Monday],” Champawat District Magistrate Vineet Tomar said. A Dalit cook at the Government Inter-College, Sukhi Dang, was sacked after 43 children from upper caste communities, studying in classes VI - VIII, refused to eat food cooked by her. The Champawat Education Department officials, however, cited procedural lapses in her appointment as the reason for her ouster. She was replaced by an upper caste woman. In retaliation, 23 Dalit students of the school refused to consume the mid-day meal prepared by the new cook. Mr. Tomar, for his part, said an inquiry has been initiated and the report is expected in a week. After the news about the ouster of the Dalit cook made headlines, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradeep Tamta said his party will launch an agitation to restore the woman’s Constitutional rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-refuse-mid-day-meals-after-sc-cook-sacked/article38045713.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Still a ‘hotspot’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/still-a-hotspot/article38045711.ece
27 December 2021||Johannesburg,||Tutu, who fought for a ‘Rainbow Nation’, dies||South African anti-apartheid icon Archbishop Desmond Tutu, described as the country’s moral compass, died on Sunday aged 90, sparking an outpouring of tributes for the outspoken Nobel Peace Prize winner. Tutu, who had largely faded from public life in recent years, was remembered for his easy humour and characteristic smile — and above all his tireless fight against injustices of all colours. South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa, announcing the archbishop’s death on Sunday, called him a man of “extraordinary intellect, integrity and invincibility against the forces of apartheid”. “The passing of Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu is another chapter of bereavement in our nation’s farewell to a generation of outstanding South Africans who have bequeathed us a liberated South Africa,” he said, weeks after the death of F.W. de Klerk, the country’s last white President. Mourners gathered outside his former parish in Cape Town, St George’s Cathedral, while others massed at his home, some holding flower bouquets. “It’s very, very sad he died. He was such a good man,” said retired accountant, Diane Heard. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said Tutu had “inspired a generation of African leaders who embraced his non-violent approaches in the liberation struggle”. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he was “deeply saddened” by Tutu’s death, calling him a “critical figure” in the struggle to create a new South Africa. Former U.S. president Barack Obama, the nation’s first black leader, hailed Tutu as a towering figure and “moral compass” who fought against injustice in South Africa and elsewhere. The Dalai Lama called Tutu his “respected elder spiritual brother and good friend”.  Fight against injustice A tireless activist, Tutu won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984 for combating white minority rule in his country. Famously outspoken even after the fall of the racist apartheid regime in the 1990s, Tutu never shied away from confronting South Africa’s shortcomings or injustices. It was Tutu who coined the term “Rainbow Nation” to describe South Africa when Nelson Mandela became the country’s first black president in 1994. And he retired in 1996 to lead a harrowing journey into South Africa’s brutal past as head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which lifted the lid on the horrors of apartheid. However, Tutu has also criticised the ruling African National Congress (ANC) — the vanguard of the fight against white-minority rule. He challenged Mandela over generous salaries for Cabinet ministers and stridently criticised the corruption that mushroomed under ex-President Jacob Zuma. Ordained at the age of 30 and appointed archbishop in 1986, he used his position to advocate for international sanctions against apartheid, and later to lobby for rights globally. Tutu was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 1997 and repeatedly underwent treatment. His public appearances become increasingly scarce and, in one of his last this year, he emerged from hospital in a wheelchair to get a Covid vaccine, waving but not offering comment. The archbishop had been in a weakened state for several months and died peacefully at 7 a.m. on Sunday, his relatives said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tutu-who-fought-for-a-rainbow-nation-dies/article38045401.ece
27 December 2021||COlombo,||Chinese Ambassador Qi’s visit to Jaffna sparks concern in Sri Lanka||A recent visit by the Chinese Ambassador in Colombo to Sri Lanka’s Tamil-majority Northern Province has sparked concern and considerable commentary on what is widely seen as a heightening geopolitical contest between India and China, now manifesting in the island nation’s north. Chinese Ambassador Qi Zhenhong, who assumed charge in Colombo a year ago, went to the Northern Province for three days from December 15 to 17. While he held meetings with top government officials, including the Governor of the province, the Fisheries Minister, and the Mayor of Jaffna, it was his visit to key sites that drew much local media attention over the past week. Mr. Qi visited the iconic Jaffna Public Library — rebuilt after a Sinhalese mob set fire to it in 1981 — and the Adam’s Bridge (that India refers to as ‘Rama Setu’), a row of limestone shoals across the narrow Palk Strait between Mannar in the Northern Province and Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu. His boat ride to Adam’s Bridge was organised by the Sri Lankan Navy. Local television channels showed the Ambassador interacting with military personnel stationed at the northern tip of the Jaffna Peninsula. Pointing to the ocean, Mr. Qi asked if he was facing the Indian continent. His team from the Embassy was also shown taking photographs using a drone camera. The Ambassador visited a seafood factory in Mannar district, built with Chinese investment, and a sea cucumber farm in Jaffna. The Embassy put out a press statement on the visit, with several images, and tweets, including in Tamil, from its official handle. Video footage of the visit also showed images of the Chinese Ambassador and his colleagues attired in a veshti (dhoti), standing bare-chested outside the well-known Nallur Kandasamy temple. It is not unusual for Colombo-based foreign diplomats to visit the north or any part of the country, but few visits have generated as much interest in the Sri Lankan media. Newspapers and television channels covered Mr. Qi’s visit extensively, with some reading it as a provocation to India, which has traditionally held close ties with the north, owing to geographic, cultural, and linguistic proximity.  The Sunday Times , one of Sri Lanka’s most-read weekend newspapers in English, observed in its editorial on Sunday (December 26): “That China wanted to be a provocative irritant to ‘another country’ was obvious. On the other hand, is the Northern Province the fiefdom of ‘another country’?”, apparently referring to India. ‘Another Arunachal’ The editorial also pointed to a “safe, silent distance” maintained by the main political formation in the north, the Tamil National Alliance (TNA). It further noted: “Fears of whether the North will be turned into another Arunachal Pradesh or Assam where border disputes prevail have already emerged to worry the local populace. While no country can expect any province of Sri Lanka to be another of its Union’s states, by proxy or otherwise, turning the region into a geopolitical football is fraught with danger.” Media reports placed the visit in the context of the Chinese Embassy’s recent tweet about the “suspension” of a solar energy project that a Chinese firm was to execute in three islands off Jaffna Peninsula, after India raised concern with Sri Lanka. Some also mentioned the ongoing diplomatic tiff between China and Sri Lanka over a consignment of “contaminated” Chinese fertilizer. A news analysis published in The Morning newspaper on Sunday quoted TNA’s Batticaloa MP Shanakiyan Rasamanickam as saying that people of Sri Lanka’s north and east did not want “China to have a footprint” in the provinces. “We will oppose them. We don’t want them here. All these years, they [the Chinese] didn’t see us, nor did they think of the interest of the Tamil people. They have discriminated against us, even in official name boards ... So, why the sudden interest in us now?” Speaking to the newspaper, Jaffna Chamber of Commerce president R. Jeyasekaran asked: “Where was China all this time?”, referring to the help that many other countries, including India, have provided to help the war-hit region rebuild in the 12 years since the civil war ended. Ethnic question However, senior Tamil leader R. Sampanthan told popular Tamil daily Virakesari that the visit of the Chinese Ambassador to the north was not as important as China’s position when it comes to Sri Lanka’s ethnic question. China has so far maintained that it will not comment on Sri Lanka’s “internal affairs”. “China is yet to articulate its position on the political aspirations of the Tamil people, or our long-pending demand for a political solution. In that context, the Ambassador’s visit can only be meaningless for us,” Mr. Sampanthan was quoted as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-ambassador-qis-visit-to-jaffna-sparks-concern-in-sri-lanka/article38045407.ece
27 December 2021||COLOMBO,||‘Sri Lanka to sign Trinco deal with India soon’||After a year of visible strain in its ties with Colombo, New Delhi may finally have some reason for cheer. In a month’s time, Sri Lanka will ink the long-dragging deal with India to jointly develop the Trincomalee oil tank farms — a coveted project that has remained controversial for decades. “We have been negotiating this for 16 months, and we are now very close to finalising the terms of the Trincomalee project with India. We hope to sign the agreement in a month,” Energy Minister Udaya Gammanpila told The Hindu on Sunday.  The Minister said he has instructed the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) to form a subsidiary company, Trinco Petroleum Terminal Ltd., for the purpose. The move follows President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s nod to setting up the special purpose vehicle ahead of the next Cabinet meeting. “We don’t have a Cabinet meeting this week because of the holidays. We will get the decision ratified in the next one,” Mr. Gammanpila said. During the Second World War, the British built the Trincomalee oil tank farms to serve as a refuelling station, adjacent to the Trincomalee port. The nearly century-old oil tanks need to be refurbished — at the cost of millions of dollars — if they are to be fit for use again. If the deal is finalised and signed next month, it will not only mark the culmination of India’s 16-month-long negotiation with the ruling Rajapaksa administration but will also give shape to a proposal envisaged 35 years ago, in the Indo-Lanka Accord. Despite the Accord — in its annexure — stating that “the work of restoring and operating the Trincomalee oil tank farm will be undertaken as a joint venture between India and Sri Lanka”, things barely moved until 2003, when the Indian Oil Corporation set up Lanka IOC, its Sri Lankan subsidiary. The facility, interestingly located in ‘China Bay’, has 99 storage tanks with a capacity of 12,000 kilolitres each, spread across the Upper Tank Farm and the Lower Tank Farm, where LIOC currently runs 15 tanks. The new agreement being negotiated pertains to the remaining tanks. The “early modernisation” of the Trincomalee oil tank farms found mention in the official statement released by the Sri Lankan mission in New Delhi, on Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa’s visit in November, indicating the priority accorded to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-sign-trinco-deal-with-india-soon/article38045405.ece
27 December 2021||Golan Heights,||Israel approves plan to double settlers in Golan||Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said on Sunday the country intends to double the number of settlers living in the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights with a multimillion-dollar plan meant to further consolidate Israel’s hold on the territory it captured from Syria more than five decades ago. Mr. Bennett said the new investment in the region was prompted by the Trump administration’s recognition of Israeli sovereignty over the swath of land and by the Biden administration’s indication that it will not soon challenge that decision. “This is our moment. This is the moment of the Golan Heights,” Mr. Bennett said at a special Cabinet meeting in the Golan Heights. “After long and static years in terms of the scope of settlement, our goal today is to double settlement in the Golan Heights.” Mr. Bennett’s office said the government would invest some 1 billion shekels (over $300 million) into developing the Golan, including the establishment of two new settlements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-approves-plan-to-double-settlers-in-golan/article38045402.ece
27 December 2021||Kabul,||Taliban regime imposes more curbs on women||Afghanistan’s Taliban authorities said on Sunday that women seeking to travel long distances should not be offered road transport unless they are accompanied by a close male relative. The guidance issued by the Ministry for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice, which also called on vehicle owners to refuse rides to women not wearing headscarves, has drawn condemnation from rights activists. The move follows the Taliban barring many women in public-sector roles from returning to work in the wake of their August 15 seizure of power, and as girls remain largely cut off from secondary schooling. It also comes despite the hard-line Islamists seeking to project a moderate image internationally in a bid to restore aid suspended when the previous government imploded during the final stages of a U.S. military withdrawal. 72-km limit Women travelling for more than 72 kilometres “should not be offered a ride if they are not accompanied by a close family member”, Ministry spokesman Sadeq Akif Muhajir said on Sunday, specifying that the escort must be a close male relative. The new guidance, circulated on social media networks, also asked people to stop playing music in their vehicles. Weeks ago, the Ministry asked Afghanistan’s television channels to stop showing dramas and soap operas featuring women actors. It also called on women TV journalists to wear headscarves while presenting. Muhajir said on Sunday that the hijab, an Islamic headscarf, would likewise be required for women seeking transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-regime-imposes-more-curbs-on-women/article38045403.ece
27 December 2021||Tripoli,||28 migrants found dead on Libyan coast||The bodies of 28 migrants had washed up on Libya’s western coast after their boat sank, a security official said on Sunday. “Libyan Red Crescent teams recovered 28 bodies of dead migrants and found three survivors at two different sites on the beaches of Al-Alous,” some 90 km from Tripoli, the source said. “The bodies’ advanced state of decomposition indicates that the shipwreck happened several days ago,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/28-migrants-found-dead-on-libyan-coast/article38045398.ece
27 December 2021||London,||UK police arrest armed man on grounds of Queen's home||The British police have arrested a man suspected of breaking into the grounds of Windsor Castle, where Queen Elizabeth II was spending Christmas, with what was reported to be a crossbow.  The 19-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of breach or trespass of a prote- cted site and possession of an offensive weapon. A repo- rt said the man used a rope ladder to scale a fence.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-police-arrest-armed-man-on-grounds-of-queens-home/article38045409.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The elderly are assets, not dependents||In the past few decades, concerns about “population explosion” have given way to joy about a “demographic dividend”. The latter is expected to give a push to economic growth due to the lower dependency ratio which results from having a larger proportion of the population in the working-age group. The “Asian Tigers” — countries such as South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore — as also China, have exemplified the benefits. NFHS-5 data The larger youth population is also expected to give an impetus to innovation and entrepreneurship. Not surprisingly, then, the young are in focus, with many programmes to facilitate their education, entrepreneurship, sports training, etc., but also well-being. This is as it must be, not just from an economic viewpoint, but especially from the perspective of health. Poor health, like inadequate education, could well nullify the demographic advantage. Of concern is data from the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5, which indicates that while much progress has been made, the metrics for infant and child health continue to be dismal, with some being even lower than what they were five years ago. Yet, even as we pay attention to the young, there is both need and benefit in also looking at the other end of the spectrum. Life expectancy in India has risen from 50 (1970-75) to 70 years (2014-18); as a result, the number of elders (those over 60 years) is already 137 million, and expected to increase by 40% to 195 million in 2031, and 300 million by 2050. While one perspective would look at them as dependents (and, therefore, a drag on the economy), a rather different view would look at them as a potential asset: a massive resource of experienced, knowledgeable people. Converting them from dependents to productive members of society depends on two primary factors: their health and their capabilities. Changing health-care needs Generally, the elderly population needs more medical attention of a diverse range. As per the first ever Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI), 11% of the elderly suffer from at least one form of impairment (locomotor, mental, visual and hearing). It is estimated that 58 lakh Indians die from noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) in India annually, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevalence is estimated to be 34% amongst 60-74 yearolds, rising to 37% in those above 75 years. As we move to a demographic where the growth rate of elders far exceeds that of the young, perhaps the biggest challenge that the country would face is to provide a range of quality, affordable, and accessible health and care services to the elderly. They require an array of specialised medical services at home including tele or home consultations, physiotherapy and rehabilitation services, mental health counselling and treatment, as well as pharmaceutical and diagnostic services. These needs are particularly evident now, with elders being advised to stay indoor as a precaution against the novel coronavirus epidemic. As per the 2016 Healthcare Access and Quality Index (HAQ), India improved its HAQ score from 24.7 in 1990 to 41.2 in 2016. However, we still are significantly below the global average of 54 points, ranking at the spot of 145 out of 195 countries. The low HAQ worsens even further in smaller cities and rural areas where basic quality health-care services are very inadequate. Factors such as familial neglect, low education levels, socio-cultural beliefs and stigma, low trust on institutionalised health-care services and affordability exacerbate the situation for the elders. Inequity in health-care access compounds the problems for the elderly, who are already, physically, financially and at times psychologically restricted in understanding, responding to, and seeking medical care for various ailments. Consequently, most of them live their years in neglect. Inadequate schemes Health care of the elderly has, sadly, been greatly neglected. An overwhelming proportion of the elders are from the lower socio-economic strata (including many who are destitute). They are unable to afford the cost of health care and slip into ever poorer health. The vicious cycle of poor health and unaffordable health costs is further accelerated by their inability to earn a livelihood. As a result, not only are they economically unproductive but are dependent on support from family or others. This, and poor physical health, adds to their mental and emotional problems. The Government does have schemes that cover the elderly and seeks to take care of these issues, but they are completely inadequate. Despite Ayushman Bharat, the Government’s health insurance scheme for the deprived, and private health insurance, a NITIAayog report indicates that 400 million Indians do not have any financial cover for health expenses. One can be sure that a very large number of elders are among the uncovered. Both the Centre and States have pension schemes for the elders, but these provide but a pittance — as low as Rs. 350 to Rs. 400 a month in some States. Even this is not universal. A 2007 law requires States to ensure earmarked facilities for elders in every district hospital, headed by a doctor with experience in geriatric care. Yet, a status report filed by the Government in the Supreme Court of India in 2019 stated that 16 States and Union Territories (‘of 35’) did not have a single ward/bed dedicated to elders. Opportunities in challenges Given the range of diverse challenges, can India take care of its aging population? The success of the COVID-19 vaccination strategy gives hope: a seniors-first approach led to over 73% of elderly population receiving at least one dose and around 40% being doubly vaccinated by October 2021. Considering the demographic trends, India should reimagine its entire health-care policy for the next few decades, with an elderly prioritised approach. As senior citizens require the most diverse array of health-care services, the creation of adequate services for them will benefit all other age-groups. Apart from legislating pro-elderly health care and insurance policies, India needs to aggressively take certain measures, while finding opportunities amidst this challenge. India needs to rapidly increase its public health-care spending, and invest heavily in the creation of well-equipped and staffed medical care facilities and home health-care and rehabilitation services. Presently, India has a major deficit in infrastructure and skilled medical care resources, with 1.3 hospital beds, 0.65 physicians, and 1.3 nurses for every 1,000 people. Over the next decade, we have the potential to add more than 3 million beds, 1.54 million doctors and 2.4 million nurses. We need to accelerate implementation of programmes such as the National Programme for Health Care of the Elderly (NPHCE). The Ayushman Bharat and PM-JAY ecosystems need to be further expanded and similar, special health-care coverage schemes and services need to be created for senior citizens from the lower economic strata. The National Digital Health Mission has tremendous potential to expand medical consultations into the interiors of the country. However, this requires a digital literacy campaign for senior citizens. These essential steps will help to convert elders into a massive resource for socio-cultural and economic development, giving an altogether different perspective to “demographic dividend”. After all, the proof of a truly evolved and caring nation lies in the way it not only nurtures its young but also how it cares for its aging population. Kiran Karnik is Chairperson, HelpAge India and an author. His latest book is ‘Decisive Decade: India 2030: Gazelle or Hippo’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-elderly-are-assets-not-dependents/article38045387.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Iran nuclear talks reverberate in the Gulf||While Iran is engaged in negotiations in Vienna on matters relating to the U.S.’s re-entry into the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and the relaxation of the sanctions, two parties absent at the talks are watching developments very closely — Israel and the six states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) — whose interests directly impinge on the outcome of the discussions. Israel, in public remarks, has focused on Iran’s progress towards weaponisation while ignoring its own nuclear weapons’ capability. Serving and retired security officials have been mobilised to urge immediate and harsh military action on Iran. Unlike Israel’s theatrics, the GCC countries have been pursuing a more low-key but more constructive an approach to regional challenges — diplomatic engagement with Iran. This is largely because the U.S.’s credibility as the GCC’s security partner was severely dented when President Donald Trump failed to protect their interests in the face of Iranian attacks on their assets in 2019. U.S. standing in the region reached rock-bottom during its chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan in August this year. GCC engagement with Iran The UAE had first reached out to Iran in July 2019, when its senior officials visited Tehran to discuss maritime security. Following the U.S. assassination of Iranian general Qassem Soleimani in January 2020, the UAE and Saudi Arabia had called on the U.S. to reduce regional tensions, recognising that more conflict would bring the GCC states in the direct line of an Iranian retaliation. The GCC countries’ estrangement from the U.S.’ security partnership has been further encouraged by President Joe Biden’s avowed disengagement from the region in favour of containing China in the Indo-Pacific. Since April this year, Saudi Arabia and Iran have had five meetings in Baghdad – mainly to rebuild confidence between them, re-establish diplomatic ties, and address specific areas of conflict, Yemen and Syria. Given the hostility of over a decade, no major success has been announced so far, but talks are ongoing. The revival of the nuclear talks with Iran from November and the Israeli sabre-rattling through the Vienna negotiations have pushed the GCC states to take “their destinies in their in their own hands”, as noted by the Abu Dhabi-based commentator, Raghida Dergham. On November 23, Iran’s chief negotiator, Bagheri-Kani, visited Abu Dhabi, possibly to seek the UAE’s good offices to facilitate an agreement with the U.S. Soon thereafter, the UAE’s influential national security adviser, Sheikh Tahnoun bin Zayed, visited Tehran on December 6. Reports say that Iran may have sought the UAE’s help to facilitate financial transactions once the sanctions are eased. Trade ties are already flourishing: in 2021-22, Iran’s imports from the UAE are expected to reach $12 billion. UAE officials have also made some significant public statements relating to Iran. Anwar Gargash, Foreign Affairs Adviser to the UAE President, said at a conference in Washington in early December that states should “avoid vacuum and escalation” with adversaries and rivals. The message from the UAE is that this is “the era of crisis management and conflict resolution” and it would pursue rapprochement among the regional states. The UAE’s ties with Israel are a part of this approach. The visit of Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to Abu Dhabi on December 13 took place a week after Sheikh Tahnoun’s visit to Tehran. In 10 months of 2021, UAE-Israel trade has reached $875 million, besides the $1 billion UAE stake in Israel’s Tamar gas field. Six flights a day from Israel to Dubai are bringing in several thousand Israeli businessmen and tourists to the UAE. The UAE is making it clear that in its regional partnerships it does not have a zero-sum approach.  From Vienna, instead of hard news, we have seen public posturing by the U.S. to camouflage its own responsibility for the present imbroglio. Iran’s insistence that the U.S. return to the JCPOA, remove the sanctions it had imposed under the rubric of ‘maximum pressure’, and give some assurance that a future U.S. administration will not withdraw from the agreement makes complete sense. But the polarised political environment in the U.S., Mr. Biden’s weak political position in Congress, and the pervasive hostility to the Islamic Republic make it impossible for the U.S. to accept Iran’s demands. What we are, therefore, left with is the U.S. delegation placing on Iran the onus of possible failure of the talks by blaming it for being hardline, irrational and not seriously interested in a positive outcome. In this situation, unless there is a real change in the U.S.’s approach, it seems unlikely that Vienna will deliver an agreement. What does this mean for the Gulf? More U.S. sanctions and more Israeli aggressiveness are well past their use-by date. The harshest U.S. sanctions on Iran have failed to bring Iran back to the negotiating table or brought about regime change. In fact, as China buys more Iranian oil and the UAE pursues trade ties, the death knell of the ‘maximum pressure’ regime is already being sounded. U.S. and Israeli commentators are also speaking out about the operational difficulties involved in an effective strike on Iran’s nuclear programme and the harmful implications this could have for Israel itself and the region, while even providing an impetus to the weapons programme that Iran has so far rejected. To avoid the possibility of a military attack, the Iranian spokesman in Vienna has just said that Iran will not enrich uranium beyond 60%, even if the talks fail. Regional security architecture In this background, there are two possible scenarios for regional security. In the absence of a nuclear deal, it is likely that Israel will push for a “normalisation” of ties with more Arab states so that it builds a coalition of regional states against Iran. However, it is difficult to see how this can be achieved. There is already widespread popular opposition to this initiative across West Asia. Again, since Iran will not be intimidated into serving the U.S./ Israeli agenda, it will only aggravate regional instability and portend conflict. A more useful framework for the region would be an inclusive security arrangement. The first steps in bringing Iran into this architecture have already been taken through the several rounds of the Saudi-Iran dialogue, the UAE-Iran engagements, the Baghdad conference in August that brought together all the regional states, and the recent Saudi effort to build a security consensus among the GCC states at the recent Riyadh summit. This summit has accepted “strategic integration”, common foreign policies, and a joint defence agreement. But given the divisions within the GCC and the positions of Qatar, Kuwait and Oman, such a consensus will only emerge if Iran is integrated into the security framework. Israel’s inclusion will be more difficult – its domestic politics has been framed for decades on the basis of hostility towards Iran. But the valuable results of a more accommodative approach to the region, already apparent in the positive results yielded by normalisation with the UAE, could over time help Israel’s leaders see the benefits of deeper integration with the West Asian neighbourhood. Perhaps, this is what former Prime Minister Ehud Barak had in mind when he wrote recently that Iran’s ability to pursue its nuclear programme despite the severest U.S. sanctions is “a new reality [that] requires a sober assessment of the situation, decisions and actions and not hollow public threats”. Talmiz Ahmad is a former diplomat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/iran-nuclear-talks-reverberate-in-the-gulf/article38045397.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A chance to tap India’s high equity in Myanmar||The short visit to Myanmar (December 22-23) by India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had a clearly-etched mandate: to deepen cooperation with an important neighbour. His mission succeeded to a large extent, but challenges remain. The Indian delegation took a special flight to Naypyitaw and Yangon. It certainly eased logistics for the officials, but was fully utilised as it also carried one million India-made vaccine doses, as a gift to the people of Myanmar. Regional dimensions Mr. Shringla followed India’s calibrated middle-path position. Not the West’s reflexive policy of condemnation, threats and sanctions against the military regime, but a position reflective of regional realities. It is no easy task. Since the military coup on February 1, 2021, the international community has stayed divided on how to address the derailment of Myanmar’s transition to democracy. For a decade, the country’s ‘hybrid democracy’ based on power-sharing between the military and elected representatives ran well enough. But an overwhelming electoral victory of the National League for Democracy (NLD) led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi in November 2020, unnerved the military leadership. It apprehended that armed with a new mandate, the NLD would move fast to clip the Army’s wings. The Tatmadaw (Myanmar’s military) moved faster, seizing power in violation of the Constitution and putting down the Opposition with an iron hand. The results have been disastrous for democracy, economy and the people’s well-being, especially as the political crisis coincided with COVID-19 ravaging the ‘Golden Land’. Global dismay was evident in the western sanctions, but others such as Russia saw the opportunity to strengthen ties with the new rulers. China regretted the loss of Daw Suu Kyi as a valuable ally but took urgent steps to stabilise and expand cooperation with the military regime. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) first showed creativity through its ‘Five-Point Consensus’ formula, but later its unity stood damaged once Myanmar’s top leader Senior General Min Aung Hlaing ( picture ) refused to cooperate in the formula’s implementation. In this highly polarised and complex situation, Mr. Shringla has succeeded in holding substantive discussions with the top State Administrative Council (SAC) leadership and political parties including the NLD in Naypyitaw as well as Senior General Min Aung Hlaing and the representatives of civil society in Yangon. India’s position, as conveyed to Myanmar, is similar to and supportive of ASEAN: release of political prisoners; resolution of issues through dialogue; cessation of “all violence”; and full cooperation with ASEAN. In recent years, India has assisted Myanmar through capacity-building programmes for strengthening the transition to democracy. This assistance remains available, but it is not an offer of mediation by India in the military-NLD conflict. This burden will have to be borne by ASEAN. That India’s position carries confidence is reflected in an unusual interactive meeting Mr. Shringla held with a select group of Myanmar-based foreign Ambassadors. Bilateral concerns Myanmar’s military is responding as it can. India’s principal concerns pertaining to border security and stability in its neighbourhood were clearly conveyed, especially the noticeable escalation of activities of anti-India insurgent groups. By handing over five cadres of the Manipur People’s Liberation Army to Indian authorities before the Shringla visit, the military government demonstrated its desire for cooperation. It also renewed the previous pledge that its nation’s territory would not be allowed to be used for any activities inimical to India. The second issue — the outcome of Myanmar’s instability — is that of refugees. Several thousands of Myanmar people have sought shelter in Mizoram. This will only be reversed by a political settlement in Myanmar, through dialogue. This issue too was taken up seriously, despite the understandable reiteration later of known positions in the regime’s formal take on discussions last week. Economic cooperation has always been a major agenda item in all bilateral discussions with Myanmar. This visit was no exception, with the usual emphasis on “people-centric socio-economic developmental projects”. Central to this is India’s long-delayed commitment to “expeditious implementation” of mega initiatives such as the Trilateral Highway and Kaladan projects. Unfortunately, no revised deadlines were announced. These projects continue to be the Achilles heel of the relationship. Protocol departure Still, India continues to have high equity in Myanmar, which it must now carefully leverage. It is reflected in the special gesture made by Senior General Min Aung Hlaing (who is Chairman of the SAC and Prime Minister) to receive Mr. Shringla and hold detailed discussions in Yangon. This is unusual. The Myanmar establishment is highly protocol-conscious. My innings as Ambassador in Yangon saw three visits by the Indian Foreign Secretary (i.e., two different office-holders), but they were not received by the regime’s highest dignitary. The protocol departure for Mr. Shringla revealed current political realities which should be carefully factored in by those who wrongly argue that China is the only friend Myanmar has. Also, though the request for the Indian Foreign Secretary’s call on Daw Suu Kyi was not acceded to, as was expected, it should be underlined that New Delhi made the request. There are other ways to pursue the matter as India has done in the past. A quiet approach then resulted in a rare call by this writer on Daw Suu Kyi in January 2003 when she was still under house arrest. Projecting the request this time around may yet produce results. Back home, the steps to take Both the Government and the Opposition in Myanmar seem to understand India’s sober approach. India can leverage the gains of this visit and keep up the momentum by inviting Myanmar’s Foreign Minister at an appropriate time as well as other important stakeholders such as leaders of political parties, civil society and think tanks to India for deliberations with their counterparts here. The single goal should be to put Myanmar back on the path of becoming “a stable, democratic and federal union”. Rajiv Bhatia is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House and a former Ambassador to Myanmar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-chance-to-tap-indias-high-equity-in-myanmar/article38045389.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Prevention is better than cure||Outpatient (OP) health care, mainly comprising doctor consultations, drugs, and tests, can be called ‘the elephant in the room’ of Indian public health care policy. Over the past two decades, initiatives announced to extend health care coverage to the indigent sections have come under criticism due to their near-exclusive focus on hospitalisation (inpatient, IP) care. This owes to the fact that OP expenses have the majority share in total out-of-pocket (OOP) expenditure on health. As per the government and various representative surveys, the catastrophic impact of OP expenses on Indian households is disproportionately greater than IP expenditure. The need for coverage There are, however, other compelling reasons for extending OP care coverage. First, IP care comprises high-impact and unavoidable episodes that are less prone to misuse than OP care, for which demand is considerably more sensitive to price and is thus more prone to overuse under health insurance. This logic, among other reasons, has led to IP insurance schemes being prioritised. However, while a price-sensitive demand for OP care entails that it could be misused under insurance, it also means that OP care, which includes preventive and primary health care, is the first to come under the knife when there is no insurance. In India, where there are many public IP insurance schemes but no OP coverage, this incentive is further amplified. The mantra of ‘prevention is better than cure’ thus goes for a toss. Second, it defies economic sense to prioritise IP care over OP care for public funds. Healthcare markets are notorious for being imperfect. However, this is more so for preventive and primary care services which often come with externalities, elicit little felt need and demand, and must therefore be the primary recipients of public investment. Third, positive feedback in health systems could mean that greater investments in IP care today translate to even greater IP care investments in future, further diminution in primary care spending, and ultimately lesser ‘health’ for the money invested. None of these are conducive to the epidemiological profile that characterises this country. Some recent policy pronouncements by the Centre have conveyed an inclination to expand healthcare coverage with little fiscal implications for the government. A corollary is that private commercial insurance has been proposed for extending OP care coverage nationwide. Little thought has gone into the many reasons why this could prove detrimental, if not a resounding debacle. This has to do with the reasons why OP care insurance has not caught on in India yet: under-regulated OP practices and the lack of standards therein; the difficulty to monitor OP clinical and prescribing behaviours and the concomitant higher likelihood of malpractices; low public awareness of insurance products and a low ability to discern entitlements and exclusions; and the high frequency of OP episodes and thus a giant volume of claims all embedded in a context characterised by low incomes and a high disease burden. All these entail tremendous (and largely wasteful) costs and administrative complexity, and it would be of little help even if the government was to step in with considerable subsidies. Add to it the inexperience that a still under-developed private OP insurance sector brings. Back to the basics It is important to note a few caveats at the outset. First, significant improvements in healthcare are implausible without significant fiscal and time commitments. Second, there is no ‘perfect’ model of expanding healthcare — the emphasis must be on finding the best fit. Third, implementing even such a best fit could involve adopting certain modalities with known drawbacks. For India, wisdom immediately points to successful countries that are (or were, at one point) much closer to its socioeconomic fabric, such as Thailand, than countries like the U.S. which we currently look to emulate. The remarkable decline in OOP expenditure that Thailand recorded was achieved on the back of a universal, tax-financed, public sector-predominant model of OP care. The focus must be on expanding public OP care facilities and services financed mainly by tax revenues. Now, the sparse number and distribution of public facilities offers various modes of rationing care, and their expansion is likely to result in a considerable spike in demand. Systematic, judicious, and tiered copayments on certain OP services that are prone to overuse may be needed, as also a standard benefit package. Contracting with private players based on objective and transparent criteria would also be called for, with just enough centralised supervision to deter corruption while preserving local autonomy. To deter supply-side malpractices, low-powered modes of provider payment, such as capitation, may be considered for private providers wherever possible. Dr. Soham D. Bhaduri is a physician, health policy expert, and chief editor of ‘The Indian Practitioner’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prevention-is-better-than-cure/article38045394.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||More, and for more||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, not unlike a Santa Claus who enters homes without warning and leaves gifts, suddenly announced on Christmas night that ‘precaution’ or third doses of vaccine would be available from January 10 for health-care, frontline workers, and those over 60 with co-morbidities on their doctors’ advice. Vaccines would also be available for those in the 15-18 age group from January 3. Since the emergence of Omicron, there has been a clamour among senior citizens for booster shots. The announcement, however, was nearly simultaneous with another significant development: of Covaxin being approved by the Drugs Controller General of India for use in those over 12 years. This would make it the second vaccine after ZyCov-D (which has still to hit the market) to be approved in the 12-plus years category. There are close to 44 crore Indians below 18, a third of whom are 12-17 years old. The experience with Covaxin has shown that despite approval on the same day as Covishield this January, it has been extremely slow to scale up, with the two-dose vaccine only accounting for about 10% of the nearly 141 crore doses that have been administered so far. Given that ZyCov-D’s output is unknown, it is unclear if it will be practically available in January 2022. However, the Prime Minister’s impromptu announcement is also puzzling. For more than a month, a National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India committee has reportedly been weighing the pros and cons of approving vaccines for children and senior citizens. Just a day before Mr. Modi’s announcement, the ICMR head had said that this matter was still under debate in India’s medico-bureaucratic hierarchy. These included key questions on the extent to which antibody levels waxed or waned following immunisation, whether booster doses of the same vaccine would be effective, and whether Covaxin and Covishield were differentially protective against Omicron. On the latter point, it was said that the ICMR awaited data as the Omicron variant had not yet been artificially grown in its labs. These questions have public health consequences. While 90% of adults have got one dose and over 70% Indians have been exposed to the virus in the past 20 months, there are 40% adults who have not got a second shot. The demand for first shots is nosediving and with private hospitals claiming excess stocks, it is very likely that the economic elite of India and their adolescents will mop up available stocks. Also unusual is that the technical clearance for vaccines is for those 12 and above, but Mr. Modi announced these will be for those above 15 years. It is not clear if there is evidence that this group of sub-adults is more vulnerable. India’s health administration should be transparent with the data at hand and not let itself be in thrall of political calculations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/more-and-for-more/article38045382.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Act of faith||It is unfortunate that Karnataka has joined the band of States that want to enact regressive laws aimed at policing the private lives and beliefs of citizens in the name of preventing unlawful conversions. After getting the approval of the Assembly, the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 has not been tabled in the Legislative Council, presumably in anticipation of the ruling party’s strength in the Upper House turning favourable later. While several States have laws that criminalise conversion on the basis of force, fraud or inducement/allurement, the trend has been to include ‘marriage’ as an illegal means of conversion. Karnataka has now made ‘a promise of marriage’ a means of unlawful conversion. It is needless to say that the idea of presuming that a conversion has or is about to take place alongside an inter-faith marriage is patently unconstitutional as it interferes with the right to privacy, marital freedom and freedom of belief. What makes the Karnataka anti-conversion law quite sinister is that its introduction in the legislature is running in parallel with a series of targeted attacks on churches, Christian prayers and Christmas celebrations. Belligerent right-wing groups are out in the field with what appears to be an agenda to create an impression that religious conversion is rampant and that urgent legislative action is necessary to stop the trend. Anti-conversion laws have been upheld by the courts in the past on the ground that conversion by allurement, force or fraud poses a threat to public order and should be curbed. However, the only threat to public order seems to arise from rampaging groups out to create social discord. It is true that the Supreme Court has held that the right to propagate religion does not include a right to convert, and that the state can frame laws to prevent conversion through fraud, force or inducement. However, in a pushback against using this legal position to enact laws to preclude inter-faith marriages and render the parties vulnerable to prosecution, the Gujarat High Court has stayed provisions of a State law that made conversion ‘by marriage’ an offence, pointing out that it placed in jeopardy all marriages of those between two different faiths. Regarding the prior notice requirement in the Karnataka Bill for individuals intending to convert, it must be noted that the Himachal Pradesh High Court struck down a similar provision in 2012, holding that asking someone to disclose plans to change one’s faith violates the right to keep one’s religious beliefs private and secret. Anti-conversion laws should target only forcible or fraudulent conversion and not be open to grave misuse; there is no place for provisions that allow family members and associates to complain to the police to interdict lawful marriages. Such laws will plunge society into regressive medievalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/act-of-faith/article38045383.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A question of university autonomy||A scathing letter sent by Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the state of affairs in the State’s higher education sector has put the LDF government in a bind. On December 8, the Governor wrote lamenting that universities were “packed with political nominees” and “non-academics have been taking academic decisions”. He conveyed his annoyance at allegedly being pressured into signing appointment orders. A few days later, a “recommendation letter” forwarded by Higher Education Minister R. Bindu, who is also the Pro-Chancellor, to the Governor gave more fodder to the Opposition to criticise the government. Both letters had touched upon the selection of Vice Chancellors for the Kannur University and the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit. Mr. Khan wrote that he wants to quit as Chancellor. This revealed how the government’s efforts to allay his concerns and initiate back-channel talks with the Raj Bhavan had failed. Suspecting ulterior motives behind the “leaks”, the LDF accused the Governor of a volte-face since he had suddenly voiced objections against decisions that were previously endorsed by him. While the constitutional head of the state cannot seek refuge for his actions by claiming to have his hands tied by the government, the letters raise serious questions on political interference that has eroded the autonomy of universities. Like other governments that have ruled the State in the past, the present and previous LDF governments have had to fend off several allegations of political overreach and nepotism. Such a scenario does not augur well for the LDF which returned to power earlier this year after promising, among other things, to reform higher education and transform the State into a knowledge society. Kerala, which ranks among the best in terms of school education in India, continues to lag in academic standards in higher education. None of its universities figures among the top 20 in the National Institute Ranking Framework rankings. Oddly, the situation prevails despite several Keralites establishing themselves as technocrats and scientists of considerable standing in other parts of the country and abroad. Three years ago, scientist C.N.R. Rao had expressed surprise that Kerala’s teachers and researchers, who are known to excel elsewhere, have failed to perform within the State which has high literacy and social awareness as well as a long tradition of intellectual achievements. This situation has also resulted in students going abroad and a decline in the number of ‘employable’ youth. To its credit, the LDF government has begun efforts to modernise the sector through a multipronged strategy. In addition to providing considerable thrust on boosting innovations in various disciplines, it has constituted three commissions headed by noted educationists to reform university laws, the examination system and the sector as a whole. The controversy, in fact, could not have come at a more opportune time as it turns attention towards some of the key problems that have plagued the sector for long. Prioritising meritocracy over political, religious, caste and other considerations, along with preserving the academic autonomy of higher education institutions, is vital in attaining the State’s lofty goals. Political interference and all other non-academic considerations, including financial in the case of private colleges, could destroy the quest for academic excellence. sarath.bg@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-question-of-university-autonomy/article38045392.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Bill to raise minimum age of marriage||New Delhi, Dec. 26: The Government, in addition to the existing family planning programmes, is seriously thinking of raising the legal minimum age of marriage with a view to bringing down the birth rate. A draft Bill to suitably amend the Sharada Act which is considered to be ineffective has already been prepared by the Ministry of Health and Family Planning. The Government, by raising the minimum age of marriage for girls from 15 to 18 and of boys from 18 to 21, hopes that there will be a “saving in terms of birth rate to the extent of 30 per cent.” The Sharada Act, first enacted in 1929 and subsequently amended in 1949 and 1956, raised the legal age of marriage for girls to 15 years and for boys to 18 years. But under the present Personal Law Enactments of different communities (eg., Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 or the Muslim Personal Law and Customary Laws) the minimum ages are different and they range in the case of males from 15 to 21 years and from 12 or 13 to 21 years in the case of females. The Child Marriage Act, which is a punitive measure having nothing to do with the validity or otherwise of marriages, provides for certain penalties for contracting, solemnising or abetting a marriage where the male party is under 18 years of age or the female is under 15. But the Government is of the opinion that though the Sharada Act is considered to be the “torchbearer” for social transformation, it is defective in the sense that the offence committed under the Act had to be brought to the notice of the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bill-to-raise-minimum-age-of-marriage/article38045390.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Ask US||Q.I am 25. I have an endowment policy that started in November 2020 for which I should pay Rs. 77,000 as annual premium for 10 years. In addition, I have taken a pure term insurance policy in October 2021 for a period of 25 years. I want to surrender the endowment policy. Is it advisable to do so and if so, what are the pros and cons? JOEL KIRUBHAKARAN  K. Nitya Kalyani answers . It is prudent that you have created protection through a term policy before thinking of giving up an endowment policy. Provided your term policy gives you sufficient coverage, let us see some pros and cons of stopping the endowment policy. The pros and cons of abandoning the endowment policy now are as follows. I say abandon because you started the endowment policy barely a year ago and it would not have acquired a surrender value. If you stop paying premium now you will lose the premium already paid. Going by the date of commencement of your policy, you have paid two annual premiums and, going by usual surrender rules, your policy will acquire a paid-up/ surrender value once three annual premiums are paid – however, this is a point you should check with your policy and insurer. If you continue your policy until that date, you can either make it paid-up or surrender it, thus avoiding forfeiting entirely the premiums you have already paid. If you make it a paid-up policy you don’t have to pay further premiums and the coverage will continue for the remaining term of the policy at a reduced sum assured and will complement your term policy coverage in your overall financial plan. If you surrender it then you will get a refund of a pre-determined portion of the premium and coverage will cease. Remember that any new endowment policy in future will have a higher premium as a factor of your higher age. With advancing age and/ or health challenges you may even be denied a new policy. You also need to assess on an absolute basis if the term policy sum assured is sufficient for you. You may want to review this periodically and take additional term cover. An important point to remember is that a term policy will lapse with the default of just one instalment premium. Q.I am working in a private firm. I earn Rs. 20,000 per month. I have invested Rs. 50,000 in the share market, mostly in short-term investments of one or two month periods. Of the profit I receive from these investments, I donate 25% to charity, the transaction being done directly from my savings bank account. I would like to know the details of tax levied on my profit. Balakeswaran  N. Sree Kanth answers: As the duration of the holding of shares is around one to two months, the profits on the sale of such shares (STT paid both at the time of sales and purchase) will be treated as short term capital gains. This short term capital gains is taxed at a special rate of 15% plus applicables cess. Q.My company made donation of Rs. 1 lakh to Ram Janambhoomi Trust. My chartered accountant now told me that company is not eligible to get deduction u/s 80G. Is he correct if not kindly advise what is the correct position? Eva Parkeek  N. Sree Kanth answers: Deduction on account of Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, 1961 can be claimed if the donee is a registered charitable trust having appropriate registration with the Income Tax Department for Section 80G deduction as on the date of such donation. Further ,you must possess the receipt so issued by the donee which would contain the name of the organisation, 80G certificate, PAN and address of the charitable organisation, the same is to be filled in the company's ITR. Further, the donation in excess of Rs. 2,000 is to be done in non-cash mode for availing the deduction under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The quantum of the deduction will be allowed at 50% of the donated amount or 10% of the gross total income whichever is lesser under Section 80G(2)(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. You may check if all these conditions are satisfied prior to claiming the deduction. Q.I had purchased a money-back policy from Kotak Mahindra Insurance Co. As per policy terms there are 4 payouts. I had received the first payout of Rs. 1.32 lakh. The insurer did deduct any TDS. Please clarify whether I have to show the payout as income and pay applicable tax? V. Ayyappan  N. Sree Kanth answers: As per Section 10(10D) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, any sum received under a life insurance policy, including bonus is exempt. You are to note that this exemption is available only if the premium paid is lesser than 10% of the sum assured if the policy is taken on or after April 1, 2012 and in case policies dated between April 1, 2003 and March 31, 2012, the policy paid amount is to be lesser than 20% of the sum assured. Insurance companies are required to deduct TDS only if the amount so paid is not covered under Section 10(10D) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and such amount exceeds Rs. 1,00,000  (K. Nitya Kalyani is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history and N. Sree Kanth is partner GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article38045377.ece
27 December 2021||Centurion,||Rahul’s unbeaten ton powers India to a strong position on day one||His batting has an ethereal quality about it. There is grace, flow and timing. Yet, in conjuring his seventh Test hundred, K.L. Rahul added application and resilience to his natural gifts. The opener and vice-captain was unbeaten on 122, and India was 272 for three at stumps on day one in the first Test at SuperSport Park here on Sunday. And under-pressure Ajinkya Rahane was unbeaten on a fluent 40 of cover-drives, cuts and pulls. For South Africa Lungi Ngidi struck thrice, but the host attack lacked incision. Brave decision India’s decision to bat was brave, considering overnight rain, a cloud cover and the possibility of moisture under the covers. But India, that picked five bowlers, banked on its openers to bat through the initial spells by Kagiso Rabada and Ngidi and then consolidate. The game-plan was both attacking and sound. The Kookaburra ball loses its sting after the first 20 odd overs, there is no substantial reverse swing either, and batting gets easier. Rahul and Mayank Agarwal were solid upfront. India was 83 without loss at lunch on a surface with good carry but not much seam movement. Rahul’s head position is the key to his batsmanship. With a still head, he achieves the critical balance. During the period Rahul was in Test wilderness, his head was falling away and he was vulnerable to deliveries darting in. Now, he has put that behind. His trigger movement takes him forward, but not too much in front; he does not have exaggerated feet movement. And his bat comes down straighter from a relaxed stance. He can quickly shift his weight to the back-leg for the horizontal bat strokes. A straight drive off Rabada scorched the turf. The smooth-stroking Rahul essayed shots on both sides but none better than a gorgeous front-footed cover-drive off Ngidi. Mayank, a compact batsman with the right attitude, blended caution with spurts of aggression. In the past he used to get opened up since his left shoulder and left leg were not properly aligned. Mayank has ironed out the chink. Surprising choice The Proteas were blunted by the Indian opening duo. Surprisingly, left-arm quick Marcus Jansen was handed a Test debut ahead of the more experienced Duanne Olivier. Jansen is sharp and brings in the left-armer’s angle. But he got his line wrong and Mayank wristed him for boundaries. And Jansen could not quite bring the ball into the right-hander from over the wicket, crucial for a left-armer. However, Jansen should have dismissed Mayank (on 36) when he moved one away to find the edge but a diving Quinton de Kock came up with thin air. After lunch, when Rabada tested him with a nasty lifter, Mayank, his eyes transfixed on the ball, rose on his toes and kept the ball down with soft hands. The sight would have pleased coach Rahul Dravid. Eventually, a resurgent Ngidi brought one back sharply into Mayank (60) to win the referral for a leg-before verdict and end the 117-run opening stand. Then, off his next delivery, Ngidi scalped Cheteshwar Pujara who, pushing forward, inside-edged an incoming delivery to a cleverly placed deepish short-leg. Virat Kohli cover-drove with flamboyance and flicked with gusto, but then, chased a wide one from Ngidi to be held in the slips for 35. The rock-like Rahul and the refreshing Rahane prevented further inroads. It’s advantage India after day one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahuls-unbeaten-ton-powers-india-to-a-strong-position-on-day-one/article38045487.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||New dawn for Indian hockey||A bronze medal was good enough to write a golden chapter in Indian hockey, which was desperately seeking a revival for long, as the Indian men and women teams conjured up an inspirational show at the Tokyo Games which will be remembered for ages. A historic bronze-winning show by the men’s team and an outstanding fourth place finish for the women’s team infused fresh life into the game which was in danger of slipping into oblivion. Defying all odds and challenges thrown by the COVID-19 pandemic, Indian men’s team ushered in a new dawn in 2021 by ending a 41-year long wait a medal at the Olympics — a stage which it owned in its glorious past. The women’s team narrowly missed out on a historic bronze but its best-ever performance at the show-piece made it even more memorable for the fans who emotionally connect with the game. The players were confined to a bio-bubble at the SAI Centre in Bengaluru in 2020 but the year 2021 started on a bright note as the Indian men’s team fought hard against Germany and Great Britain to finish the four-match European tour with two wins and as many draws. The upward swing continued as India continued its unbeaten run on the Argentina tour, beating the 2016 Olympic champion twice and drawing as many in four practice games. The team also won against the Los Leones in the two-match FIH Pro League tie to set the momentum for what eventually turned out to be a watershed year for Indian hockey. Next came the most important event for the eight-time past winner, the Tokyo Olympics, where India finished second in the pool stage, winning four out of five matches. The Manpreet-led side defeated Great Britain 3-1 in the quarterfinals before losing 2-5 against Belgium in the last four round. However, India staged a remarkable comeback and earned a 5-4 win over Germany to clinch the much-needed bronze medal. Sweeping the awards By virtue of its historic Olympic campaign, the Indians swept the FIH Hockey Star Awards 2021 winning all categories, which created a bit of controversy with Olympic champion Belgium crying foul. Harmanpreet Singh was crowned the FIH Player of the Year, P.R. Sreejesh won the Goalkeeper of the Year, Vivek Sagar Prasad won FIH Rising Star of the Year award for the second consecutive time and India’s chief coach Graham Reid was awarded the FIH Coach of the Year.   Many firsts The Indian women’s hockey team also added to the cherry by achieving many firsts in 2021. From a historic fourth-place finish at the Tokyo Olympics to achieving the best-ever FIH world rankings to sweeping FIH Hockey Stars Awards 2021 in all categories, the year gone by was nothing short of a fairytale for the Indian women team. The Rani Rampal-led side, that started the Olympic campaign with three losses, later pulled off, arguably, one of the biggest upsets in world hockey with a win over mighty Australia in the quarterfinals. But as luck would have it, the Indian women missed out on an Olympic medal by whisker after losing 1-2 to Argentina in the semifinals before suffering a 3-4 heartbreak at the hands of Great Britain in the bronze medal match. But the fourth place finish was more than enough to build women hockey’s identity in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-dawn-for-indian-hockey/article38045550.ece
27 December 2021||Jaipur,||Arora helps Himachal clinch maiden title||Playing in only his eighth List-A match, Shubham Arora announced himself on the big stage with a brilliant unbeaten 136 (131b, 13x4, 1x6) to power Himachal Pradesh to its maiden Vijay Hazare Trophy title, defeating Tamil Nadu by 11 runs in the final at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium here on Sunday. Chasing 315, Himachal was cruising along at 299 for four in 47.3 overs when bad light stopped play and emerged victorious on the VJD method. Flying start Arora did not waste any time in going after the Tamil Nadu new ball bowlers Sandeep Warrier and R. Silambarasan and got his side off to a flier. He started with couple of boundaries through point and over mid-off off Silambarasan before hitting Warrier for three boundaries in the fifth over. Spinners Sai Kishore and Washington brought Tamil Nadu back into the game with two quick wickets. But Amit Kumar (74, 79b, 6x4) and Arora added 148 for the fourth wicket and took the game away from Tamil Nadu. While Amit took his chances and found boundaries at regular intervals, player-of-the-match Arora nudged it around to bring up his maiden List-A century off 95 balls. As light started fading, Tamil Nadu was forced to use only spinners from the 36th over. After Amit’s dismissal, skipper Rishi Dhawan ensured there were no further hiccups as he went after the Tamil Nadu spinners, slamming five boundaries and a six in no time, to finish unbeaten on 42 off just 23 balls. Earlier, electing to field, Himachal seized the upper hand by reducing Tamil Nadu to 40 for four in the 15th over before Dinesh Karthik slammed a fine 116 (103b, 8x4, 7x6) to help his side recover and finish strongly. Big partnership He was well supported by B. Indrajith (80, 71b, 8x4, 1x6) as the pair added 202 for the fifth wicket before M. Shahrukh Khan cracked a quickfire 42 (21b, 3x4, 3x6). Tactically, Tamil Nadu made some interesting choices by drafting in M. Ashwin, who did not play a single match in the tournament, for M. Siddharth. It also sent in the leg-spinner at No. 4, ahead of accomplished batters like Washington Sundar, who made a match-winning 70 in the semifinal against Saurashtra, Vijay Shankar and B. Indrajith.  The scores:   Tamil Nadu 314 in 49.4 overs (Dinesh Karthik 116, B. Indrajith 80, Shahrukh Khan 42, Pankaj Jaiswal 4/59) lost to Himachal Pradesh 299/4 in 47.3 overs (Shubham Arora 136 n.o., Amit Kumar 74, Rishi Dhawan 42 n.o.).   Himachal won by 11 runs via VJD method.   MoM: Shubham Arora.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arora-helps-himachal-clinch-maiden-title/article38045483.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Blasters, Jamshedpur all square||Kerala Blasters and Jamshedpur FC, two sides with the same number of points, finished all square with a 1-1 draw in the Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Sunday. It was an even-paced game for most part and the two goals came in a 13-minute spell in the first half. Greg Stewart produced the most sparkling moment of the game, giving Jamshedpur the lead with a long and beautiful freekick from the left that appeared to kiss the inside of the left post before flying into the right corner. Blasters’ equaliser came 13 minutes later. Spaniard Alvaro Vazquez, who had been in English Premier League and La Liga action earlier, came through the left and his attempt rebounded off the goalkeeper T.P. Rehenesh and went Sahal Samad’s way. The youngster’s shot bounced off the custodian and went it. It was Sahal’s fourth goal this season and he is now the leading Indian scorer this season, sharing the top spot with ATK Mohun Bagan’s Liston Colaco. Blasters should have finished with a win for it was denied a penalty for a handball in the 36th minute. Vazquez, who looked impressive today, ran into the box from the left and sent a cross and the ball hit Jamshedpur defender Laldinliana Renthlei’s raised hand but the referee Pratik Mondal failed to notice it and just awarded a corner kick.  The result: JFC 1 (Greg Stewart 14) drew with Blasters 1 (Sahal Samad 27).   Today’s match: NEUFC vs Mumbai City FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-jamshedpur-all-square/article38045485.ece
27 December 2021||Centurion,||‘Plan was to be very disciplined’||Mayank Agarwal does simple things right. Just as he did on day one here when he and K.L. Rahul blunted the South African attack with a 117-run opening partnership. Mayank’s contribution was a valuable 60. He said after the day’s play, “To be honest, the plan was to be very disciplined. Only look to play balls on the stumps.” Practice makes perfect and he revealed, “Centre-wicket practice sessions helped us get a feel of situations, conditions and what we would encounter in the Test match.” Talking about century-maker Rahul, Mayank said, “As someone who’s watching him closely, what I have observed is that he really understands where his off stump is.” Mayank added, “He is disciplined with his gameplans and mindset.” On batting legend and coach Rahul Dravid’s advice to the batsmen on batting in overseas conditions, Mayank said, “He told us that ‘You will not look very good when you’re at the crease, but it’s about sticking to your plans, being disciplined and waiting for opportunities to score.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/plan-was-to-be-very-disciplined-mayank/article38045490.ece
27 December 2021||Centurion,||Expected the wicket to help us more, says Ngidi||On an otherwise frustrating day for South Africa, it was a profitable Sunday for Lungi Ngidi. He scalped three. About his twin-strike soon after lunch, Ngidi said, “My rhythm got better when I ran in from the press box end. Things started to go my way. I always bowl better from that end and waited for my chance.” On the leg-before dismissal of Mayank [replays suggested the sphere was missing the stumps but ball tracking showed the ball striking the leg-stump] Ngidi said, “It was a great shout. If anything, it was the umpire’s call I thought. But I knew that the ball did not rise as much as my earlier deliveries.” Ngidi said the Proteas expected more from the pitch. “We were a little disappointed. We expected the wicket to help us more. They were leaving well. To attack the stumps, to attack the pads was our game-plan. You could say that from the field settings.” He was optimistic about South Africa’s chances. “You got to be patient. Things can happen quickly tomorrow morning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/expected-the-wicket-to-help-us-more-ngidi/article38045491.ece
27 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Mihika Bhargav puts it across Jayantika Rathore||Mihika Bhargav of Madhya Pradesh defeated Jayantika Rathore of Karnataka 15-12, 15-13 in the women’s singles final round (qualifying) of the BAI Series senior badminton tournament at Gopi Chand Academy here on Sunday.  The results:   Men: Fourth round: Nabeel Ahmed (Mah) bt Krish Desai (Mah) 12-15, 15-11, 15-11; M. Srivarshan (TN) bt Aditya Chouhan (MP) 15-11, 12-15, 15-11; M.G. Hemanth (Ktk) bt R. Adarsh Subramanian (TN) 15-11, 11-15, 16-14; Yash Yogi (Cg) bt K. Lokesh Reddy (TS) 10-15, 15-12, 15-12.   M. Kiran Kumat (RS) bt Shantanu Sharma (UP) 15-9, 15-12; Rushendra Tripathi (TS) bt Nihal Patil (Kar) 15-8, 15-4; Tanishq Saxena (Mah) bt N. Pranauv Ram (TS) 15-11, 12-15, 15-12.   Shravan Pramod Dudhale (Maha) bt Abhishek Sadanand Kulkarni (Mah) 15-12, 15-10; Abhishek Saini (Har) bt Mokssh Shashwat (UP) 15-6, 15-11; Ch. Sankalp (Maha) bt T. Harshan (AP) 15-9, 10-15, 15-10.   H. Arunesh (TN) bt Vaasu Himmatramka (Dli) 15-13, 15-13; N.P. Udith (Ker) bt V.D. Abhinava Krishna (TS) 15-10, 15-5; Gautam Walia (Har) bt Aditya Mondal (WB) 15-8, 15-17, 15-8.   S. Rithvik Sanjeevi (TN) bt Sri Guna Srikar Adireddy (TS) 15-7, 15-5; Harshal Bhoyar (Mp) bt P.K. Shehil Mohammed (Ker) 15-3, 15-11.   Munawer Mohammed (Ker) bt Rudraksh Swarnkar (CG) 15-9, 15-11; Manraj Singh (Har) bt D.S. Saneeth (Kar) 15-11, 10-15, 15-11; Swarnaraj Bora (Dli) bt M. Rohith (Kar) 15-9, 15-13; K. Pruthvi Roy (Kar) bt Akash Singh (UP) 15-9, 15-7.   Women: Final round (qualifying): Mihika Bhargav (MP) bt Jayantika Rathore (Kar) 15-12, 15-13; C.S.R. Pranavi (AP) bt K. Bhargavi (TS) 12-11, 15-10; Mansa Rawat (Utr) bt Maheshwari Devi Kshetrimayum (Mnp) 15-11, 15-12; Sneha Rajwar (Utr) bt Nazrin Farza (Ker) 15-8, 15-7.   A. Abhilasha (TS) bt Aradhyaa Kushwaha (UP) 15-8, 15-7; Vidushi Singh (Dli) bt Samayara Panwar (UP) 15-8, 14-16, 15-6; Shravya Dande (TS) bt N. Pranavi (TN) 16-14, 6-15, 15-9; Tara Shah (Mah) bt K. Vennala (TS) 15-13, 15-8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mihika-bhargav-puts-it-across-jayantika-rathore/article38045802.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Wounded Mumbai takes on struggling NEUFC||Mumbai City’s 0-3 defeat to Kerala Blasters has been one of the biggest surprises of the ISL this season. The reigning champion will be keen to bounce back when it takes on NorthEast United at Fatorda’s Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on Monday. Mumbai is still at the top of the table, though. NorthEast is placed way down — at ninth, with only Bengaluru and East Bengal below. And it isn’t in the best of form, having lost three of its last four games, including a 1-5 drubbing at the hands of Hyderabad. Better show Khalid Jamil’s boys, however, have fared much better in their last two games. They defeated East Bengal 2-0 and put up a good fight before losing 2-3 to ATK Mohun Bagan. They would have to come up with an even stronger fight against a champion side that has had plenty of time to lick its wounds after a stunning loss. Their coach believes beating Mumbai isn’t impossible. “We can beat them,” Jamil said. “We have to believe in ourselves. We must play as a team, as a unit.” His counterpart said that any team was capable of beating anybody in the ISL. “We have seen an example of that in our own games,” said Des Buckingham. “It is important that we prepare for every team as much as we can.” The defeat to Blasters notwithstanding, Mumbai has shown it got its preparation right most of the time; it has won five of its seven games, two more than anyone else.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wounded-mumbai-takes-on-struggling-neufc/article38045676.ece
27 December 2021||NAVI MUMBAI,||Humera gets the better of Pooja||Seventh seed Humera Baharmus beat Pooja Ingale 6-3, 7-6(6) in the first qualifying round of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Sunday. In the second round, Humera will play Smriti Bhasin. Nidhi Chilumula and Sharmada Balu were ruthless in their first-roundmatches and will play each other in the second round.  The results: Qualifying singles (first round): Lee So-ra (Kor) bt Anusha Kondaveeti 6-0, 6-0; Niditra Rajmohan bt Sai Dedeepya 4-6, 6-4, [10-4]; Jagmeet Kaur Grewal bt Renne Singla 6-2, 6-2; Shreya Tatavarthy bt Nagalakshmi Chintalapalli 6-1, 6-3; Sathwika Sama bt Avishka Gupta 6-2, 6-1; Himadri Kashyap bt Gauri Mangaonkar 6-3, 3-6, [10-8]; Yashika Venu bt Sanika Kambli 6-1, 6-4; Prathyusha Rachapudi bt Jigyasa Narsinghani 6-2, 6-0; Saki Imamura (Jpn) bt Tejasvi Kate 6-0, 6-3; Riya Uboveja bt Anu Moar 6-0, 6-1; Dakshata Patel bt Andrea Almeida 6-2, 6-0; Saumya Vig bt Sameeksha Shroff 6-3, 6-2; Weronika Baszak (Pol) bt Vanshita Pathania 6-3, 6-2; Bela Tamhankar bt Harshita Bangera 6-2, 6-2; Laalitya Kalluri bt Radhika Yaav 6-1, 6-3; Arhti Muniyan bt Kobistha Modak 6-0, 6-0; Soha Sadiq bt Ishwari Matere 6-2, 6-2; Yubarani Banerjee bt Srinidhi Sridhar 6-4, 6-4; Sudipta Kumar bt Aaliya Ebrahim 6-3, 6-3; Sai Samhitha bt Prathiba Prasad 6-3, 7-5; Nidhi Chilumula bt Kriti Tomar 6-0, 6-1; Sharmada Balu bt Sonashe Bhatnagar 6-1, 6-1; Smriti Bhasin bt Sarah Pang (Sgp) 6-1, 6-2; Humera Baharmus bt Pooja Ingale 6-3, 7-6(6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humera-gets-the-better-of-pooja/article38045677.ece
27 December 2021||Melbourne,||Australia has England on the mat||England crashed to 185 all out on day one of the third Test here on Sunday, leaving its Ashes dreams on the brink of ruin in the face of a relentless Australian attack. After heavy defeats in Brisbane and Adelaide, the visitors must win in Melbourne to keep the five-Test series alive, with holder Australia only needing a draw to retain the urn. Back with a bang But those hopes took a near-fatal blow as Australia ripped through England’s flimsy batting, with only captain Joe Root (50) and Jonny Bairstow (35) showing resistance. Australia skipper Pat Cummins, back after missing the second Test in Adelaide because he was in COVID isolation, and spin king Nathan Lyon both took three for 36. Australia then negotiated 16 overs to be 61 for one at stumps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-has-england-on-the-mat/article38045480.ece
27 December 2021||London,||City on the rampage||Manchester City opened up a six-point lead at the top of the Premier League with a first half demolition of Leicester in a thrilling 6-3 win as Arsenal and Tottenham were also comfortable winners on Sunday. Three of the scheduled nine Boxing Day matches were postponed due to coronavirus outbreaks. Earlier this week, Premier League clubs rejected the option of temporarily halting the season to allow a circuit breaker for infections. Leicester was blown away by four goals inside 25 minutes before it produced a stirring second half fightback thanks to James Maddison. Arsenal consolidated its position in fourth with a routine 5-0 win at rock bottom Norwich. Spurs moved up to fifth, six points behind its north London rival but with three games in hand, after easing past a depleted Crystal Palace. Palace’s request for the game to be postponed was dismissed by the Premier League despite a coronavirus outbreak that left it without manager Patrick Vieira.  The results: Manchester City 6 (De Bruyne 5, Mahrez 14-pen, Gundogan 21, Sterling 25-pen, 87, Laporte 69) bt Leicester 3 (Maddison 55, Lookman 59, Iheanacho 65); Norwich 0 lost to Arsenal 5 (Saka 6, 67, Tierney 44, Lacazette 84-pen, Smith Rowe 90); Tottenham 3 (Kane 32, Moura 34, Son 74) bt Crystal Palace 0; West Ham 2 (Antonio 49, Benrahma 64) lost to Southampton 3 (Elyounoussi 8, Ward-Prowse 61-pen, Bednarek 70) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-on-the-rampage/article38045495.ece
27 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Watch My Stride may score an encore||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s Watch My Stride may score an encore in the Kaleshwaram Cup, the chief event of Monday’s (Dec. 27) races.  GENTLEMAN’S DEAL PLATE (DIV. I) (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II) — 1.50 p.m.: 1. Ashoka (1) Ashad Asbar, 2. Desert Sultan (4) B.R. Kumar 56, 3. Soorya Vahan (10 Rupal Singh 56, 4. Star Medal (7) P. Gaddam 56, 5. Tihamah (9) Akshay Kumar 56, 6. Almas (5) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 7. Divine Connection (2) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 8. Lady Dynamite (6) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 9. Maa (3) B. Nikhil 54.5 and 10. Mysterious Angel (8) Mukesh Kumar 54.5.  1. ALMAS, 2. TIMAHAH, 3. ASHOKA   THUNDER STORM PLATE (1,200m), 3-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 — 2.25 p.m.: 1. My Master (2) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Reining Queen (5) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 3. Sea Of Class (12) Aneel 60, 4. Tenth Attraction (9) Md. Ismail 60, 5. Theo’s Choice (10) Santosh Raj 59.5, 6. Wot’s Up Jay (4) Koushik 59.5, 7. Sye Ra (3) P. Gaddam 59, 8. Berkeley (1) Nikhil Naidu 58.5, 9. Smart Money (6) Rafique Sk. 58.5, 10. That’s My Way (8) Surya Prakash 56, 11. Silver Set (7) R. Ainkya 55.5 and 12. Racing Rani (11) Afroz Khan 54.5.  1. THEO’S CHOICE, 2. SEA OF CLASS, 3. SILVER SET   GENTLEMAN’S DEAL PLATE (DIV.II) (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II) — 3.00: 1. City Cruise (7) Gaurav Singh 56, 2. Inderdhanush (1) Akshay Kumar 56, 3. Milton Keynes (5) Kiran Naidu 56, 4. Superlative (3) C.S. Jodha 56, 5. Wind Sprite (Nikhil Naidu 56, 6. Alpine Girl (8) Santosh Raj 54.5, 7. Lights On (4) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 8. Silver Lining (10) Md. Ismail 54.5, 9. The Image (2) Ashad Asbar 54.5 and 10. White Roses (6) Mukesh Kumar 54.5.  1. SUPERLATIVE, 2. WIND SPRITE, 3. INDERDHANUSH   RIBERIO PLATE (1,100m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.35: 1. Bedford (11) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. N R I Touch (10) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Monarchos (8) S.J. Sunil 59, 4. Sandown Park (6) Nikhil Naidu 59, 5. Appenzelle (7) A.A. Vikrant 57.5, 6. Gusty Note (9) Ashad Asbar 57.5, 7. Lifetime (3) Khurshad Alam 56, 8. Top In Class (14) Mukesh Kumar 56, 9. Flamingo Fame (4) Santosh Raj 55, 10. Aibak (1) Aneel 54.5, 11. Golden Forza (12) R. Ajinkya 53, 12. Loch Stella (5) R.S. Jodha 53, 13. Alluri’s Pride (13) Rafique Sk. 52.5 and 14. Classy Dame (2) P. Gaddam 51.  1. TOP IN CLASS, 2. N R I TOUCH, 3. MONARCHOS   KALESHWARAM CUP (1,100m), 3-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 4.10: 1. Her Legacy (7) Santosh Raj 62, 2. Watch My Stride (4) Akshay Kumar 59, 3. Palomar (3) Surya Prakash 58.5, 4. Vijays Simha (8) S.S. Tanwar 58, 5. Beauty On Parade (6) A.A. Vikrant 56, 6. City Of Bliss (10) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 7. Amyra (9) Afroz Khan 54, 8. Blissful (5) Nakhat Sigh 54, 9. Sporting Smile (1) R.S. Jodha 54, 10. Burano (11) Ashad Asbar 53 and 11. DRD (2) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5.  1. WATCH MY STRIDE, 2. CITY OF BLISS, 3. BEAUTY ON PARADE   DIVINE LIGHT PLATE (1,400m), 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 4.45: 1. Indie (11) Abhay Singh 60, 2. Pedro Planet (5) Nikhil Naidu 57, 3. Sport On Fire (7) Rafique Sk. 56, 4. Bernini (3) C.S. Jodha 55.5, 5. Paladino (4) Santosh Raj 55, 6. Akash (2) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 7. Ayur Tej (6) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 8. Dizizdtymtowin (14) Rupal Singh 54.5, 9. Special And Thong (1) Afroz Khan 54.5, 10. Blue Label (9) P. Gaddam 54, 11. Solar Eclipse (12) Akshay Kumar 54, 12. Isra (8) Aneel 53.5, 13. Sharp Mind (10) Surya Prakash 52.5 and 14. Tales Of A Legend (13) G. Naresh 51.5.  1. BERNINI, 2. SOLAR ECLIPSE, 3. INDIE  Day’s Best: SUPERLATIVE  Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. Mini Jackpot: 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/watch-my-stride-may-score-an-encore/article38045541.ece
27 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Stunning Force wins||Stunning Force ridden by Mukesh Kumar claimed the Mir Fazilath Hussain Memorial Cup, the main event of Sunday’s races here. The winner is owned by Mr. Venkata Krishna Reddy Challuri, Mr. Mirza Ayub Baig & Mr. M. Sudheer Reddy. S.S.F. Hassan trains the winner. Trainer N. Ravinder Singh scored a treble.  1. HUSSAIN SAGAR PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): ROYAL GIRL (Santosh Raj) 1, Prime Gardenia (Rupal Singh) 2, Destine To Be (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Southern Lady (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 2, Hd and 2-1/2. 1m 27.39s. Rs. 96 (w), 22, 19 and 13 (p). SHP: 144, THP: 74, SHW: 43 and 80, FP: 1,573, Q: 655, Tanala: 5,234. Favourite: N R I Blue. Owner: Mr. Junaid Ali Khan. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  2. SANGAM PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): LINEWILER (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Curcumin (Akshay Kumar) 2, Sheldon (Gaurav Singh) 3 and N R I Heights (Aneel) 4. 3/4, 3/4 and 2. 1m 26.79s. Rs. 17 (w), 12, 16 and 14 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 35, SHW: 16 and 18, FP: 45, Q: 30, Tanala: 135. Favourite: Linewiler. Owner: Mr. Prabhakar Reddy Solipuram. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  3. GREENER PLATE (DIV. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ABLE LOVE (B. Nikhil) 1, Lifes Song (Rohit Kumar) 2, Angelita (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Narakamicie (C.S. Jodha) 4. Nk, 1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m 13.02s. Rs. 70 (w), 17, 16 and 13 (p). SHP: 48, THP: 46, SHW: 30 and 19, FP: 359, Q: 175, Tanala: 1,514. Favourite: Angelita. Owners: Mr. Maddali Sai Kumar & Mr. Kunwar Digvijay Singh Shekhawat. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  4. SANGAM PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SACRED LAMP (Abhay Singh) 1, Sun Dancer (Kiran Naidu) 2, Rhtyhm Selection (Md. Ismail) 3 and Lockhart (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. Sh, Nk and 1-1/2. 1m 27. 24s. Rs. 70 (w), 14, 10 and 78 (p). SHP: 34, THP: 170, SHW: 26 and 21, FP: 337, Q: 105, Tanala: 6,017. Favourite: The Special One. Owner: Mr. H. Thambuswamy. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  5. MIR FAZILATH HUSSAIN MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): STUNNING FORCE (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Kingston (Nakhat Singh) 2, Intense Approach (C.S. Jodha) 3 and House Of Diamonds (Akshay Kumar) 4. Sh, 1-1/2 and 1. 1m 12.42s. Rs. 46 (w), 10, 17 and 13 (p). SHP: 51, THP: 53, SHW: 19 and 28, FP: 304, Q: 139, Tanala: 1,087. Favourite: House Of Diamonds. Owners: Mr. Venkata Krishna Reddy Challur, Mr. Mirza Ayub Baig & Mr. Sudheer Reddy. Trainer: S.S.F. Hassan.  6. GREENER PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): CASTLEROCK (Ajeeth Kumar) 1, Rising Queen (Abhay Singh) 2, Above The Law (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Silk (Ashad Asbar) 4. 1/2, Nk and 1. 1m 13.03s. Rs. 103 (w), 22, 13 and 17 (p). SHP: 45, THP: 73, SHW: 83 and 30, FP: 507, Q: 164, Tanala: 1,690. Favourite: Rising Queen. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Dilip Thomas rep. the Rajagiri Rubber & Produce Company Limited. Trainer: S.A. Shehzad Abbas. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 72,629 (3 tkts.), 30%: 1,867 (50 tkts.). Treble: (i) 2,010 (13 tkts.), (ii) 2,590 (17 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: 43,311 (1 tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stunning-force-wins/article38045547.ece
27 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Delhi, Gujarat in thrilling tie||A last-second blunder from experienced defender Ravinder Pahal allowed Dabang Delhi’s Naveen Kumar to secure a raid point and hold Gujarat Lions to 24-24 tie in the Pro Kabaddi League here on Sunday. Delhi’s star raider once again secured a Super 10 (11 points), his third in three matches of Season 8 - but the team was lucky to escape with a tie after another match filled with mistakes from its defence.  The results: Gujarat Lions 24 tied with Dabang Delhi 24; Bengaluru Bulls 36 bt Bengal Warriors 35.   Today’s matches: Tamil Thalaivas vs U Mumba, 7.30 p.m.; U.P. Yoddha vs Jaipur Pink Panthers, 8.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-gujarat-in-thrilling-tie/article38045489.ece
27 December 2021||DUBAI,||ICC condoles Illingworth’s death||The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Sunday expressed grief at the death of former England captain Ray Illingworth at the age of 89. ICC chief executive Geoff Allardice said: “Ray Illingworth was a giant of English cricket and was one of England’s finest captains. He made an enormous contribution to the game, not just as England’s captain, but also as coach and chairman of selectors. Our thoughts are with his family and friends at this difficult time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-condoles-illingworths-death/article38045915.ece
27 December 2021||Jaipur,||Lot of effort behind this win: Rishi||Captain Rishi Dhawan was delighted for his team and for his State’s cricket as Himachal Pradesh defeated Tamil Nadu by 11 runs (VJD method) to win the Vijay Hazare Trophy on Sunday. “There’s a lot of effort behind this win,” Rishi told broadcasters. “HPCA gave us a lot of facilities to use; in the last 10 years, they’ve built great infrastructure and the cricketers have groomed very well. The hard work is visible and the players are performing well. So, that’s great to see,” he said. TN captain Vijay Shankar lauded HP for its excellent performance. “I think the way they played was outstanding. Congrats to them.” Shankar felt the fact that a few chances to dismiss HP’s batters weren’t taken on the field — TN dropped two catches and fumbled a run-out opportunity — mattered in the final analysis. “It’s about picking wickets in the middle overs where we know we missed the trick and a couple of chances [weren’t taken]. These things matter in finals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lot-of-effort-behind-this-win-rishi/article38045492.ece
27 December 2021||Puducherry,||Sarthak, Riana triumph||Sarthak Arya of Delhi and Riana Bhoota (Maharashtra) clinched the youth u-13 boys' and girls' titles in the UTT National ranking South Zone table tennis tournament at the Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium here on Sunday.  The results (all finals): Youth: U-13: Boys: Sarthak Arya (Del) bt M. Nikkhil Menon (TNTTA) 11-5, 11-7, 11-6, 11-4.   Girls: Riana Bhoota (Mah) bt M. Hansini (TNTTA) 11-4, 11-8, 8-11, 11-5, 5-11, 11-6.   U-11: Boys: Vatsal Duklan (Har) bt Aditya Das (Ben) 11-9, 12-10, 13-11.   Girls: Ankolika Chakraborty (Ben) bt Ranjini Saha (Ben) 11-6, 11-5, 11-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sarthak-riana-triumph/article38045494.ece
27 December 2021||KOLKATA,||I-League: Winning start for Gokulam||Gokulam Kerala FC rode on captain Mohammad Sharif’s strike to beat Churchill Brothers 1-0 and begin its title defence in style on the opening day of the I-League on Sunday. Gokulam took an early lead and defended its post sturdily to keep Churchill at bay. Ronald Singh was brought down inside the box and Sharif converted the penalty in 16th minute. Churchill, which had more shots on goal, came closest to drawing parity when Bryce Miranda tapped a cross towards the goal. An ever-alert Gokulam ’keeper Rakshit Dagar dived to his left to avert the danger in the 22nd minute. Gokulam was unlucky to miss out on its second goal as Thahir Zaman’s long-ranger hit the crossbar in the 47th minute. Churchill maintained constant pressure throughout, but in vain. Gokulam was also unlucky, its strikers missing the target narrowly on two more occasions.  The results: TRAU 0 drew with Indian Arrows 0; Gokulam Kerala 1 (Sharif 16) bt Churchill Brothers 0; Rajasthan FC 0 lost to RoundGlass Punjab 2 (Guthrie 27, Aphaoba 90) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-league-winning-start-for-gokulam/article38045545.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajkumar BC beats DYES Vidyanagar||Rajkumar BC beat DYES Vidyanagar 63-55 in a women’s semifinal league match at the State Association Cup basketball tournament on Sunday.  The results (semifinal league): Men: MEG 67 (Abhishek 36, Mayur Bhat 11) bt DYES Bangalore 63 (Manoj 16, Rakshit 10); Bank of Baroda 70 (Arvind 20, Clinton 12) bt IBBC 45 (Trishul 10); MEG 79 (Juvel John 22, Mayur Bhat 12) bt IBBC 43 (Karan Aiyyappa 14, Suresh 12); Bank of Baroda 80 (Arvind 23, Clinton 17) bt DYES Bangalore 50 (Manoj 15, Rakshith 10). Women: Rajkumar BC 73 (Dechka 22, Monideepa 22) bt Rajmahal SC 44 (Aishwarya 15); Beagles BC 63 (Chandana 30, Trisha 10) bt DYES Vidyanagar 48 (Manasa 18, Bhoomika 11); Beagles BC 60 (Mekala 21, Chandana 13) bt Rajmahal SC 49 (Aishwarya 17, Nikita 13); Rajkumar BC 63 (Konika 14, Monideepa 13) bt DYES Vidyanagar 55 (Preeti 24, Bhoomika 17) .    Punjab National Bank blanked ITBP Central Hockey Team 5-0 to enter the semifinals of the Hockey India senior men’s inter-department National championship on Sunday.  Other results (quarterfinals): Sports Authority of India 3 bt Services Sports Control Board 3 (4-2 in the shootout); Railway Sports Promotion Board 3 bt Central Civil Services Cultural and Sports Board 1; Petroleum Sports Promotion Board 3 bt Punjab & Sind Bank 2 .      MISAKA Womens FC defeated Bangalore Braves FC 4-0 in the KSFA Karnataka Women’s League, here on Sunday.  The results: Bangalore United FC 2 (Shobana Selvam 82, 86) bt Slamzers Belagum 0; MISAKA Womens FC 4 (Lalrinmunai 8, Lallunguani (OG) 44, Lalhningmawaii 48, 86) bt Bangalore Braves FC 0; Maatru Pratishtana FC 3 (Varsharani 5, Nancy 65, M. Kowsalya 85) bt Bangalore Soccer Galaxy 0; Parikrma Womens FC 2 (Maitreyi Palasundram 25, Anju 42) bt Rebels Women’s FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajkumar-bc-beats-dyes-vidyanagar/article38045540.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad bags double||Hyderabad bagged a double, winning the men’s and women’s titles in the seventh Telangana State senior throwball inter-district championship at SVVVS School (Bowenpally) on Sunday. Hyderabad defeated Nizamabad 15-9, 15-11 in the men’s final and then the women’s team put it across Ranga Reddy 15-12, 15-11.  The results: Men: Final: Hyderabad bt Nizamabad 15-9, 15-11. Third place: Ranga Reddy bt Mahbubnagar 15-11, 15-6. Women: Final: Hyderabad bt RR 15-12, 15-11. Third place: Khammam bt Adilabad 15-10, 15-9.     Md. Bassiq Imrose of MGM Zilla Parishad HS (Bodangiparthy, Nalgonda) won the fourth Sardar Bishan Singhji memorial open rapid tournament, organised by Maestro Chess Academy. Imrose was locked in a three-way tie at the end of the final round with 6.5 points each with M. Vinay Kumar (Union Bank of India) and Kusagra Mohan (Hyderabad). By virtue of better tie-break score, Imrose was declared winner. The winner got Rs. 10,000, second-placed Rs. 7000 and the third-placed Rs. 5,000. Deep Kaur, wife of Bishan Singh in whose memory the event was conducted, Maestro Chess Academy co-founder Harminder Kaur, and tournament director Amitpal Singh, gave away the prizes.  Final placings: 1. Md Basiq Imrose, 2. M. Vinay Kumar, 3. Kushagra Mohan, 4. Duvvala Suresh, 5. V. Varun, 6. Kheerthi Ganta, 7. Shaik Sumer Arsh, 8. Ch. Saharsha, 9. S. Ravi and 10. G.V. Srinivasa Rao. Age groups: Boys: U-7: Arush Bathula. U-9: M. Ritesh. U-11: Yatharth Patel. U-13: S. Raghuram Reddy. U-15: I. Akash Kumar.   Girls: U-7: P. Samhitha. U-9: Anaya Agarwal. U-11: L. Durga Karthika. U-13: S. Naga Laxmi. U-15: B. Amrutha .    V-Sports Academy won the Christman Junior cricket tournament with a four-wicket win over Prem Cricket Academy here.   The scores Final: Prem Cricket academy XI 119 in 25 overs (Shivam 30, Nischay 3/15) & 103 in 22.5 overs (Tanush 34, Nirmaan Vijay 3/2) lost to V-Sports Academy 128 in 22.5 overs (Harsha 40, Ganesh 31, Sai Nishanth 3/21, K. Vaishnavi 3/7) & 98/6 in 17.2 overs (Harsha 30). Special Awards: Most valuable player: Ch. Sankeerth; Player of the tournament: Nirmaan Vijay; Best batsman: Harsha; Best bowler: Nakshatra; Best fielder: Nischay; Best all-rounder: Tanush; Best wicketkeeper: Ganesh.   The spirit of cricket award: Vaishnavi; Game changer: Dhruvi; Emerging player: Sk. Arhaan; Promising player: Saketh .    Arjuna Awardee and former National ball badminton champion J. Pichaiah passed away in Hanamkonda. He was 104 and is survived by two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-bags-double/article38045805.ece
27 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Nagar bags three golds||Paralympic champion Krishna Nagar won three gold medals at the fourth National Para Badminton Championship on Sunday. Nagar repeated his 2019 National’s feat of winning three golds as he emerged the winner in all the categories he participated in — singles, men’s doubles and mixed doubles. Nagar beat Sudharshan 21-12, 21-12 in the men’s singles SH6 category in a game that lasted just 20 minutes. In mixed doubles, he and Nithya Sre breezed past Dhinagaran and Latatai Umrekar. In the men’s double, Nagar and Raja Magotra defeated the duo of Dhinagaran and Sivarajan 21-15, 21-15.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagar-bags-three-golds/article38045539.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The message of the manger||The Nativity scene is a defining capsule in Jesus Christ’s earthly life. It is replete with symbols of humility. These symbols would persist through his life and ministry, manifesting in altered but recognisable forms. At birth, it would be the lowly manger. In death, it would be the despised cross. As a new-born, he would be surrounded by shepherds. As an adult, he would be in the company of fisherfolk and other marginalised people. Jesus Christ lived his earthly life the way he began it: surrounded by the nameless, the despised and the defenceless. Take humility out of the Christmas message, and you have hollowed it out unrecognisably. Pope Francis (@Pontifex) has tweeted a Christmas message that indirectly dwells on Jesus’ humility: “Jesus is born close to the forgotten ones on the peripheries. He comes to ennoble the excluded and He is first revealed to them: not to educated and important people, but to the shepherds, to poor working people.” Jesus demonstrates humility on two markedly different levels — the divine and the human. By choosing to be born a human, Jesus exemplifies humility of the highest order, one that plays out in a manner that is both inspiring and counter-intuitive. He provides compelling proof that the master of the universe is indeed deeply mindful of man, and would humble himself for the latter’s good. As a human among humans, Jesus illustrated humility for his disciples. This master would not lord it over others, but wash his disciples’ feet. He would ask his followers to turn the other cheek. He would ask his followers to pray for those who treat them scornfully. Though the disciples would continually fall short of his lofty standards, he would persist with them patiently. And patience is but a shade of humility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-message-of-the-manger/article38045445.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 07:17 IST,||Sudoku — December 27, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-27-2021/article38046096.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Where everybody knows your name||Arjun Mohan has stories to tell — real life stories, of strangers in the city becoming best friends, of self-professed experts humbled by happy amateurs, of revelry and camaraderie. Having organised regular pub quizzes — among other things — in multiple cities for over a decade, he is a staunch witness to the community-building power a local pub can possess, should it choose to. In Chennai, he has been hosting the Thursday night pub quiz at Watson’s, T Nagar, since 2018. “I used to conduct them in Bangalore, and when I moved to Chennai, Watson’s gave me the go-ahead to do it here as well,” he says. And so, he has, for every Thursday barring flood or pandemic, with a community of quizzers that has only grown more faithful post-lockdown. Fraternities do not necessarily need to be built over food and drink, but it certainly does help. Which is why pubs, lounges and cafes like these are trying to build an identity that goes beyond their culinary offerings. As Jaffar Sadiq, manager of Watson’s Chennai, points out, “We want our identity to be more than just a food and drinks place. We have salsa nights on Mondays and karaoke on Wednesdays, besides quizzes and either local or visiting DJs on other nights. Each of these events draws a specific set of people, who keep coming back for it.” After the COVID-19 lockdowns, the crowds are back almost with a vengeance, making up for lost time and making new memories with renewed gutso. This is what Arjun calls a “post-pandemic shift”: while many participants earlier used to be people who moved to Chennai for work and were looking for new friends and activities, now it is predominantly the same people coming back to strengthen pre-existing bonds. This human connection is key, for more reasons than one. Take the city’s standup comics, for instance. Says comic Aaquib Jaleel, “While online shows during the pandemic have been good for networking and for ensuring that the art form survives, most comics — including me — have been constantly craving real facetime since the pandemic started.” The reasons are many, from picking up facial cues to getting spurred by the crowd’s audience — comedy, even as a solo act, is by its nature a two-way craft. In Chennai, one of the first spaces to restart comedy open mics after lockdown was Burgerman. Navneeth S, founder of Aragora Comedy that conducts these events, is grateful: “They do more than just give us a space to stand and perform. They have been publicising our LOLing Tuesday events consistently on social media; they follow up with us if the schedule falls through; they do not mind if on some days, we have an audience of just four people.” While this looks like progress, there is plenty more to be done. Srikanth Natarajan of The Chennai Scene, who organises, publicises and supports independent artistes in the city, is torn between the sheer relief of seeing his friends back on stage, and wanting more. “While there are a number of pubs who let people perform, only a few invest in making sure a gig goes well, with a proper stage, lighting and equipment. Chennai has very few venues dedicated to music performances, where talent can actually thrive and grow. But through the unlock, and with our feedback and needs in mind, places like Black Orchid are slowly coming to save us.” Eco-friendly buddies As the city’s events calendar inches towards normalcy and more diners start to step out, Cafe28 in RA Puram bears witness to old friends meeting new ones every day — planning upcycled wardrobes, swapping lunch recipes and discussing vegan products. True to the ethos of Earth Story, Dhaval’s long-running eco friendly store in Adyar, Cafe28 intends to give a leg-up to vegan food startups of the city. The counters are currently taken up by six city food brands including Aakaariya and Co, Lyfe by Soul Garden Bistro, Eat With Lilly and Green Mowgli. Between them, the food entrepreneurs offer everything from gelatos to vegan kheema pav and a host of gourmet burgers, with mock meats and vegetable options. There is also a clothes-swap area, a gelato counter and a simple table that can seat up to six or eight people at a time. Needless to say, the city’s vegan community has begun to throng — not only because of their loyalty to Earth Story’s products and eco-conscious markets, but also because of the events conducted at Cafe28. Other lounges in the city, too, have been doubling up as a platform for the city’s music or standup comedy circles, either by hosting regular sets of established talent, or open mics for new folk, one way or another helping build and foster fraternities. One of Arjun’s fondest memories is of “a table of grey-haired ladies, sitting back with cosmopolitans, absolutely destroying intense teams who were used to quizzing on competitive levels. They were very quick with the tricky music questions. They were laughing.” Aaquib’s words about standup can also be applied to other fraternities: “It is nice to see that the scene did not disintegrate completely during the pandemic. Having people come together and help us set up a community again, is great to see.”   While many participants earlier used to be people who moved to Chennai for work and were looking for new friends and activities, now it is largely the same people coming back to strengthen pre-existing bonds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/where-everybody-knows-your-name/article38045892.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A thing called love||Shashaa Tirupati delves deep into personal experiences for her independent music. The inspiration for her upcoming debut EP came from her frame of mind during the pandemic. Titled I’m sorry, Heart , the entire EP was put together during the months following the COVID-19 outbreak, when Shashaa was visiting her father in Canada. “I was going through this phase when I was smitten by somebody, and that kind of led to this. I randomly put together some lyrics that go along with the sentiment, and recorded and sent it to guitarist Keba Jeremiah, who loved it,” recalls Mumbai-based Shashaa, currently in Chennai for a couple of film song recordings. Over the span of two months, Shashaa and Keba got to work, putting the melody and soundwork together. They recorded the songs and shot the video in March this year. The first, titled ‘In My Skin’, will be released in the first week of January. “There’ll be a release every month after that.”  I’m sorry, Heart will chronicle four stages of a relationship — the first meeting, falling in love, the first argument and finally, parting ways. “The catch is that none of this really happens. It’s in the mind of a girl who has lived an entire relationship with someone she knows she has no future with,” Shashaa explains. Considering the mood the songs were set in, she ensured her ‘imperfections’ were on display while recording. “Even the song about falling in love, which is a beautiful feeling, has some latent pathos. As it is so intimate, you’ll hear the cracks and flaws in my voice, and the slides in the guitar (by Keba Jeremiah). It’s literally me pouring my heart out.” Shashaa has been working through the pandemic; she recorded about 40 songs for composers, apart from working on her own music. She also conducted live sessions online called Friday Knights, where she held long conversations with real-life heroes. But, of course, music was what kept her going. “Post the pandemic phase, musicians and audiences have become very welcoming about collaborations,” says Shashaa, whose most recent film song features in AR Rahman’s Atrangi Re , the Dhanush-starrer releasing this week.  Even the song about falling in love, which is a beautiful feeling, has some latent pathos Shashaa Tirupati||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-thing-called-love/article38045893.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||The wind beneath her wings||“I was frozen,” laughs P Kamali, recalling the moment she stood on the podium, waiting to receive her silver medal. The 12-year-old from the seaside town of Mamallapuram won the medal at the 59th National Roller Skating Championship held in Mohali, Punjab, from December 11 to 22. “The ceremony took place at 9pm and it was extremely cold,” she says, adding that on top of that, she felt shivers run through her body owing to the weight of the moment. “I was really happy that day,” says Kamali. Kamali is among Mamallapuram’s star skaters. She started skateboarding when she was five years old. “She did not have professional training; her training came from observing fellow skaters and travellers from abroad who visited our village,” says P Suganthi, Kamali’s mother. When her daughter was selected for the Nationals, Suganthi decided to take her to the championship herself. “This is the first time we travelled this far together,” says the 36-year-old. “The weather was a shocker for us, so was the food,” she adds, laughing: “We had chapatis three times a day, that too with curd and butter. It was quite different for us since we are used to rice and meen kozhambu .” Suganthi and Kamali reached the venue four days ahead of the event. “This was so that she can practise on the ramp there. She does not have a good one to skate on at Mamallapuram,” explains Suganthi. Kamali says she did not expect to win. “I participated to simply try my hand at the Nationals. It was a chance for me to train on good ramps,” she says. The success in Mohali has earned her a place at the Asian Roller Sports Championships. “She is the only girl from Tamil Nadu among four others who got selected,” says Suganthi. Suganthi’s life is not free of hardship. “In my younger years, I was not able to do anything I wanted. Which is why I want my daughter to achieve her dreams. I will take her wherever she wishes to go; be her rock-solid support,” she says. “In fact, we went to Mohali to understand what it takes to be part of such a big sporting event. It was our first lesson, one that will hopefully teach us how to strike gold the next time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-wind-beneath-her-wings/article38045894.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Teacher, teach thyself||As we approach the dawn of a new year, we have to consider a form of education where students have to interrogate education instead of being mere consumers. This will help them grow and develop self-worth, interdependence and universal thinking, free of guilt, conflicts and superstitions. Over the past year, much has been said about 21st century skillsets, especially the Five Cs: communication, collaboration, creative thinking, critical thinking, and connectedness. When incorporated into the teaching process, these help students face the world more proficiently. What do we need to do to prepare our students for the future? New forms of communication Communication has taken on new dimensions during the pandemic. Impersonal, distant learning through the use of smart gadgets has become the norm. While students learnt basic skills, they need to translate these into meaningful frameworks for the larger world. Teachers have to move from being knowledge providers to ‘knowledge-use coaches’ who, in addition to imparting knowledge, also ‘communicate’ skills and get students to incorporate them. Collaboration across space and time Knowledge and ideas are no longer kept in a safe deposit box and left to wither away. Instead, there are diverse opportunities to share and collaborate across time and space. It is no longer about ‘me,’ instead it is ‘us.’ The teacher creates an environment that embraces the notion that collaboration is essential and, by working with their classmates, peers, teachers, community, and digital community, students open up vistas of change. Thinking outside the box Creativity involves embracing openness and moving away from confirmation bias (seeing what we expect to see) and desirability bias (seeing what we want to see). It means freedom from the shackles of emotional rigidity to cognitive flexibility, the use of intellectual humility and opening up the rethinking process. Teachers can transfer these qualities to students through open, vulnerable, honest attitudes and interactions. Problem identifiers Students learn through modelling and teachers are the best models. Critical thinking involves the openness to a different opinion or belief. It involves questioning existing thought structures and asking relevant questions. Not just “Why, When, Where, How, and What” but also “what if”, “is it really so?”, “what could I have done differently?” It is also about asking oneself “What prompted my decision?”, “Is it reasonable?”, “Are there hidden biases in my decisions?” Belonging Connectedness is the interpersonal, interdependent closeness between people, resulting in a sense of belonging. While Internet connectivity offers an opportunity to interact, the plane of connectivity has to go beyond the impersonal to reach the connectedness of life. This involves Nature, society, community and more. Teachers can encourage interactions with nature and people to develop a sense of belonging and togetherness. While much can be done to stimulate change by incorporating the 5Cs in the teaching process, the beginning has to be made with the educator, who must apply these in their own lives before they challenge students to come on board with them. Geetha Gopinath is with the Faculty of Education, University of Hyderabad. Vijayalekshmi N.S. is with the Faculty of Education, Fathima Memorial Training College, Kollam.  Teachers have to move from being knowledge providers to ‘knowledge use coaches’ who also ‘communicate’ skills and get students to incorporate them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/teacher-teach-thyself/article38045375.ece
27 December 2021||Mumbai,||Salman Khan discharged from hospital after snake bite||Superstar Salman Khan is “happy and absolutely healthy” after he was discharged from a hospital on Sunday following a non-venomous snake bite, said actor-politician Bina Kak, a close family friend. According to sources, the snake bit Mr. Khan's hand on Saturday night at his farmhouse near Panvel in the adjoining Raigad district. The actor was then taken to a hospital at Kamothe in Navi Mumbai and was discharged on Sunday morning. “Salman was bitten last night and taken to a hospital. He was discharged after six hours. He is back home and well,” sources close to the actor had said. Mr. Khan was back to his farmhouse, where he will be ringing in his 56th birthday on Monday. Ms. Kak, who has worked with Mr. Khan in films like “Maine Pyaar Kyun Kiya?” and “God Tussi Great Ho”, shared a health update of the actor on Instagram later in the evening. “Birthday tomorrow, all good and cheerful, happy and absolutely healthy today. Happy to be surrounded by family. I call him Khuda ki ‘Naimat’. All our blessings for a happy, healthy, long and meaningful life ahead,” Ms. Kak wrote alongside a selfie with Mr. Khan. The actor was recently seen on the big screen in “Antim: The Final Truth”, which released last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/salman-khan-discharged-from-hospital-after-snake-bite/article38045902.ece
27 December 2021||Jaipur,||PM frequently visiting U.P. as BJP fears it may lose polls: Pilot||Former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Sunday claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting Uttar Pradesh frequently as BJP leaders fear that the party may lose next year’s Assembly polls there. The Congress leader said it is only his party that can replace the BJP at the national level as he slammed the BJP-led Union government for failing to check inflation. “Be it petrol, diesel, LPG gas or food items, prices are skyrocketing but the Central government has failed to contain inflation. We have tried to provide relief to people in the State but the Centre has no interest in curbing inflation,” Mr. Pilot told reporters in Tonk, his Assembly constituency. He said BJP leaders indulge in politics of religion and caste, and the public have realised this. BJP leaders are concerned and fear that the party may lose elections in Uttar Pradesh due to which the Prime Minister is frequently visiting the poll-bound State, he said. “It is the Congress Party that can replace the BJP at the national level. The public will stand with the Congress in the Assembly elections in five States,” he added. Responding a question on the demand of regularisation of jobs by contractual employees, he said the State government will do whatever possible in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pm-frequently-visiting-up-as-bjp-fears-it-may-lose-polls-pilot/article38045904.ece
27 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi government to ask aggregators to completely switch to electric vehicles||The Delhi government is going to ask e-commerce companies, food delivery services and cab aggregators to completely switch to electric vehicles as it aims to increase the EV share in total vehicle sales to 25% by 2024 to check air pollution, according to officials. It is also going to ask dealers and petrol pumps to not give fuel to vehicles without a pollution-under-check (PUC) certificate. Vehicle emissions account for around 40% of the city’s air pollution. “The government is going to take two major steps to check vehicular pollution — we will ask all aggregators including Zomato, Swiggy, Ola, Uber, etc. to completely switch to electric vehicles. These services account for 30% of the registered vehicles in Delhi,” an official said. Directions under the Environment (Protection) Act in this regard are expected to be issued this week. Asked if a deadline will be given to aggregators to switch to EVs, a senior official in the transport department said, “It will be done in a phased manner. We will soon publish the draft guidelines.” Apart from ramping up the electric charging infrastructure, the transport department is likely to initiate discussion on having a battery swapping infrastructure in private space. “The Indraprastha Gas Limited has also taken a decision to install 50 battery swapping stations at CNG pumps in the capital,” the official said. Regulatory push Electric vehicles with swappable batteries are considerably cheaper. “The most difficult category is two-wheelers... We have started a dialogue with vehicle aggregators to see how we can have a regulatory push for them to migrate to electric two-wheelers,” he added. Only Flipkart (by 2030) and FedEx (by 2040) have established worldwide targets for converting their last-mile delivery fleets to electric vehicles, while DHL has set a 60% electrification target for its fleet. In October, the city government launched a massive drive to check PUC certificates and deployed around 500 teams at petrol pumps for this purpose. Under Section 190(2) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1993, vehicle owners not having a valid PUC can be fined up to Rs. 10,000, or imprisoned for up to six months or both. The owners are required to get their vehicles tested to ascertain if they meet emission standards for pollutants such as carbon monoxide, nitrous oxides, carbon dioxide. There are around 1,000 authorised pollution checking centres set up at petrol pumps and workshops in the city. Also, in compliance with the National Green Tribunal’s directions, the Delhi government will deregister all diesel vehicles which will complete 10 years on January 1, 2022, and issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) so that they can be re-registered in other places. However, no NOC will be issued for diesel vehicles that have completed 15 years or more on the date of applying for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-government-to-ask-aggregators-to-completely-switch-to-electric-vehicles/article38045905.ece
27 December 2021||Jaipur,||‘Hate speeches in Mahatma’s land unacceptable’||Targeting the Prime Minister and other leaders for their ‘silence’ over alleged hate speeches at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said such acts in the land of Mahatma Gandhi cannot be tolerated. He said the ‘language of violence’ allegedly used by the speakers is against the Indian culture and is unacceptable. Mr. Gehlot said it was surprising that the Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand were silent on the issue and the government did not take any action against them. “The Dharma Sansad held in Uttarakhand has shaken the country. Use of the language of violence is against our culture. The Prime Minister and the Chief Minister are silent, and the Home Minister is keeping mum. Why is action not being taken?” Mr. Gehlot told reporters after attending the party’s training camp at Shivdaspura near here. He said while Gandhi's birth anniversary is observed across the globe as the International Day of Non-Violence, it is unfortunate that such hate speeches were delivered in his country. “If we do not live with love and harmony, how will the country remain united? Whether it is Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Jain, Parsi... everyone has to live together,” he said. Mr. Gehlot also expressed concern over the rising number of COVID-19 cases and said the Centre finally announced booster dose after his government mounted pressure. “I had been telling them (Centre) for one-and-a-half to two months that they should allow booster dose to people above 60 years and those ill. The booster dose is being administered in several countries. Yesterday, the Prime minister announced this and we are happy that he, at least, accepted our point,” Mr. Gehlot said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hate-speeches-in-mahatmas-land-unacceptable/article38045907.ece
27 December 2021||Pune,||Burglars trigger blast to open ATM near Pune||Burglars broke open an automated teller machine (ATM) of a bank using explosives before decamping with cash worth around Rs. lakh near Pune city early on Sunday, police said. “Some people triggered a blast in the ATM of a private bank with the help of gelatin sticks and stole around Rs. 16 lakh to Rs. 17 lakh cash near Alandi town located close to Pune city,” said DCP Manchak Ippar of Pimpri Chinchwad police.  Probe launched On being alerted, a technical team, including the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) reached the spot and launched a probe, he said. “We have found the CCTV footage, but we are not able to identify the thieves. We are investigating the matter,” a police officer added. This is the second incident that has occurred in Pune rural area so far this year, wherein money was stolen from an ATM after breaking it open with explosives. In July, thieves had stolen Rs. 28 lakh from an ATM from Chakan MIDC area in a similar way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/burglars-trigger-blast-to-open-atm-near-pune/article38045897.ece
27 December 2021||Ferozepur,||BSF seizes heroin worth Rs. 200 crore||The Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on Sunday seized 40 kg heroin worth Rs 200 crore in two incidents in Ferozepur Sector, officials said. The recoveries come a day after over 10 kg of the substance was seized in the same region. In the first incident on Sunday, troops attached to 101 Battalion seized 34 kg heroin concealed in 22 packets near the border outpost Mian Wali Uttar. The estimated cost of the consignment is pegged at Rs. 170 crore. in the international market. In the second case, personnel from 116 Battalion seized six packets of heroin totally weighing 6 Kg worth Rs. 30 crore near border outpost Mohammadi Wala. On Saturday, heroin weighing 10 kg was seized near Barreke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bsf-seizes-heroin-worth-rs-200-crore/article38045898.ece
27 December 2021||December 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Snow time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/snow-time/article38045910.ece
