28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||15-17 age group to get Covaxin from Jan. 3||Teenagers aged 15 to 17, who will be eligible for vaccination from January 3, will be administered only Covaxin doses, a note from the Health Ministry said on Monday. Healthcare workers and frontline workers who have received two doses would be eligible for a “precaution dose” from January 10, though those with a gap of at least 39 weeks since the second dose would be prioritised. ‘Precaution dose’ Those 60 years and above with co-morbidities who have received two doses of COVID-19 vaccine, would on doctor’s advice be provided a similar “precaution dose” from January 10. The prioritisation and sequencing of this dose would also be based on the completion of nine months — 39 weeks from the date of administration of second dose. According to the Health Ministry, those born in 2007 or earlier will be able to register on CoWIN from January 3. They can do it online through an existing account or create a new account through a unique mobile number. They can also be registered on-site by the verifier and vaccinator in facilitated registration mode. Appointments can be booked online or onsite. Healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens aged 60 or above with co-morbidities will be able to fix appointments for the precaution dose through their existing CoWIN accounts. The CoWin system will send an SMS to such beneficiaries for availing the precaution dose when the dose becomes due. It is however unclear from the Health Ministry note if the precaution dose would be a third dose of the same vaccine or any other vaccine. Currently the only vaccines that have been administered to Indians are Covishield, Covaxin and a few doses of Sputnik V.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-17-group-to-get-only-covaxin-from-jan-3/article38052325.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Night curfew is in the interest of public health: Chief Minister||Amidst opposition to the imposition of night curfew, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday maintained that such a measure was required in the interest of public health. Replying to a question on the opposition from business groups and owners of cinemas, the Chief Minister said the night curfew was imposed taking into account health considerations and the interest of all sections of people in the wake of Omicron cases. The hospitality industry had taken exception to the decision by terming it as an abrupt move which had put them in a fix as they had to cancel the reservation and initiate the refund process. The Chief Minister said the economy was rebounding and a few sectors had registered a good growth in recent months. The Government had no intention to disturb business activities through its decision on the 10-day night curfew, which would begin from Tuesday. All people should follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, Mr. Bommai said. Violators to be booked Meanwhile, Bengaluru City Police Cmmissioner Kamal Pant on Monday said that violators of night curfew would be strictly dealt with and cases would be booked against them under appropriate clauses. Close by 10 p.m. Hotels, pubs, bars and restaurants had been asked to close business by 10 p.m., and unnecessary movement in public places and roads had been banned. Those who were on work or had an emergency — such as hospital and travel — should show the relevant documents to the police. No special passes had been issued to anyone, and the police would put up checkpoints at all junctions besides entry and exit points, he said. The police had been directed to intensify patrolling and any violations by shops and commercial establishments would be strictly dealt with, he said. Violations would be dealt with under the Epidemic Diseases Act and also under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, Mr. Pant added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-is-in-the-interest-of-public-health-cm/article38052367.ece
28 December 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Six Maoists killed in Sukma encounter||At the fag-end of the year, the outlawed CPI (Maoist) suffered yet another jolt in the Dandakaranya forest region straddling the Chhattisgarh-Telangana border with the death of as many as six Maoists, including four women cadres, in an ‘exchange of fire’ (EoF) with a joint team of Telangana and Chhattisgarh police in Sukma district of neighbouring Chhattisgarh on Monday morning. The inter-State synergised anti-Maoist operation led by the Telangana police’s Greyhounds (anti-naxal force) dealt a severe blow to the proscribed organisation in the forests along the inter-State border, considered a hotbed of Maoists, police sources said. The intensification of the coordinated anti-Maoist operations in the volatile forested border region comes less than a week after Maoist rebels allegedly killed a former sarpanch Korasa Ramesh of Telangana’s K. Kondapuram village of Mulugu district in a dense forest area of adjoining Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district a few days ago. Acting on reliable information that a large group of Maoists were planning to carry out attacks on police forces in the areas along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border, a joint operation by Greyhounds, Bhadradri-Kothagudem district police, District Reserve Guard (Kistaram-Sukma) and 141 CRPF Battalion personnel was launched in Pesallapadu forest area, Superintendent of Police of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district Sunil Dutt said. He said an EoF took place between police forces and Maoist group at a point southeast of Pesallapadu under Kistaram police station limits in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district at about 7 a.m. Six Maoists, including two male and four female cadres, have been neutralised in the EoF, the SP added. A total of five weapons, including two .303 rifles and three DBBLs, four rocket launchers and other materials have been recovered from the EoF site. Efforts are on to identify the six dead Maoists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-maoists-killed-in-sukma-encounter/article38052630.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi/ Kolkata,||Missionaries of Charity denied FCRA nod||The Union Home Ministry said on Monday that it had refused to renew the FCRA registration of Missionaries of Charity (MoC), a Catholic religious congregation set up by Nobel laureate Mother Teresa, as “some adverse inputs were noticed”. The Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration is mandatory for any NGO or association to receive foreign funds or donations. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the Archdiocese of Calcutta expressed shock over the developments. The MoC said that as its FCRA application had not been approved, it had asked their centres not to operate the bank accounts associated with it. Rs. 75 crore from overseas According to the 2020-21 annual financial returns filed by the MoC on December 13, it had received over Rs. 75 crore from 347 foreign individuals and 59 institutional donors. It had a balance of Rs. 27.3 crore in its FCRA account from the previous year and the total balance stood at Rs. 103.76 crore. The NGO registered in Kolkata has more than 250 bank accounts across the country to utilise the foreign funds. Some of the biggest donors are Missionaries of Charity in the U.S. and the U.K. that contributed over Rs. 15 crore to MoC, India, for “primary health care, education assistance, treatment of leprosy patients” and others. The Home Ministry said in a statement that the renewal was refused on December 25 for not meeting the eligibility conditions and “No request/revision application has been received from Missionaries of Charity (MoC) for review of this refusal of renewal”. It said that its licence was valid till October 31 but it was extended till December 31 along with other associations whose renewal is pending. “We have been informed that our FCRA renewal application has not been approved. Therefore, we have asked our centres not to operate any of the FC (foreign contribution) accounts until matter is resolved,” a statement from Sister M. Prema, Superior General of the MoC, said. The MoC, in its statement, clarified that “FCRA registration of Missionaries of Charity has neither been suspended nor cancelled. Further there is no freeze ordered by the Ministry of Home Affairs on any of our bank accounts”. Earlier in the day, reports that bank accounts of MoC were frozen by the Centre had triggered concerns in social and political circles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-refuses-fcra-renewal-for-missionaries-of-charity/article38052327.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Activists seek quality check of all flats||In the wake of the collapse of Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board tenements at Village Street in Tiruvottiyur, activists have demanded an overhaul of the board’s quality control mechanism and a study of the quality of the old tenements across the State. J. Sebastin, coordinator of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board Residents’ Welfare Committee, said the government had asked all schools to inspect the quality of buildings following the recent collapse of a restroom in a school in Tirunelveli that killed three students. “The government show the same commitment to inspect its own slum board tenements,” he said and added that a comprehensive study of the quality of all buildings should be done. The poor quality of the recently constructed building in K.P. Park and that of the older buildings in Tiruvottiyur showed that the issues related to quality were fundamental, he said. Vanessa Peter, founder, Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities - (IRCDUC), in a statement, said that there was a need for evolving a permanent mechanism in the board to initiate regular third party quality audits of tenements across Tamil Nadu. Priority should be given to older tenements in this exercise, with specific timeline for demolition and reconstruction of dilapidated tenements with enhanced community participation. She stressed on the need to provide alternative flats to the affected families closest to their current location. “These low-income families have lost all their belongings and providing an alternative accommodation farther from their places of livelihood will have a further adverse impact on their lives,” she said. G. Selva, district secretary, Chennai Central district unit of Communist Party of India (Marxist), said the incident showed that the quality control measures in the board had failed. “There is a need to implement systemic reforms in this aspect with a focus on ensuring an adequate number of engineering staff and an effective quality monitoring system,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/activists-seek-quality-check-of-all-flats/article38052435.ece
28 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||SSLC exams from March 31||The SSLC (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) examinations for this academic year will get under way on March 31, while the Plus Two higher secondary examinations will begin on March 30. The SSLC exams will come to an end on April 29 and the Plus Two examinations on April 22, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty said at Kanhangad on Monday morning. The Plus Two vocational higher secondary (VHSE) examinations will also be held from March 30 to April 22. The examination schedule has been affected for the third straight year owing to COVID-19, with the exams that usually kick off at the beginning of March pushed to the end of the month. Since offline classes began only in November, the delayed exams will make available more time for completing the syllabus. CM to chair meet A meeting to discuss issues related to the conduct of the exams in the wake of the Omicron challenge and a possible increase in COVID-19 cases will be chaired by the Chief Minister. The government has also decided to conduct model and practical examinations. The SSLC model examinations will be held from March 21 to 25. The Plus Two higher secondary and the Plus Two VHSE model exams will be conducted from March 16 to 21. IT practicals IT practical examinations for SSLC students will be held from March 10 to 19, while Plus Two higher secondary practicals will be from February 21 to March 15, and for VHSE from February 15 to March 15. The exam notification, including for the THSLC (Technical High School Leaving Certificate), SSLC (Hearing Impaired), THSLC (Hearing Impaired), and AHSLC (Art High School Leaving Certificate) exams, has been published on pareeksha bhavan.kerala.gov.in Exam fee remittance The examination fee can be remitted without fine from January 3 to January 13, and with fine from January 14 to January 19. The ‘focus area’ that was fixed at 60% of the total portion to be studied will be available on the website of the State Council of Educational Research and Training. The government had earlier issued an order that 70% of the questions will be from the 60% focus area component. Sufficient choices will be given to the extent of 50% extra marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-exams-from-march-31/article38052682.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kerala tops NITI Aayog Health Index again; U.P. at bottom||For the fourth year in a row, Kerala has topped a ranking of States on health indicators. Uttar Pradesh has come in at the bottom. The “Health Index” is part of a report commissioned by the NITI Aayog, the World Bank and the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry. Kerala is followed by Tamil Nadu and Telangana, which improved its ranking. Three categories The Health Index score is prepared based on the States’ performance across a large set of indicators that are divided into three broad domains — health outcomes, governance and information, and key inputs and processes. Health outcomes, for instance, include parameters such as neonatal mortality rate, under-5 mortality rate and sex ratio at birth. Governance includes institutional deliveries, average occupancy of senior officers in key posts earmarked for health. And the “key inputs” domain consists of the proportion of shortfall in healthcare providers to what is recommended, functional medical facilities, birth and death registration and tuberculosis treatment success rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-tops-niti-aayog-health-index-again-up-at-bottom/article38052323.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Apartment collapses in north Chennai||Residents of 28 flats of a Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board apartment on Village Street at Tiruvottiyur in north Chennai had a miraculous escape when it collapsed on Monday. They had left the building, which had 48 units on four floors, minutes before the collapse. While 24 units on the left wing of the building fully collapsed, four tenements of the right wing that shared walls with the left wing collapsed partially. All the residents have been temporarily accommodated in community halls nearby. Expressing regret over the collapse of the tenements, constructed in 1993 by TNUHDB (then the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board), Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced Rs. 1 lakh in solatium to each of the 24 families whose houses were completely destroyed. Alternative housing units would be given to these families. “I have ordered that the details of such old buildings be collected so that safety measures could be taken to avoid such incidents,” he said in a statement. TNUHDB officials said the right wing of the building would be demolished eventually. The residents said they noticed fresh cracks in the building two days ago. Prem Kumar, a resident, said TNUHDB officials did not take any action even after they were informed. “Only on Monday morning did some of them come to inspect the building. Suddenly, they asked all the residents to rush out. The entire block collapsed soon,” he said. While the residents were relieved that no life was lost, they bemoaned the loss of all their belongings. “Our jewellery, government identity cards, electronic items and all other valuables have been lost,” said K. Lakshmi. TNUHDB Minister T.M. Anbarasan, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and TNUHDB Managing Director M. Govinda Rao and City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal and senior officials inspected the site. Residents of the right wing of the collapsed building were denied access to their flats for safety reasons. TNUHDB officials said they would be let in one by one to bring out their belongings after engineers inspected the building. The tenements were part of the 336 units built between 1993 and 1995 in the area locally called Aruvakulam, said to be a tank long ago. Families from many places across Chennai were resettled here by TNUHDB. Many residents alleged they had been struggling for long with the poor quality of construction. While it was the D-block that collapsed, residents of the remaining blocks demanded that their buildings be demolished and reconstructed, with adequate government support for their interim accommodation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lucky-escape-for-residents-as-apartment-collapses-in-chennai/article38052396.ece
28 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Ensure everything is in place to tackle third wave, Jagan tells officials||Setting tone for COVID third wave preparedness, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday gave his for transfers in the Medical and Health Department. During a review meeting on COVID control, vaccination and other related issues, Mr. Jagan asked the officials to ensure that everything was in place by February. Ensure adequate staff in every hospital and complete the new recruitment process by February, he said. It may be recalled that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, has noted that the third wave of Coronavirus in India would peak on February 3, 2022. The IIT also noted that the country needed to prepare for the third wave of infections. Mr. Jagan directed the officials to be prepared to tackle any eventuality in the wake of COVID pandemic. Both private hospitals and government hospitals should be prepared to tackle any situation. Expedite the vaccination process and conduct the door-to-door vaccination drive. Identify people who were not vaccinated while conducting the fever survey and administer vaccines to them, he said. Vaccine coverage The officials said that 98.96% of eligible population received the first dose and 71.76% received the second dose of vaccination in the State. The first dose of vaccination was completed 100% in Nellore, Vizianagaram, Prakasam, Anantapur, West Godavari, Kurnool and Chittoor districts. As per preliminary estimations, 75 lakh booster doses were needed for people, including those who are between 15-18 age group, the officials said, adding, six Omicron cases were registered in the State,but none were hospitalised. Mr. Jagan said there was no need to panic but officials had to be on alert. “Monitor the situation regularly as the people tend to travel. Monitoring and observation should be strong at the ground level. Obtain data from village secretariats. Consider the available data to take necessary measures. Fever survey should be conducted regularly, and follow the ‘Test Early-Trace Early-Treat Early’ policy,” he said. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to be prepared in the wake of the announcement of booster dose vaccination by the Central Government. Focus should be on frontline workers, people with chronic diseases and elders while administering the booster dose, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-everything-is-in-place-to-tackle-third-wave-jagan-tells-officials/article38052335.ece
28 December 2021||Vijayawada,||High Court strikes down GOs on school, college fees||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday struck down the Government Orders (GOs) 53 and 54 issued in August this year aimed at regulating the fees in private schools and junior colleges. The High Court has directed that the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC), following clause 8, should issue a fresh notification and elicit information from every private school and junior college in the State. The court also directed the Commission to fix the new fee structure by March 2022. If the fee collected by the educational institutes was on the higher side of the ‘fee to be prescribed by the State government’, the institutes have to adjust the balance amount for next academic year, the High Court ordered. ‘No uniform fee’ High Court Judge U. Durga Prasada Rao, pronouncing the orders, said the State government cannot fix the fee based on the geographical location of the school or junior college. A uniform fee cannot be charged for the institutes that were being run with international standards and the institutes with less infrastructural facilities. It was not that easy to maintain the educational institutes. On the other hand, it was necessary to protect the interests of students and parents. At this juncture, while fixing the fee structure, the Commission should take both institutes and parents into consideration. Panel’s powers  The Commission has only authority to regulate the fee but not fix the fee structure, he maintained. East Godavari Private Schools Association president Dasari Durga Srinivasa Rao, Independent Schools Managements Association president K. Srikanth Babu, A.P. Private Unaided Schools Managements Association joint Secretary N. Srinivas Reddy and others challenged the fee structure fixed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-court-strikes-down-gos-on-school-college-fees/article38052336.ece
28 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Big boost for AAP in Chandigarh local polls||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation election results on Monday threw a hung House as no single political party secured a clear majority. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerged as the single largest party in the municipal elections by winning 14 wards (seats) in the 35-member corporation. AAP contested the elections for the first time and emerged as the highest vote gainer. The ruling BJP won 12 seats and remained at the second spot. The Congress won eight seats while the Shiromani Akali Dal secured one seat, according to the State Election Commission. No single party was able to secure the majority figure of 19 seats. The electoral battle for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation was being keenly watched as the Union Territory is the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana and Assembly elections in Punjab are only a few months away. The elections results have come as a big boost for AAP, while the BJP has suffered a blow as it has now lost control over the corporation by losing its majority. The BJP’s sitting Mayor, Ravi Kant Sharma, was among the prominent people who lost the election. Two other former BJP Mayors — Davesh Moudgil and Rajesh Kalia — also lost. Bigwigs in campaign To garner support for the BJP, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and even Union Minister Anurag Thakur had campaigned in the city. Also, the Member of Parliament from Chandigarh, Kirron Kher, is from the BJP. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal was the key campaigner for the party in the elections. Delhi MLA and AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha said, “Chandigarh’s victory is a trailer. Punjab elections will be full picture and people of the State will choose Kejriwal’s model of honest governance too, just like people of Chandigarh gave a chance to him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/big-boost-for-aap-in-chandigarh-local-polls/article38052504.ece
28 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Night curfew to be implemented strictly in Udupi district||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Monday said that the night curfew declared by the State Government from Tuesday till January 7 to contain the spread of COVID-19 will be strictly implemented across the district. Speaking to reporters in Udupi, Mr. Rao said that the number of guests to attend weddings and other functions will be limited to 300 persons, while eateries and watering holes will be allowed to accommodate only 50% of their sanctioned capacity between December 30 and January 2. Night curfew will be enforced between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. The Deputy Commissioner asked officials concerned to subject to COVID-19 test those arriving from Kerala and Maharashtra in the district. No commercial activities will be permitted during the night curfew while people have to remain indoors during the time unless they have attend to essential activities. Road, railway and air transport services are, however, allowed during the night curfew. He said that the New Year celebrations guidelines will be applicable from December 30 to January 2 during which period no special programmes, including DJ orchestra and cultural programmes, are allowed in clubs, pubs, restaurants, hotels and even private places. Public places should not be used for New Year celebrations, he said. Residents of apartment complexes may celebrate the New Year within the premises strictly adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. However, no group dance or DJ orchestra are not allowed. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat and Additional Superintendent of Police Kumarachandra and others were present.  Deputy Commissioner asks officials to subject to COVID-19 test those arriving in the district from Kerala and Maharashtra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-curfew-to-be-implemented-strictly-in-udupi-district/article38052796.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP announces alliance with Amarinder, Dhindsa||The BJP on Monday formally announced its alliance with the Punjab Lok Congress, headed by former Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh (retd.), and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), a party floated by former Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. The BJP said the three parties would issue a common “vision document” for the Punjab Assembly election and form a committee with two members from each to decide on sharing of seats. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, BJP in-charge of Punjab polls, announced this after he, along with Capt. Singh and Mr. Dhindsa, met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda. The meeting took place at Mr. Shah’s residence here. According to senior sources in the BJP, the party is holding out for nearly 70 of the 117 seats in the Assembly with the Punjab Lok Congress fighting 25 to 30, and Mr. Dhindsa’s party the rest. Capt. Singh formed his party days after he resigned as the Chief Minister and quit the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-announces-alliance-with-amarinder-dhindsa/article38052328.ece
28 December 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Six Naxals killed in Sukma encounter||Six Maoists, four of them women, were killed in an “exchange of fire” with a joint team of the Telangana and Chhattisgarh police forces in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh on Monday morning. On a tip-off that a large group of Maoists were planning attacks on police along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border, a joint operation by the Telangana police’s Greyhounds, Bhadradri-Kothagudem district police, District Reserve Guard (Kistaram-Sukma) and the 141 CRPF Battalion was launched in the Pesallapadu forest area in which the six died in firing, said Superintendent of Police, Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, Sunil Dutt. Weapons, including .303 rifles, DBBL guns and rocket launchers, were recovered from the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6-naxals-killed-in-sukma-encounter/article38052329.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Kerala tops NITI Aayog Health Index; U.P. at bottom||For the fourth year in a row, Kerala has topped a ranking of States on health indicators. Uttar Pradesh is at the bottom. The “Health Index” is part of a report commissioned by the NITI Aayog, the World Bank and the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry. Kerala is followed by Tamil Nadu and Telangana, which improved its ranking. The Health Index score is prepared based on the States’ performance across a large set of indicators that are divided into three broad domains — health outcomes, governance and information, and key inputs and processes. Health outcomes include parameters like neonatal mortality rate, under-5 mortality rate and sex ratio at birth. Governance includes institutional deliveries, average occupancy of senior officers in key posts. And the “key inputs” domain consists of the proportion of shortfall in healthcare providers to what is recommended, functional medical facilities, birth and death registration and TB treatment success rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-tops-niti-aayog-health-index-up-at-bottom/article38052910.ece
28 December 2021||Belagavi,||Forest officer, another staff caught on bribery charge||Anti-Corruption Bureau officers caught a forest officer and another staff of the department who were accepting a bribe from relatives of a dead forest watcher in Hubballi on Monday. A team, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Mahantesh Jiddi, took into custody Range Forest Officer Annadanaiah Neelagundamath and computer operator Shivashankar Hiremath when they were accepting the bribe. They had demanded and sought Rs. 15,000 to release compensation to the relatives of the dead forest watcher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/forest-officer-another-staff-caught-on-bribery-charge/article38052599.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Eight arrested in job racket||Eight persons were arrested on Monday on charges of cheating over 100 job aspirants after collecting Rs. 1.5 crore from them on a promise to get government jobs. The police said the accused claimed to be working for the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). Following a complaint from the AICTE, Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal formed a special team to track the fraudsters. The police found that Surya, Arunkumar, Dharmalingam, Dayanidhi, Rajesh, Chakravarthy and Prabhu of Tirupattur district and Yoganantham of Vellore district had planned to conduct a fake eligibility test in Tirupattur district for the job aspirants. They had reportedly claimed that the aspirants would get jobs. They had cheated job aspirants in Madurai, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram and Salem, using the logo and name of AICTE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-arrested-in-job-racket/article38052428.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Bridge bulwark||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/green-initiative/article38052297.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Metro frequency to be reduced||On account of the night curfew, metro trains will run at reduced frequency. “There will be reduced frequency of metro train services after 10 p.m.,” a BMRCL release said. However, timings of the services remain unaltered, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-frequency-to-be-reduced/article38052366.ece
28 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Night-time curbs for 4 days from Dec. 30 in State||The government has imposed night-time regulations in the State for four days from December 30 to prevent the New Year celebrations from triggering a surge of COVID-19 cases. The regulations will be from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. New Year celebrations will not be allowed after 10 p.m. on December 31. Bars, clubs, hotels, restaurants, and eateries will have to restrict seating to 50% of capacity. A COVID review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Monday decided to deploy sectoral magistrates and the police to prevent gatherings at shopping malls, beaches, and public parks. Omicron threat Containment measures would be stepped up to curb the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Medicines, beds, and syringes would be stocked in anticipation of a third wave and oxygen stocks would be increased. District Collectors of Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam were directed to send more samples for genome sequencing, in view of the rise of Omicron cases in the two districts. The meeting was informed that 98% of the eligible population in the State had received the first dose of COVID vaccine and 77% had been fully vaccinated. It was decided to closely monitor the pandemic situation for the formation of clusters and impose severe restrictions to curb the spread of infections. Organisers of indoor events would be directed to ensure proper ventilation, keeping in view the potential of the Omicron variant to spread in closed areas. Booster dose The Chief Minister also instructed the Health department to make the necessary arrangements to vaccinate children and provide booster dose for health and front-line workers and senior citizens and distribute Ayurveda and homoeo medicines to boost immunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-time-curbs-for-4-days-from-dec-30-in-state/article38052683.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Presume all RT-PCR positive cases as Omicron’||Recently, four girls from a cluster of 14 cases at a residential school in Dakshina Kannada were found to have been infected with Omicron. While the cluster was identified in November, the variant of infection being Omicron was confirmed about a month later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/presume-all-rt-pcr-positive-cases-as-omicron/article38052369.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. likely to discuss GRAP today||Health Minister Satyendar Jain is likely to chair a meeting on Tuesday on the implementation of various provisions of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) due to the uptick in COVID-19 cases in the Capital, Delhi government sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-likely-to-discuss-grap-today/article38052507.ece
28 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Beatification process begins at Brahmavar||The beatification process to declare Fr. Alfred Roche as a Saint commenced at the Holy Family Church, Brahmavar, on Monday with Udupi Diocese Bishop Most Rev. Gerald Isaac Lobo leading a solemn mass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/beatification-process-begins-at-brahmavar/article38052799.ece
28 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Kanpur cash seizure: note ban back into focus||The arrest of a Kanpur-based perfume trader Piyush Jain on charges of tax evasion and the recovery of over Rs. 257 crore in cash and jewellery from his premises has found a place in the BJP’s election campaign in Uttar Pradesh and also brought the issue of note ban into political discourse five years after it dominated the 2017 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kanpur-cash-seizure-note-ban-back-in-focus/article38052502.ece
28 December 2021||Pune,||In Goa, campaign begins before coalition nod||Political alliances and internal party cohesiveness continue to remain fragile in poll-bound Goa. While the Congress is yet to formalise the seat-sharing arrangement with the GFP, the latter has already started campaigning in the former Congress stronghold of Saint Andre Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-goa-campaign-begins-before-coalition-nod/article38052744.ece
28 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Cong. seeks to strengthen organisation||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan is making concerted efforts to strengthen its organisational structure with focus on creating awareness about the party’s ideology at the block level. A three-day training camp for party workers has been organised at Bara Padampura with this aim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-cong-seeks-to-strengthen-organisation/article38052745.ece
28 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Rape of minor girl in Dharwad condemned||All India Mahila Samskruthika Sanghatane members have strongly condemned the reported gang-rape of a minor girl in Dharwad district. In a press release, the members have demanded strict punishment to the offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rape-of-minor-girl-in-dharwad-condemned/article38052600.ece
28 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Fair on SHG products sees sales of Rs. 60 lakh||Asmite, a State-sponsored fair for showcasing products of women self-help groups held in Belagavi recently, has achieved significant success. The week-long trade fair saw a total sales of Rs. 60 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fair-on-shg-products-sees-sales-of-rs-60-lakh/article38052601.ece
28 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Minister Joshi reviews railway projects||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi held a review meeting of railway projects with senior officers of South Western Railway in Hubballi on Monday. Officers gave details of achievements such as laying new lines, line doubling and electrification of tracks and parcel and freight performance in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-joshi-reviews-railway-projects/article38052603.ece
28 December 2021||Srinagar,||J&K real estate open to all: govt.||The Centre and the administration of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday decided to throw open real estate in the Union Territory for “second homes and summer homes” to all Indian citizens. According to an official summit document at the first J&K Real Estate Conference in Jammu, the Union Territory has become a promising yet untapped destination for the next wave of growth and prosperity. “Under the newly introduced Jammu and Kashmir Development Act, the term ‘being permanent resident of the State’ as a criterion has been ‘omitted’, paving the way for investors outside Jammu and Kashmir to invest in the Union Territory. As a result, any citizen of India can buy non-agriculture land in Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. J&K Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha said, “To facilitate transparent and accountable framework in the real estate sector, we have launched many portals — RERA portal, housing portal, integrated auction portal. Such initiatives will help both developers and homebuyers as one-stop portal for all their needs.” Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said large-scale infrastructure development, denied to the people of Jammu and Kashmir earlier, was now possible. “By combining rich natural resources with external investment and technical expertise, the citizens of Jammu and Kashmir will now have access to a higher quality of life.” The Jammu and Kashmir administration has signed 39 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with the National Real Estate Development Council “to boost employment and per capita income”. Srinagar will also host a ‘Real Estate Summit’ on May 23, 2022. Regional parties alleged a “bid to change J&K’s demography.” “Once again the true intentions of the government are brought to the fore. While offering to secure the land, jobs, domicile laws and identity of the people of Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir is being put up for sale. People of Jammu beware, investors will buy up land in Jammu long before Kashmir,” National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said, “The Government of India’s brazen loot and sale of resources show that the sole motive is to annihilate our identity and change the demography.” J&K Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari said the effort for holistic development and job creation was welcome “but not at the cost of domicile laws that safeguard land and employment rights of its permanent residents”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-real-estate-open-to-all-govt/article38052235.ece
28 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Kanpur cash seizure brings note ban into poll discourse||The arrest of Kanpur-based perfume trader Piyush Jain on charges of tax evasion and the recovery of over Rs. 257 crore in cash, gold and silver from his premises has found a place in the BJP’s election campaign in Uttar Pradesh and also brought back the issue of demonetisation into political discourse five years after it dominated the 2017 Assembly election. The ruling party, led by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, has linked the trader and the unaccounted-for money to the Samajwadi Party (SP), which has strongly denied the connection. The SP said Mr. Jain was actually linked to the BJP and accused it of misleading people. In his public addresses in Prayagraj on Sunday and Sitapur and Pratapgarh on Monday, Mr. Adityanath referred to the tax searches on Mr. Jain to target the Opposition, especially the SP. In Pratapgarh, where Mr. Adityanath launched projects estimated at Rs. 554 crore, he said five years ago, this money would not be spent on development but would land in the hands of “ dalals [middlemen] like these.” “It would be hidden behind walls and taken out when the time was right. Today, when the income tax [agencies] are digging out this money, the money meant for the poor will again be utilised to build homes for them,” he said. ‘Money recovered’ The CM said the SP, the BSP and the Congress would loot money and now all that money was being recovered. “Rooms after rooms are stashed with notes. Now you may be able to understand why babua [Akhilesh Yadav] opposed notebandi [demonetisation],” he said. Manish Jagan Agarwal, SP’s digital media co-ordinator, said the BJP was deliberately linking Mr. Jain to the SP to defame the party. The income tax raids were a “story of the failure of demonetisation”, he said in tweets. Mr. Agarwal on Friday also said SP MLC from Kannauj, Pushpraj Jain, alias Pampi Jain, the person behind the Samajwadi Attar (Socialist Perfume) launched by the party recently, had no links with Mr. Piyush Jain. Despite the clarification by the SP, Mr. Adityanath in Prayagraj on Sunday directly linked Mr. Pushpraj Jain to the raid, without naming him but referring to him as “a person associated with the SP who used to talk about Samajwadi perfume”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kanpur-cash-seizure-brings-note-ban-into-poll-discourse/article38052248.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron cases rise to 578 across India||The number of Omicron cases has risen to 578 in the country and at least 151 patients have recovered, the Health Ministry said on Monday. India reported 6,531 new coronavirus cases and 315 deaths on Monday, hiking the total active cases to 75,841 and the death count to 4,79,997. There were at least 38 new cases reported from Maharasthra and Telangana. Delhi saw its daily COVID-19 case count and test positivity rise to a six-month high with 331 cases reported in the past 24 hours. However, the government did not confirm how many of these were Omicron cases. Maharashtra has so far confirmed 167 cases of Omicron, followed by Delhi at 142. Telangana has reported 56 cases and Karnataka 38 since it was first detected in India on December 4. In Tamil Nadu, 605 more persons were diagnosed with the infection on Monday. Currently 6,562 persons are under treatment, either in hospitals or at home. Maharashtra also recorded 1,426 fresh COVID-19 infections as the active case tally rose above the 10,000 mark to reach 10,441, while 21 fatalities took the total death toll to 1,41,454. The active cases had dropped below 6,000 a little over three weeks ago. All persons among the new infections in Maharashtra had an international travel history except two who are high-risk contacts of an international traveller. The number of people admitted in Delhi hospitals increased to 266 from 230 a day earlier. But about 97% of hospital beds for COVID-19 are vacant and all 3,871 beds in COVID Care Centres are also vacant as on Monday evening, as per official figures. Dr. Ritu Saxena, Deputy Medical Director of the Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital said, “Out of the 142 patients, about 80% are asymptomatic and the rest have mild symptoms such as low-grade fever, general weakness, or headache. Actually, none of them require hospitalisation and are fit to be in home isolation. They are here only because the existing policy demands it.” The doctor said that except for one or two, all of the 142 patients have received both doses of vaccines and some of them have even got booster doses. Telangana's 12 Omicron cases included two contacts of people with the variant. Ten cases were discovered in the random sampling tests carried out among air passengers at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport who landed from countries other than the designated at-risk countries. Out of the 263 passengers from at-risk subjected to tests at RGIA airport, 24 turned out to be positive. This took the total count to 182 COVID-19 cases. Kerala registered 1,636 cases of COVID infection on Monday with Thiruvananthapuram district logging the highest number of 344, followed by Kozhikode with 233 and Ernakulam with 190. Of the 1,636 fresh cases reported on Monday, 836 were breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated citizens while 86 were partially vaccinated and 537 were unvaccinated. As many as 2,864 COVID-19 patients under treatment at various hospitals were discharged on Monday after they tested negative. Andhra Pradesh reported 54 COVID-19 infections and zero deaths in the 24 hours ending Monday morning.  (With inputs from   State bureaus)   None of the patients require hospitalisation and are fit to be in home isolation. They are here only because policy demands it Ritu SaxenaDeputy Medical Director, LNJP Hospital, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-cases-rise-to-578-across-india/article38052263.ece
28 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Big boost for AAP in Chandigarh local polls||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation election results on Monday threw a hung House as no single political party secured a clear majority, even as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerged as the single largest party in the Corporation elections by winning 14 wards (seats) in the 35 members Corporation. The AAP contested the elections for the first time and has emerged as the leading party in the elections. The ruling BJP won 12 seats and remained at the second spot. The Congress party won eight seats while the Shiromani Akali Dal secured one seat, according to State Election Commission. No single party has been able to secure the majority figure of 19 seats in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. The electoral battle for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation was being keenly watched as the Union Territory Chandigarh is the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana and Assembly elections in Punjab are only a few months away. The elections results have come as a big boost for AAP, the new entrant, while the BJP suffered a major jolt as it has now lost control over the Corporation by losing its majority. The BJP’s sitting Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma was among prominent people losing the election. Two other former BJP Mayors, Davesh Moudgil and Rajesh Kalia, also lost. Interestingly, to garner support for the BJP, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minster Jai Ram Thakur and even Union Minister Anurag Thakur had campaigned in the city. Also, the Member of Parliament from Chandigarh, Kiron Kher, is from the BJP. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal was the key campaigner for the party in the elections. Raghav Chadha, AAP MLA and co-in-charge Punjab affairs, said, “Chandigarh’s victory is a trailer. Punjab elections will be full picture and people of Punjab will choose Kejriwal’s model of honest governance too, just like people of Chandigarh gave a chance to Kejriwal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/big-boost-for-aap-in-chandigarh-local-polls/article38052241.ece
28 December 2021||Chennai,||‘Third Front will only benefit the BJP; Cong. must reach out to ex-leaders’||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) president and Lok Sabha member Thol. Thirumavalavan recently appealed to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and DMK leader M.K. Stalin to bring together political parties to form an anti-BJP front. He urged the Congress leadership to begin interaction with its former leaders who are now heading various parties. Edited excerpts:  Why did you request Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to take the initiative to build an anti-BJP front when it is expected of the Congress to take the responsibility? West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recently expressed her desire to form an alternative alliance to the BJP and the Congress in India. Telangana Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao’s meeting with Mr. Stalin also raised a lot of speculation about a political front at the national level. He also seems to be interested in forming a third front. We do not want the DMK to follow a similar line as it will create a favourable political climate for the BJP, which is openly articulating fascist ideas. A few days ago, the participants at a conclave in Haridwar made calls for genocide against the Muslims. The BJP is particular about constructing a Hindu nationalist state. It is no longer subtle and is speaking like the RSS. It advocates one nation, one culture; one nation, one [ration] card and one nation, one language. It has no faith in pluralism and diversity. If the BJP is elected again, it will pose a grave threat to the nation and the Constitution. Any attempt to create a third front will prove dangerous to the country. If regional parties had joined hands with the Congress and the Left, BJP’s emergence could have been averted in many States. But isn’t the Congress too weak to take efforts to form a front against the BJP? Such a situation emerged because the Congress and regional parties failed to work together. The BJP adopted the policy of divide and rule in many States. The BJP ensured regional parties did not join the Congress alliance. Though there are more anti-BJP votes in the country, the party succeeded in splitting the votes against it. The BJP sees to it that there is no consolidation of Dalit and OBC groups and it achieves this by instigating false pride in various caste groups. It knows that religious consolidation can be achieved only through consolidation of caste identity. Still the Congress is not taking any initiative to counter the BJP... I agree the Congress has not been able to consolidate the regional parties in the past decade. It has been weakened by the exit of leaders, who subsequently floated new outfits and captured power in many States. There are States where regional parties are posing a challenge to the Congress. Only in Tamil Nadu, the DMK worked with the Congress. Mr. Stalin went a step further and proposed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as the Prime Ministerial candidate [in 2019] when others had reservations. Ms. Mamata Banerjee nurtures the ambition to become the Prime Minister. There are regional leaders who want to become the PM through a third front government. Mr. Stalin has the clarity and guts because he has realised the compulsions of politics today. The DMK is the third largest party in Lok Sabha with considerable numbers in the Rajya Sabha. That is why I am requesting Mr. Stalin to bring together political parties against the BJP. Who will convince Ms. Banerjee against forming a third front? Mr. Stalin can meet her and take up the issue. As a CM, he can visit various States and place the proposal before regional leaders and CMs. Congress leaders should cooperate with him. The regional leaders are particular about winning in their turf. They have not seriously considered offering an ideological challenge to the BJP at the national level. The Congress is not in a position to work together with the Left or Ms. Banerjee because of local political compulsions. A similar situation prevails in Kerala. We have adequate time to resolve these issues. The Congress has the important task of establishing cordial relationship with its former leaders and CMs who revolted against it. It should form a committee for the purpose. Congress leadership can talk to Mr. Sharad Pawar (NCP), Mr. Y.S.R. Jagan Mohan Reddy (YSR Congress Party), Ms. Banerjee and Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao (TRS), who have roots in the Congress. I am not saying they should merge their parties with the Congress, but work closely with it.  The BJP is particular about constructing a Hindu nationalist state. It is no longer subtle and is speaking like the RSS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/third-front-will-only-benefit-the-bjp-cong-must-reach-out-to-ex-leaders/article38052253.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former China envoy Vikram Misri appointed Deputy NSA||Vikram Misri, who returned to Delhi last week after completing his stint as Ambassador to China, has been appointed Deputy National Security Adviser (Dy NSA), working with NSA Ajit Doval at the National Security Council Secretariat here. Mr. Misri will take over on January 1 after the tenure of Deputy NSA and former Ambassador to Russia Pankaj Saran ends and will work alongside the other two Deputy NSAs, Rajinder Khanna and Dattatreya Padsalgikar, both from the IPS. Mr. Misri’s tenure in Beijing included coordinating the Mamallapuram meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping. He was also responsible for handling relations with the Chinese government during the 20-month stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since April 2020, as well as coordination during the pandemic. He is credited with keeping up the lines of communication during a period of heavy tensions in the relationship. He was also known for taking a tough line with China during an interview after the Galwan clashes in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in June 2020, and said peace on the border was essential for progress in the rest of the bilateral relationship. Mr. Misri’s expertise in dealing with China will be in focus in his role as Deputy NSA, as the two sides continue to face the challenge of completing the disengagement of troops at the LAC. Despite the downswing in ties, Mr. Misri was accorded a virtual farewell by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on December 7, where he praised him for his “hard work during his tenure”. According to a press release by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Misri had told Mr. Wang that though the ties had undergone many “twists and turns”, they were full of opportunities, and a “silver lining in the dark clouds” could be seen. Prior to Beijing, Mr. Misri, a 1989-batch IFS officer, was Ambassador to Myanmar, and before that, had two separate stints in the Prime Minister’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-china-envoy-vikram-misri-appointed-deputy-nsa/article38052268.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,||A century-old ivory nagaswaram||It is still in good condition and Chitrai Nayakar, a nagaswaram player and owner of the instrument, is said to have played it at the wedding of national poet Subramania Bharathi. “Chitrai Nayakar was my grandfather, and the instrument was gifted to me by my mother Meenakshi in 1962 when I got married. My grandfather had told my mother that he played at the wedding of Bharathiyar,” said advocate Ramani Natarajan, who now preserves the instrument. It is a small timiri- type nagaswaram, capable of producing high pitch music. The lower part — anusu — and upper part of the instrument are made of ivory, and such instruments were normally possessed by musicians of great talent and fame. Chitrai Nayakar died in 1925. “My mother told me that the instrument was decorated with gold filigree patterns, but they were lost after his death,” Ms. Natarajan said. According to A.N. Sattanathan, the first chairman of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Commission, the instrument was gifted to Chitrai Nayakar by the Maharaja of Mysore, probably by Krishnaraja Wodeyar IV. The late Sattanathan was the father of Ms. Natarajan; his father Arumuga Nayakar was also a nagaswaram player. Sattanathan has written in detail about his father and father-in-law Chitrai Nayakar in his autobiography, Plain Speaking: A Sudra’s Story . The book offers rare insights into the world of exponents of the nagaswaram other than the Isai Vellalas of the composite Thanjavur district. Both Chitrai Nayakar and Arumuga Nayakar belong to the Padayachi community in Tirunelveli district. Besides Padyachis, Kambars, Dalits and Sunnambu Paravar communities also play nagaswaram and thavil. In his book, Sattanathan records that Chitrai Nayakar, a native of Sundarapandiapuram in Tirunelveli, was the most successful person among those practising music as a profession in the district. Chitrai Nayakar’s fame is explained by the fact that his annual income was Rs. 2,000, when the average annual income of professional musicians in those days was hardly Rs. 700.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-century-old-ivory-nagaswaram/article38052510.ece
28 December 2021||Pune,||In Goa, some candidates begin campaign before coalition nod||Political alliances and internal party cohesiveness continue to remain fragile in poll-bound Goa with parties and candidates kick-starting their poll campaign regardless of their actions approved by either coalition partners or party leadership. While the Congress is yet to formalise the seat-sharing arrangement with its ally, the Goa Forward Party (GFP), the latter has already commenced campaigning in the former Congress stronghold of Saint Andre Assembly constituency (in north Goa). This led to resentment among Congress leaders in St. Andre, who have urged the Goa Congress leadership not to award the seat to the GFP. Jagdish Bhobe from the GFP has begun a door-to-door campaign along with party president Vijai Sardesai. “The focus of our coalition is to defeat the BJP. While the seat-sharing [with the Congress] will be decided in good time, if we sit tight, we will be giving the BJP an opportunity to cash in … our candidate has a good support base in Saint Andre. He is a fresh face. So, we are moving into the new year with new MLAs,,” Mr. Sardesai said. Meanwhile, there were embarrassments for the BJP as well as the vice-president of the party’s women’s wing, Delilah Lobo, kick-started her campaign in the Siolim seat (in north Goa) even as the party has already named former Minister Dayanand Mandrekar as its candidate for the constituency. Ms. Lobo is the wife of BJP Minister, Michael Lobo, who has been outspoken against his party of late. Mr. Lobo also joined his wife in a door-to-door campaign in Siolim, distributing manifestos and urging people to bring about a change in the constituency with their votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-goa-some-candidates-begin-campaign-before-coalition-nod/article38052249.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||FIR against MoC children’s home over alleged conversion||The Central government’s rejection of a request of the Missionaries of Charities (MoC) for renewal of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) registration comes within weeks of a first information report (FIR) filed against one of its children’s homes in Vadodara following allegations of religious conversions made by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The FIR against the Children Home for Girls was filed on December 12 under Section 295 (A) of the Indian Penal Code, which pertains to deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings. This was a result of an inspection conducted by NCPCR Chairperson Priyank Kanoongo in August. “Non-Christians were made to learn Christian texts” and “there were several copies of the Bible with the names of inmates on them,” Mr. Kanoongo told The Hindu on Monday. Probe initiated Following the visit, he asked the police to investigate the matter. An inquiry led by a Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and another one by a District Social Security Officer followed. The CWC report noted that there was an inmate “from a Punjabi family who is married to a person from Christian family” and “girls are encouraged to religion change (sic) and cross seen in the neck of girls. So CWC instructed to remove them”. The District Social Security Officer’s report observed that “all children residing in the home are made to attend Sunday Mass at church” and that during a visit to the dormitory of children it was found that “Bible was distributed with names of children on it.” A copy of each of the reports has been reviewed by The Hindu . ‘Trafficking racket’ This is not the first time the Missionaries of Charity has come under the NCPCR’s radar. Following an arrest of its member in Ranchi on charge of trafficking, Mr. Kanoongo said, he found that there were many instances that pointed to a “trafficking racket” across the MoC-run homes in Jharkhand, “where minors went out, became pregnant, and came back and delivered child”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/moc-funds-were-cut-after-fir-alleged-religious-conversion/article38052231.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Recall directive on M.P. local body poll, Centre urges SC||The Centre has moved the Supreme Court seeking recall of its December 17 order directing the Madhya Pradesh State Election Commission (SEC) to stay the poll process on seats reserved for Other Backward Classes in the local body there and re-notify those seats for the general category. The government has argued that uplift of the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the OBCs has been the utmost priority of the government and inadequate representation of the OBCs in local self-government defeats the “very object, intent and purpose of the very idea” of the de-centralisation of power and taking governance to the grassroots level. The Supreme Court has also sought the deferment of the polls by four months with a mandate to the State government to come out with the report of the Commission and directing the SEC to hold the elections accordingly. The Centre has asked the Supreme Court to suspend the election process as an interim measure. The Centre has also sought impleadment in the matter in which the apex court had passed the order on December 17. The Supreme Court had referred to the Constitution Bench verdict of 2010 which had mentioned the “triple test” condition. This included setting up a dedicated commission to conduct a contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness of the targeted communities before reservation of seats for them in the local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recall-directive-on-mp-local-body-poll-centre-urges-sc/article38052233.ece
28 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana Cabinet expansion today||The Haryana Chief Minister’s office on Monday put to rest speculation over the past six months on the possible expansion of Cabinet saying it would take place on Tuesday. “The Cabinet will be expanded on December 28. The swearing-in will be held at the Raj Bhavan at 4 p.m.,” said a tweet from the official handle of the Chief Minister’s office. The Cabinet has 12 Ministers, including four Ministers of State, leaving two vacancies to fill — one each from the Bharatiya Janta Party and the Jannayak Janata Party. Chief Minister Manohar Lal had called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his official residence in Delhi a month ago fuelling speculation of a possible expansion and reshuffle by the year-end. Earlier, there was strong speculation of at least two Ministers from the BJP — Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Om Prakash Yadav and Minister of State for Woman and Child Development (both Independent charge) Kamlesh Dhanda, being on a sticky wicket, but sources in the party told The Hindu that the expansion was expected to be a brief exercise to include a new face from the party’s quota and none of the party’s Ministers was likely to face the axe. The source said former IAS officer and Nangal Chaudhary MLA Abhe Singh Yadav was likely to be inducted or he might replace Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, BJP’s Panchukla MLA, who might in turn get a ministerial berth. Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta could be also considered in place of Dr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-cabinet-expansion-today/article38052250.ece
28 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Girl found near dead mother rescued in Odisha’s Balangir||A child in Odisha’s Balangir town, who was found living with the decomposed body of her mother for three days, was rescued by neighbours on Monday. After losing her husband, the woman had been staying with her five-year-old daughter in a one-room rented house in the Sagarpada area of the district headquarter town of Balangir. The woman, who had severed ties with her parents, worked in several houses in the locality for a living while her daughter used to be taken care of by the neighbours. “Normally, the girl used to play outside the room. The woman had the habit of sleeping for hours as she was unwell. So people living in the neighbourhood did not suspect death,” said sub-divisional police officer Tofan Bag. “The neighbours came to know about the death of the woman when the child told them that worms were coming out of her mother’s body. The woman might have died three days ago.” The girl was sent to a shelter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/girl-found-near-dead-mother-rescued-in-odishas-balangir/article38052259.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Resident doctors call for total shutdown||Resident doctors, who have been boycotting work in protest against the delay in NEET-PG counselling, said they were “brutally thrashed, dragged, and detained” by the Delhi police on Monday. The doctors were marching to the Supreme Court when they were stopped by the police near ITO in the afternoon. They were detained and later released, a statement from the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) said. “There will be a complete shutdown of all healthcare institutions today onwards. We strongly condemn this brutality and demand immediate release of our FORDA representatives and resident doctors,” the statement said. However, the police said 12 doctors were detained and taken to the Rajinder Nagar police station after which they were let off. A senior police officer said no doctor was thrashed. “We had been trying to pacify them since 9.30 a.m. but to no avail. They wanted to go to Supreme Court and that is when we had to detain them. During detention, they got violent and also broke the windows of our bus,” the officer said. FORDA general secretary Kulsaurabh said 1,000-odd resident doctors had started marching from Maulana Azad Medical College around 10 a.m. ‘Protested peacefully’ “We were met with police barricades. We sat there peacefully and protested. We told the police that we want to march to the Supreme Court and protest outside it like we did outside Nirman Bhawan. But they didn’t allow us. Around 4 p.m., they started detaining us, then we were verbally abused and physically assaulted,” said Dr. Kulsaurabh. Some 5,000 to 6,000 resident doctors in the city boycotted work on Monday, including COVID-19 duty, he added. “A Black Day in the history of Medical fraternity of the nation. Resident Doctors protesting peacefully to #ExpediteNEETPGCounselling2021 in Delhi were brutally thrashed, dragged & detained by the cops...We urge all State RDAs of the nation to join the agitation! We all stand united in this fight against injustice,” the FORDA statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resident-doctors-call-for-total-shutdown/article38052272.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. silent on AFSPA panel for Nagaland||The Union Home Ministry has maintained a studied silence on the constitution of a committee on withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) in Nagaland. The panel’s terms of reference are yet to be notified and publicised. It will be headed by Registrar-General of India Vivek Joshi and comprise State government officials. Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio announced its formation in Kohima on December 26, though the meeting chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah was held at North Block on December 23. Mr. Rio said at the press conference that the committee would submit a report in 45 days. “The committee will start lifting AFSPA where it is recommended, but not only in Nagaland but the whole of northeastern States,” he said. The Home Ministry has not responded to this claim so far. Stumbling block After the December 4 civilian killings in a botched operation by the Army in Nagaland’s Mon district, there was an assessment by security agencies that the AFSPA has emerged as a stumbling block to the Naga peace agreement. Various Naga insurgent groups such as the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) have been demanding the revocation of the AFSPA and it is one of the main talking points of the final peace agreement. A senior government official noted that the Mon killings had given a fillip to the demand. The seven Naga National Political Groups (NNPG), which were made stakeholders to the negotiations in 2017, have also demanded the removal of the AFSPA. An NNPG member told The Hindu that the Centre had agreed to revoke the AFSPA once the final agreement was signed. “The Government of India has in principle agreed during the talks that the AFSPA will be removed,” he said. The official said the Nagaland Assembly elections were due in 2023 and the government hoped to sign the final agreement before that. “People here have waited long for peace. Eventually the AFSPA will have to be revoked from some areas,” said the official. ‘Disturbed area’ Nagaland has been declared a “disturbed area“ by the Ministry under the AFSPA, which empowers security forces to conduct operations anywhere and arrest anyone without prior notice. The AFSPA has been in force in the northeast since 1958 and Nagaland acquired Statehood in 1963. Both the Centre (MHA) and the State governments have the concurrent powers to issue notification under Section 3 of AFSPA. For instance, the notification extending the AFSPA in Manipur, right from the 1980s, has been issued by the Government of Manipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-silent-on-afspa-panel-for-nagaland/article38052237.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Six Naxals killed in Sukma encounter||Acting on a tip-off that a large group of Maoists were planning to carry out attacks on police forces in the areas along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border, a joint operation by Greyhounds, Bhadradri-Kothagudem district police, District Reserve Guard (Kistaram-Sukma) and personnel of the 141 CRPF Battalion was launched in the Pesallapadu forest area, said Superintendent of Police, Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, Sunil Dutt. Mr. Dutt said the exchange of fire took place between the police forces and Maoist group southeast of Pesallapadu about 7 a.m. Six Maoists were killed in the firing, the SP added. Five weapons, including two .303 rifles and three DBBL guns, four rocket launchers, and other materials have been recovered from the site. Efforts are on to identify the six slain Maoists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-naxals-killed-in-sukma-encounter/article38052239.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala tops NITI Aayog Health Index again||For the fourth year in a row, Kerala has topped a ranking of States on health indicators. Uttar Pradesh has come in at the bottom. The “Health Index” is part of a report commissioned by the NITI Aayog, the World Bank and the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry. Kerala is followed by Tamil Nadu and Telangana, which improved its ranking.  The Health Index score is prepared based on the States’ performance across a large set of indicators that are divided into three broad domains — health outcomes, governance and information, and key inputs and processes. Health outcomes, for instance, include parameters such as neonatal mortality rate, under-5 mortality rate and sex ratio at birth. Several States are significantly better in one domain suggesting that there was scope to improve their performance in the other domains with specific targeted interventions. For instance, 47% of the States showed the highest performance in health outcomes and governance and information domains. Only one State showed the highest performance in the key inputs and processes domain. The better performing States such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra performed comparatively better on the health outcomes domain, but performed badly on key inputs and processes, the report notes. Telangana improved its position from fourth to third, Gujarat from seventh to sixth, and Punjab from ninth to eighth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-tops-niti-aayog-health-index-again/article38052229.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||15-17 group to get only Covaxin from Jan. 3||The CoWin system will send an SMS to such beneficiaries for availing the precaution dose when the dose becomes due. It is however unclear from the Health Ministry note if the precaution dose would be a third dose of the same vaccine or any other vaccine. Currently the only vaccines that have been administered to Indians are Covishield, Covaxin and a few doses of Sputnik V. The decision to expand vaccination coverage was due to a rapid rise in the number of Omicron cases in India and “inputs and suggestions” from India’s National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), the note added. The NTAGI has been deliberating for months on the question of the most appropriate combination of booster doses or expanding the vaccination programme to those below 18. The World Health Organisation said last week that all studies to date show a “strong immunological response” when a third dose was administered. However, there was insufficient data and too little follow-up to assess the duration of the response. “Both homologous (vaccines of the same kind) and heterologous (mixed vaccines) booster regimens are immunologically effective,” the WHO noted, “All studies demonstrate an improvement in protection against infection; milder disease; as well as severe disease and death.” Prime Minister announced on Saturday night that teenagers in the 15-18 age group would be eligible for COVID-19 vaccination, and frontline and health workers and senior citizens above the age of 60 with co-morbidities on the advice of doctors would be eligible for a what he termed a “precaution” or third dose. Vaccinations for those 15-17 he said, would not only help protect them as schools have reopened in many places but also go a long way in assuring worried parents. In the course of his nearly 15-minute address, the Prime Minister urged caution without panic in dealing with the Omicron variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-17-group-to-get-only-covaxin-from-jan-3/article38052230.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Missionaries of Charity denied FCRA nod||It said that its licence was valid till October 31 but it was extended till December 31 along with other associations whose renewal is pending. “We have been informed that our FCRA renewal application has not been approved. Therefore, we have asked our centres not to operate any of the FC (foreign contribution) accounts until matter is resolved,” a statement from Sister M. Prema, Superior General of the MoC, said. The MoC, in its statement, clarified that “FCRA registration of Missionaries of Charity has neither been suspended nor cancelled. Further there is no freeze ordered by the Ministry of Home Affairs on any of our bank accounts”. Earlier in the day, reports that bank accounts of MoC were frozen by the Centre had triggered concerns in social and political circles. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Archdiocese of Calcutta have expressed shock over the developments. Taking to the social media, Ms. Banerjee said the decision has left about 22,000 patients and employees without food and medicines. The Trinamool Congress chairperson said while the law is paramount, humanitarian efforts must not be compromised. “In freezing the bank accounts of Missionaries of Charity Sisters and Brothers congregations, government agencies have given a cruel Christmas gift to the poorest of the poor,” Father Dominic Gomes, Vicar General, Archdiocese of Calcutta said in a statement. Other leaders from West Bengal, including Communist Party of India ( Marxist) State Secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra and Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya raised the issue and criticised the Union government. After the Centre clarified that it has not frozen any bank accounts of the Missionaries of Charity and the organisation came out with a statement, Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’ Brien called it “shameless damage control tactics” of the Centre. “First the Government of India INTIMIDATES. For weeks, right through to December 25. And then they pile on the pressure to extract this. Shame on the MHA and its shameless damage control tactics,” Mr. O’ Brien tweeted. Mother Teresa had set up Missionaries of Charity, a Catholic religious congregation in 1950. She was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace in 1979. She died on September 5, 1997 and was declared a saint by Pope Francis in September 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-fcra-renewal-for-missionaries-of-charity/article38052236.ece
28 December 2021||Kolkata,||Elections to four Bengal civic bodies on Jan. 22||The West Bengal State Election Commission on Monday announced elections to four municipal corporations on January 22. Elections to the municipal corporations of Siliguri, Asansol, Bidhannagar and Chandernagore will be held on January 22, State Election Commissioner Saurav Das said. The filing of nomination papers will begin on December 28 and the polling process will be completed by January 25. More than 19 lakh voters will exercise their franchise to elect 227 ward representatives across the four municipal corporations. With the announcement of polls, the model code of conduct has come into effect in these areas. During an all-party meeting called by the State Election Commission, representatives of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Left Front walked out. The Opposition parties questioned why elections to the Howrah Municipal Corporation were not being held on January 22. The State Election Commission and the West Bengal government had earlier told the Calcutta High Court that they were in the process to hold elections to five municipal corporations on January 22. Asked about polls to the Howrah Municipal Corporation, Mr. Das said the State government had not given its ascent for the same. A Bill to carve out the Bally municipality from the Howrah Municipal Corporation is pending with the Governor .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elections-to-four-bengal-civic-bodies-on-jan-22/article38052238.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP announces alliance with Amarinder, Dhindsa||“We have decided to form a committee to thrash out the nitty-gritty of seat-sharing. Two members from each party will be proposed for the committee. Once they decide on the seats, these will be gone through by party leaders of all the three parties. The second assignment of this committee would be to propose a draft of a vision document to work as guiding principles for the government formed by the alliance,” Mr. Shekhawat told The Hindu . He stated that while it would be “premature to comment on seat-sharing”, the circumstances from when the BJP was in alliance with the Akali Dal (when it contested only 23 seats out of 117) were different, a clear hint that the BJP was holding out for a bigger share of seats. According to the BJP, of the three main areas in the State — Majha, Doaba and Malwa — the party would fight more seats in Majha and Doaba and Capt. Singh would be given more seats of Malwa. “Patiala falls in Malwa and Capt. Singh being its maharaja and former Chief Minister has influence there,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-announces-alliance-with-amarinder-dhindsa/article38052246.ece
28 December 2021||Raipur/Mumbai,||Religious leader faces flak over remarks on Gandhiji||The Chhattisgarh police have registered an FIR against Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj on the charge of promoting enmity between classes after he used derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi and hailed his assassin Nathuram Godse at an event in Raipur, an official said on Monday. The seer’s comments drew sharp criticism from Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and the issue found an echo in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on Monday. The Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government assured stern action against the Hindu seer, who hails from the western State.  On Sunday, the religious leader had used “abusive” words against Gandhiji and asked people to elect a staunch Hindu leader as the head of the government to protect Hinduism. “Based on the complaint of Congress leader Pramod Dubey, a case was registered against Kalicharan on Sunday at the Tikrapara police station under Indian Penal Code Sections 505 (2) [statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes] and 294 [obscene acts],” a police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/religious-leader-faces-flak-over-remarks-on-gandhiji/article38052317.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Health Secretary briefs ECI on COVID situation||As the Election Commission of India (ECI) prepares for Assembly polls in Goa, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab in early 2022, the panel was on Monday briefed by Union Health and Family Welfare Secretary Rajesh Bhushan about the COVID-19 situation. Among the topics discussed was the highly transmissible Omicron variant that has been recorded in several States, an ECI official said. The Commission would travel to U.P. on Tuesday for a three-day visit to assess the situation and meet representatives of political parties and administration. Meanwhile, Mr. Bhushan held a meeting on Monday with the five poll-bound States to review public health measures and vaccination, a Health Ministry statement said. The Ministry said Uttarakhand and Goa had reported vaccination coverage for both doses higher than the national average, but U.P., Punjab and Manipur had coverage lower than the national average. The States have been advised to ramp up vaccination and testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-secretary-briefs-eci-on-covid-situation/article38052251.ece
28 December 2021||Mandi,||Himachal benefited from double-engine govt.: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said it has benefited the people of Himachal Pradesh to have a double-engine government and at the Centre as the speed of development projects and the implementation of different schemes have got a momentum. He was addressing a rally in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi to mark the fourth anniversary of the Jai Ram Thakur-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the State. Underscoring the advantages of a double-engine government with less than a year to go for the 2022 Assembly polls, Mr. Modi said the people of the hill state have benefited a lot over the last four years as various welfare schemes launched by the Centre were implemented in an efficient manner by the Thakur government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himachal-benefited-from-double-engine-govt-pm/article38052256.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Varun questions govt., parties on their priorities||On a day when Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan met Election Commission of India officials to brief them on the spread of the novel coronavirus variant Omicron in view of the coming Assembly polls, BJP MP Varun Gandhi asked the government and political class to declare its priority on “whether to fight the rapid spread of Omicron or demonstrate political heft via large crowds at poll rallies.” In a tweet posted on Monday, he said, “...to impose night curfew, but hold rallies where lakhs attend during the day, this is beyond the understanding of the ordinary citizen. Keeping in mind the limited health care infrastructure of Uttar Pradesh, we will have to honestly introspect whether our priority is to fight the rapid spread of Omicron or demonstrate political heft via large crowds at poll rallies.” Night curfews Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Gandhi quoted the Centre’s own note to the Maharashtra government in March 2021 that pointed out the very limited efficacy of night curfew on containing COVID-19. “Policy makers should lead from the front, inspiring the common public to stay at home,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varun-questions-govt-parties-on-their-priorities/article38052258.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC clarifies when dowry deaths may be presumed||Dowry death can be presumed if the wife was harassed, mentally and physically close before her death in the marital home, the Supreme Court has held. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana was interpreting Section 304B of the Indian Penal Code (dowry death). The provision mandates that the death of a married woman could be linked to the crime if she had been harassed for dowry “soon before her death”. “The cruelty has to be proved during the close proximity of time of death. It should be continuous. Such continuous harassment, physical or mental, by the accused should make life of the deceased miserable which may force her to commit suicide,” Justice Hima Kohli, who authored the judgment for the Bench, recorded. Proximate link The court said the expression “soon before her death” would normally imply that the interval should not be much between the cruelty or harassment concerned and the death in question. “In other words, there must be an existence of a proximate and live link between the effect of cruelty based on dowry demand and the death concerned. If the alleged incident of cruelty is remote in time and has become stale enough not to disturb the mental equilibrium of the women concerned, it would be of no consequence,” the Bench, also comprising Justice Surya Kant, noted. However, the presumption of dowry death was also rebuttable, Justice Kohli observed. “The presumption is, however, rebuttable and can be dispelled on the accused being able to demonstrate through cogent evidence that the ingredients of Section 304B IPC have not been satisfied,” the judgment said. The judgment was delivered in the death of a woman in 1997 in Bihar only a few months after her marriage. The few months of her marital life was marred by constant harassment for dowry. Her body was found on the banks of a river. The court concluded that she was pushed into the river by her husband, and confirmed his conviction by the lower courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-clarifies-when-dowry-deaths-may-be-presumed/article38052265.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Roll out flex-fuel vehicles in six months’||Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Monday asked automobile manufacturers to manufacture flex fuel vehicles complying with BS-6 norms within six months. “In order to substitute India’s import of petroleum as a fuel and to provide direct benefits to our farmers, we have now advised the automobile manufacturers in India to start manufacturing flex fuel vehicles (FFV) and flex fuel strong hybrid electric vehicles (FFV-SHEV) complying with BS-6 norms in a time-bound manner within a period of six months,” he said in a series of tweets. He said that the move was in line with Prime Minister’s vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and government’s policy on promoting ethanol as a transport fuel. Flex fuel vehicles are capable of running on a combination of 100% petrol or 100% bio-ethanol and their blends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/roll-out-flex-fuel-vehicles-in-six-months/article38052269.ece
28 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat government signs 96 MoUs||The Gujarat government signed 96 MoUs with various industries on Monday ahead of the Vibrant Gujarat Global Investment Summit to be held in Gandhinagar from January 10 to 12. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Summit. According to officials, the summit will have participants from all major countries and over a dozen have also agreed to be partner country in the event. The countries include the U.K., Australia, the Netherlands, Singapore, Canada, France, Germany; Norway, Sri Lanka, the UAE, Poland, Japan and Israel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-government-signs-96-mous/article38052266.ece
28 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Do not hold polls without OBC quota’||The Maharashtra Assembly on Monday unanimously passed the resolution asking the State Election Commission (SEC) not to hold local civic body elections without the 27% OBC reservation that has been struck down by the Supreme Court. Maharashtra’s Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar presented the resolution in the Assembly, which was seconded by Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. The Supreme Court struck down the political reservation for OBCs a month ago in local civic bodies. The court also refused the review petition filed by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/do-not-hold-polls-without-obc-quota/article38052228.ece
28 December 2021||IMPHAL,||Manipur may join chorus to repeal AFSPA||A meeting of the Manipur Cabinet is likely to be convened in a day or two to discuss the growing demand for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) 1958 from this border State, according to officials. The last Disturbed Areas Act declared for six months expires on December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-may-join-chorus-to-repeal-afspa/article38052245.ece
28 December 2021||Islamabad,||Pak. summons Indian envoy on hate speech||Pakistan on Monday summoned India’s Charge d’Affaires and conveyed its concern over the hate speeches made at a conclave held in Haridwar recently to incite violence against minorities. Pakistan conveyed to India that the hate speeches were viewed with grave concern by civil society. According to a statement by the Pakistan Foreign Office, it was impressed upon India that it was “highly reprehensible” that neither the organisers have expressed any regret nor the Indian government has condemned or taken any action against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-summons-indian-envoy-on-hate-speech/article38052316.ece
28 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||GST evasion racket unearthed||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence, Ahmedabad, has unearthed a major tax evasion racket involving Uttar Pradesh-based businessman Piyush Jain, at whose business and residential premises taxmen have found Rs. 194.45 crore cash, 23 kg of gold and unaccounted raw materials worth Rs. 6 crore. The GST Intelligence zonal unit of Ahmedabad had initiated the search operations at Odochem Industries, manufacturer of Shikhar brand paan masala and tobacco products, at Kanpur on December 22. The Directorate General, GSTI, said that Rs. 177.45 crore in cash was found from the factory and business premises of Odochem at Kanpur, while Rs. 17 crore in cash and 23 kg of gold were found from the residential premises at Kanauj in Uttar Pradesh. The gold bars recovered have foreign markings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-evasion-racket-unearthed/article38052254.ece
28 December 2021||Pune,||Poll banners are polluting Goa, says CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Trinamool Congress, accusing both the parties of “banner pollution” in the State. He said AAP and Trinamool activists were defacing Goa by pasting propaganda leaflets on public and private property. Mr. Sawant said that he had directed the authorities to act against those who pasted the stickers. Meanwhile, AAP Goa spokesperson Valmiki Naik said that Mr. Sawant was trying to distract attention away from the BJP’s failure in providing jobs and ensuring health services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/banners-are-polluting-goa-says-sawant/article38052255.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Award for The Hindu journalist||The Hindu ’s West Bengal correspondent, Shiv Sahay Singh, won the Ramnath Goenka award in the “Uncovering India Invisible” category for his 2019 report “Death by digital exclusion”, which exposed how the Jharkhand government’s insistence on digitisation deprived people living on the margins of the benefits of the public distribution system (PDS). The story detailed the Jharkhand government’s decision to plug leakages in the PDS by linking all ration cards to Aadhaar. Beneficiaries, who could not link their ration card with Aadhaar or had no Aadhaar, were denied ration. This led to distress among tribal communities. While there were reports of deaths due to malnutrition, the government not only denied them, it also did not attempt to bring the families that had alleged malnutrition deaths into the PDS. Tridip K Mandal of The Quint is the broadcast media winner under the same category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/award-for-the-hindu-journalist/article38052274.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID orders extended till January 31||In view of the a surge in case and the Omicron variant, the Home Ministry on Monday extended till January 31 the COVID-19 directives issued under the Disaster Management Act. “For the enforcement of social distancing, State/ UT governments may, as far as possible, use the provisions of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) of 1973,” a Ministry order said. Those violating these measures will face action, it added. The Ministry reissued the National Directive for COVID-19 management for mandatory covering of face in public and no spitting in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-orders-extended-till-january-31/article38052318.ece
28 December 2021||Mumbai,||Sena slams Rane for gestures against Aaditya Thackeray||Shiv Sena MLAs on Monday demanded the suspension of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Nitesh Rane for making disrespectful sounds at Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray within the State legislative premises. “Despite assurance from his party leaders, He is making statements in the media that he will continue to do what he does,” Sena MLA Suhas Kande said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-slams-rane-for-gestures-against-aaditya-thackeray/article38052227.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Omkar Speciality Chemicals, directors for alleged Rs. 145.51-cr. loan fraud||The CBI booked Omkar Speciality Chemicals Limited and its eight directors for allegedly causing a loss of Rs. 145.51 crore to Bank of Baroda. The company is into production of varied range of organic, inorganic and organo-inorganic intermediaries. It had taken loans to the tune of Rs. 170.69 crore. The company diverted the funds meant for short-term use to use them for long-term; and of the Rs. 50 crore taken as corporate loan, Rs. 14.54 crore was used for unstated purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-omkar-speciality-chemicals-directors-for-alleged-rs-14551-cr-loan-fraud/article38052244.ece
28 December 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur bus stand to be redeveloped||The Ariyalur bus stand would be redeveloped soon, K. N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, said here on Monday. The bus stand, built in 1975 in an area of 5.5 acres, has become dilapidated. Over 215 buses operate from the stand every day. The bus stand handles about 8,000 passengers a day. Currently, there were about 23 bus bays and 76 shops inside the bus stand. A proposal has been drawn up to redevelop the bus stand at an estimated cost of Rs. 4.65 crore. Mr. Nehru inspected the bus stand along with Minister for Backward Classes Welfare S. S. Sivasankar, Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi and other officials. Later speaking to reporters, Mr. Nehru said steps would be taken to sanction the required funds for the project within the next 10 days and the work will be taken soon. Earlier, Mr. Nehru laid the foundation stone for a ground level drinking water supply sump at the old union office campus. The sump, to be built at a cost of Rs. 2 crore, would help ensure uninterrupted drinking water supply to the town residents. Drinking water is being pumped to the town, with a population of about 32,000, from Thirumanur on the Kollidam river. Since, the water was pumped from a distance of about 28 km away from the town, frequent burst were occurring on the pipelines laid 15 years ago. The pumping mains of the water supply scheme were currently being replaced at a cost of Rs. 15.17 crore sanctioned under the Infrastructure Gap Filling Fund and the work was in the final stages of completion. In an attempt to ensure quick filling of the three overhead drinking water tanks (OHTs) in the town, a ground level sump with two lakh litres capacity would be constructed from where the water would be pumped to the OHTs. The initiative is also aimed at expanding the drinking water supply network to the newly added areas in the town, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-bus-stand-to-be-redeveloped/article38052552.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow State to declare cases of virus variants’||Tamil Nadu on Monday reiterated its demand that the genome sequencing centre in Chennai be put on a par with the Union Government facilities in Bengaluru, Pune and Hyderabad. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, who took part in a meeting with the visiting officials of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme here, said he had also reiterated the State’s demand that the two vaccine production centres, at Chengalpattu and Coonoor, be allowed to produce vaccines to overcome the shortfall during the COVID-19 pandemic. “On an average, we are vaccinating 3.26 lakh persons a day,” he said. “We are urging the Union government to permit us to declare cases of the novel coronavirus variants, such as Omicron, because the State has established a genome sequencing facility at a cost of Rs. 4 crore on the Directorate of Medical Services campus here,” he said. “Though we have only 16 persons with the Omicron variant, there are 97 others who could have been infected. It would help to declare the patient’s status early as there is a delay in receipt of information from elsewhere. In the case of three persons from Nigeria, we declared them positive almost on the day of their discharge,” he pointed out. Mr. Subramanian said the State had more visitors from not-at-risk countries; hence, the Union government should lay down guidelines for quarantine of passengers from these nations. He said the State wanted the Union government to permit random testing of 10% of the passengers from not-at-risk nations as against the current rate of 2%. Monitoring performance Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the team, which included two epidemiologists, would monitor the State’s performance in detection of and follow-up treatment for the new variant, vaccination and adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. The team’s itinerary included visits to the airport to assess the testing procedures, the laboratory and control room, besides the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research and the Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar Government Estate, a dedicated COVID care centre. The team would also bring under its surveillance a COVID care facility of the Chennai Corporation, Dr. Radhakrishnan said. The Health Secretary said there was no change in the protocol for containment of the Omicron variant. The Health Department was looking out for local clusters. “We are doing saturation test wherever there are clusters. At Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, 3,370 persons were tested and 39 infections were detected. In the last 10 days, we have tested eight lakh people. We have some districts where the rate of infection continues to be high,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-state-to-declare-cases-of-virus-variants/article38052422.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assets worth Rs. 5.74 cr. attached in Chennai Port Trust fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached around 47 properties, including 230 acres of land, 20 plots, gold, vehicles and bank deposits, all worth Rs. 5.74 crore, in the term deposit fraud case pertaining to Chennai Port Trust (CPT). In a statement, the ED said it searched more than 15 premises across the State in June. During the course of investigation, it was found that the suspects had submitted fake fixed deposit receipts (FDRs) in CPT’s name at the Koyambedu branch of the Indian Bank. By retaining the original receipts, they fraudulently liquidated the deposits a couple of days later. It was found that Rs. 45.40 crore was transferred to a fake current account in the name of CPT. Cash withdrawal Around Rs. 15.25 crore was withdrawn as cash from the current account by someone impersonating the deputy director of finance of CPT. The remaining Rs. 31.65 crore was transferred to several bank accounts through more than 49 transactions and subsequently withdrawn as cash by luring the account holders for a small commission, the ED said. The suspected persons were questioned and it was revealed that the proceeds of the crime were invested in purchase of movable and immovable assets, and the same were attached on December 24, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-574-cr-in-chennai-port-deposit-fraud-case/article38052431.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Timely intervention saved lives||K. Lakshmi lived on the first floor of the collapsed building of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board tenements at Tiruvottiyur. She cannot believe what had happened in the morning. “It feels like a miracle, as if the building had waited for us to get out and collapsed immediately,” she said. According to eyewitness accounts, the left wing of the building that had 24 housing units on four floors and four tenements of the right wing that shared walls with the left wing collapsed minutes after the residents evacuated. Board officials said no one was reported missing, and everyone came out before the building came down. The “miraculous” escape, as many residents called the turn of events, was largely due to the intervention of T.M. Thaniyarasu, a former Councillor of the erstwhile Tiruvottiyur municipality. Minor cracks, which had developed over the past few days, widened on Sunday night. But the residents said they did not panic. We were used to seeing cracks and plaster falling off. Hence, we did not feel the need to evacuate,” said R. Lakshmi. However, a section of the residents felt the need to alert someone as the cracks kept widening on Monday morning. They alerted Mr. Thaniyarasu, now an area secretary of the ruling DMK. “I received a call around 8.30 a.m. and reached the spot soon,” he told The Hindu . “I climbed a couple of floors. The cracks on the walls were widening right in front of my eyes. I sensed a danger,” he said. He said he alerted Board Assistant Engineer M. Udayakumar who suggested the evacuation of the residents. “I didn’t want to create panic. So I didn’t tell them that the building was going to collapse. But I asked them to come down as a precaution. Three of the 24 houses were locked. Around 70 people from the remaining houses came out.” G. Vijaya acknowledged that Mr. Thaniyarasu’s timely alert helped. “We didn’t take any of our belongings as he asked us to come out soon. And we did not think the building would collapse as it did,” she said. As Ms. Vijaya stepped out of the building, she checked the time on her mobile phone. It was 10.10 a.m. The building came down 10 minutes later. “We have lost some pieces of jewellery and furniture and some electronic items. However, we are glad we are alive...,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/timely-intervention-saved-lives/article38052441.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 605 fresh cases of COVID-19, nine deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 605 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, pushing the total to 27,44,642. Currently 6,562 persons are under treatment. Among the fresh infections were two passengers each from Tanzania and the United Arab Emirates and one passenger from Bangladesh. A person who arrived by road from West Bengal also tested positive. Of the 16,762 passengers from at-risk countries who were tested on arrival, 86 were found to have been infected and 89 persons from not-at-risk countries tested positive. 172 cases in Chennai In Chennai, 172 persons tested positive and 1,442 patients are under treatment. Coimbatore reported 88 fresh cases and Chengalpattu 50 cases. In all other districts, the number of fresh cases was well below 50. No fresh infection was reported in Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai, Pudukottai, Tenkasi and Theni districts. In Arilayur and Theni, fewer than 10 persons each are under treatment. With the discharge of 663 persons, the number of recovered persons went up to 27,01,336. The daily bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health also recorded the death of nine persons. Five patients died at private hospitals and four at government hospitals. All of them had co-morbidities. The toll went up to 36,744. A 90-year-old woman from Chennai, severely hypertensive, tested positive on December 21, a day after she was admitted to a private hospital following complaints of fever for two days, cough and difficulty in breathing for six days. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on December 25. At 4,654 sessions, 1,15,096 persons were vaccinated with Covishield and Covaxin. Among them were 184 healthcare workers; 81 frontline workers; 67,898 persons aged 18-44; 30,725 persons aged 45-59; and 16,208 senior citizens. So far, 8,04,94,170 persons have been inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-reports-605-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-nine-deaths/article38052424.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sand lorry owners protest||Members of All M-Sand and River Sand Lorry Owners’ Federation staged a protest in the city on Monday against overloading of vehicles and functioning of unauthorised crusher units. They complained that the lorries were overloaded at crusher units. They neither had transit pass, which is required to transport minerals from one place to another, nor GST bill. The overloading of vehicles often resulted in accidents and their seizure. Cases were also booked against lorry owners and drivers. The lorry owners have decided not to load additional tonnes of minerals in their vehicles to avoid accidents. Federation president S.Yuvaraj said the authorities must take action against crusher units for overloading the vehicles. They must recover cost of road damage from lorry owners and quarry owners who engage the vehicles. Members also demanded the e-transit pass system must be introduced to streamline the trade and curb illegal mining and transportation. Moreover, operation of unauthorised crusher units also led to sale of M-sand without transit pass issued by the Mines Department. Though only 358 units have been approved for their quality by Public Works Department, there are over 4,000 unauthorised units functioning across the State. Sale of poor quality M-sand would prove detrimental to construction activity, said Mr.Yuvaraj. Unlicensed units There were nearly 250 such unlicensed crusher units operating at places like Thiruneermalai, Nallambakkam and Erumaiyur near Chennai alone. Steps must be taken to seal such units, members said. The members also charged that materials like blue metal and M-Sand were being transported to Kerala and Karnataka without transit pass or GST bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sand-lorry-owners-protest/article38052433.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary ramp built at Marina for persons with disabilities||It was the first time in many decades for K. Nagadass, a resident of K.K. Nagar, to experience the joy of watching waves crashing over the shoreline and even step into the water. Several persons with disabilities, like him, who do not go to beach, used the temporary pathway put up by the Greater Chennai Corporation on Monday evening. Many volunteers helped them get closer to the beach. “I came here after a friend informed me about the temporary pathway. I used to see the beach only from the road,” said Mr. Nagadass. A portion of the beach behind the Gandhi Statue had been made temporarily accessible for persons with disabilities from December 27 to January 2. There may be a formal inauguration on Tuesday. R. Satish Kumar, member of Disability Rights Alliance, said such events were organised every year to mark the World Disability Day celebrations. Earlier, carpets were used to create ramps but it was not comfortable for persons with disabilities. This time, wooden planks have been used for better access. A floating wheelchair was brought from Kovalam beach for persons with disabilities to enjoy the waves. GCC has procured four beach wheelchairs for the purpose, he said. Vaishnavi Jayakumar, member of Disability Rights Alliance and co-founder, The Banyan, said the barrier-free path should be a permanent feature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-ramp-built-at-marina-for-persons-with-disabilities/article38052427.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents worried about relocation||While the State government has assured allocation of houses in other locations to those who lived in the tenements that collapsed at the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development colony in Tiruvottiyur, the residents at the site have raised a number of concerns. A key issue appeared to be the location where alternative accommodation would be allotted. While the Board was inclined towards allocating houses at its K.P. Park site in Pulianthope, the residents appealed for nearby locations. K. Lakshmi, a resident, said their children went to nearby schools. “My husband works as a watchman and I work as a househelp. Travelling to Pulianthope will be difficult for us,” she said. A number of residents raised concerns over recent reports regarding the poor quality of the newly constructed buildings at K.P. Park. The officials in the Board tried to assure the residents that they would be accommodated in the Phase II of K.P. Park flats and not the one that was controversial. Another issue appeared to be around the ownership of the houses. A significant number of families residing in the collapsed building were not original allottees. While some were tenants, the others had bought it from the original allottees years ago. Many expressed concern on whether the allocation would be for the original allottees or those living there at the moment. G. Vijaya, whose family resided on two rented units in the collapsed building, said she was not hopeful of getting a house. “They may give it to the owners. With all our belongings lost, we need to look for another rented place to start our lives afresh,” she said. Residents of the remaining 24 units on the right wing of the collapsed building were now a worried lot. R. Lakshmi, who resided with her husband on the fourth floor of the block, said that her unit had partially collapsed. “The government has said houses will be allocated to only 24 families. Four more have partially collapsed. How can we reside there? Will we also get houses?” she asked. A senior official said that residents of all the 48 affected units would be allocated houses. While the government had said that its decision on the remaining six buildings at the site would be decided after a technical evaluation, the residents wanted their buildings to be reconstructed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-worried-about-relocation/article38052437.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in price of packaged water will not affect consumers||The increase in the cost of packaged drinking water from January 1 will be only for dealers and not on the maximum retail price. It will not affect the consumers, said packaged drinking manufacturers. The Greater Tamil Nadu Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers’ Association had announced that price of water packaged in various capacities from 300 ml to five litres would be increased by 10% from January 1. Members said the decision was taken as the price of packaging materials had gone up by 40%. Association’s founder A. Shakespeare said the cost of various raw material like bottles, wrappers and carton boxes had gone up. “The increase in price for stock sold to dealers would be nominal. For instance, the rise in dealers’ price would work out to 30 paise for every 300 ml bottle. Similarly, it would be Rs. 1 for two-litre bottle,” he said. The 10% increase in price would be applied per box of packaged drinking water. For example, one box would have 30 numbers of 300-ml bottles. Similarly, there would be nine bottles of 2-litre capacity in a box. Bubble top cans The refilling rate for 20-litre bubble top containers has been increased by Rs. 2 for dealers. But, there would not be any change in prices for consumers, Mr. Shakespeare said. As this was not the peak season, the consumption of packaged drinking water remains at 1.7 crore to 2 crore litres daily. In Tamil Nadu, the daily consumption of packaged drinking water was five crore litres. The consumption was expected to go up in summer. At present, there were nearly 1,750 packaged drinking water manufacturing units approved by Bureau of Indian Standards across the State.  The rise will work out to 30 paise for every 300 ml bottle, and Rs. 1 for two-litre bottle Association president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-price-of-packaged-water-will-not-affect-consumers/article38052460.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Livelihood parks to come up over the next three years||The Tamil Nadu Government is set to establish a total of 25 ‘Mahakavi Bharathiyar Livelihood Parks’ over three years that will serve as common infrastructure centres for self-help groups (SHGs) to pursue their activities collectively. The parks, to be spread over 25,000 to 40,000 sqft, are aimed at providing better working ambience for rural artisans and producers of farm-based and value added products. To be located on government lands in the vicinity of intersections of major roads or areas with high congregation of people on a daily basis, each will comprise of four to six production units for varied products. The parks will also have food courts, a children’s play area, open spaces, gazebos, a parking area, among others for the benefit of the artisans and visitors. The funds required for the construction and basic infrastructure will be in convergence with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and other rural development schemes, relevant to the creation of infrastructure. The approximate cost is Rs. 1.25 crore. According to a Government Order (G.O.), the funds required to meet recurring costs for the parks’ functioning will be met with the share amount collected from SHGs for availing the facilities.To meet the initial running cost during the incubation period, the funds of the District Supply and Marketing Society will be used. The livelihood parks will act as both a point of collectivism for SHG-run enterprise for production process and a marketing area for buyers. The parks will ensure year-round availability of a particular product at a single point for the buyer, in addition to being a learning hub for visitors.Five of the proposed 25 parks are to be set up during the current year. Occupants will pay the electricity charges based on their production unit’s consumption. The common consumption charges will be paid with the collected rent and entry fee collected from visitors. Sites for the parks are being shortlisted, which will include locations close to places of religious significance, tourist spots, major roads and access points of districts.  The parks, to be spread over 25,000 to 40,000 sqft, are aimed at providing better working ambience for rural artisans and producers of farm-based and value added products||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/livelihood-parks-to-come-up-over-the-next-three-years/article38052455.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Menstrual hygiene, self-defence workshops to be conducted||Students of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras have launched a social campaign called ‘UnMute’, focusing on menstrual hygiene management and self-defence training against sexual harassment. The campaign is being taken up as part of Shaastra 2022, the institute’s annual student technical festival. The students have partnered with non-governmental organisations (NGOs), such as Chudar, Go-Hygiene, CRY, Sakhya and Swayam, and will conduct programmes to distribute pads in Bengaluru. There will be an online session on gender inequality and its impact on people’s lives. The students have been conducting awareness workshops on menstrual hygiene management for school girls in the city since October 16. Every year, the Shaastra team identifies a social issue and undertakes initiatives to tackle it. Ratna Kumar Annbattula, faculty advisor for Shaastra 2022, said through their campaign, the students hoped to create a long-lasting impact by helping women to pursue a confident life. Approximately 23 million girls in the country drop out of school as they start menstruating, a report by Youthkiawaaz had found. Also, 62% of women in the 15-24 year age group rely on cloth during periods, it pointed out. Nitish Gupta, co-curricular affairs secretary for Shaastra 2022, said informing women of basic self-defence techniquescould bring down incidents of sexual harassment. Women can defend themselves by identifying dangerous situations and employing simple techniques, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workshop-on-menstrual-hygiene/article38052582.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hopeful of having its way on NEET||Though Governor R.N. Ravi is yet to clear the Bill adopted by the Assembly in September to scrap the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) as the sole gateway for admission to undergraduate medical courses, the DMK government is hopeful of having its way. Sources say the government’s optimism stems from the major difference between a similar Bill of 2017, which was rejected by President Ram Nath Kovind in September that year, and the present one. Unlike the former, the new Bill is based upon quantifiable data, as assessed by a committee led by A.K. Rajan, former judge of the Madras High Court, to study the impact of NEET on medical admissions. The Bill also protects the horizontal reservation for government school students, a measure that is based on the findings of another committee, headed by Justice P. Kalaiyarasan, also a former High Court judge. State better placed Though the National Medical Commission Act, 2019, has a provision for NEET that goes against the latest Bill, as the previous Indian Medical Council Act did, the sources feel the State government is better placed than the Union government, as the subject — public health — is on the State List (Entry 6). The Union government is expected to justify its stand on the ground that Entry 66 in the Union List — “co-ordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions” — backs its position. However, the State government says that the phrase, “determination of standards,” does not necessarily incorporate the meaning of holding a common test for regulating admissions. The government is also banking on various judicial pronouncements, including the Supreme Court quashing, five months ago, certain features of the 97th Constitutional Amendment on cooperative institutions, citing the absence of ratification by half of the States. In a majority judgment authored by Justice Rohinton Nariman, the court held that cooperative societies fell under the “exclusive legislative power” of the State legislatures. This can be stretched to cover the government’s position on NEET, the sources add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hopeful-of-having-its-way-on-neet/article38052418.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Extend Garima Greh scheme to entire LGBTQIA+ community: HC||In a big fillip to the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex, Asexual and others (LGBTQIA+) community, the Madras High Court has disapproved of the practice of Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment restricting the benefit of ‘Garima Greh’ scheme only to transgenders. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh wrote: “In the considered view of this court, the transgender persons are only a fraction of the entire LGBTQIA+ community. The benefit under the scheme has to be extended to the entire LGBTQIA+ community. The Ministry shall take this into consideration and enlarge the scope of the scheme.” The observations were made in the latest interim order passed by the court as part of a series of orders issued since March on the issue. When he called for a report from the Centre, the Ministry reported it had a mandate to deal with transgender persons alone for whom it had introduced ‘Garima Greh’ scheme. Under the scheme, the transgender persons get a secure living space and care. The Centre had provided 100% financial assistance for setting up such shelters in 12 States including Tamil Nadu. Basic requirements such as food, counselling, medical services and skill development training would be provided in those shelters. Stressing the importance of extending the scheme to entire LGBTQIA+ community, the judge said: “Only then can it be considered a wholesome and non-discriminative scheme...The Ministry has to bear in mind that persons from LGBTQIA+ community do not have any support from their family or from the society at large.” Ray of hope He went on to state: “The welfare schemes provided by the government are their only ray of hope. In view of the same, this court expects the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to extend the Garima Greh scheme to all persons from the LGBTQIA+ community.” He called for a report in this regard by February 18. The judge also wanted the Ministry to upload on its website the list of non governmental organisations that offer support to the community. Disapproving of the delay in uploading the details, he said: “Unless this process is undertaken, LGBTQIA+persons run the risk of abuse and threat amidst other hardships.” On being told that National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) had pulled down from its website a training material for school teachers on transgender concerns only to review it and not because of any external pressure, the judge hoped that the material would be reviewed and implemented during the next academic session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-garima-greh-scheme-to-entire-lgbtqia-community-hc/article38052420.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A disaster in the making for long||The collapse of one of the apartment buildings at the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board tenements at Tiruvottiyur was a disaster in the making for long, a look at the residents’ grievances and the quality of the buildings revealed. Besides occasional repairs, mainly re-plastering the walls and the ceilings, nothing was done by TNUHDB (previously the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board) to assess the quality of the buildings, despite several complaints, said K. Mahalakshmi, a resident of one of the buildings. “All officials are here now after the collapse. I want them to come in and look at the quality of our buildings. While we cook and eat, the plaster on the ceilings flakes and falls on our food...,” she said. Banu Raghavan, another resident, said that while the cracks started developing two days ago in the collapsed building, no one immediately panicked as they were used to the deterioration. “Almost all our buildings have cracks of varying degrees. Once in a while, TNUHDB fixed them with cement. Nothing else happened,” she said. R. Dheenan, who lived on the ground floor of the building adjacent to the collapsed building, showed a huge cavity on the ground in the covered space between the two wings of his buildings. “If I insert a one-metre pipe, it vanishes. It is very risky as the foundation does not seem to be strong. What is the point of plastering the ceilings without doing anything to address this problem,” he asked. R. Prakash, who lived on the C-Block, said that a few years ago, a huge cavity appeared right below his building. “Children used to go inside and play. After a lot of complaints, they filled it with sand. We do not know if any proper assessment was done,” he said. Many residents, especially the older people, said they were afraid of getting back to the buildings. TNUHDB Minister T.M. Anbarasan told the media that the government had planned to demolish and reconstruct 23,000 old and dilapidated tenements across the State, with an allocation of Rs. 2,500 crore to begin work on 7,500 tenements this fiscal. The tenements at Tiruvottiyur were not included in the project as they were only 26 years old. A senior official of TNUHDB clarified that only buildings of over 30 years were considered for reconstruction. But funds were allocated for repairs to the Tiruvottiyur tenements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-disaster-in-the-making-for-long/article38052442.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Personalities from various fields honoured||Several personalities from various fields were honoured at the Achievers Award ceremony organised by the South Madras Club here on Monday. While speaking at the event, N. Ravi, publisher, The Hindu Group, said people who were being honoured had been outstanding in their respective fields and contributed a significant part to nation-building. “Their pursuit of excellence, hard work, talent and values of caring and giving are what we celebrate today. They serve as a role model inspiring the present and the succeeding generations with confidence, and through their work they make the city and nation a better place,” he said. Mr. Ravi congratulated all the awardees and noted that among them were eminent medical practitioners whose role as life-savers had been very significant in these traumatic times. Among the people who were honoured were Lieutenant General A. Arun, general officer, commanding headquarters, Dakshin Bharat Area; Sudha Seshayyan, vice-chancellor, Dr. MGR Medical University; Thiagarajan Srinivasan, director, Institute of Liver Transplant and GI surgery, MGM Hospital; Anbarasu Mohan Raj, director and clinical head, cardiovascular and thoracic surgery, Medway Heart Institute. Subramanian Swaminathan, director, infectious diseases, Gleneagles Global Health City; Mohan Rajan, chairman and medical director, Rajan Eye Care Hospital; K. Sridhar, group head, Institute of Neurosciences, MGM Hospital; Bhairavi Senthil, medical director of Skin Health Foundation; T. Palaniappan, chairman, Medway Group of Hospitals and many others were also awarded. President of the South Madras Club T.S. Krishna also spoke at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/personalities-from-various-fields-honoured/article38052415.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bar association president suspended from practice||The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (BCTNP) on Monday suspended from practice the president of Kamuthi Bar Association in Ramanathapuram district since he had been accused of misbehaving with a woman court staff under the influence of alcohol on the court campus. A notification issued by the council stated that N. Muniasamy would not be entitled to practice as an advocate in any court, tribunal or other authorities in the country either in his name or in any assumed name till the disposal of disciplinary proceedings initiated against him for the charge of misbehaviour. BCTNP chairman P.S. Amalraj said the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court had taken serious note of the lawyer’s conduct in an order passed on December 16. The court had ordered registration of a criminal case though the victim did not want to pursue the matter since she had obtained transfer. The High Court had insisted upon a police investigation since the allegations were extremely serious and the matter concerned the safety of a woman employee and the sanctity of the court. The matter was also referred to the BCTNP for appropriate action and therefore the Bar association president was suspended from practice, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bar-association-president-suspended-from-practice/article38052561.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vadivelu to be discharged soon: hospital||Actor Vadivelu, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on December 23 after testing positive for COVID-19, would be discharged soon. A release issued by Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre on Monday said he was recovering well, and his condition was stable. The actor had visited the United Kingdom for a film shoot. On his return, he tested positive for the infection and opted for hospital isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vadivelu-to-be-discharged-soon-says-hospital/article38052444.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Photo Biennale galleries go live digitally||The Chennai Photo Biennale has gone live with its third edition, with digital showcases on https:// chennaiphotobiennal.com People can now view the work of 37 artists and all the relevant information related to them on the website. Both their journals, Through the Glass, Darkly and Maps of Disquiet can be viewed online at journal.chennaiphotobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photo-biennale-galleries-go-live-digitally/article38052865.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for blackmail in Chennai||The Greater Chennai Police have arrested an event manager for blackmailing a 21-year-old woman, who was pursuing a career in modelling. The police said the accused, Ranjith, 26, of Krishnapuram in Tiruppur district, approached her, claiming that he would get her an opportunity to act in films. When she did not respond, Ranjith contacted her from another number, impersonating a woman. He asked her to send her photographs, saying it would help her modelling career. Falling for this, the victim sent her photographs to him. Ranjith edited the images and threatened her that he would share them on social media if she refused his demands. The victim’s father lodged a complaint with the Kolathur police. Ranjith, who was staying in Perumbakkam, was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-blackmail-in-chennai/article38052866.ece
28 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t give nod to NEET exemption Bill’||Puthiya Tamilagam founder K. Krishnasamy has written to Governor R.N. Ravi, urging him not to give his assent to the Bill seeking an exemption for the State from NEET. He said the DMK Government should not be allowed to use the term Ondriya Arasu (Union) to refer to the Centre, and sought the removal of the term from the Assembly records. “Only those with vested interests are seeking the abolition of NEET, while students and the public have welcomed it,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-give-nod-to-neet-exemption-bill/article38052416.ece
28 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Investigate fraudulent recruitment in AICTE’||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Monday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to order a probe into a reported complaint given by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) regarding the fraudulent recruitment of 18 persons to various posts in the southern regional centre of the council. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam quoted an official of the AICTE as having said that there were only 13 posts in the regional centre and the AICTE had not called for applications through advertisements. There were fears that details of bank accounts of the 18 persons might have been procured by those who had indulged in the fraudulent act. This kind of fraudulent act should be nipped in the bud, he said. TTV’s poser AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Monday wondered how the police, who had denied permission to his party for observing the death anniversary of former Chief Minister M.G.Ramachandran last week, remained a mute spectator to the meeting addressed by DMK youth wing secretary and MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin in Coimbatore on Sunday. In a series of tweets, he sought to know whether any expert would have told the DMK regime that the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus would spread only through meetings organised by the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/investigate-fraudulent-recruitment-in-aicte/article38052417.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM hands over enhanced subsidy to temples||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday handed over cheques for Rs. 6 crore and Rs. 3 crore towards enhanced subsidy for 490 temples in Kanniyakumari district and 225 temples under the Pudukottai Samasthanam, respectively. He handed over the enhanced subsidy to the executive officers of two temples at a function held at the Secretariat. HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, who was present on the occasion, said many of these temples did not even have ghee for lighting lamps, and the staff were getting a very dismal amount as salary due to a lack of income. This was despite smaller temples getting a share of the income of larger temples, he added. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, HR&CE Secretary B. Chandra Mohan and Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-hands-over-enhanced-subsidy-to-temples/article38052425.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation to build 89 roads at Rs. 10 crore: Minister||Coimbatore Corporation will soon build 89 roads measuring 17.87 km at Rs. 10 crore, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji said here on Monday after participating in ground-breaking ceremony. Funds In the first phase, the Corporation would construct 54 roads measuring 14.85km for Rs. 6 crore. The civic body building damaged roads was consequent upon Chief Minister M.K. Stalin giving Rs. 200 crore to the Corporation. The Rs. 6-crore work that the Corporation had taken up first was from the funds given by the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Fund, Mr. Senthilbalaji said and added that he had instructed the Corporation to complete the works at the earliest. In the past, the then government had failed to repair damaged roads or build roads in the city. This was obvious when the Chief Minister heard grievances from the public at Gram Sabha meetings. Top most among the grievances that the public aired was damaged roads, particularly those roads that the Corporation had dug for laying underground sewer lines. It was based on the Chief Minister’s advice that the State Government had sanctioned Rs. 200 crore to the Corporation. There were several bridge works that were incomplete in Coimbatore because of litigations and objections from the public. This was because the previous government failed to take public into confidence before starting bridge projects, he said. Mr. Senthilbalaji said he had asked the district administration to talk to the litigants, the public who had expressed reservations to hear their grievances so as to arrive at a consensus to resume the stalled bridge works. He also said that the Corporation would soon start work on the Semmozhi Poonga project. The Corporation was also working out a solution to ensure equitable water distribution as irregular and insufficient water supply was one of the grievances that public had raised when he interacted with them during his ward visits. Coimbatore found a special place in the Chief Minister’s scheme of things and very soon the district would get many more projects for development, he added. The Minister also gave identity cards to 350 persons selected under the Livelihood Improvement of Urban Poor Communities project. District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara and other senior officials were present at the ground-breaking ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-to-build-89-roads-at-rs-10-crore-minister/article38052472.ece
28 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Manufacturers urged to focus on quality||Focus on quality by Indian manufacturers will enable the country to register higher exports, R. Srinivasan, Chairman and Managing Director of Emerald Industries, said. Inaugurating the 35th national convention of the Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI) here on Monday, he said that India can become a super power by concentrating on quality of the products made and by improving the skills of its workforce. The pandemic has led to higher demand from international buyers for jewellery made in India and those who want quality products are able to get it from India as the jewellery made here meets international standards. Quality tools such as 5 S and Kaizen help improve productivity and give a competitive advantage. Hence, industries need to have continuous focus on quality, he said. Nithyanandan Devaraj, Executive Director, Amex Alloys and Secretary of the Coimbatore Management Association, said workmanship and quality will be the distinguishing factors in a multi-polar global economy. Quality Circle Forum of India National President S.J. Kalokhe said the forum is spreading knowledge to strengthen the weakest links in the industry. The country has 6.34 crore MSMEs and these are the backbone of the Indian economy. The 'Mission one lakh MSMEs' of the forum is to introduce quality control tools to the MSMEs and enable these units to improve quality and delivery and get good prices. The members of the forum should take this programme to their supply chain units too. The members should also take advantage of the certification programmes conducted by it. D.K. Srivastava, Executive Director of QCFI, gave an overall view of the three-day national convention and said the industry visits will get an insight into how quality control measures are implemented by the units even in rural areas here. The participants presented the case studies for evaluation by a panel of judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manufacturers-urged-to-focus-on-quality/article38052461.ece
28 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Around 2 lakh in 15-18 age group to be vaccinated in district||The district has to vaccinate 2 lakh to 2.20 lakh youth aged 15 to 18 years, said sources. Rough assessment After the Central Government opened COVID-19 vaccination for those in the age group of 15 to 18, the district administration made a rough assessment to arrive at the number of persons to be vaccinated. The assessment was based on the number in schools, college first year, drop-outs and working. The assessment also included out-station students studying in institutions in the district, the sources said and added that the number of such students was included because it was the administration’s responsibility to vaccinate those youth as well. The district administration awaited detailed guidelines from the Government of India and Government of Tamil Nadu on where and how to administer the vaccines – at schools, houses or a common place. Guidelines Sources also said the Government could come up with guidelines on vaccinating special children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/around-2-lakh-in-15-18-age-group-to-be-vaccinated-in-district/article38052475.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion in city from Dec. 29||Coimbatore City Police have announced changes in traffic pattern on State Bank Road (Railway Station Road) in the city from December 29 (Wednesday) to January 12 (Wednesday) to enable the Corporation lay drinking water line on the road. Vehicles from Avanashi Road bound via Railway Station Road will have to take the Uppilipalayam signal, Avanashi Road flyover and Good Shed Road and proceed to Ukkadam. Vehicles bound for Tiruchi Road could take the Lanka Corner, Government Hospital, Classic Tower Junction, West Club Road, Race Course, Sungam roundabout and reach Tiruchi Road. Vehicles from Avanashi Road, Anna Statue junction could take the Huzur Road, Race Course Police station, KG Theatre, Government Arts College, Government Hospital, Lanka Corner and reach Ukkadam or railway station. Vehicles from Avanashi Road old flyover and Dr.Nanjappa Road could take the Uppilipalayam Junction, Red Cross junction, KG Theatre junction, Government Arts College, Classic Tower and then proceed to Ukkadam or take the West Club road to reach Tiruchi Road. Vehicles from Tiruchi Road and Ukkadam could use the Railway Station Road as one way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversion-in-city-from-dec-29/article38052481.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TPDK, political parties stage protest||Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), and a few other political parties and outfits staged a protest here on Monday condemning the Indian Railways for ignoring people’s needs. The Kazhagam’s general secretary Ku. Ramakrishnan said there was very poor train connectivity from the district to southern Tamil Nadu. Prior to the completion of Metre Gauge to Broad Gauge line conversion, there were eight trains daily from Coimbatore to Madurai, Rameswaram, Thoothukudi, Nagercoil and a few other places. After spending Rs. 300 crore on line conversion, the Indian Railways, particularly the Palakkad Railway Division, was not keen on restoring those trains. Recently the Railways announced a train from Pollachi to Tiruchendur. Commuters in the district who were happy with the new train service sought extension of the train to either Coimbatore or Mettupalayam, Mr. Ramakrishnan said and added that the Palakkad Railway Division chose to extend the train to Palakkad though. This was condemnable and showed how the Division sidestepped the people’s demands. The protesting organisations’ demand was for taking the administrative control of Pollachi and Kinathukadavu sections from the Palakkad Division to the Salem Railway Division. For, this was the only way to protect the people’s interest, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpdk-political-parties-stage-protest/article38052477.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 88 fresh cases||A total of 88 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Monday. The Health Department did not report any new deaths and the toll remained at 2,508. As many as 98 persons recovered on Monday and the district had 1,012 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 39 new cases on Monday. The district had 456 active cases and 48 persons recovered. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll went up to 1,024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-88-fresh-cases/article38052478.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore City police get high-end vehicle||The Coimbatore City police on Monday received a high-end police vehicle with audio-visual equipment to raise awareness on crimes against women and children. Sources said that this was one of the two vehicles flagged off by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on December 6 in Chennai. The Tamil Nadu Police has allocated one vehicle for the Greater Chennai Police and other for the Coimbatore City Police. With an estimated worth of Rs. 40 lakh, the vehicle is fitted with a large LED screen on its side, which would be used to screen pre-loaded videos related to the prevention of sexual harassment of women and children. The vehicle is also equipped with high-quality speakers and CCTV cameras, the sources said. The vehicle is likely to be used for community policing and for awareness programmes in public places and educational institutions. It will travel across the district and then also visit the neighbouring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-city-police-get-high-end-vehicle/article38052463.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Traders postpone move to set up shops||Kaikani Siruvyaparigal Kootamaippu – Thiyagi Kumaran Market association has decided to postpone the move to occupy shops east of T.K. Market following talks with the Coimbatore Corporation officials. The association had earlier threatened to occupy the shops on Monday morning. They had said that after the Corporation evicted them from the Then-Vadal Street in 2020 following a court order, they had lost their livelihood and were finding it difficult to get back on their feet. The Corporation had removed 88 persons who had set up shops encroaching the street. After the Corporation built a complex of shops east of the Market, the evicted traders through the association had claimed preferential treatment, to which the Corporation objected saying it would openly auction the shops. The association Secretary S.S. Krishnamoorthy said after the association had threatened to occupy the new shops, the Corporation officials had invited the member for talks on Sunday. At the meeting the traders decided to give up the protest for now as the officials assured them of allotment of shops. Thereafter, on Monday morning the association members met at the Market and decided to arrange the money to be paid to the Corporation for occupying the new shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-postpone-move-to-set-up-shops/article38052473.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man gets double life term for murder||The Special Court for the Trial of Bomb Blasts Cases, Coimbatore, on Monday awarded double life sentence to a man for murdering his relative in 2016. Legal sources said that B. Raviprakash (31) murdered his aunt Arukkani and stole her jewellery weighing seven sovereign at Anamalai in Coimbatore on September 23, 2016. The Anamalai police booked him under sections 302 (Punishment for murder), 449 (House-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death) and 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him in 2018, the sources said. Judge D. Balu sentenced the accused to life imprisonment and 10 years of rigorous imprisonment. The sentences will run concurrently. The accused was also levied a fine of Rs. 15,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-double-life-term-for-murder/article38052471.ece
28 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Capacity building programme gets under way for ATR field staff||A two-day capacity building programme for the 42 field staff of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) began at the Attakatti Wildlife Management Training Centre on Monday. The programme is being organised by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). Talks by experts According to V. Selvan, Assistant Conservator of Forest, the programme will have talks by experts on scenario of wildlife crime in India and role of WCCB, wildlife forensics, collection preservation and labelling of evidences from the wildlife crime scene, Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, Criminal Procedure Code and Indian Penal Code provisions related to search, seizure and arrest, release of seized materials by court, custodial interrogation and recording of statement by magistrate, frequently trafficked wildlife contraband and identification of wildlife products, parts and derivatives, collection of intelligence and interrogation techniques, handling of cyber wildlife crimes, wildlife crime networks, and illegal elephant ivory trade. Forest range officers, foresters and forest guards from the Tiruppur and Pollachi divisions of ATR are participating in the training, the Assistant Conservator of Forest said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/capacity-building-programme-for-atr-field-staff-begins/article38052466.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Eight injured in bus accident||Eight passengers of a government bus were injured after a truck hit the side of the bus near Mettupalayam on Monday. The police said that the TNSTC mofussil bus was travelling towards Sathyamangalam in Erode district from Mettupalayam. At 8 a.m., as the bus reached Alangombu near Sirumugai, a truck lost control and hit the bus. In the impact, the bus overturned and eight passengers suffered minor injuries. They were taken to Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, and discharged in a few hours, according to the police. The Sirumugai police registered a case against the truck driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-injured-in-bus-accident/article38052479.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore/ Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Restore road to village’||Residents of Vellimalai Pattinam Panchayat, near Viraliyur, petitioned the district administration at the weekly grievance meet on Monday demanding restoration of the road that provided access to their village. After the recent rain the road connecting their village was damaged and filled with sand. They were unable to use the road. Motorists found it difficult to drive. Many fell off vehicles and sustained injuries. Farm produce They were unable to use the road to transport their agriculture produce or return at night, given the fact that their village was frequented by elephants. When they tried to remove the sand, a few persons who claimed to represent a farmers’ organisation raised objection. The petitioners said when they approached the local officials they were told to meet the Collector as giving permission to remove sand was beyond their authority. ‘Remove toll booth’ Members of Sungachavadi Ethirppu Iyakkam petitioned Tiruppur District Collector S. Vineeth on Monday demanding the removal of a toll booth at Avinashipalayam here. They claimed in the petition that the toll booth’s construction had encroached water bodies and its removal was allegedly ordered by the Revenue Department in 2018. However, no action was initiated in over three years, they alleged. Govt. doctor accused of corruption A group of differently abled persons petitioned the District Collector accusing a government doctor of issuing counterfeit disability certificates to differently abled after accepting bribes. They alleged in the petition that the doctor at the Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruppur, accepted bribe to issue certificates with increased disability percentage and demanded action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-road-to-village/article38052459.ece
28 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||23 tonnes of PDS rice seized, six persons held||The sleuths of Civil Supplies-Criminal Investigation Department seized 23 tonnes of ration rice, meant for supply under the public distribution system and arrested six persons in this connection on Sunday night. They were identified as M. Ranjith, S. Velmurugan, U. Purushothaman, G. Perumal, M. Ramachandiran and M. Ramalingam. Vehicle check Acting on a tip-off, a team conducting vehicle checks at Maankulam near Veppur intercepted a lorry. The team checked the vehicle and found 23 tonnes of rice meant for supply under the public distribution system. The rice was seized and handed over to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. Police said the suspects diverted the rice meant for public distribution and stocked it in the vehicle. The investigation revealed that they were also collecting PDS rice from the surrounding areas and planned to sell it in Andhra Pradesh where the rice would be polished and sent back to the markets. A case has been registered and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-tonnes-of-pds-rice-seized-6-held/article38052873.ece
28 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Grievances redress meeting held||The weekly grievances redress meeting was held under the aegis of District Collector S. Dhivyadarshini at the Collectorate here on Monday. The meeting witnessed the receipt of 585 petitions related to education assistance, old age pension, green housing allotments, house pattas, water connections among others. In Krishnagiri, 342 petitions were received at the meeting presided over by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grievances-redress-meeting-held/article38052584.ece
28 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers seek closure of two quarries in Nambiyur||Stating that the use of high-intensity explosives to extract stones in two quarries is damaging their houses and causing hardship, people from Kannankattupalayam in Elathur Town Panchayat in Nambiyur Taluk submitted a petition to the district administration here on Monday seeking permanent closure of the quarries. The petition said over 10,000 people were residing in villages in Elathur Town Panchayat and Anjanur Panchayat where the 200-year-old Sri Pon Nagamalai Subramaniya Swami Temple was located. The two quarries, located about 20 metres from the temple on a poramboke land, continued to operate without renewing their licences. “The use of high-intensity explosives poses threat to our lives and property,” they said. The villagers said the crusher units were functioning round the clock and the dust was affecting people. Also, after the blast, stones fell on the houses and injured people, they alleged. Students were unable to study as the noise from the crusher unit was disturbing them. “Many face respiratory problems and are under treatment,” they added. The villagers said due to air and water pollution, they could not cultivate any crop on their lands and the environment was also polluted. “Since they are digging beyond the permitted depth, it will affect the temple also,” they said. The villagers wanted the illegally functioning quarries closed permanently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-seek-closure-of-two-quarries-in-nambiyur/article38052594.ece
28 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Shops warned against employing child workers||Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) V.M. Thirugnanasambandam has asked shops and establishments not to employ children below 14 years and warned that action would be taken against violators. A release said, as per Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986, a portal Platform for Effective Enforcement for No Child Labour (www.pencil.gov.in) was launched by the Ministry of Labour and Employment. Complaint On March 1, 2021, a complaint was registered in the portal that two child workers were found at a mechanic shop on Chinnamuthu Street in Edayankattu Valasu. Officials inspected the shop and rescued the child workers. A case was registered against the shop owner and a trial was conducted in the court here. On December 10, 2021, the court levied a fine of Rs. 18,000 on the owner. The release warned shops and establishments not to employ child workers and also children in the age group of 15 to 18. “If violations are found, a fine of Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 50,000 could be levied or six months imprisonment or both,” the release said. ‘Inform Childline’ The release asked the public to inform Childline 1098 if they found children employed in shops and establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-warned-against-employing-child-workers/article38052589.ece
28 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two watch towers erected in Erode to monitor crowd||To monitor the movement of people on the night of December 31, the district police have erected watch towers at Panneerselvam Park and Manikoondu. Due to the spread of COVID-19, the government banned New Year celebrations in 2021. At present, the Omicron variant is spreading and the government is yet to announce whether celebrations are permitted to welcome the New Year. Usually, people gather in large numbers in front of the C.S.I Brough Memorial Church at the Panneerselvam Park Junction to welcome the New Year. As a measure to monitor the crowd, the police erected the watch towers at the busy junctions in the city. A senior official said they were yet to receive a direction from the government over the New Year celebrations and hence, as a precautionary measure, they had erected the towers and policemen would monitor the crowd to prevent any untoward incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-watch-towers-erected-in-erode-to-monitor-crowd/article38052596.ece
28 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rough stone quarries: public hearing to be held today||Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) will hold a public hearing over the proposal to establish rough stone quarries at Chennampatti village in Anthiyur taluk on Tuesday. A release said four persons had applied for quarrying land to the extent of 17.99 hectares at Chennampatti village and as per the notification issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forests dated September 14, 2006, Environmental Clearance was mandatory. A public hearing was scheduled to be held at the Kongu Marriage Hall at Sanisandai in Chennampatti village at 11 a.m. on Tuesday and the public can participate and voice their opinion over the proposals. Officials said that the four proposed quarries aim to produce about 31,56,818 metres of rough stone and 86,387 metres of topsoil over a period of five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rough-stone-quarries-public-hearing-to-be-held-today/article38052591.ece
28 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||DIG inspects weapons, records||Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Coimbatore Range, M.S. Muthusamy inspected the weapons, police vehicles and records at the Armed Reserve Ground at Anakalpalayam here on Monday. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police V. Sasimohan, Mr. Muthusamy received the guard of honour. He inspected the dog squad and appreciated the team for maintaining the squad. He also inspected the police supply stores and held discussions with officials. A total of 50 police personnel were given cash awards and certificates for their exemplary service in dealing with cases related to murder, dacoity and other crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dig-inspects-weapons-records/article38052586.ece
28 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two college students killed in accident||Two college students died after the two-wheeler they were travelling rammed a roadside tree at Pavalathampalayam on Erode-Perundurai Road on Sunday night. J. Dharun (17) of Paramathi Velur in Namakkal district was studying at a college in Vellode. He was returning to college along with his friend C. Abhinesh (19) of Sivakasi. Abhinesh who was riding the two-wheeler lost control over it and the vehicle hit the tree. Both were thrown out of the vehicle and Abhinesh died on the spot. Dharun suffered injuries and was admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Erode where he died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-college-students-killed-in-accident/article38052592.ece
28 December 2021||Kumbakonam,TAMIL NADU||A simple grass that brings out the mellifluous notes of nagaswaram||Thiruvavaduthurai, the small town that conjures up the image of nagaswaram wizard Rajarathinam Pillai, is also closely associated with seevali, a reed that is fitted with the instrument to produce the music. If playing nagaswaram demands enormous lung power, making seevali is no less a demanding job. “The process of thirattuthal, shaping the reed into a fine piece, takes a toll on the back of the seevali maker. A rope is tied to a small bar erected on the floor and the other end is tied around the waist of the seevali maker. He has to constantly pull it to fine-tune the reed by tightening the yarn around it,” explained G. Muthuraman, a seevali maker, who won this year’s Fernandes Award instituted by Parivadini, an organisation promoting music, musicians and artisans involved in making musical instruments. Fernandes, known as Parlandu, was the mridhangam maker of Palghat Mani Iyer. “I suffered heavily and underwent a hip surgery to relieve the pain,” said Mr. Muthuraman, whose grandfather N. Natarajasundara Pillai and father N. Ganesan were also seevali makers. A special grass known as korukku thatti is used for making seevali. The bamboo-sized grass is transformed into reed. After being harvested from the river beds, it will be dried and kept aside for a year before being cut into small pieces for making seevali. “We will flatten each piece by placing it in a press. Then we will tie them together and boil. We boil it with paddy as others may simply boil in water,” said Mr. Muturaman. Then comes drying them under the sun for a few days, followed by soaking them in ‘neerakaram’, made by further diluting the water drained after cooking rice and fermented for a day. “The soaking will improve the reed’s texture. After that we subject it to ‘thiratuthal’ and fix a small copper pipe so that it can be inserted into nagaswaram,” Mr. Muthuraman said. The seevalis would be made depending on the pitch of the nagaswaram player. “The reed’s size will determine the pitch. Nagaswaram players from Andhra Pradesh and naiyandi melam artistes from Tirunelveli normally place orders for seevalis with high pitch.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-simple-grass-that-brings-out-the-mellifluous-notes-of-nagaswaram/article38052544.ece
28 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Villagers seek ration shop, cell tower||Complaining lack of basic facilities in their village, residents of Ramagoundanpatti near Alanganallur in Madurai district submitted three petitions to the Collector. In their petitions, the residents complained of lack of ration shop, inadequate bus service and need for a mobile phone tower in the village. This is the third time they are seeking these facilities at the Collectorate. The representation for a ration shop was first made in 2012. A. Selvakumar, an IT professional who works in Chennai said the villagers had to travel six to seven kilometres to the nearest ration shop in another village. Though there were about 350 families, ration shop has not been set up in the village, he said. Another problem faced by the villagers is inadequate bus service which affected school children the most, he said. However, their major grievance is the lack of a mobile phone tower in the village. During the COVID-19 lockdown, the villagers faced network issues. People could not make phone calls and the children could not attend online classes. Mr. Selvakumar said that he has been working from home due to the pandemic. He travelled to the nearby village every day to work online due to connectivity issue in Ramagoundanpatti. The village is situated on a rocky terrain. The students tried sitting on boulders in the higher terrain in a bid to catch signal on their mobile phones to attend online classes but in vain. Now, the threat of the third wave of COVID-19 looms large. Therefore, the authorities have to take steps to erect a mobile phone tower in the village, he said. Vendors’ plea The day also saw roadside vendors making a representation to the Collector seeking permission to put up stalls on the renovated Periyar bus stand premises. They said that prior to the re-development of the bus stand, they used to put up their stalls on the platforms of the bus stand. However, when the development works started, they were moved out. Now that the bus stand has started functioning, they should be allowed to put up stalls on the platforms in the bus stand, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-seek-ration-shop-cell-tower/article38052789.ece
28 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Retired employees of TNSTC seek disbursal of DA arrears||Retired employees of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) on Monday staged a demonstration in front of the Madurai Collectorate demanding payment of increased dearness allowance (DA). The retired staff have not received it since November 2015, they said. TNSTC’s Retired Employees Welfare Association (REWA) said that there were about 85,000 retired employees in the State. Several representations were made to the authorities, but the demand has not been met, said its general secretary R. Devaraj. They urged the authorities to disburse the dearness allowance immediately. Further, Mr. Devaraj complained that the health insurance scheme was not being implemented for the retired staff. “We have urged the authorities to recover the premium from the pension. But the request has not been looked into,” he said. They also urged adequate medical cover for the TNSTC staff and family pensioners. The terminal benefits have also not been settled to staff members who have retired since May 2020. It has not been settled for those who opted for the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) and for the family members of those employees who had died, he said. The minimum pension amount should be fixed at Rs. 7,850 as per the Pay Commission. But it is only Rs. 3,050. “How can people run a family with this small amount,” he said. The association members also demand that the new pension scheme be scrapped and the old pension scheme be implemented. Following the demonstration, the association members submitted a fresh representation to the Collector. Hairdressers’ plea Tamil Nadu Hairdressers Association based in Jaihindpuram submitted a representation to the Collector demanding free house site pattas.  The association members said that they were financially hit during the two waves of the COVID-19 pandemic. Association president P. Selvam said that they had first made a representation in 2016. However, since no action was taken, they have made a representation again seeking free house site pattas. “Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our salons remained closed for months together. The financial assistance provided by the government was not sufficient. At least they should consider our request for free house site pattas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-tnstc-employees-seek-disbursal-of-da-arrears/article38052572.ece
28 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Eavesdropper hatched Dec. 8 highway robbery||Driver of the relative of a gold finance company top honcho, who overheard a conversation about movement of huge amount of jewellery in a car from Villupuram, had masterminded the highway robbery reported near Kottampatti in the late night hours on December 8. Investigation by special teams of police led to the arrest of 11 persons and recovery of jewellery weighing 166 sovereigns robbed by the armed men. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the recovered jewellery belonging to Best Money Gold, Madurai Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said that the police had strongly suspected some insider’s hand in the robbery. However, the probe led to Maheshwaran, the driver of the relative of the finance company’s top administrator. “As he knew about the movement of gold, he had conspired with his friends Senthil alias Senthil Kumar and Muthupandi from Sivaganga district to rob it on the highway,” the SP said. A big gang with arms had gone to Villupuram and kept a watch on the movement of the finance company employees. They had followed them right from Villupuram and were waiting for an opportune time to strike. When they reached Ayyapatti junction, they waylaid the car and robbed the jewels at machete-point. After pushing out all the three employees from the car, they drove away the vehicle with the gold. After abandoning the car at a distance, they fled the scene. ‘Rules flouted’ The SP said that the company employees had not followed the rules that their car should have GPS tracking device and their travel with huge property should not be undertaken at night. “Besides, they had also violated the instruction that a car with valuables should not be stopped anywhere enroute,” the SP said. Special teams of police recovered the jewellery which were kept hidden at several places. Among the 11 arrested are Senthil, Vincent, Maheswaran, Narayanan, Anand, Muthupandi, Sathishkumar and Manikandan. The police are also on the lookout for two more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eavesdropper-hatched-highway-robbery-say-police/article38052563.ece
28 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. helicopter operators fined for tax evasion||Two helicopter operators were asked to pay a fine of Rs. 4.25 lakh on charges of tax evasion by officials from the Department of Commercial Taxes (Enforcement Wing) here on Monday. The two firms were conducting ‘joy rides’ for quite some time. They were reportedly collecting Rs. 5,000 per person for the ride. However, it came to notice that the operators had not adhered to the mandatory tax compliances of the government. They had not registered with the authority and obtained a licence to operate nor had they remitted the GST. The joy ride was being conducted as a business with the object of making a profit, officials said. A team led by Joint Commissioner (Enforcement) Indra conducted an inquiry on Saturday with the two operators and found that they had not paid taxes. Hence, they were asked to pay a fine of Rs. 4.25 lakh. A senior official said the authorities were in the process of recovering the fine, and warned of strict action against firms found violating the laws. The joy ride had been attracting crowds as flying atop the temple city was a new experience for many people, the officials said, adding that the operators were using an open space near a college on the Madurai-Sivaganga Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-helicopter-operators-fined-for-tax-evasion/article38052419.ece
28 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 141.60 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 456 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.42 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 495 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,791 mcft. There was no rainfall in the region during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38052574.ece
28 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Special medical camp in Kolli Hills today||A special medical camp for over 1,500 people living in 10 habitations at Kolli Hills will be held at Valvil Ori auditorium in Semmedu here on Tuesday. In a release, Collector Shreya P. Singh said there were over a hundred habitations in Kolli Hills where tribal people live in large numbers. To provide healthcare facilities to people, one government hospital, three government primary health centres, 16 sub-centres and mobile hospitals were functioning in the hill area. The district administration planned to conduct medical camps and in the first phase, a camp would be conducted to cover 10 habitations. The medical camp, ‘Nalam Kappom Kolli Malai’, would be held to check people for blood pressure, sugar level, screening of eyes, ECG and scan for pregnant women. Also, differently-abled persons would be screened for providing identity cards, the release said. Local bodies were instructed to create awareness among people about the camp, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-medical-camp-in-kolli-hills-today/article38052590.ece
28 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||GPS installation mandatory in transport vehicles in U.T.||The installation of Global Positioning System (GPS) and panic buttons will soon be made mandatory in all public transport vehicles in Puducherry. As many as 14,000 public transport vehicles will be tracked once the GPS Monitoring Centre is put in place by the Transport Department. The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MORTH) has sanctioned Rs. 3.25 crore to the Union Territory for establishing the GPS Monitoring Centre as per its guidelines. The funds will be used for setting up infrastructure, undertaking development, customisation, deployment and management of State-wise Vehicle Tracking Platform for safety and enforcement as per the specification under the Nirbhaya framework. According to A.S. Sivakumar, Transport Commissioner, “The government has finalised the System Integrator (SI) for the tracking system through tenders. The SI, expected to be ready from January, will provide back up monitoring and help with the support system for a period of two years. A sum of Rs. 1.35 crore sanctioned by the Centre will be retained by MORTH for cloud and dashboard support.” Once the GPS Monitoring Centre is up and functioning, the government is expected to come out with a notification mandating installation of GPS and panic buttons in all transport vehicles, except autorickshaws, from February 2022. While all new vehicles registered with the RTOs in the Union Territory from January 1, 2019, are fitted with GPS, the vehicle location tracking device and emergency button shall be retrofitted by vendors approved by MORTH for the older vehicles which were registered before January 1, 2019. The panic buttons will send out alerts upon pressing during emergencies, speeding, rash driving, and in case of harassment or misbehaviour. According to statistics from the Transport Department, there are 11,27,940 vehicles on the road in the Union Territory, of which about 14,481 are transport vehicles. Another 11 lakh are non-transport vehicles, of which 7,70,839 are two-wheelers. Officials said that owners of private vehicles had to install the GPS devices costing from Rs. 8,000 on their own depending on the manufacturer. The GPS devices will receive satellite signals triangulating data such as location, speed, travel history and driving patterns. This data can be collected by the vehicle owner as well as by the Transport Department and enforcement agencies. Officials will be able to monitor the movement of transport vehicles across the Union Territory from the control room. Motor Vehicle Inspectors and officials of Puducherry Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) will be able to know the exact location of stage carriers and inter-State vehicles. Mr. Sivakumar said arrival and departure timings, deviation from original route and over speeding could also be checked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gps-installation-mandatory-in-transport-vehicles-in-ut/article38052876.ece
28 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||National art expo under way in Auroville||Over 90 artists from 19 States have displayed their works at an ongoing national art exhibition at the Kalakendra art gallery, Bharat Nivas, in Auroville. Different styles The exhibition, which features about 190 works in different media and styles, is hosted by the Pondicherry Art Akademy. The show was opened recently by Transport Minister Chandira Priyanga. Jayanti Ravi, Secretary, Auroville Foundation, K.K. Segar, artist and akademy president and G. Sridalaadevi, secretary, participated in the inaugural. The event draws to a close on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-art-expo-under-way-in-auroville/article38052868.ece
28 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cancel New Year festivities: Narayanasamy||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy called upon Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan urging them to ban the New Year celebrations in the larger interests of public safety against the backdrop of the persisting and newly-emerged variants of COVID-19. In a virtual address to media, Mr. Narayanasamy said every New Year’s eve witnessed not less than about 10,000 visitors to the beach area alone. At a time when larger neighbouring States such as Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had banned celebrations, people from there were most likely to converge on Puducherry to welcome 2022. Super spreader fear With the Delta variant still around and the emergence of the new Omicron strain, the celebrations would potentially be super spreader events, Mr. Narayanasamy said. In such a situation, the onus of any surge in coronavirus cases after New Year festivities would be on the Chief Minister for permitting a series of events that would draw sizeable crowds. The Congress leader also urged the government to reconsider the conduct of the National Youth Festival from January 12 to 16. He said he was unable to figure out why the Centre and the Puducherry government decided to hold an event with a likely attendance of 8,000 delegates at a small place like Puducherry during the pandemic. Trigger a spike Expressing his concern that the event could trigger a spike in coronavirus cases, Mr. Narayanasamy said the larger interests of health and safety of the population ought to have been considered while mooting such an event. He also questioned the move to convert the defunct AFT Mill as a stand-by Covid Care Centre instead of utilising the spacious IGMCRI. On the cooperative bank scam where pledged ornaments were sold off by a couple of unscrupulous staff and replaced with imitation jewellery, Mr. Narayanasamy said it had shaken the faith of the people in the cooperative bank sector. "Two officials of the bank have been arrested in the wake of unearthing of the scam. The police should crack down on the accused without bowing to any pressure to hush up the case," he said. He also alleged diversion of funds from various departments for distributing flood relief to ration cardholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancel-new-year-festivities-narayanasamy/article38052870.ece
28 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SFI protests Pondicherry varsity’s order debarring 11 students||Members of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) and representatives from various political parties on Monday held a demonstration in front of the Pondicherry University campus to register their opposition against the administration’s move to debar 11 students, who participated in a protest against fee hike last year. The university, in an order on December 17, had prohibited 11 students, including students’ council president Parichay Yadav, from taking admission in any course offered by the university for the next five years. They were also debarred from entering the campus during the five-year period, and a fine of Rs. 10,000 was imposed on each of them, which they must pay to receive their degree certificates. Leading the demonstration, S. Jayaprakash, president of the SFI, said the administration’s order was issued just before the reopening of the campus, nearly two years after the incident. “This is a clear attempt to threaten the students from involving themselves in any democratic protests. A show cause notice was issued to the students in August, 19 months after the incident,” he said. “Though the students had replied to the notice, there was no response from the university. Now, the administration has suddenly initiated disciplinary action and debarred them. The university must immediately revoke the order,” Mr. Jayaprakash demanded. Members from the DMK, CPI(M), VCK and Dravidar Kazhagam participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-protests-pondicherry-varsitys-order-debarring-11-students/article38052874.ece
28 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy asks T.N. to include history of Puducherry in lessons||The Tamil Nadu government should consider including the history of Puducherry in school textbooks, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said on Monday. Speaking after unveiling a statue of Tolkappiar, author of the oldest grammar treatise in Tamil, at the Puducherry Institute of Linguistics and Culture (PILC), Mr. Rangasamy said it was important for Tamil students (in the neighbouring State) to know the history of Puducherry. Tolkappiam, he said, was the fundamental text from which all Tamil literature was derived. Noting that pursuit of knowledge, perseverance and deep thinking are essential traits for researchers, Mr. Rangasamy called upon researchers to reproduce the quintessence of ancient books for the benefit of the next generation of students and scholars. Transport Minister Chandira Priyanga was among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-asks-tn-to-include-history-of-puducherry-in-textbooks/article38052872.ece
28 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports 10 new COVID-19 cases||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory even as 10 new cases were detected from 635 tests on Monday. Puducherry accounted for all the new cases with no new case reported from Karaikal, Yanam or Mahe in the last 24 hours. With 11 patients posting recovery from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 126. This comprised 38 patients in hospitals and 88 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.57%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery 98.45%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,880 — Puducherry (1,468), Karaikal (251), Yanam (109) and Mahe (52). The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,29,425 cases and 1,27,419 recovered patients. Meanwhile, 1,358 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered a total of 13,75,298 vaccine doses. As many as 10 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday. While Villupuram district reported six cases, taking the total number of cases to 46,109, Kallakurichi district recorded one case, taking the overall tally to 31,608.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-10-new-cases/article38052871.ece
28 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Rameswaram fishermen await talks with Union Minister||The Rameswaram fishermen were eagerly waiting for a meeting with Union External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar in New Delhi at the earliest to explain their plight, said fishermen association leader Jesu Raja here on Monday. The fishermen from Rameswaram, Thangachimadam, Pamban and Mandapam and from Pudukottai district had not ventured into sea since the arrest of 68 fishermen and seizure of their vessels by Sri Lankan Navy personnel under charges of trespass and poaching in Sri Lankan territorial waters. The fishermen rejected the claim of Sri Lankan Navy personnel of any poaching and maintained that it was their traditional right to fish in the Palk Bay and the issue continued to be unresolved for the last three decades. Following the recent incident, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had written a letter to the Union Ministry urging it to take up the issue with its Sri Lankan counterpart. According to Fisheries Minister Anitha Radhakrishnan, the government planned to lead a delegation comprising fishermen association representatives to New Delhi. They were waiting for the appointment with the Ministry. “As and when the Ministry allocates the time, we will go to Delhi,” a senior official in the Fisheries Department in Chennai told The Hindu . Decision on strike Meanwhile, the fishermen associations have announced that they would take a decision on withdrawing the strike only after the meeting the Union Minister and other officials in New Delhi. “Until then, we will not venture into sea,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rameswaram-fishermen-await-meeting-with-union-minister/article38052570.ece
28 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||TAN 2 briefly||The Chief Educational Officer in Ramanathapuram district has suspended two teachers, who were booked under the POCSO Act. About a week ago, a government school near Paramakudi came under scanner by the police after about 13 girl students allegedly complained that two teachers attempted to misbehave and sent obscene pictures and audio messages on their phones (of their parents). Based on a complaint from the Child Protection Officer, the police arrested one of the accused, while another had been reportedly absconding.    Ahead of the New Year celebrations, the police and excise officials from Theni and Idukki districts have enhanced the surveillance since the eve of Christmas. Police said that commodities, including liquor and ganja, among other narcotics would be smuggled. Hence, Officials had stepped up checks and installed special check posts at Cumbum Mettu, Bodi Mettu, Kumuli, Mandiparai, Moongipallam and other locations. The surveillance would be done round the clock till January 1, 2022.    A woman caused a flutter, when she squatted in front of the sub jail here on Monday. Dindigul AWPS police said that Kavita (37), wife of Ravikumar (42), now in the subjail, had complained that some authorities in the sub jail had demanded bribe to have an audience with the inmate for more time. It is said that Ravikumar was jailed here on October 18 based on a complaint from Shanmugam, a DMK functionary in the locality. It is said that the complainant influenced the authorities to torture her husband, who was not served food on time, the woman claimed. It is said that Ravikumar a resident of Chinnalapatti was a horse trainer and secretary of Devangar Chettiar Peravai. The exact motive between Ravikumar and Shanmugam was not known, but the police said that they would investigate into the charges of Kavita on the bribery by jail staff.    Residents from Kamakshipuram, Nadumalaipatti, Abirami Nagar and other locations within Balakrishnapuram panchayat thronged the Collectorate here on Monday, seeking free housing pattas. According to them, a majority of the people in the area were daily casual workers and they were homeless. The petitioners prayed to the Collector S Visakan to consider their plea and render justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tan-2-briefly/article38052560.ece
28 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DVAC sleuths register case against three forest staff||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) registered a case against a forest ranger, a retired guard and a watcher on charges of threatening a school teacher and demanding graft for not registering a case against him in 2019. C. Devendran, a graduate teacher, petitioned the DVAC, Chennai, demanding action against J.P. Ashok Kumar, Forest Ranger, Thammampatti Forest Range, C. Krishnaraj, Forest Guard, Belur South Beat, Thammampatti, and S. Manivel, Forest Watcher, Belur South Beat. Inquiry Following inquiry, it was found that Devendran owned an agricultural land at Nanangarai village in Gangavalli that was located along the reserve forest. In August 2018, the wheels of a tractor unloading the manure in his field got stuck in the mud and an earthmover was pressed into service to drag the tractor. While doing so, the earthmover and the tractor used the reserve forest. In February 2019, Krishnaraj and Manivel came to know of the incident and demanded Rs. 30,000 from Devendran for not registering a case of trespassing against him. But, Devendran said he could pay only Rs. 3,000. Both the forest staff informed their superior Ashok Kumar. On March 4, 2019, Ashok Kumar demanded Rs. 50,000 from Devendran and he paid Rs. 10,000. But Devendran was wrongfully confined in the office and later he escaped and got admitted to the Government Hospital in Attur. As the news spread, the Forest Department registered a case against Devendran and levied a fine of Rs. 50,000. Criminal conspiracy The inquiry revealed that the three committed offences of criminal conspiracy and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Chennai, gave permission to register a case. On Monday, DVAC, Salem, registered a case against the three. While Ashok Kumar continues to serve in Thammampatti, Krishnaraj has retired from service in 2019 and Manivel is no more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-sleuths-register-case-against-three-forest-staff/article38052587.ece
28 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Vendors in Yercaud submit petition against eviction||With the State Highways Department serving notices on street vendors in Yercaud, asking them to remove their shops, over 150 vendors came to the Collectorate urging the district administration to permit them to run their shops. In their petition, the vendors said that they have been running their shops for over 15 years at Ondikadai and are dependent on tourism for their livelihood. Most of them sell snacks and other items on pushcarts along the road near the Boat House and other tourist spots in the hilltop. Notices were served asking them to remove the shops failing which the department would initiate action, they said. Vendors said that law permitted them to run their shops along the road. They said that removing them was not only illegal, but would also affect their livelihood. They urged the administration not to remove their shops and allow them to continue their business at the current spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vendors-in-yercaud-submit-petition-against-eviction/article38052598.ece
28 December 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Hotel sealed||A team of Revenue officials, led by Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, sealed the premises of a three star hotel, Hotel Temple Tower, situated on government land in the town, for violation of lease conditions here on Monday. According to sources, the land was given on lease to one Selvaraj in 1994 ahead of the World Tamil Conference in the town for construction of the hotel. However, the property has allegedly been sub-let to two persons. Besides, lease dues amounting to Rs. 12 crore was said to be pending. The land, measuring over one acre, was valued at several crores at current market value, sources said. As the leasee failed to pay heed to notices, a team led by Mr. Oliver went to the hotel to take possession of the property and sealed the premises after asking the guests to vacate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotel-sealed/article38052553.ece
28 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Sterlite Copper launches free training in logistic trade||Sterlite Copper has launched a new skill development centre aimed at offering skill-based training modules on logistic trade to youth from Thoothukudi and surrounding areas.  Tamira Muthukkal , a flagship project under Muthucharam Initiative launched by Sterlite Copper, aims to provide skill training modules on various courses to benefit the youth of Thoothukudi in order to seek gainful employment. Similarly, a new skill centre has been launched keeping logistic trade as the prime focus, aiming to target more than 400 youngsters annually. The skill centre will focus on inventory clerk training, which will help the youth gain knowledge in this domain, thereby generating meaningful employment opportunities. India’s logistics sector employed over 22 million people directly. It was expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 10%, which would generate more jobs in the near future, said an official statement. Earlier this year, Sterlite launched a skill centre with the focus on five trades that have been identified as priority areas via Skill Gap Assessment Report of National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC). Similarly, Sterlite Copper has launched a new Skill Development Centre, aimed at offering skill-based training modules on logistic trade to youth in and around Thoothukudi. “The centre is supported by Vedanta Foundation, which has been actively involved in making education and skill development available and accessible to all. The major thrust of its projects are focused on making people self-reliant by providing them opportunities related to livelihood and employment,” the statement said. Since 1992, Vedanta Foundation has been helping create livelihood opportunities through its skill development centres. So far, the organisation has trained over 12 lakh youth across 180 Vedanta Rozgar Centres spread across the country. It is now launching 101 new centres in 2021-22, with the first one being inaugurated in Thoothukudi on Monday in association with Sterlite Copper. The new centre will leverage the Foundation’s deep expertise in the domain of skill training and help unlock fresh opportunities for youth in Thoothukudi, it added. To begin with, training session on Inventory Clerk will be conducted over a period of three months and already 50 young minds have registered for the course. The training session will also touch upon the communication skills, which will act as a catalyst and help the youth to have a more positive approach overall. They will be supported in getting appropriate job placements, with company committing to finding employment for at least 70% of the participants, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sterlite-copper-launches-free-training-in-logistic-trade/article38052575.ece
28 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Return jewels, deposits in Kurumbur PACB’||Besides expediting the ongoing investigation into irregularities in Kurumbur Primary Agriculture Cooperative Bank, steps should be taken to return the pledged jewels and deposits with maturity amount, the investors have appealed. Submitting a petition to Collector K. Senthil Raj on Monday after staging a demonstration in front of the Collectorate, the depositors led by Kurumbur PACB Retrieval Committee president J. Prabhakaran said the administrators of the bank had indulged in irregularities to the tune of over Rs. 2 crore by misappropriating the deposits and jewels pledged against the loans. Though police initiated investigation after registering a case, the probe was far from satisfactory, which would only help the culprits. Hence, the Collector should instruct the police to expedite the probe and initiate criminal proceedings against the culprits. Moreover, fresh crop loans should be given to Kurumbur PACB members after making its operations transparent, the petitioners said. Members of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam, led by Ottapidaaram taluk secretary Deivaraj, submitted a petition seeking disbursal of crop loans by Keezhamangalam Cooperative Society to agriculturists and action against the secretary of the society for denying loans to the cultivators. Seeking patta for 60-odd houses in Azhagaapuri under Maappillaiyoorani village panchayat, members of Thamizhaga Vaazhvurimai Katchi members submitted a petition to the Collector. They also urged the Collector to cancel the fake pattas and take action against officials who issued them. Villagers from Mudivaithaanenthal submitted a petition seeking removal of encroachments along the irrigation tank on Vaagaikulam-Mudivaithaanenthal Road. Members of Thamizh Puligal submitted a petition seeking basic infrastructure facilities in Tamil Nadu Housing Board Colony near Gomezpuram on Thoothukudi-Tharuvaikulam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/return-jewels-deposits-in-kurumbur-pacb/article38052902.ece
28 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Repair of rain-affected salt pans under way||As the northeast monsoon that pounded Thoothukudi district this year has relented, salt manufacturers have started repairing the salt pans damaged by the downpour with the hope of starting the new season by February. Over 30,000 workers are involved in salt manufacturing on 20,000 acres in Vembar, Veppalodai, Tharuvaikulam, Ayyanarpuram, Muthaiahpuram, Mullakkadu and Arumuganeri to annually produce over 25 lakh tonnes of salt. After active production of salt for six months between April and September, work comes to a grinding halt in October once the northeast monsoon starts. As the district gets good rainfall till December-end, manufacturers start preparing the salt pans for the next season from January. Since the district, after experiencing heavy downpour in November this year, is undergoing a dry phase since the first week of December, they have advanced their operations to repair the unprecedented damage caused by the monsoon to the salt pans. “Repairing of salt pans may take six weeks if the present dry spell continues. If everything goes as planned, the ‘first salt’ of the season may be expected in February,” says A.R.A.S. Dhanapalan, secretary of Thoothukudi District Small-Scale Salt Manufacturers’ Association. Now, the manufacturers have to spend around Rs. 10,000 per acre for repair. With the availability of salt pan workers in sufficient number, work has moved to top gear. Decent price “We’re getting a decent sale price of Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 3,000 per tonne now. We could produce only 60% of the annual target of 25 lakh tonnes during this year due to unseasonal rain. Of this, we have only 10% of the salt, which will be sufficient to meet the demand till January-end. As we expect the production to start in February, we can effectively meet the market demand,” Mr. Dhanapalan adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repairs-to-rain-hit-salt-pans-on/article38052580.ece
28 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||30 school buildings to be demolished in first phase||Thirty dilapidated government school buildings in the district will be demolished in the first phase, Collector K. Senthil Raj has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Dr. Senthil Raj said 14 teams comprising officials drawn from the Departments of Education, Revenue, Public Works, Rural Development and Local Administration had been deployed for inspection of school buildings in urban and rural areas. The teams were taking stock of the strength of the buildings, kitchen, toilet, drinking water availability and electrical wiring. “The students will not be allowed to go near the structures that are identified as ‘unsafe’ by the inspectors. Since 30 structures in schools consisting of 21 buildings, four toilets and five kitchens have been identified as ‘unsafe’, it will be demolished in the first phase,” Dr. Senthil Raj said. The safety of anganvadi buildings would also be checked during the inspection, he added. On the COVID-19 situation in the district, he said samples had been lifted from two persons who arrived from Malaysia and sent for omicron test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-school-buildings-to-be-demolished-in-first-phase/article38052581.ece
28 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||DPR for revised alignment of bypass road is in final stages||Preparation of the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for construction of the bypass road, connecting Tiruchi-Madurai and Tiruchi-Karur national highways, on the revised alignment has reached the final stages, according to sources in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The approval for payment of compensation to property owners whose lands are to be acquired for the project was awaited from the NHAI headquarters and expected soon, the sources said. Though the officials were wary of committing a specific time-frame for the commencement of the work, they said all efforts were being made to begin the work “at the earliest.” The bypass will form part of a semi-ring road connecting almost all major national highways around the city. The project ran aground after farmers raised objections to the road being laid across irrigation tanks. It will run from Panchapur on Tiruchi-Madurai Highway (NH45) via Thayanur to Thindukarai near Jeeyapuram on Tiruchi-Karur stretch of NH 67. The project was halted midway in 2010 after the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, while hearing a petition from farmers’ organisations, struck down the NHAI plan to build the road across Kothamangalam, Kallikudi and Punganur irrigation tanks in Tiruchi district. The project was originally taken up as part of the widening of NH 67 executed on Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis by NHAI. It ran into controversy over alignment and land acquisition issues in 2006-07. Farmers complained that the road, if built across the tanks, would affect irrigation and their livelihood. The court ordered that the bypass road be laid without affecting irrigation sources. Subsequently, a public hearing was held and a revised alignment was finalised. NHAI sources told The Hindu that about 33 hectares of lands in about four villages are to be acquired on a stretch of about six km under the new alignment. The Revenue authorities have already fixed the value of the land and the proposal for disbursement of compensation to the property owners have been forwarded to the NHAI headquarters in New Delhi. The DPR for the revised alignment is also in the final stages of preparation. “About 95% of the processes have been completed,” an official said. A few old structures, which were built initially, would be retained if cleared by experts, the sources said. It could take about 18 to 24 months to complete the road as a few major structures, including two road over bridges and a flyover, have to be built as part of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpr-for-revised-alignment-of-bypass-road-is-in-final-stages/article38052550.ece
28 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T resumes offline classes in phases||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) is well on course to resume offline classes in phases, what with the faculty holding a collective view that they have waited enough for the pandemic impact to subside. For the last three days till Monday, a batch of third year B.Tech students arrived in the campus for going through the mandatory seven-day quarantine procedure. The second and final batch of students will be arriving on January 7 and 8. The offline classes for the third year students will commence on January 19, Director In-Charge G. Kannabiran said. Offline classes for Ph.D. students began during August, followed by arrival of M.Tech students and second-year B.Tech students, for whom the offline classes are set to commence on December 29. For final-year students, offline classes are set to commence during March-April to suit the convenience of GATE (Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering) aspirants, Prof. Kannabiran said. “In any case, the portions are being completed through online classes. Even for the duration of quarantine, students are required to attend the online classes,” he added. Some buildings were being utilised as quarantine facility, and students were being provided with food at their place of stay. As the top-ranked institution among NITs, the NIT-Tiruchi with the largest number of about 7,000 students will most likely serve as a model for other central institutions for resumption of offline classes. “Extra-curricular and co-curricular activities, which can happen effectively only in the campuses, are as much important for students”, Prof. Kannabiran said. The about 3,000 students who are now in the hostels have been told strictly that they will have to undergo quarantine again if they step outside the campus. On the fifth day, RT PCR test is conducted, and after the students were found to test negative, they were sent to the regular hostels. “Total emphasis is being laid on students adhering to Standard Operating Practices (SOP)”, N. Kumaresan, Dean (Students Welfare) said. The semester exams have been staggered for UG and PG students for ensuring conformity to SOP, Prof. Kumaresan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-resumes-offline-classes-in-phases/article38052545.ece
28 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Perambalur innovators reuse plastic bottles in brick avatar||Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles stuffed with plastic bags are the unlikely champions of a sustainable building movement in Perambalur. The brainchild of C. Mithra, secretary of Christian Educational Institutions (CEI) and director of CEI’s social service wing DAWN Trust, the ‘eco-brick’ project has been making waves in Perambalur since 2018 for its budget- and environment-friendly features. “There is no doubt that we are overusing plastic, so much so that microplastics have also entered our food chain. In Perambalur, the disposal and management of plastic waste is a big problem. I came across the ‘eco-brick’ idea in online videos. If we stuff plastic packets that we collect at home and tightly stuff it into PET bottles, it could be used as a brick. The bottle becomes sturdier after you pack in mud or other plastics into it. Each filled bottle becomes an eco-brick,” Ms. Mithra told The Hindu.  While initial efforts to use these bricks were restricted to street furniture and ornamental fixtures like Christmas trees, the CEI and DAWN team soon started building a room using eco-bricks on the CEI campus in Venkatesapuram. “We felt it would be a model that others could emulate for their local requirements, and on reuse plastic waste in a constructive manner,” said Ms. Mithra. Over 500 students and staff of Christian Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Christian College of Education, TCRMO School of Nursing and volunteers from Government Higher Secondary School of Kavulpalayam village were involved in manufacturing the eco-bricks, with bottles segregated according to size. For the 400 sq.ft room’s walls, the team collected used 5,000 one-litre PET bottles and plastic covers and packages from TASMAC shops, marriage halls, houses and the Municipality garbage yard. “To meet the deadline of World Earth Day (April 22) in 2019, each student was asked to make at least four to five eco-bricks per day. We consulted a local engineer and mason for the final process, to make it structurally sound,” said Ms. Mithra. The bottle bricks and the room’s flooring made with crushed plastic trash, have been cemented with a slightly lower proportion of concrete than that used in regular construction. UV paint A protective coat of ultraviolet (UV) paint ensures that the plastic bottles remain safe during heat exposure. “An added advantage is that these eco-bricks are reusable. You can remove them from one place and use them in a new building, since they are not prone to erosion like the usual raw materials,” Ms. Mithra pointed out. Currently putting up an eco-brick bench for visitors at Perambalur’s Government Hospital, the team hopes to use the concept to build homes and toilets for economically backward families. “This is one way to save our environment and also help those without a roof over their head,” said Ms. Mithra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perambalur-innovators-reuse-plastic-bottles-in-brick-avatar/article38052556.ece
28 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||36 Vayathinile inspires faculty development programme||Jyothika-starrer 36 Vayathinile is what has inspired the theme of a national-level Faculty Development Programme (FDP) exclusively for women at the National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T). Motivation to apply for the FDP on life skill management on the theme: ‘Your signature is your Identity’, was drawn from the movie, according to the coordinators of the FDP that got off to a start on Monday. The AICTE-ATAL-sponsored FDP has been designed to motivate women who had been experiencing heavy unrest, straddling personal and professional tasks, in order to re-orient their attention to their responsibilities and motivate them to reach greater heights, Josephine R.L., a coordinator of the five-day programme said. Presiding over the inaugural session, G.Kannabiran, Director In-Charge, NIT-T, said the institution has been at the forefront in encouraging women in academics and administration.  Krishna Paul, Principal Engineer, Intel Corporation, Bangalore, who inaugurated the FDP, emphasised on life-long learning to develop the capability to sustain the cycle of success and failure. Decision-making, critical and creative thinking, problem solving, and coping with stress need to be developed to excel in life; sustained learning is also important to survive with self-esteem, Usha Natesan, Director, National Institute of Technical Teachers' Training and Research, Chennai, said in her address. Spread over five days, the 176 participants consisting a majority of Assistant Professors will be interacting with speakers from various domains. Their very first session was with the former Director of NIT-T Mini Shaji Thomas. The role of women in economy, women’s part in nation-building, women welfare, women entrepreneurship, self-esteem, legal awareness on basic rights, work-life balance and mental well-being figure among the topics for the interactions in 15 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/36-vayathinile-inspires-faculty-development-programme/article38052541.ece
28 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||38 COVID-19 cases in central region||Thirty-eight persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Monday. Two more patients, both with co-morbidities, succumbed to the infection in the region, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Three of the nine districts – Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai and Pudukottai – reported no fresh case on Monday. Tiruchi recorded the maximum cases with 17 persons testing positive for the virus. Eight persons tested positive in Karur, seven in Thanjavur, three in Tiruvarur, two in Perambalur and one in Nagapattinam. As on Monday, Karur had the maximum number of active cases in the region with 128 patients under treatment. Thanjavur had 127 cases and Tiruchi 125. Tiruvarur had 40 active cases, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam 19 each, Perambalur 17, Mayiladuthurai 10 and Ariyalur 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article38052543.ece
28 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Shop sealed for selling banned tobacco products||Officials of the Department of Food Safety and Drug Administration sealed a book and general store on the Nandhi Kovil Street in the city on Monday for repeat offence of selling banned tobacco products. A team of officials led by R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi, sealed the Selvi Book and General Stores. Dr. Ramesh Babu, in a release, said that about 128 kg of banned tobacco products such as pan masala and gutkha were seized from the shop and the house of its owner on August 10. Subsequently it was found that the banned products continued to the sold and the owner was levied a penalty of Rs. 5,000 on December 10. Subsequently, based on an order from the Commissioner of Food Safety, P.Senthil Kumar, the shop was sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shop-sealed-for-selling-banned-tobacco-products/article38052542.ece
28 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Potters demand payment of Rs. 5,000 monsoon relief to all||Seeking monsoon relief of Rs. 5,000, a group of potters from various parts of the district submitted a petition to Collector V. Vishnu on Monday. In the petition, the potters, who came to the Collectorate carrying earthenware, said over 10,000 earthenware-makers in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts had been hit hard by the northeast monsoon. While the government granted relief of Rs. 5,000, only 1,056 of the 10,000 potters had received it due to lack of awareness. After Tirunelveli District Potters’ Association created awareness among its members of the relief, over 450 applications were submitted to the Joint Director of Khadi and Village Industries Board. The pending applications should be cleared within the shortest period so that the families of potters would benefit, M. Ayyappan, district general secretary of the association, said, adding relief for 2021 was yet to be disbursed to beneficiaries. Urea supply Farmers from Anaithalaiyoor, Vadakarai, Punganoor, Thuraiyoor, Aladipatti and Kottaiyadi and Gangaikondan submitted a petition seeking adequate supply of urea to agriculturists for nourishing the standing paddy crop. They said paddy had been cultivated on over 6,500 acres under Gangaikondan Parakkiramapandiankulam and Gangaikondan Sirukulam as both irrigation tanks were overflowing. However, the short supply of urea was threatening to dash the hopes of farmers of getting good yield and, hence, the Collector should take immediate steps to ensure adequate supply of urea to Gangaikondan. “If Gangaikondan Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society is not given its due share of urea within a day or two, the farmers will block the national highway,” they warned. ‘Cancel licence’ A group of villagers from Ilaiyanainarkulam in Radhapuram taluk submitted a petition seeking cancellation of licence given to a stone quarry. The petitioners said Ilaiyanainarkulam, housing 400 families, was a rain-shadow region and, hence, the farming operation was carried out based on groundwater available in wells or rainfall during monsoon. Since licence had been given for setting up a stone quarry, about 900 metres from their village, the explosives to be used in the quarry would pose a serious threat to their houses. Also, a government school was situated about 600 metres away from the quarry. “Moreover, the deep quarry will badly hit the groundwater table in the region,” the villagers said. ‘Extend benefits’ Members of the State Transport and Transport Corporations Retired Employees’ Welfare Association submitted a petition urging the State government to resolve the issues in giving retirement benefits to former workers. The petitioners said over 85,000 retired employees were not given dearness allowance hike. They were not covered under the medical insurance scheme and medical allowance to family pensioners. Hence, the benefits should be extended to them.. Another group of villagers from Kuthukkal under Muthur village panchayat near Palayamkottai submitted a petition seeking construction of a compound wall around the government high school in their village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/potters-demand-payment-of-rs-5000-monsoon-relief-to-all/article38052904.ece
28 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver arrested for murder of son||Melapalayam police have arrested an autorickshaw driver who allegedly murdered his drunkard son. According to police, A. Abdul Rahman, 23, from Aaminpuram in Melapalayam, often picked up quarrel with his father Abdullah, 66, an autorickshaw driver, for money to buy liquor. Since Abdul Rahman was creating trouble in the family under the influence of alcohol, his wife left him. On Sunday night, when an inebriated Abdul Rahman picked up a heated argument with Abdullah for money to buyg liquor, his father refused. Assault Agitated over the refusal, he assaulted Abdullah, who ignored the humiliation and went to sleep. Abdul Rahman again assaulted his father around 3 a.m and the old man allegedly retaliated, according to police. The youth fell on the ground and Abdullah allegedly threw a grinding stone on his head. He died on the spot and Melapalayam police arrested Abdullah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murdering-son/article38052576.ece
28 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer inspects works in Tiruppur city||Commissioner of Economics and Statistics M. Karunakaran, who is the monitoring officer for Tiruppur district, inspected several works within Corporation limits on Monday. A release said that he inspected works that are being carried out under the Smart Cities Mission such as the renovation of Old Bus Terminus with multi-level vehicle parking and construction of the Convention Centre building. He also viewed the model of the Smart Cities Mission works placed at the Old Bus Terminus. Mr. Karunakaran also inspected the ongoing construction works of the Government Medical College Hospital building, open air stadium with swimming pool at Chikkanna Government Arts College and a government hospital at Velampalayam under the Tamil Nadu Urban Healthcare Project. District Collector S. Vineeth, Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati and other officials accompanied the monitoring officer during the visit. A meeting was held in which Mr. Karunakaran reviewed the departments under the district administration and urged the officials to expedite the works, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officer-inspects-works-in-tiruppur-city/article38052465.ece
28 December 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Action against those who submitted bogus documents: Collector||Steps have been taken to recover the crop insurance compensation amount received by some farmers by uploading bogus documents in Tiruvarur district, Collector P.Gayathri Krishnan has said. In a statement, Ms. Krishnan said that farmers in 518 villages were sanctioned compensation in lieu of crop damages suffered by them during the 2020-21 samba/thaladi season. However, it was detected that in some of the villages bogus documents were used by some persons to “insure” crops. This has resulted in some genuine farmers being affected. Criminal action was also being initiated against those who had uploaded bogus documents for crop insurance and to claim compensation. Meanwhile, eligible farmers, who have not received the compensation, can submit their representations with supporting documents at the respective offices of Assistant Directors of Agriculture before January 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-those-who-submitted-bogus-documents-collector/article38052557.ece
28 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||NGO given permission to help detect illegal electric fences around forest areas in the Nilgiris||The Chief Wildlife Warden of Tamil Nadu has granted permission to Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT), an NGO, to assist the Forest Department for patrolling the fringes of reserve forests to check the use of illegal electric fences in the district. In his letter, Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj said that permission was granted to N.Sadiq Ali, founder trustee of WNCT and members and volunteers of the NGO under Section 28 (i) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 for a three-month period to help in “patrolling” and “surprise checks at all locations for electrocution areas.” The Chief Wildlife Warden has also laid down guidelines that the volunteers must follow with regard to obtaining permission prior to embarking on the patrols and also with sharing information and reports on their visits to the areas with the Forest Department and officials concerned. Animal deaths Illegal or improperly installed electrical fencing has led to the deaths of many animals, including sloth bears, elephants and even leopards over the last few years. Despite clampdowns by both the Forest Department and the district administration, electric fences dangerous to the well-being of wildlife continue to be used across the district. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ali thanked the Forest Department for granting permission to the WNCT to check the use of illegal electrical fences. “This proactive move by the department will help to ensure better patrolling and easier detection of illegal fences, having the potential to save the lives of many animals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-given-permission-to-help-detect-illegal-electric-fences-around-forest-areas-in-the-nilgiris/article38052467.ece
28 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||West Zone IG launches suicide prevention hotline in the Nilgiris||Inspector General of Police (West Zone) R. Sudhakar on Monday launched a suicide prevention hotline to curb the number of suicides in the district. At the launch of ‘Thulir’ suicide prevention hotline, Mr. Sudhakar told reporters there were no major law and order issues in the Nilgiris, with crime rates being extremely low. Apart from traffic-related issues, the most cases handled by the police were of suicides. The IG said that over 250 cases of suicides were recorded in 2020 and 2021. Suicide rates were high among students from other districts who move here to study, he added. The dedicated suicide prevention hotline will be operational round the clock, with counsellors stationed at the district police office in Udhagamandalam. “We are hoping to provide support and assistance to vulnerable people and bring down the number of suicides,” said Mr. Sudhakar. He said that the ‘Thulir’ suicide prevention hotline can be reached via phone at 91505-10100, 0423-2444111 and 0423-2223828. Mr. Sudhakar was joined by top officials from the Nilgiris district police, including Superintendent of police Ashish Rawat, at the launch. Mr. Sudhakar also inspected vehicles as well as equipment used by the Nilgiris district police at the Government Arts College ground on Monday. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/west-zone-ig-launches-suicide-prevention-hotline-in-the-nilgiris/article38052484.ece
28 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Helicopter wreckage cleared||The wreckage of the helicopter which crashed near Kattery Park in Coonoor on December 8 has been cleared from the area. The helicopter, an Mi-17v5, carrying Chief of Defence Services General Bipin Rawat, his wife, Madhulika Rawat and 12 other Defence personnel crashed into the side of a mountain just minutes before it was scheduled to land in Coonoor on December 8. Gen. Rawat and 13 others died in the crash, while the lone survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, died of injuries, a few days later. Army personnel began clearing the wreckage and started searching for clues to ascertain the cause of the crash after rescue operations concluded. Police personnel also were stationed at the crash site to prevent people from getting too close to the wreckage. On Monday, the remaining pieces of the wreckage were cleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helicopter-wreckage-cleared/article38052468.ece
28 December 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||4 earth movers seized for illegal operations||The district administration has seized four earth movers across the district, after a video of an earth mover being used after dusk in Ketti Palada here went viral on social media.  Inquiry held According to the sources, an inquiry led by Revenue Department officials was initiated. Permissions granted for use of earth diggers were reviewed in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Gudalur. Violations found Officials said that a few violations were found, and four earth movers – two from Coonoor and one each from Gudalur and Udhagamandalam – were seized for usage without authorisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-earth-movers-seized-for-illegal-operations/article38052485.ece
28 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Train services resume on restored bridge in Vellore||Train services were resumed on the restored railway bridge (No: 299) across Ponnai river near Tiruvalam railway station in Vellore, with a restricted speed limit of 30 kmph. Railway officials said that there was structural damage, including cracks, on the 38th and 39th brick and mortar pillars of the British-era bridge, which connects Tiruvalam and Mukundarayapuram railway stations on the Arakkonam — Katpadi section of the Southern Railway. The damage was found on December 23 (last Thursday) by a gangman. Since then, workers toiled round-the-clock to restore the rail line, with a trial run having been undertaken using a goods train and a loco engine on the bridge before the rail bridge section was certified fit for traffic on Sunday night. Despite the resumption of train services on the track, speed limits have been specified due to structural weakness in the bridge, built in 1865. "The supporting steel beams around the damaged pillars are a stop-gap measure. A new bridge alongside the existing one will be built soon," a railway official said. Some of the major restoration efforts undertaken by the engineering team of Chennai division on the bridge include building a cofferdam; pressure grouting into the cracks to avoid further extension; boulder pitching around the pier to prevent further scouring; and concrete work with special grouting along the affected pier. A team of 850 railway workers, including contract labourers, were roped in for the restoration work that was monitored by Ganesh, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM - Chennai), and a technical team from the Structural Engineering Research Center (SERC-CSIR). The damaged brick and mortar pillars were supported with 14 tonnes of rolled steel beams with 14 cubic metres of wooden columns and planks on the river bed. The restored bridge was used by trains from Chennai proceeding towards Katpadi, with trains going towards Chennai using the newly-built railway bridge. These arch-like pillars, railway officials said, have a lifespan of 60 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-services-resume-on-restored-bridge-in-vellore/article38052907.ece
28 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district logs 17 fresh infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,460 with 17 new cases reported on Monday. While 49,206 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 113. The district's death toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, 1 case was reported positive and the total stood at 43,670. In Tirupattur district, 3 cases were reported on Monday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,468. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at 2, taking the overall tally to 55,341. Out of these, 54,619 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 49.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-logs-17-fresh-infections/article38052909.ece
28 December 2021||VELLORE/dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Nalini released from Vellore prison on one-month parole||Nalini Sriharan, one of the seven life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, was released from the Central Prison in Vellore on Monday after she was granted a month’s ordinary parole by the State Government following repeated requests made by her ailing mother Padma. Restricted movement The police said that around 9.30 a.m, Nalini was released. Immediately, she left for her mother’s house in Bharamapuram, Katpadi, with a 20-member team of police personnel headed by DSP P. Palani. “During her parole, Nalini’s movements will be restricted. The special team will monitor her round the clock,” said S. Rajesh Kannan, SP (Vellore). As per norms, Nalini has to sign in the register at the Katpadi police station every day. Meeting of mediapersons and representatives and leaders of political parties is prohibited. Two years ago, Nalini stayed at a rented accommodation at Sathuvachari under tight police security with her mother, her sister Kalyani and her brother Bakianathan. This is the second time that she is getting the parole. On December 23, the State Special Public Prosecutor, Hassan Mohammed Jinnah, informed the Madras High Court that the government had granted parole to Nalini. Nalini, along with her husband Sriharan, who is a Sri Lankan national, has been under imprisonment three weeks after the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991, at Sriperumbudur. Meanwhile, Perarivalan, another life convict in the case, was brought to Dharmpuri for a medical consultation for prostatitis at a private hospital on Monday. With help from Dharmapuri DMK MP S. Senthilkumar, Perarivalan, currently out on parole, was brought here from his home in Tirupattur for urological consultation. He was accompanied by his mother Arputhammal. Mr. Senthilkumar said Perarivalan’s lawyer had contacted him, seeking help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nalini-released-from-vellore-prison-on-one-month-parole/article38052395.ece
28 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Declare holiday for all schools till January 2, says Collector||Collector J. Meghanath Reddy has instructed all schools to comply with the State Government’s order of declaring holiday for all schools from December 27 to January 2, 2022. In a statement, the Collector said that the holiday till January 2, 2022 has been declared for all government, aided, matriculation, CBSE, schools. Stating that the district administration has received information that some schools were conducting special offline classes and some schools online classes during the holiday period, he instructed the heads of schools that no such special classes should be conducted. He warned that stringent action would be taken against schools that are found to violate the State Government’s directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declare-holiday-for-all-schools-till-january-2-says-collector/article38052577.ece
28 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Minister hails cooperative movement’s contribution to India’s development||Cooperative Department that has flourished into a people’s movement has made tremendous contribution in the development of Independent India, said Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu. Addressing a function organised to distribute loan assistance by Virudhunagar District Central Cooperative Bank here on Monday, Mr. Thennarasu said that Tamil Nadu has a good organisational set-up from primary agricultural cooperative banks in rural areas with a sound Central Cooperative Society and a State Cooperative banking set up at the top. “Central Cooperative Bank has remained a profit-making bank,” he said. Through this sound organizational set up people from various walks of life like self help groups for women, differently-abled persons, small traders, women entrepreneurs, working women are able to get mid-term loans, Mudra loans, non-farm loan,s housing loan, capital loans and MSME loans. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who has been successful in containing COVID infection in the State, was now concentrating on retrieving the livelihood of the people by waiving off loans to the SHGs. “Loan assistance was being given to MSMEs through cooperative banks to increase cash flow among the common man,” he added. Efforts had been taken to provide loans to the tune of Rs. 5.68 crore to 2,246 beneficiaries under various schemes, he added. Virudhunagar MLA A.R.R. Srinivasan, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, Joint Registrar/Managing Director Rajalakshmi, chairman of Virudhunagar District Central Cooperative Bank S.K. Mayilsami and Regional Joint Registrar B. Senthil Kumar were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-praises-cooperative-movements-contribution/article38052565.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 42 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Monday reported 42 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,07,637. While 58 persons were discharged, 484 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 25 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,02,391. One person died, raising the toll to 1,726. Namakkal district reported 20 cases, taking the tally to 54,494. Krishnagiri saw five new positive cases and Dharmapuri reported four fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-42-new-covid-19-cases/article38052585.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Apartment collapses in north Chennai||Prem Kumar, a resident, said TNUHDB officials did not take any action even after they were informed. “Only on Monday morning did some of them come to inspect the building. Suddenly, they asked all the residents to rush out. The entire block collapsed soon,” he said. While the residents were relieved that no life was lost, they bemoaned the loss of all their belongings. “Our jewellery, government identity cards, electronic items and all other valuables have been lost,” said K. Lakshmi. TNUHDB Minister T.M. Anbarasan, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and TNUHDB Managing Director M. Govinda Rao and City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal and senior officials inspected the site and coordinated the relief and rehabilitation efforts. Residents of the right wing of the collapsed building were denied access to their flats for safety reasons. TNUHDB officials said they would be let in one by one to bring out their belongings after engineers inspected the building. The tenements were part of the 336 units built between 1993 and 1995 in the area locally called Aruvakulam, said to be a tank long ago. Families from many places across Chennai were resettled here by TNUHDB. Many residents alleged they had been struggling for long with the poor quality of construction. While it was the D-block that collapsed, residents of the remaining blocks demanded that their buildings be demolished and reconstructed, with adequate government support for their interim accommodation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apartment-collapses-in-north-chennai/article38052439.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grand event||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grand-event/article38052470.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grand event||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grand-event/article38052583.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect -DGL||Ramco Institute of Technology, Rajapalayam, and Indian Society of Technical Education of Tamil Nadu Chapter conducted Srinivasa Ramanujan mathematics competition for Class XI and XII. The first two rounds were held online, and the final round was held on the premises. A total of 5,599 students from 144 schools in Virudhunagar district participated and 241 students from 67 schools were selected for the final round on December 22. M. Muthiah, Srivilliputtur District Education Officer, and A. Sankara Subramanian, Chairman, Indian Society of Technical Education, Tamil Nadu Chapter, presented cash prizes and certificates to the winners. Sivakasi YRTV Matriculation High School and Srivi Lions Matriculation High School won the first prize. Aruppukottai Noble Matriculation School and Virudhunagar St. Francis de Sales Matric School won the second prize. Sivakasi Glory Matriculation School and Aruppukottai Saliyar Mahajana HSS won the third prize.   Srinivasa Ramanujan’s 134th birth anniversary was celebrated as National Mathematics Day by the Department of Mathematics of Gandhigram Rural Institute on December 22. P.V. Veeramani, retired professor of IIT-Madras, the chief guest, explained how any mathematical problem should be understood with the illustration of ‘Ramanujam number 1729’ which was discovered when he was ill. As part of the celebration, a special performance was done by child prodigy G.P. Abhinav Prathyush.   A peer team of National Assessment and Accreditation Council visited The Standard Fireworks Rajaratnam College for Women in Sivakasi on December 20 and 21. The team comprised three members - Nagalapalli Nagaraju, Vice-Chancellor, Gangadhar Meher University, Sambalpur, Odisha; Shuchi Srivastava, Head, Department of Management Studies, Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh; and Sajimol Augustine, former Principal, St. Teresa's College, Kochi. They evaluated the quality of education imparted to students and the teaching-learning practices of the college.   The Department of Corporate Secretaryship of Alagappa University, Karaikudi, conducted a lecture on ‘Cryptocurrency and block chain technology’ on December 20. T.R. Gurumoorthy, Head, Department of Commerce and Director i/c, Directorate of Distance Education, Alagappa University, delivered the keynote address. N. Murugan, GCC, Millenial Club Member, BELDEX Crypto Currency, Salem, in his special address, traced the origin of money and the evolution of technology that changed the lifestyle and explained the evolution of financial system from the barter system to the Current Digital Currency System. T. Mohan Rajan, Deputy General Manager (rtd.,) Syndicate Bank, Salem, spoke on ‘block chain technology and future of crypto currency.’ He said India has officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender. C. Venugopal, AGM (rtd.) Canara Bank, Salem, spoke on ‘legal implications of crypto currency in India and nuances of Crypto Currency Bill.’   The Department of Tamil and Economics of G.T.N Arts College, Dindigul, organised a one-day online ‘Basic training programme on human rights’ programme sponsored by National Human Rights Commission, New Delhi, on December 18. The objective was to sensitise students to human rights institutions, rights of women and children and other vulnerable groups, constitutional provisions and universal declaration. S. Balamurugan and D. Devanathan of Annamalai University; J. Glory, advocate, Madras Bench of Madras High Court; and G. Maharajan, advocate, District Court, Dindigul, spoke. S. P. Lavanya, Additional Superintendent of Police, delivered the keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect-dgl/article38052569.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect - City||The Department of Zoology of N.M.S.S.Vellaichamy Nadar College organised a lecture on ‘Current pandemic status of COVID-19 in India’ on December 22. T. Mariappan, former Director in charge of Indian Council of Medical Research, Madurai, the resource person, spoke on different mutants of coronavirus, the origin of Omicron variant and its distribution across the world. He explained the current trends of COVID-19 in various States of India, control measures taken by them, vaccines available in India and the world and the importance of vaccination.   Christmas was celebrated in Fatima College in Madurai on December 23. The programme started with a prayer song by the college choir. Verses from the gospel were read, followed by a prayer. The festive occasion was made more spirited and cheerful with various cultural programmes by students . A skit explaining the glory and wonder of the birth of Jesus Christ and folk dance were performed. Rev. Albert William S.J., former Secretary, Loyola College, Chennai, in his Christmas message, advised the students to invest their time in skill development, be focussed and work towards their goal. If so God would always be with them. He further appealed to the students to spread humanity for the welfare of the society.   A training and awareness programme with exhibition was organised by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Community Science College and Research Institute, Madurai for National Farmers’ Day at Mayandipatti village in Ayilangudi on December 23. Sixty women and children participated in the programme. Dean S. Amutha stressed the importance of good eating habits. Cereals, vegetables and spinach are rich in nutrients and the women should develop a kitchen garden with nutritious food crops. V.K. Paulpandi, Dean of ACRI, said in his presidential address that many technologies have been developed for successful farming. Young researchers and people need to work together to achieve progress in doubling the farmers’ income and improve the nutritional status of rural people, specially the youth. Professor G. Hemalatha appreciated the farm women for reducing the burden on nutrition stating that the rural population was able to produce their own nutritious diet. Improvements in understanding the latest technologies would aid to form a nutrition rich community, she said. Professor P. Parimalam spoke on importance of farm implements to reduce drudgery in farming among women. Professor J. Pushpa explained integrated farming technologies.   The Centre for Human Rights Education of Lady Doak College, Madurai, organised a programme on Human Rights Day on December 15. Second-year undergraduate students participated in the programme. Solomon Selvam, Professor of Sociology, Claflin University, South Carolina, USA delivered the Martin Macwan Annual Endowment lecture and enlightened the students on the theme ‘Equality: reducing inequalities, advancing human rights.’ He spoke on significance and origin of human rights and the recent major interventions associated with it. A. Margaret Divya, Joint Convenor, Centre for Human Rights Education, welcomed the gathering. The chief guest distributed prizes to winners of virtual competitions - poetry writing in English and Tamil, logo creation and digital poster presentation. S. Julie Ranee, Joint Convenor, proposed the vote of thanks.   The Department of Biotechnology along with Centre for Human Resource Development organised a seminar on ‘Food as medicine - reclaim your health’ exclusively for non-teaching staff on December 16. As many as 97 staff participated in the programme. Beulah Jeyashree, Vice-Principal, welcomed the gathering. Dr.Christianna Singh, Principal & secretary, in her introductory remarks, appreciated the efforts made by the Department along with CHRD to sensitise the non-teaching staff on the importance of food in maintaining health and quality of life. Rajalakshmi, Managing Director, Traditional Care Hospital, Chennai, highlighted the role of different food in promoting health and preventing diseases. Saravanan, Lab Assistant, Department of Physics, proposed the vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect-city/article38052787.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi mahotsavam, chanting of Thiruppavai, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m. onwards.    Kathir College of Arts and Science: Student development programme session on ‘Achieving Problem Solution and Product Marketing Mix’, 10.30 a.m.; Fine Arts Club: one-day workshop on natural soap making, 10 a.m.; Department of Biotechnology: Rapid Detection of Food Adulteration, 10 a.m.  Kongu Region Farmers Protection Group: Seyal - seminar on farmers’ growth, 3 p.m.  Kovai Kalaimagal College of Arts and Science: Webinar on ‘Expectations of Global Economy in Current Scenario’, 11 a.m.    Isha Outreach: Launch of two farmer producer organisations of Anamalai and Kinathukkadavu by Minister for Electricity and Prohibition Senthilbalaji, Pollachi Rotary Hall, Palladam Road, Pollachi, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38052480.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam: School of Management Studies, national conference on Metamorphosis of Modern Management and Research, virtual mode, Suneet Kumar, Cluster Manager – Human Resources, Larsen and Toubro Limited, inaugurates, P. Saravanan, Professor, Indian Institute of Management, Tiruchi, keynote address, 9.30 a.m.  Nehru Yuva Kendra and Dr. R.A.N.M. Arts and Science College: Block level sports competition, Modakkurichi Block, K.K. Balusamy, secretary and correspondent, chief guest, Ashish Sanjay Shete, District Youth Officer, presides, college premises, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article38052588.ece
28 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Fair showcasing products made by women SHGs a success||Asmite, a State-sponsored fair for showcasing products of women self-help groups held in Belagavi recently, has achieved significant success. The week-long trade fair that coincided with the first week of the Winter Session of the State Legislature saw a total sales of Rs. 60 lakh. The trade fair has also seen some other benefits such as exposing women entrepreneurs to other markets and to introduce consumers to several products that could be made by women’s groups, Minister for Higher Education, Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood C.N. Ashwath Narayan said in a release. As many as 140 stalls, including seven food stalls, were put up during the fair. They achieved sales worth Rs. 60 lakh, including pre- and post-order bookings. Yashoda Self-Help Group from NRLM, Vijayapura, which makes jute bags, achieved the highest sales figure of Rs. 1,26,900. Mata Savitri Bai Self-Help Group of Belagavi, which makes cotton bags and quilts, received orders worth over Rs. 1.19 lakh. Chamundeshwari Self-Help Group from Mysuru, whose members create wood inlay works, received orders worth Rs. 1.1 lakh, Sri Revansiddeshwar Self-Help Group of Bagalkot that weaves Ilkal saris registered sales worth Rs. 1 lakh and Janavani Matha Self-Help Group, Belagavi, that makes jewellery and paintings, sold products worth Rs. 87,420. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai inaugurated the fair that was jointly organised by the State Livelihood Mission (Rural and Urban), the Department of Skill Development Entrepreneurship Livelihood and the Department of Women and Child Welfare. Women showcased items such as jute and cloth bags, chappals, purses, snacks and bakery products, dairy products and cakes, pickles, rotis, spices and masala powders, dresses for children, women and gents, saris, garlands made of different material, skincare and hair care products, cleaning and sanitation products, soaps, different types of hand-made home decors made up of bamboo, jute, banana fibre and other material, art and craft items and paintings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fair-showcasing-products-made-by-women-shgs-a-success/article38052608.ece
28 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Joshi reviews railway projects||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi held a review meeting of railway projects with senior officers of South Western Railway in Hubballi on Monday. The Minister reviewed the progress of some projects undertaken, including the Hubballi-Ankola new line, Tumakuru-Chitradurga new line, Dharwad-Belgaum new line, Hubballi-Chikajajur line doubling, Hosapete-Vasco-da-Gama electrification and road overbridges in Dharwad district. Officers gave details of achievements such as laying new lines, line doubling and electrification of tracks and parcel and freight performance in 2021. The Minister instructed the officers to complete the projects as fast as possible. He assured them of support to clear possible bottlenecks with regard to the projects. He also suggested that a Rajdhani Express required to be introducted to connect Hubballi with New Delhi. Immediately, officers agreed to send a proposal to the Railway Board. Minister for Mines and Geology Halappa Achar attended the meeting held at Rail Soudha. General Manager Sanjeev Kishore and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joshi-reviews-railway-projects/article38052605.ece
28 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmer hacked to death in his field at Konnur near Gokak||Unidentified miscreants killed a farmer in Konnur village near Gokak on Monday. Bheemshi Jatni (36), who was working in his field, was hacked to death, the police said. The body was found by farmers in his neighbourhood a few hours later. Circle Inspector of Police Gopal Rathod visited the spot. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmer-hacked-to-death-in-his-field-at-konnur-near-gokak/article38052606.ece
28 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘No change of leadership in State’||Arun Singh, BJP national general secretary in charge of party affairs in Karnataka, has ruled out a change in leadership in the State. “There will be no change of Chief Minister. Basavaraj Bommai is doing wonderful work. The question of change in leadership is hypothetical and imaginary,” he said. He was speaking to journalists in Hubballi where he will attend a executive committee meeting on December 28. “The next elections will be held under the leadership of Mr. Bommai. The BJP will win 150 seats in the next elections. We will benefit from the infighting among leaders. There is a big fight between Siddaramaiah and D.K. Shivakumar in the Congress. Their followers are going around saying their leader will become the next Chief Minister. They will all be disappointed,” he said. “The Congress in New Delhi is weak. Rahul Gandhi makes statements that are immensely beneficial to us nor has Priyanka Gandhi any charisma to help her party win the polls,” Mr. Singh said. He defended the BJP government in the State as being honest and pro-people. “Mr. Bommai is very honest. No one can make an allegation of misappropriation of even one rupee against him. If there are problems at the lower levels, it will be looked into,” he said. He maintained that the allegations of 40% commission in government contracts, made by the association of contractors, were false and baseless. To queries on statements by Ministers K.S. Eshwarappa and Murugesh Nirani about a change in leadership, he said the statements were not properly reported by the media. “They were twisted when they were reported. I have spoken to the two leaders and they have told me that they had not said so. They had said something else, but they were not properly reported by the media,” he said. At a recent function in Bilagi, Mr. Nirani’s hometown, Mr. Eshwarappa had said that Mr. Nirani would become the Chief Minister one day. He had however clarified that he was not suggesting that Mr. Bommai would vacate his seat. A few days later, Mr. Nirani shared the dais with the CM, at a function in Shiggaon. Mr. Nirani announced that Mr. Bommai would become a Union Minister in the future. He too said later that he did not mean that the CM would be changed. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the BJP State core committee and the executive committee will be held in Hubballi on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively. The BJP has been holding its executive committee meeting once in two months regularly for discussing the party’s strategies ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections. On the question of a Cabinet reshuffle, Mr Bommai said issues related to leadership change and Cabinet reshuffle were creations of the media. There was no need to inform the media of internal affairs of the party and the party’s high command has been observing all developments, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-change-of-leadership-in-state/article38052401.ece
28 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rape of minor girl in Dharwad condemned||All India Mahila Samskruthika Sanghatane (AIMSS) members have strongly condemned the reported gang-rape of a minor girl in Dharwad district. In a press release, the members have demanded strict punishment to the offenders. They have said that the accused should be tried as adults and that they should not be treated leniently just because they were all 17 years old. Incidents of violence against women, assault on college-going girls and rape of minors are being reported from various parts of the country. Such incidents have shamed society and also triggered anxiety and fear among parents. The incident of a school-going girl being raped repeatedly for three months is a heinous crime and all those involved in it should not be allowed to go free. In some such cases, the accused have been found to be under the influence of drugs and alcohol or they have been provoked to carry out the act after watching pornography. The government should ban all porn websites. “It seems the security of women and girls has become a distant dream in society. The Dharwad district administration and the Police Department should provide more security to girls and keep a strict vigil on unscrupulous elements in society that are often found troubling girls near schools and colleges,’’ they said. Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (Swabhimana) president Papu Dhare has condemned the Dharwad gang-rape. In a press release, he said that such incidents will bring a bad name to Dharwad that is known as an educational hub and attracts scores of students from various parts of the State and outside. The Police Department should act tough against the six accused involved in the crime. The rapists should be tried in fast track courts, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rape-of-minor-girl-in-dharwad-condemned/article38052607.ece
28 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Changes in train services||South Western Railway will make some changes to train services due to emergency work at Yesvantpur Yard. Train No 17392 SSS Hubballi-KSR Bengaluru Daily Express leaving SSS Hubballi on January 7 will be regulated for 40 minutes en route . Train No 16228 Talguppa-Mysuru Daily Express starting from Talguppa on January 7 will be regulated for 20 minutes en route . Some cancelled trains will run as scheduled: Train No 11014 Coimbatore-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Daily Express from Coimbatore on January 2 and March 3. Train No 12678 Ernakulam-KSR Bengaluru Daily Superfast Express from Ernakulam on March 2. Train No 12677 KSR Bengaluru-Ernakulam Daily Superfast Express from KSR Bengaluru on March 2. Cancelled The following trains will be cancelled: Train No 06560 Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru MEMU Special from Mysuru on December 30, January 4, and 6. Train No 06559 KSR Bengaluru-Mysuru MEMU Special from KSR Bengaluru on December 31, January 5 and 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/changes-in-train-services/article38052399.ece
28 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cash for votes?||Some Congress workers complained that BJP workers were distributing cash to voters of urban local body polls in Managuli village in Vijayapura district on Monday. Congress workers recorded two BJP workers coming to a place near the booth and distributing money to voters. They also caught three of the four persons who were distributing cash and handed them over to the police. A formal complaint was filed with the tahsildar. Tampering In Belagavi district, a police team rushed to Shedbal village after some Congress workers complained of vote tampering by BJP workers. Polling officers were asked to make sure that there were no irregularities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cash-for-votes/article38052613.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Presume all RT-PCR positive cases as Omicron’||Recently, four girls from a cluster of 14 cases at a residential school in Dakshina Kannada were found to have been infected with Omicron. While the cluster was identified in November, the variant of infection being Omicron was confirmed about a month later, when all the four girls had recovered. Similarly, the 46-year-old government doctor without any travel history, India’s second Omicron case, was detected with Omicron ten days after he tested positive for COVID. His three colleagues, who were his primary contacts, left the dedicated Omicron facility at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute in desperation as although they had tested negative twice their genome reports had not arrived. With genome sequencing reports - that are key to identifying the Omicron variant - getting delayed invariably, experts said that every positive case should be presumed as Omicron and appropriate precautions should be taken. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said irrespective of the variant the infection is COVID-19. “In the wake of the high transmissibility of Omicron, it is important that every positive case should be presumed as Omicron and appropriate precautions should be taken from the public perspective,” he said. “Although institutional quarantine is mandatory for all Omicron cases, those who test RT-PCR positive for COVID-19 should be immediately isolated and their contacts should be tested without any delay. If their genome sequencing reports return positive, they can be shifted to a hospital if required,” he said. M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said all international travellers, especially from high-risk countries, who test RT-PCR positive should be presumed as suspected Omicron cases and isolated and treated, pending genomic confirmation. “Even if their genome reports get delayed, the risk of transmission is cut because they were isolated immediately. As the treatment protocols for COVID-19 of any variant remain the same, early isolation and intervention will help in quick recovery too,” he said. “Besides, all positive cases from clusters who present classical COVID-19 symptoms and CT values of less than 25 should also be presumed as suspected Omicron cases and treated,” he said. He said the TAC has recommended that the State should start using S-gene target failure (SGTF) test kits at the Bowring Hospital for probable diagnosis of Omicron. “The TaqPath ‘S’ gene COVID-19 diagnostic kit by Thermo Fisher should be procured in this hospital that has been designated as a dedicated Omicron facility. The Thermo Fisher TaqPath assay can be used as a proxy test for detecting the new variant, pending confirmation by genome sequencing,” Dr Sudarshan said. Why the delay? V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka who also heads the State Genomic Surveillance committee, said genome sequencing reports are delayed because sequencing has to be done in batches of 24, 96, or 384 samples. “Genome sequencing is highly resource-intensive and expensive. This is why you cannot test every single sample as and when each comes. Testing 384 samples on one sequencing chip costs around Rs. 10,000 per sample. The cost is higher when the number of samples is lower,” he said. “We have to wait for enough samples to be collected to do the sequencing. Further, only samples with a CT value less than 25 can be used for genome sequencing. If the value is higher, it is tougher to get the full gene sequence, which compromises the accuracy of results. While the process of gene sequencing takes up to 12 hours, the subsequent analysis and manual confirmation takes 3-4 days,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/presume-all-rt-pcr-positive-cases-as-omicron/article38052386.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unprecedented rains brought down buildings, left telltale signs on city roads||Just about to retire for the night after dinner, the residents of the ground floor house in the three-storey building in Kamalanagar literally had the ground beneath their feet giving away. All residents living in the six houses in the building managed to rush out safely from the dilapidated building. Heavy rains were attributed for the weakening of the foundation of the building. October, November and early December were among the wettest months in the recent past for the city. Several buildings came down, rendering families homeless suddenly, while the heavy rains flooded low-lying areas and damaged many roads across the city. With the rains not letting up for days, life in the city was thrown out of gear. According to the data available, the normal rainfall for this period is usually 212.8 mm. However, the city received 581.7 mm, which is a 173% departure from normal. ‘Valley of potholes’ Heavy rains also caused a lot of damage to the city’s roads, resulting in potholes — a pet peeve of Bengalureans. The constant drizzle, waterlogging and potholes compounded the problems of the motorists, who had to also deal with the incomplete development works taken up by Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. in the central business district and by the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board on the city’s outskirts - so much so that the city earned the moniker of being a “valley of potholes”. Groups of citizens performed a ‘homa’, while the Aam Aadmi Party announced ‘pothole habba’ (festival of potholes). Though several deadlines to fill the potholes and repair worn out road surfaces have whizzed past, the condition of many roads across the city continue to be poor. BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the water ingress due to continuous and often heavy downpour had led to the deterioration of road surface. “We have now taken up repairs on a war footing. We have also taken up asphalting of roads that were already approved. Several of these road works could not be taken up over the past four-five months due to heavy rains,” he said and added that saturation of the substrata had led to instances of wall and building collapses. Over the past few months, waterlogging and flooding of low-lying areas were reported on an almost daily basis. The flooding of Kendriya Vihar, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research and Manyata Tech Park hogged the headlines. During an inspection of the flooded areas, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai remarked that the existing rajakaluves were narrow and not sufficient to carry the huge volume of discharge. He had directed the officials to draft a master plan to not just minimise flooding, but also to improve the drain network. Mr. Gupta said that of the 842 km of the storm-water drain network, 428 km had already been remodelled and strengthened. In the next phase, 128 km will be taken up, he said. “This is not just capital intensive, but is fraught with field level problems, such as encroachments that need to be cleared after surveys,” he said. Climate change However, this is not enough, said M. Inayuthullah, director, Water Institute, University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering, who is also an advisor to the BBMP. He stressed on the need to recompute the carrying capacity of drains and volume of discharge, apart from detailed data monitoring for better analysis and integrated departmental efforts at the micro watershed level. “The need of the hour is proper planning on storage of excess water that we receive during the monsoon months,” he said and pointed to changes in rainfall patterns owing to climate change and rampant urbanisation. “While there are several practical problems on ground faced by various civic agencies, there are solutions and technology available to tackle them. The real issues of application of these solutions on ground and time, project management can only be handled if all departments work together on a common platform,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unprecedented-rains-brought-down-buildings-left-telltale-signs-on-city-roads/article38052377.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After tiles, Commercial Street now gets white-topping||In July earlier this year, the colourful avatar of Commercial Street, complete with coloured tiles, was inaugurated by the then Chief Minister, B.S. Yeddiyurappa. Just days later, the tiles faded, prompting Revenue Minister R. Ashok to direct the contractor to replace them at their own cost. Cut to end of December, the 540-metre stretch is now being white-topped. The commercial centre in the central business district is being developed by the Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL) at a cost of Rs. 5.5 crore and the work began in May 2020. Despite several deadlines, the work has progressed at a slow pace. However, with white-topping now taken up, traders are hopeful of their businesses picking up at least in 2022. P. Rajendra Cholan, managing director of BSCL, told The Hindu that the decision to take up white-topping was taken after inputs from the technical committee and the project management consultant. The colour of the tiles were fading and the tiles were also getting damaged due to heavy vehicular and pedestrian movement, he pointed out. Clarifying that the white-topping was taken up at no extra cost, he said the 3.5-metre carriage way would be white-topped, while 1 metre on either side would have cobble stones. Sanjay Motwani, president of Bengaluru Commercial Association, said traders were consulted before the decision to take up white-topping was taken. “The quality of tiles was good; but they were not able to handle the traffic load,” he stated and added that while the decorative element (coloured tiles) was now lost, the road at least would be stronger to handle the load. “Given the speed at which work is now progressing, we are confident of work being completed by Sankranthi,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-tiles-commercial-street-now-gets-white-topping/article38052373.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Grasslands treated as wastelands, diverted for other uses’||COVID-19 has put the focus on zoonotic disease like nothing else did before. The bigger issue here, Mahesh Sankaran from National Center For Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru, says, is habitat loss, fragmentation and degradation. Prof. Sankaran was awarded the Infosys Prize 2021 in the Life Sciences category in recognition of his work on the ecology of tropical savanna ecosystems, and his contributions to highlighting the biodiversity of important Indian ecosystems such as the Western Ghats.  In an interview with The Hindu , expanding on the correlation between the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change, he said processes that increase contact between humans and potential hosts are the problem. “The challenge is to find ways to reduce it. Chances of spillover tend to be high where biodiversity is high – where there are lots of potential hosts, and where human population is high, and where the interface between humans and wildlife is high, i..e areas in the tropics that typically tend to be more biodiverse. When you have habitat loss and increased contact, there is a problem. If degradation continues, chances of more spillover events occurring are higher. We need to think about restoration and reduced deforestation to minimise these chances,” he said. Climate change Scientists have unequivocally concluded that climate change is happening and it is driven by anthropogenic drivers, a lot of it caused by humans. Manifestations, besides directional increases in temperature, include increased frequency and intensity of extreme events such as heavy rainfall and drought. These have huge impacts on many facets – they can directly affect human life; destruction and warmer temperatures have an impact on humans and quality of life, food production and natural vegetation, he said, adding that they can disrupt supply chains, human quality of life and ecological processes. “The window of opportunity is closing rapidly. We need to be taking more drastic actions. I understand there are constraints and issues underlying the targets and decisions. But there is no reason that India cannot be the leader in this. We have the skill set and people. All nations should be doing more. It requires transformational change. It is an interdisciplinary problem, which will requires interdisciplinary solutions. I am optimistic and hopeful,” said Prof. Sankaran. A large body of his work centres around mixed tree-grass systems.  "A lot of our initial work was in the African savannas and with collaborators we expanded it globally. Savannas of different continents occupy different climate spaces. By the time these grasses evolved and expanded about eight million years ago, the continents had already split up. So savannas on different continents evolved independently, which is why we find them in different climate spaces. This is relevant if you are thinking of projecting their responses to say future climate changes such as an increase in temperature,” he said.  In India, people normally don't think about savannas and they have been neglected. “We believe this is for historical reasons. Vegetation classifications came from a very forest perspective. You will rarely find the word savanna. When you classify it as a forest, then it has certain implications for how you perceive and manage it. For example, actively managing to prevent fires which are detrimental for forests, but an integral part of savannas. We are trying to find out what are the implications of the historical misclassification and misidentification of savannas as degraded forests. We have also been trying to map where these savannas are. This is a tricky problem as much of land in India has already been lost or transformed. There are still large tracts remaining. We need to think about these systems differently and thus conserve them differently,” he said, adding that the Deccan plateau has nutrient-rich savanna going up to northwest India, but down south, the peninsular part has nutrient-poor savanna spread over the rainshadow areas of the Western Ghats, and in the Eastern ghats.  Significant threats He listed habitat loss and conversion, invasive species and climate change as the biggest threats. Over the last few years, a lot of scientists have been trying to drive home the point that we need to be aware that our climate solutions don’t come at the cost of biodiversity, and we need to be planting the right trees in the right places at the right time, he said, advocating reforestation – planting trees where they were present before, over afforestation – planting trees where they were not present before, such as grasslands and savannas. “Grasslands and savannas in India have the added problem of being undervalued, and therefore seen as a place to plant trees. This poses a huge threat. We know it threatens their unique biodiversity, reduces grazing potential and quality, and alters hydrological cycles. Although tree planting in grasslands might sequester some carbon above ground, grasslands in fact sequester a lot of carbon below the ground. Globally, soils store about three times more carbon than above ground. Grasslands are an important soil carbon sink. Some studies show that when you plant trees in grasslands, it sometimes can lead to losses of soil carbon. This can lead to a net loss of ecosystem carbon,” he explained. He feels ‘wonderful that the award was given to ecological sciences, which still remains a niche science in India’, and hopes that a lot more people should be working in ecology, climate science and sustainability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/grasslands-treated-as-wastelands-diverted-for-other-uses/article38052382.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Electrical accident compensation missing in draft regulations’||Consumer safety and compensation for victims of electrical accidents are important aspects that have not been addressed in the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission's (KERC) draft guidelines for consumers, said participants of the public hearing held on Monday. The draft KERC (Electricity Consumers Rights) Duty to Supply Electricity by the Licensee, Consumers Complaint Handling Procedure and the Licensees Standards of Performance) Regulations 2021 was notified by the commission recently. Sridhar Prabhu, an advocate who represented the Karnataka State Licenced Electrical Contractors’ Association, told The Hindu that the draft offered no solutions for electrical accident victims. “The need of the hour is to have accident claims tribunal, much like the Motor Vehicle Accidents Claims Tribunal,” he said and pointed out that while the draft was just a compendium of various earlier regulations, it still did not specify means through which electrical consumers can seek redressal of their grievances. The Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), in its detailed objections and suggestions, also noted that the regulation should take care of compensation for victims of electrical accidents. The compensation for industries in the standard of performance due to variation in supply or flickering in voltage and due to power outage has not been addressed and added that the compensation should be commensurate with losses incurred. FKCCI added that the compensation for non-performance as per the standard of performance should be collected from the officials responsible and the same should not be reflected in the tariff revision. M.G. Prabhakar, former member of KERC Advisory Committee, said after the allotted time, consumers' complaints, if not addressed, should get escalated. He also said the KERC should, on a suo motu basis, take up compliance audit. Mr. Prabhu produced a few circulars issued by Bescom before the KERC that tried to circumvent or were gross violations of KERC’s earlier directions or regulations. Mr. Prabhakar also suggested increasing the number of consumer grievance redressal forums, apart from making usage of Kannada compulsory in these forums. He also said dedicated staff could be posted to assist rural consumers to file complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electrical-accident-compensation-missing-in-draft-regulations/article38052374.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court imposes Rs. 1 lakh cost on errant policeman||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on a police inspector for illegally keeping a 22-year-old married woman, who had left her marital home owing to conflict with her husband, and her three-year-old daughter as “captives” for six months in a shelter home exclusively meant for victims of trafficking and commercial sexual exploitation. The court also imposed Rs. 1 lakh cost on the shelter home for unseemly enthusiasm to adhere to the request of the police inspector and forcibly keeping her despite her request for release. Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda passed the order in the Dharwad Bench of the High Court recently while allowing the petition filed by the woman seeking a direction to release her from the shelter home. The woman had left her marital home in May 2021 and subsequently her husband had lodged a missing complaint with Malmaruthi police station in Belagavi. Following this, inspector Sunil Balasaheb Patil of Malmaruthi police station tried to resolve the issue between the couple. As she refused to go back to her husband’s house, the inspector sent her to the shelter home against her will. The court also found that a letter, in which her signature was affixed stating that she wanted to go to the shelter home, did not appear to be genuine as there was a large vacant space between end of the contents of the letter and the signature. “It is quite shocking that an inspector of police decided to send a 22-year-old mother along with her three-year-old daughter to a shelter which was meant to house victims rescued from trafficking and to those who were sexually exploited. This act of the inspector indicated complete lack of sensitivity and humanity on his part,” the court said, while observing that the act of the inspector was nothing but “forced captivity imposed on her and her three-year-old daughter”. The inspector’s action was also “contrary to the very ethos of the bunch of fundamental rights guaranteed to every citizen of this country by the Constitution of India. The basic human right cannot be deprived by the police inspector in connivance with a shelter home, at the instance of a warring spouse and in the garb of protecting a lady,” the court said. “The police inspector appears to have decided to keep the petitioner at a particular place with an ulterior purpose. I say so because, in the statement of the petitioner stated to have been recorded by the third respondent in a counselling session, it has been stated that the petitioner was in love with a neighbour and had chosen to abandon her marital home because of this,” Justice Gowda observed. The court was of the view that the police inspector, by forcing the petitioner to stay in the shelter was “essentially trying to prevent the petitioner from having access to the outside world and more importantly to the said neighbour”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-imposes-rs-1-lakh-cost-on-errant-policeman/article38052403.ece
28 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water supply to be hit in many areas tomorrow||Water supply in several areas in the city will be disrupted on Wednesday from 3 a.m. to 9 p.m. as the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board will take up work in K.R. Puram and T.K. Kalli. According to a BWSSB release, the areas that will be affected are: Yelahanka, Jakkuru, Byatarayanapura, Vidyaranyapura, Sahakarnagar, BEL Layout, HMT Layout, Dasarahalli, Shettihalli, Mallasandra, Bagalgunte, T. Dasarahalli, Peenya, and Rajgopalnagar. Hegganahalli, Chokkasandra, HMT Ward, Nandini Layout, R.R.Nagar, Kengeri, Ullala, Annapurneshwarinagar, Papareddypalya, Mallathalli, Kengunte, Jagajyothi Layout, Jnanabharathi layout, and Ideal Homes. BEML layout, Pattanagere, Chennasandra, Kottanurudinne, J.P. Nagar 6, 7 and 8 phase, Vijaya Bank layout, Kudlu, Anjanapura, Bommanahalli, K.R. Puram, Ramamurthy Nagar, Mahadevapur, A. Narayanapura, Marathalli, Hoodi, and Whitefield. Nagarabhavi, G.K.V.K. Nagar, Sanjayanagar, New BEL Road, HSR Layout, HBR Layout, Domlur, Bannerghatta Road, Jambusavari Dinne, Laggere, Shrigandhadakaval, Telecom layout, Srinivasnagar, Bahubali Nagar, Jalahalli, and Bommanahalli. Arakere, BHEL Layout, Sunkadakatte, Bayadarahalli, Sir M.V.Layout, Kottigepalya, LIC layout, Nagadevanahalli, Mysore Road, Shirke, Chikkagollarahatti, Subbanna garden, Nayandanahalli, Kamakshipalya, Ranganathapura, and Govindarajnagar. KHB Colony, Mudalapalya, Adarsha Nagar, BDA Layout, Muneshwaranagar, Kodigehalli, Amruthalli, Kogilu, J P Park, Yesvanthapura, Sadduguntepalya, Kasavanahalli, Konena Agrahara, Sudhamanagar, and Murugeshpalya. HRBR layout, Nagavara, Balaji Layout, BGS layout, SBM colony, BTS layout, Sarvabhauma Nagar, Hulimavu, Bandepalya, Saraswathipura, Raghavendra layout, Syndicate Bank colony, Ramaiah Layout, Pragati layout, Silkboard colony, Magammanapalya, Singasandra, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-many-areas-tomorrow/article38052371.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Encourage use of khadi in varsities: Governor||Governor and Chancellor of Universities Thaawarchand Gehlot on Monday chaired a conference of Vice-Chancellors of State universities at Karnataka State Higher Education Council in Bengaluru. NEP issues According to an official release, the Governor witnessed presentation about State universities by the Vice-Chancellors who briefly stated about their universities and their achievements, implementation of National Education Policy 2020, challenges faced during implementation and solutions to solve such hurdles and also suggestions for the government for effective implementation. The Governor also suggested to the V-Cs to take up the initiative to adopt khadi or handloom fabric for convocations and other special occasions to encourage the use of khadi. “Some universities of our State have been using khadi dresses and this is a welcome move,” said the Governor. He also suggested to the gathering that the Common Entrance Tests based on the guidelines of UGC be implemented in all universities. Mr. Gehlot further noted that a Chancellor’s address be included in the convocations. The Governor urged the Vice-Chancellors to focus on academic excellence and quality research and to have an honest appraisal of strengths and weaknesses of the university. Karnataka State Higher Education Council vice-chairman Thimme Gowda, executive director Gopal Krishna Joshi, and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encourage-use-of-khadi-in-varsities-governor/article38052402.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four men set fire to dhaba||Four men, who were reportedly in an inebriated state, allegedly set fire to a dhaba in Soladevanahalli after the staff demanded bill payment citing closure on Sunday night. While furniture and goods were gutted, a staffer sustained burns in the melee and was hospitalised. The accused, who had come to have dinner, created a ruckus after the staff asked them to pay the bill since it was closing time. Arguments ensued, which took an ugly turn when they went out and returned to set fire to the dhaba and escaped, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-men-set-fire-to-dhaba/article38052378.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seven arrested for robbing FMCG agency||The Annapoorneshwarinagar police arrested a gang of seven who allegedly robbed an FMCG agency on December 20. The accused barged into Sudha agency in Nagarabhavi, around 8.30 p.m., threatened staff, robbed cash, mobile phones and gold valuables, and escaped. The police tracked down one of the accused through CCTV footage, arrested his associates and recovered cash of Rs. 80,000, three mobile phones, four bikes and gold valuables which they had robbed from the staff members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-arrested-for-robbing-fmcg-agency/article38052379.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Compensation cheques to BPL families||Six months after it was announced, the State Government finally handed out Rs. 1 lakh each to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families, who lost adult members to COVID-19. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who distributed the compensation cheques to some beneficiaries at a programme jointly organised by BBMP and Bengaluru Urban district administration on Monday, said the government is also contemplating to offer similar COVID-19 compensation to eligible APL families too. “The government is with the poor families, who have lost their breadwinners to COVID-19 and have released Rs. 300 crore for this. We are mobilising information from various departments to extend similar compensation to APL families. This information will be examined and a final decision will be taken soon,” he said. According to BBMP officials, 2,750 BPL families have been identified for the compensation of which 1,500 were being given the compensation on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/compensation-cheques-to-bpl-families/article38052385.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||289 cases, four deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 289 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,04,876. Bengaluru Urban reported 172 cases and two deaths. With four deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,316. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 254 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 29,59,082. The State now has 7,449 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.49%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.38%. As many as 58,495 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 48,374 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,60,56,875.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/289-cases-four-deaths/article38052387.ece
28 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Oppression against Kannadigas have risen’||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday alleged that incidents of oppression against Kannadigas had increased after the BJP came to power at the Centre. Speaking to reporters in Bidadi near here, Mr. Kumaraswamy condemned the episode of 90 of the 100 questions in the question paper on Kannada optional page for UGC-NET, conducted by National Testing Agency, being in Hindi. Taking serious exception to this, Mr. Kumaraswamy asked the Centre not to belittle the self esteem of Kannadigas. Urging the State Government to think about the issue seriously, he said even the people of Karnataka had to fight such a trend of imposition of Hindi. Such a measure was needed to safeguard Kannada, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oppression-against-kannadigas-has-risen/article38052405.ece
28 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Dalits who converted to Buddhism oppose Bill||Many Dalit families, who converted to Buddhism in recent years, are opposed to the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, terming it the State Government’s “latest tool targeting Scheduled Castes.” The Bill, passed by the Legislative Assembly, is yet to be tabled before the Legislative Council. In recent years, many families in Hassan district have converted to Buddhism. Swamy Nittur, among the first to get converted in Nittur in Hassan taluk in 2014, told The Hindu that conversions took place as Dalits were fed up with caste-based atrocities. “Earlier, we were not allowed to enter temples. During the annual Doddamma festival, Dalit boys were made to take part in the procession as Devara Makkalu (children of god), covering their bodies with neem leaves. All such practices stopped once we converted to Buddhism,” he said. They said that conversion brought changes in the lives of Dalit families. “Religious conversion and the teachings of B.R. Ambedkar influenced our thoughts and acts,” said Thotesh Nittur. These families in the village celebrate Buddha Poornima, Ambedkar Jayanti, and hold prayer meetings regularly at the Buddha Vihara. Instead of this Bill, the families said, the State Government should take measures to stop atrocities against Dalits. “Let them slap cases against those who commit atrocities against Dalits under the Goonda Act,” said Mr. Swamy Nittur. Sathish, Hassan district president of the Republican Party of India, who also converted to Buddhism, said, “By making use of this law, the government may harass priests, pastors, and Dalits. We are planning protests against this.” A meeting was held in Hassan on Sunday to plan protests in the coming days. Karnataka Dalit Sangharsha Samiti (Ambedkar Vada) president Mavalli Shankar said the proposed law was part of BJP’s strategy to “divert people’s attention” from other burning issues. “There was no need for the law when the Constitution itself has spoken about forced religious conversion. Moreover, the Constitution has given liberty to every individual to choose the religion of his or her choice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dalits-who-converted-to-buddhism-oppose-bill/article38052398.ece
28 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Finish housing work at the earliest: KSE||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S.Eshwarappa has instructed officers to complete the construction of 1,560 houses meant for slum dwellers in Shivamogga at the earliest. He was attending a meeting at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Shivamogga on Monday. The Minister told presspersons after the meeting that 1,560 houses had been sanctioned for the district. Among them, approval had been given for 971. The construction of 363 houses had been completed and handed over to the beneficiaries. The construction of 414 houses was in the final stage and would be completed in four months. Work on the remaining houses would be started soon and completed in eight months. “The officers have been given instructions to take action against the contractors if they failed to complete the work within the deadline.” The beneficiaries of the general category had to pay Rs. 1.6 lakh as their contribution, while those who belonged to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe had to pay Rs. 31,000. The State Government pays the subsidy of Rs. 4.75 lakh per house. “A few beneficiaries have not paid their contribution. We have instructed them to do so at the earliest so that construction could be started.” The Minister said his department had completed the target of creating 13 crore man-days by December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/finish-housing-work-at-the-earliest-kse/article38052830.ece
28 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CMC polling peaceful||Polling for Chikkamagaluru City Municipal Council went off peacefully on Monday. There were 146 candidates for 35 wards of the urban local body. As per the reports until 3 p.m., the voter turnout was 47.05 %. Voting continued till 5 p.m. Chikkamagaluru MLA C.T.Ravi, who is also a national general secretary of the BJP, was among those who exercised their right to vote. Many fced difficulty in finding their names on the voters’ list and ad to visit a couple of booths to cast their votes. The district administration had deployed police to avoid untoward incidents. Candidates of the BJP, Congress and the JD(S), besides independents, were in the fray. The counting of votes will be held on December 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cmc-polling-peaceful/article38052824.ece
28 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Mahaparinirvan Diwas||The architect of the Constitution B.R. Ambedkar had, in the Constitution, ensured equal rights for citizens without any discrimination, Priyank Kharge, MLA, said. He was speaking after inaugurating the play Tathagatha based on the life of Buddha organised to commemorate the 65th Mahaparinirvan Diwas of Dr. Ambedkar here on Sunday. “Dr. Ambedkar believed in equality, fraternity, and a society committed to the welfare of all sections. The Constitution is the basic foundation of the Indian democracy; the principles and values enshrined in it are most virtuous,” Mr. Kharge added. Mr. Kharge reiterated that the teachings of Buddha had a strong resemblance to the teaching of 12th-century social reformer Basaveshwar and Dr. Ambedkar. He called upon the people to strive to build a new India by following the teachings of Buddha, Basaveshwar, and Ambedkar to achieve greater heights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahaparinirvan-diwas/article38052615.ece
28 December 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||BJP ignoring minorities, says Muslim forum||Members of the accused the BJP-led State government of neglecting the minorities. Forum secretary Siraj Jafri addressing presspersons here on Monday alleged that the Karnataka Minority Development Corporation, Minority Commission, and Urdu Academy have been ignored under the BJP rule and not even one public representative raised his voice against the discrimination. Mr. Jafri condemned the appointment of Deputy Commissioner as Chairman for the District Waqf Advisory Committees and slammed the government for the delay in the formation of the various committees under the Minority Welfare Department. He said that nearly 50,000 students belonging to minority communities in the State were forced to drop out of higher education institutions as the KMDC stopped loan renewals for the students under the Arivu scheme. The forum also submitted a memorandum with the charter of demands to the Regional Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-ignoring-minorities-says-muslim-forum/article38052616.ece
28 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Fight against IPO in LIC’||Expressing displeasure over the economic policies of the Union Government, a former Professor of Hampi University Chandra Poojari has urged trade unions and the common people to unitedly fight against the government’s move to introduce intial public offering (IPO) in LIC. He was addressing a gathering after a district-level seminar aganist IPO in LIC organised by Insurance Employees Union (Branch I and Il) in Ballari. The BJP-led Government’s economic policies such as merger of banks, privatisation of banks and general insurance have effected the common people. Prof. Poojari said that the LIC should be protected by opposing IPO in the interest of 40 crore policy holders spread across the nation. N.S. Ravindranath, general secretary, South Central Zone Insurance Employees Federation, also gave a call to continue campaigns against disinvestment in LIC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fight-against-ipo-in-lic/article38052604.ece
28 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beatification process to declare Fr. Roche as Saint begins||The beatification process to declare Fr. Alfred Roche as a Saint commenced at the Holy Family Church, Brahmavar, on Monday with Udupi Diocese Bishop Most Rev. Gerald Isaac Lobo leading a solemn mass. Soon after the Holy Mass, a committee appointed to formalise the process to elevate Fr. Roche took oath. Speaking on the occasion, Rev. Lobo said that the Udupi Diocese is blessed as the son of the soil, Fr. Roche, through his devout and exemplary life became a model for all and earned all the qualities to be considered to be elevated as a Saint. The elevation process is a long drawn out process, he said and hoped that it would be completed at the earliest so that the region would have its own Saint. Vicar General of Udupi Diocese Rev. Msgr. Baptist Menezes, as a representative of the Bishop of the Udupi Diocese, is the Promoter of Justice of the committee and Fr. Sunil Kumar D’Souza is a member of the committee. Fr. Ravi Rajesh Serrao is the Notary and Fr. Steven D’Souza is a member of the Historical Commission, while Fr. Baptist Rodrigues, Fr. Joel Lopez and Fr. Santa Lopez will be supervising the entire process. The elevation process has to go through the stages of Fr. Roche being declared as Servant of God, which was completed on August 15, and then as, Venerable, Blessed and finally, a Saint. On Monday, documents related to the elevation process, an website and an office were inaugurated to facilitate the elevation process. Fr. Roche, a Franciscan Capuchin priest born in 1924 and brought up in Barkur in the erstwhile Canara district, served in the State in various capacities. After serving in Brahmavar for 16 years, he passed away in 1996. For his saintly life, selfless service, care for the poor and needy, people from all walks of life hailed him as an epitome of spirituality and emulated his virtues. Now, 25 years after his death, his devotees and well-wishers have demanded that he should be granted Sainthood in the Catholic Church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beatification-process-to-declare-fr-roche-as-saint-begins/article38052806.ece
28 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Honesty rare in politics’||It is rare to find honesty in politics in today’s system, the former Lokayukta N. Santosh Hegde said in Brahmavar on Monday. Speaking after giving away the Vaddarse Raghuram Shetty Journalism Award, Mr. Hegde said politicians who are coming out of prison are getting rousing welcome. With such actions, it is difficult to have peace and tranquility in society. Politics is now not being used to serve people, he added. Mr. Hegde said that the quantum of corruption is increasing every passing year and this is taking away humanity and a sense of content among people. This urge for ill-gotten wealth is harming society, he reiterated. Earlier, Mr. Hegde presented the award to senior journalist U.S. Shenoy, editor of Kundaprabha, a weekly published from Kundapur. The award has been instituted by Brahmavar Taluk Working Journalists Association. Brahmavar Tahsildar Rajashekara Murthy, Udupi District Working Journalists Association Secretary Nazeer Polya and Udupi District Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Neelavara Surendra Adiga were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honesty-rare-in-politics/article38052817.ece
28 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Giving back to community makes positive impact’||Corporate leader T.V. Mohandas Pai on Sunday said that the Konkani Scholarship Scheme has grown into a large community with over a 1,000 alumni and with each alumni helping a 100 student, the process will create a cascading effect on the community and the nation. Delivering a keynote address virtually at the Vishwa Konkani Student Scholarship Programme’s annual scholarship award ceremony here, Mr. Pai appreciated the gesture of alumni in giving back to the community, providing leadership in skill training and mentoring young scholars. Mr. Pai spoke about the importance of the contribution of alumni towards the development of the community. He also encouraged young minds to actively take part in Civil Services and defence system while asking the leaders of Konkani-speaking communities to bring in more action plans for full-fledged development. The award ceremony was organised by World Konkani Centre virtually wherein scholarships to the tune of Rs. 3.5 crore were given away to Konkani-speaking students from across the country. Students pursuing professional courses, including BE, MBBS and study-abroad Master courses, were awarded scholarships, apart from those studying other courses. Programme secretary Pradeep G. Pai gave a brief account about the accomplishments of the Scholarship Programme in the presence of centre president Nandagopal Shenoy. Programme alumni from across the globe participated in an interactive session sharing their experience how the programme helped shape their lives.  Scholarships worth Rs. 3.5 crore given away to Konkani-speaking students from across the country||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/giving-back-to-community-makes-positive-impact/article38052805.ece
28 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 10,000 in cash found on bus||The driver and conductor of a private city bus on Sunday handed over to the police Rs. 10,000 in cash that they found in their bus which was returning from Thokkottu to the city. Driver Diwakar and conductor Altaf saw a bunch of currency notes in the bus and contacted the bus owner and on his advice, they handed the cash over to the police. Praising them, Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said the city police will hand over the amount to the concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-10000-in-cash-found-on-bus/article38052810.ece
28 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||SC judge Abdul Nazeer visits Kukke Subrahmanya||Supreme Court judge S. Abdul Nazeer, along with his family, visited Kukke Subrahmanya temple on Monday. Mr. Nazeer arrived at Subrahmanya on Sunday evening. On Monday morning, he and his family had darshan of the deity and later took part in an Ashlesha Bali ritual. The police had deployed personnel in large numbers at the temple since Sunday evening. The public were barred from entering the temple and vehicle movement towards the temple was stopped during the visit on Monday. On Tuesday morning, Mr. Nazeer will inaugurate a new building of the Puttur Bar Association and later lay the foundation stone for the second phase of the construction of a court building and also the living quarters for judicial officers. He will lay the foundation stone for the construction of living quarters for judicial officers at Sullia at 2.30 p.m. and then inaugurate a new Bar Association building at Belthangady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sc-judge-visits-temple/article38052390.ece
28 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Good Samaritans help victim of natural disaster get shelter||Forty two year-old physically challenged Vijay Nayak was distraught after the collapse of his ancestral tile roof two-room house near Kannur post office in the city after heavy rain two years ago while he miraculously escaped unhurt. On Sunday, Mr. Nayak was happy to formally receive keys from Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath of the house that has been reconstructed by the latter at a cost Rs. 5 lakh. “I am really grateful to the MLA for getting the house reconstructed. The local Councillor Chandravati Vishwanath played a great role in timely reconstruction of the house,” said Mr. Nayak, who stays in the house along with his younger sister Shanti, who works in a firm in the city. Mr. Nayak stayed in the tiled roof mud floor house given by one Raju Shetty to his father to look after latter’s adjoining farm land and continued to stay there even after cultivation was stopped. Mr. Nayak who suffered disability following a fall during house painting work, was allowed by Raju Shetty’s son Dhiraj Shetty to stay in the house and take care of their property. After a spell of heavy rain two years ago, the mud-wall house was completely damaged after the compound wall of the adjoining house fell over it. “We could rebuild only a part of the house and the MLA helped us to complete the work,” said Ms. Shanti. Mr. Kamath told The Hindu that when he visited the house along with the councillor and local BJP activists, it was in a poor state. “They practically had no shelter,” he said. Mr. Dhiraj Shetty and his family came forward to offer the land on which the house was situated, to Mr. Nayak. “I managed to arrange funds to build a decent (two-bedroom) house,” Mr. Kamath said and praised active involvement of party workers from the ward in reconstructing of the house. Mr. Kamath said similarly a house that was damaged in a fire was recently reconstructed in Veeranagar in Padil. Two houses in dilapidated condition were reconstructed near Bairadi Kere and in Maroli. A house each was recently rebuilt in Alape and Urwa, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-samaritans-help-victim-of-natural-disaster-get-shelter/article38052814.ece
28 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for sexually harassing woman||A 49-year-old resident of Chokkabettu in Surathkal has been arrested on the charge of sexually harassing a 27-year-old woman from Bejai. The Surathkal Police gave the name of the arrested person as Mohammed Sharief Siddique. In a complaint filed with the Surathkal Police, the victim’s mother said that Siddique has been sexually harassing her daughter for the last four years. Unable to bear this, her husband passed away a few days ago. Since then, Siddique has been in regular touch with the victim. On December 22, Siddique called the victim and asked her to come near the KSRTC Bus Stand. She then locked her mother in the house and left. When she returned on December 23 morning, the victim looked tired and later she confided that Siddique had sexually harassed her, the victim’s mother said in the complaint. The Surathkal Police registered the complaint under Section 354 and 506 of Indian Penal Code and arrested Siddque. He was produced before the jurisdictional magistrate who remanded him to judicial custody for 14 days. The action by the police followed a representation by Vishwa Hindu Parishad district office-bearers to Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Sunday. The VHP activists gave to Mr. Kumar the statement by the victim’s mother accusing Siddique and his friends of sexually harassing the victim after giving her sedatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-sexually-harassing-woman/article38052807.ece
28 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CISF Inspector goes missing||A 34-year-old CISF Inspector Diggi D.S. has been reported missing from the CISF’s Bachelor Barrack at the MRPL CISF unit in Kuttethur village since December 20. In a press release, the Surathkal Police said that he is 163 cm in height and speaks Hindi and Marathi. Whosoever has information about him can contact the police station on Ph: 08242220540, 9480802345 and 9480805360 or the police control room on Ph: 0824-2220800.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cisf-inspector-goes-missing/article38052801.ece
28 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘MyCop’ to help city police enforce COVID-19 guidelines||Amidst the Omicron threat, the Mysuru City Police has resolved to rope in volunteers interested in working with the police for persuading the public in complying with the rules meant for controlling the spread of COVID-19. ‘MyCop’ or the ‘Mysuru COVID-19 Policing’, the concept of public joining hands with the police for helping them enforce the COVID-19 Appropriate Behavior, was launched here on Monday. Giving the details of ‘MyCoP’ after launching it, Commissioner of Police Chandragupta told reporters here on Monday that interested persons can join the initiative and ID cards will be issued to them. It’s a challenge to establish COVID-19 Appropriate Behavior in crowded places and the ‘MyCoP’ volunteers can make a difference by encouraging the public in wearing masks, maintaining social distance and so on. Mr. Chandragupta said there are plans to rope in at least 200 volunteers in each police station limits. Until the COVID-19 comes under full control, such novel efforts from the police will continue. Policing for enforcing the COVID-19 Appropriate Behavior in partnership with the public is the idea, he explained. Meanwhile, the night curfew is coming into effect here from Tuesday onwards, Mr. Chandragupta siad. The containment measures are in view of breaking the chain of transmission in the State, said an order issued by the government on December 26. The night curfew will be in force from 10 p.m. to 5 p.m. from December 28 to January 7. From December 30 to January 2, all restaurants, hotels, clubs and pubs will function with 50 per cent of their seating capacity strictly adhering to COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour. The Commissioner warned of action against those flouting the curbs imposed in view of New Year celebrations. The police said the guidelines on night curfew will be strictly enforced without any exceptions. Exempted Medical, emergency and essential services including pharmacies shall remain fully functional while other commercial activities are prohibited, according to the guidelines. Movement of buses and trains are permitted while the movement of private vehicles are allowed only on display of valid travel documents, IDs (in case of employees on night duty) and tickets (in case of passengers picked up from railway station, bus terminus or the airport). Theatres have been asked to end shows by 9.30 p.m. The police are keeping a close watch on private party venues as there is a strict bar on large gatherings as per the new guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mycop-to-help-city-police-enforce-covid-19-guidelines/article38052826.ece
28 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Alarm bells over shifting rainfall pattern||The post-monsoon rainfall from October through November across Karnataka this year was the highest in the last 50 years. This accentuated the growing concerns that the shifting monsoon patterns being witnessed in recent years is induced by climate change and, in turn, could have a bearing on agriculture and crop output. Two years ago, there was a prolonged dry spell during the south-west monsoon and the reservoirs in the State had only 4% of their gross storage capacity till the end of July. But between August 3 and 10, 2019, the State received 224 mm of rainfall and the departure from normal for the period was the highest for more than 120 years. Since the last few years, the timely onset of south-west monsoon in the first week of June is followed by a monsoon-break during July. But come August, and there is a downpour that neutralises the rainfall deficit in a span of a week, resulting in loss of life and widespread damage to property. ‘August rains’ Kodagu has been witnessing such a trend since the last few years and the local community have come to dread “August rains”, as it is termed colloquially. This year, the rainfall during the south west monsoon – from June through September – saw a deficit. But post-monsoon rains made up for the shortfall. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Karnataka received 332 mm of rainfall against a normal of 173 mm from October 1 to November 30h this year and the cumulative rainfall for the period was the highest in five decades. Though the post-monsoon rains neutralised the shortfall for the period June through September and ensured that the reservoirs were full, they brought in heir wake crop damage and misery to farmers. “All reports indicate a shift in the monsoon pattern and this may have an impact on the agricultural pattern in the long run,” according to N. Narendra Babu, Research Associate at the Agro Met Field Unit of Indian Meteorological Department at Naganahalli in Mysuru. A team of scientists at KSNDMC who analysed the rainfall pattern and data from 1960 to 2017, published their findings in “Climate Change Scenario in Karnataka: A Detailed Parametric Assessment.” The scientists say that there is a shift in rainfall pattern over Karnataka and the quantum, intensity and distribution varies across the regions. While the amount of annual rainfall and number of rainy days have increased in south interior Karnataka and Malnad regions, there is a reduction in the amount of rainfall in Kodagu, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts. Drought and flood The findings also indicate an increase in extreme weather events such as drought and flood. Across the State, there is an increase in annual rainfall in 39 taluks, pre-monsoon rains have increased in 28 taluks and north east monsoon rains have increased in 33 taluks. The study indicates that areas with steady rainfall experience extreme precipitation events and regions are experiencing longer spells of little or no rainfall between two heavy rainfall events. Between 2001 and 2019 the State has experienced drought of various severity for 15 years, according to the KSNDMC study. In 2016, 139 out of 176 taluks in the State were drought-affected in the Kharif season and 162 taluks in the Rabi season. In 2018, about 100 taluks were drought affected in Kharif and 156 taluks in Rabi season, underlining the severity of the impact on agriculture. The emerging evidence, according to the scientists, calls for measures to mitigate the impact of such extreme weather events on agriculture which otherwise, could have a bearing on food, nutritional and water security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alarm-bells-over-shifting-rainfall-pattern/article38052612.ece
28 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Animal adoption fees in zoos hiked after 9 years||The animal adoption fee in zoos across the State has been hiked and the revised fees will come into effect from January 1. A decision in this regard was taken at the 149th board meeting of the Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK), which controls the zoos in the State. The fees have been hiked based on the maintenance costs while the animals and birds have been classified species-wise in 13 groups to help animal lovers adopt them under the animal adoption scheme which was first introduced in Mysuru zoo and later expanded to other zoos in the State. The scheme is hugely popular in Mysuru zoo and it came as a savior to the zoo post-pandemic when the zoo was in serious financial crisis with footfall falling drastically post-lockdown. Justifying the hike in adoption fee, the authority, in a note here, said the fee was last increased in 2012 though the maintenance costs of animals and birds are rising every year. “Unavoidably, the fee had to be revised and accordingly the new fees will come into effect from January 1,” said the ZAK Member Secretary and Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest B.P. Ravi. The decision on hiking the fees was taken at the board meeting after an elaborate discussion. The meeting also decided to spread awareness on conservation among the general public through the zoos. Various classes The species have been categorized in diamond class, gold class, silver class, and bronze class. The adoption is possible for a sum of Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 3,00,000 per annum. In the diamond class, elephants, gorilla, lion, tiger, giraffe, orangutan, chimpanzee, Indian rhinoceros, hippopotamus, zebra, and African hunting cheetah have been included. In this category, the adoption fee ranges from Rs. 75,000 to Rs. 3,00,000 for a period of one year. The highest adoption fee is for Asiatic and African elephants besides gorilla, whose adoption costs Rs. 3 lakh per annum. In the gold class, black panther, Indian leopard, sloth bear, Asiatic black bear, gaur, jaguar, cape buffalo are included and their adoption costs Rs. 50,000 per annum. In the same class, the adoption of Indian fox, golden jackal, Indian grey wolf, striped hyena, dhole, lion-tailed macaque, common langur, Nilgiri langur and hamadryas baboon costs Rs. 30,000 per annum . Likewise, other animals included in the gold class whose adoption fee ranges between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000. In the silver class, the adoption fee ranges from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 and the animal and birds included under this class are swamp deer, scarlet macaw, slender Loris, hog deer, black swan, Sarus crane, saltwater crocodile, Nile crocodile, leopard cat, great Indian hornbill and others. The adoption fee ranges from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000 in bronze class which mostly comprises different species of birds, including gray jungle fowl, peacock, silver pheasant, snakes like python, ducks, parrots and others. Budgerigar, lovebird, cockatiel, red avadavat, finch, white throated munia can be adopted for a sum of Rs. 1,000 for a period of one year. Mobile application The ZAK launched a mobile app post-lockdown last year to deal with the crisis faced by the zoos following the steep fall in revenue. It was launched to help interested persons contribute any amount starting from Rs. 50 to the zoos of their choice. The ZAK said it will acknowledge any contribution from the public. The mobile app was a step towards making contributions to the zoos simple. Last year The ZAK managed to mobilize a donation of Rs. 4.25 crore for all nine zoos last year. A video featuring actor Darshan Thoogudeepa with an appeal to support the zoos of Karnataka that are badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic received huge response from fans and others. The closure of zoos due to lockdown last year and also this year resulted in zero revenue. All zoos, including Mysuru zoo and Bannerghatta Biological Park and smaller ones in Gadag Belagavi and other places, needed about Rs. 15 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh daily for their maintenance. The annual maintenance of the zoos comes up to Rs. 60 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/animal-adoption-fees-in-zoos-hiked-after-9-years/article38052389.ece
28 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||A cycle expedition for social awareness||A total of 20 residents of Odanadi Seva Samsthe, a Mysuru-based NGO engaged in rescue, rehabilitation, reintegration and empowerment of trafficked and sexually exploited women and children, embarked upon a four-day-long cycle expedition through the tribal hamlets and dalit colonies in parts of Hunsur and H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district. Accompanied by five staff members of Odanadi Seva Samsthe including founders Stanley and Parashuram, the 12 girls and eight boys sheltered will pedal an estimated 400 km through the rural parts of the district and interact with the residents of the hamlets. The residents, most of whom are survivors of human trafficking, child marriage or sexual exploitation, are in the age group of 16 years to 21 years. Street plays During the expedition, they will stage skits and street plays to create among the tribals and rural poor awareness against social evils such as child marriages, domestic violence, sexual exploitation and human trafficking, besides precautions to keep COVID-19 at bay, and they will also learn from the communities they meet. Reintegration of survivors of human trafficking, child marriage or sexual exploitation into the mainstream is one of the objectives of Odanadi. “Traditional counselling alone may not always help social reintegration. So, along with traditional counselling, such expeditions will help them build relationships as well as understand people in crisis and poverty. They will also get to learn how happy people are despite the problems they are facing”, said Stanley. The participants of the expedition, who will pedal through Bilikere, are scheduled to make their first overnight stop at Hunsur on Monday. The other villages on their itinerary for the next three days included Pakshirajapura in Hunsur taluk, where nomadic tribes are found, on Tuesday. Interaction “We will interact with the residents of different hamlets and Dalit colonies and halt overnight in the same villages, where we will hold street plays and skits on various topics”, said Mr. Parashuram, who is also a member of the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR). “During the expedition, we will stop by the houses of COVID-19 victims and hold dialogues with the family members while creating awareness about the pandemic and the steps needed to keep it bay”, he said. The expedition has also given the Odanadi youth a chance to come out in the open after remaining indoors for almost two years during the pandemic, said Mr. Parashuram. Earlier on Monday, the expedition was flagged off by Superintendent of Mysuru district Police R. Chethan at Kalamandira in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-cycle-expedition-for-social-awareness/article38052828.ece
28 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Brain dead youth’s organs donated||A 19-year-old brain dead youth’s organs including the heart were harvested at a hospital in Mysuru and donated to eligible recipients. The youth, Sharath Kumar, who met with an accident, was shifted to Apollo BGS Hospital in a critical condition on December 24 and the initial CT scan showed “brain stem infarct” after which he was shifted to ICU for life support and intensive care. Sharath was kept on life support for two days while he was in a very critical state. However, on December 26, he was declared brain dead due to brain stem failure, as per the hospital protocol stipulated by the Transplant of Human Organs Act 1994 by a panel of doctors at the hospital, said a statement. Sharath was healthy before the incident and further tests confirmed his eligibility for organ donation. His parents came forward to donate the organs after they were counselled as per the defined protocol, the statement said. Officials from Jeeva Sarthakathe, which was earlier known as ZCCK or Zonal Co-ordination Committee of Karnataka for Organ Transplantation, which is the nodal agency for organ transplantation in the State, initiated the process in accordance with the organ recipients waiting list. The heart, two kidneys, pancreas, liver and cornea were harvested from the deceased person’s body on Sunday evening with cross clamp. A simultaneous kidney, liver and pancreas transplant was done. While the heart was donated to Columbia Asia Hospital in Yeshwanthpur, one kidney was donated to INU (Institute of Nephro Urology), Bengaluru, and the corneas were donated to Mysuru Eye Bank, said a statement from the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/brain-dead-youths-organs-donated/article38052384.ece
28 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Events at palace on Dec. 31 cancelled||In view of night curfew coming into effect from Tuesday, the events at the ongoing flower show on the palace premises will conclude by 8.30 p.m. with the curfew coming into effect from 10 p.m. The Mysuru Palace Board had planned to hold music events and bursting of noiseless crackers for welcoming the New Year on December 31. However, with the State government announcing curbs over containing the Omicron scare, the events planned at the palace on December 31 have been cancelled. There won’t be any fire cracker display. Meanwhile, the Mysuru zoo and the Karanji Lake Nature Park will remain open on Tuesday in view of Christmas season and New Year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/events-at-palace-on-dec-31-cancelled/article38052829.ece
28 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Elections to two TMCs, bypolls to five GPs peaceful||Elections to two Town Municipal Council constituencies and byelections to five gram panchayats which were held between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Monday were peaceful as 74.58% voting was recorded in local bodies’ election and 72.54% voting was recorded in GP elections, according to district administration. Town municipal councils In Kakkera Town Municipal Council, which has total of 23 wards, a total of 14,130 voters (against 18,427 voters including 9,307 male voters and 9,119 female voters) have voted as a 76.88 poll percentage was recorded. Of the total 14,130 voters, 7,247 male voters and 6,883 female voters exercised their right. In Kembhavi Town Municipal Council, which has total 22 wards, a total of 11,565 voters (against 16,024 voters including 8,090 male voters and 7,933 female voters) have voted as 74.58 poll percentage was recorded. Of the 11,565 total voters, 5,918 male voters and 5,647 female voters exercised their right. Gram panchayat constituencies In Keshwar village under Chandraki Gram Panchayat constituency in Gumitkal taluk; a total of 611 voters including 321 male and 290 female have voted and 64.05% was recorded. There were 954 voters including 473 males and 481 females. In Kanyakolur village under Kanyakolur Gram Panchayat constituency in Shahapur taluk: a total of 630 voters including 335 males and 295 females have voted and 62.38% was recorded. There were 1,010 voters including 504 males and 506 females. In Kurkunda village under Kurkunda Gram Panchayat constituency in Wadagera taluk, a total 0f 941 voters including 485 males and 456 females have voted and 76.19% was recorded. There were 1,235 voters including 605 males and 630 females. In Aralahalli village under Devapur Gram Panchayat constituency in Shorapur taluk; a total of 903 voters including 455 males and 448 females have voted and 76.98% was recorded. There were 1,173 voters including 588 males and 585 females. In Karibhavi village under Agni Gram Panchayat constituency in Hunsagi taluk; a total 697 voters including 371 males and 326 females have voted and 82.78% was recorded. There were 842 voters including 436 males and 406 females. Counting The counting of votes will be commenced from 8 a.m. on December 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elections-to-two-tmcs-bypolls-to-five-gps-peaceful/article38052618.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Night curfew is in the interest of public health’||No special passes had been issued to anyone, and the police would put up checkpoints at all junctions besides entry and exit points, he said. The police had been directed to intensify patrolling and any violations by shops and commercial establishments would be strictly dealt with, he said. Violations would be dealt with under the Epidemic Diseases Act and also under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, Mr. Pant added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/night-curfew-is-in-the-interest-of-public-health/article38052393.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pedestrian killed in hit-and-run case||In a case of hit-and-run, a 47-year-old factory employee was killed by a speeding car on Nagarabhavi Ring Road on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Banum Barman, who hails from West Bengal and was residing in Nayandahalli with his wife. He had come to the city 10 years ago and was working as a machine operator in a plastic manufacturing unit on Mysuru Road. According to the police, the accident occurred around 11.30 p.m. and Barman was returning home after visiting his relative's house in Chandra Layout and he was crossing the road. A speeding car, heading towards Mysuru Road, knocked him down and he died on the spot. Passersby noticed the accident and alerted Byatarayanapura traffic police, who rushed to the spot and shifted the body to Victoria hospital for the postmortem. Based on a complaint by an eyewitness, the police recovered CCTV camera footage to identify the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pedestrian-killed-in-hit-and-run-case/article38052380.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A misty view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-misty-view/article38052803.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Preparations on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/preparations-on/article38052610.ece
28 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki witnesses year-end tourist influx||The hilly district of Idukki is witnessing a heavy tourist inflow with Munnar topping in the list during the Christmas/New Year season. Tourism stakeholders said this was for the first time in two years the tourism destinations were witnessing the rush. All most all the rooms in hotels and resorts in Munnar were booked till January 1. Eravikulam National park (ENP), the habitat of Nilgiri tahr, was also experiencing the rush. Munnar has been witnessing a dip in temperature from last week, with the mercury inching towards sub-zero level. It is expected to drop further in the coming days. Eravikulam National Park (ENP) assistant wild life warden Job J. Neriamparmapil said on Sunday 3,900 tourists visited the park. Tourists visited On Saturday 3,800 visitors turned up and on Monday, it was 3,300. After a period of two years, ENP witnessed such a heavy rush, he said. Idukki dam, which was also opened for public during the festival season, was also witnessing high turnout of tourists. Wagamon, Parunthumpara, Panchalimedu, Aruvikuzhi and Ramakkalmedu are other destinations the tourists preferred in the district for the season. According to an official of District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC), all tourist destinations were witnessing the rush. Most of them were domestic tourists. It was expected that north Indians and those from neighbouring States, and foreigners would turn up as tourist season picked up pace, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-witnesses-year-end-tourist-influx/article38052773.ece
28 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||KVK event to guide farmers begins||Pratheeksha 2021, a technical week observance, organised by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ambalavayal, under the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) in association with ATMA, Wayanad, began at the Kendra on Monday. The five-day programme envisaged imparting modern scientific techniques directly to farmers to ensure a sustainable income for them from farming, Allan Thomas, head, KVK, Ambalavayal, said. Various programmes, including exhibitions, seminars and competitions would be held as a part of the programme, Dr. Allan Thomas said. I.C. Balakrishnan, MLA, will formally inaugurate the programme at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu will be the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kvk-event-to-guide-farmers-begins/article38052693.ece
28 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Panchayat Talks’ to sensitise public||Will a local body provide compensation for stray dog bite? Can a panchayat member work abroad after he has been elected to a local administrative body? What are the duties and responsibilities of a panchayat president? These queries seem simple to answer, but they are difficult to answer for many, including many a member of three-tier local administrative bodies. The Panchayat Talk Series, a comprehensive awareness YouTube channel programme on the three-tier system of local government launched by Junaid Kaippani, member of Wayanad District Panchayat from the Vellamunda division, focuses on answering queries from the public. Though the Kerala Panchayati Raj Act was enacted in 1994, most members of the public are not aware of details like the duties and responsibilities of a local administrative body member and incentives provided by a grama panchayat to citizens, said Mr. Kaippani, who is also the welfare standing committee chairman of the district panchayat. “I have been providing such useful information in each of my series, lasting two to three minutes, to the public, including local body members,” he said. As many as 21,900 local administrative body members are elected every five years to grama panchayats, block panchayats, municipalities, and corporations, but most of them do not have a clear-cut idea of their duties and responsibilities, he said. “When I was elected a year ago, I was also faced with such issues. Later, I learned that many an elected member was facing such issues, and it inspired me to launch the programme,” Mr. Kaippani said. A postgraduate in commerce and psychology, he said he had completed a course in “Decentralisation and Local Body Administration” offered jointly by KILA and Sree Narayana Guru Open University for interested local administrative body members, and it helped him begin the web series. “I gathered useful tips for the public after referring books and court orders regarding issues I would like to discuss in the episodes in the coming days,” Mr. Kaippani said, adding that the programme, launched around nine months ago, was nearing 200 episodes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-talks-to-sensitise-public-to-local-self-government/article38052686.ece
28 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Minister opens immunisation block at Irivery||M.V. Govindan, Minister for Local Self Government and Excise, said here on Monday that the health sector had been able to move forward effectively through public intervention. He was inaugurating the immunisation block at the Iriveri Community Health Centre near here, on Monday. Mr. Govindan said that the State government was able to bring about amazing changes in the health sector through the Aardram Mission. Kerala had set an example to the world on how to treat COVID-affected people with allied diseases. “The State has done better than the developed countries in the war against COVID. Kerala is one of the best-vaccinated States in the country,” he said. The immunisation block was constructed at a cost of Rs. 12.6 lakh from the Edakkad block panchayat 2019-2020 annual plan. Edakkad block panchayat president P.K. Prameela presided over the function. District panchayat standing committee chairman V.K. Sureshbabu, block panchayat vice president K.P. Balagopalan, standing committee chairperson C.M. Praseetha, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-opens-immunisation-block-at-irivery/article38052689.ece
28 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CPI(M) to organise campaign against communal forces||The Communist Party of India-Marxist [CPI(M)] will launch an extensive campaign in the district against the alleged move by the RSS and SDPI to turn Kerala into a battle ground. As part of the campaign, rallies will be organised at 230 centres from December 28 to January 6. CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan said that it was 50 years since the Thalassery communal riots took place. The aim of the riots that started on December 28, 1971, was to destroy the secular political fabric of Kerala and prepare the ground for communal forces on the North Indian model, he said. Although secular forces under the leadership of the CPI(M) was combating the RSS, minority extremist organisations such as the Popular Front and the SDPI were disrupting the social atmosphere of Kerala through covert and overt communal activities. He claimed that according to police intelligence, the RSS and the SDPI had “suicides squads”. This had led to unfortunate events such as the twin murders in Alappuzha. Communal forces created riots by deliberately misleading the people by fabricating falsehoods and myths. He said that the secular rallies were being organised with the slogan that communal forces should not be allowed to create another riot in Kerala. Mr. Jayarajan said there would be extensive events in Koothuparamba on January 4, the 50th martyrdom day of U.K. Kunhiraman, who sacrificed his life to protect religious harmony during the 1971 riots, and in Thalassery on January 6, the closing day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-organise-campaign-against-communal-forces/article38052684.ece
28 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CM should discuss projects’ defects: IUML||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who appears keen on implementing development projects at any cost, must discuss such projects’ shortcomings when they are pointed out by the Opposition and the public, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty has said. Inaugurating a people’s representatives’ meet organised by the IUML at the Jawahar auditorium in Kannur on Monday, he said the government should take the Opposition into confidence on such projects. The League and the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) were not anti-development, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-should-discuss-projects-defects-iuml/article38052703.ece
28 December 2021||KARUNAPURAM (IDUKKI),KERALA||An Idukki village weathers climate odds||A village on the border with Tamil Nadu, which has most number of borewells in Kerala, is finding change slowly coming in, thanks to prompt moves by the grama panchayat to tackle extreme drought. Over the last decade, Karunapuram, the village that reportedly falls on the extended rain shadow area from Chinnar and the western side of the Western Ghats, faced harsh impacts of climate change. From 2011 to 2013, it was severe drought in the area. Studies carried out in the area found groundwater level going down and southwest monsoon giving the area a miss. The only rainfall the area got, as is usually the case with rain shadow areas like Chinnar and Marayur, was during the northeast monsoon. All these rendered the main occupation of the farm sector unviable. The drought was so harsh that it led the villagers to dig many borewells. But the groundwater level kept depleting further. The wells were then abandoned one by one. The change in the climate was even otherwise palpable, says Augustine Kurumannil, an old generation farmer and a former member of the grama panchayat. The sugarcane cultivation and water streams in his land had dried out after groundwater level dropped forcing the farmers to abandon sugarcane cultivation. With their crops gone, many farmers left the village. It was then that the panchayat stepped in. The fragile ecological situation urged them to focus on saving water through rainwater harvesting, rejuvenating borewells, making small checkdams, and greening the village with massive plantations of tree saplings. The local body also nurtured a nursery for supplying tree saplings. Steady campaign This was in addition to a steady campaign launched to preserve water and rejuvenate the water bodies. The effort is slowly paying off now, says Mr. Kurumannil said. Many of the abandoned borewells could be regenerated. Almost every house has a rainwater storage facility or pits for storing rainwater, in addition to the water recharging facilities in the wells. The main river Kallar also has nearly 10 small checkdams, says panchayat secretary Sunil Sebastian. The result was seen last summer with the area showing better water storage, says Sajimon M.G., who runs a hotel at Karunapuram junction. “This year, we got surplus rainfall in the two monsoons,” he adds. Farming, especially of main high-range crops such as pepper and coffee, is also making a comeback. Seeing the landscape inch back to normal, the farmers who left the village are now returning. Cardamom cultivation that needs a cool climate and green cover is being revived. The village is now better equipped to face a drought, residents say. People are thoughtful now and water-saving measures will get continuous attention, says grama panchayat president Mini Prince. “We can now claim that this was the only grama panchayat in the area that did not supply drinking water on tanker lorries to residents during extreme summer in the last two years,” says Mr Sebastian. According to climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil, though the Karunapuram experience cannot be termed purely as an example of how to tackle climate change, the efforts could help mitigate its impact. Such stories of work, strategy, and above all hope, will be a model to emulate when faced with bitter climate odds.  The village is now better equipped to face a drought, say residents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-village-that-weathered-climate-odds/article38052772.ece
28 December 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Govt. aiming at self-sufficiency in milk, meat and egg production: Minister||J. Chinchu Rani, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development, said here on Monday that the government was aiming at achieving self-sufficiency in milk, meat, and egg production. She was speaking after inaugurating the milk storage room of the Vorkady Dairy Co-operative Society in Kasaragod district on Monday. The Minister said that with the availability of milk storage facilities, it would be possible to produce more milk products, thereby creating more employment opportunities. “We have come a long way in the dairy sector and have reached self-sufficiency,” she said. Ms. Chinchu Rani said that in Kerala, the Malabar region was the largest producer of milk. With the opening of a milk powder manufacturing unit in Malappuram, the surplus milk produced in the State could be converted into products. The government attached great importance to the control of livestock diseases and efforts were underway to open mobile veterinary clinics. Veterinarians’ service Arrangements were being made to make the services of veterinarians available at all blocks even at night, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-aiming-at-self-sufficiency-in-milk-meat-and-egg-production-minister/article38052687.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Waterway cries for attention, 14 years after its inauguration||Faced with little patronage for the 205-km-long Kollam-Kottappuram National Waterway III, which was inaugurated in 2007, and the ambitious plans by successive governments to shift movement of hazardous and bulk cargo through inland waterways falling flat, the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) is gearing up to invigorate NW III. The IWAI, which attracted considerable flak for the next to nil patronage for national waterways in the State (barring select corridors in Ernakulam), despite investing over Rs. 300 crore, is readying to set in motion a project to transport hydrochloric acid from Kochi to Chavara through NW III. “The waterway corridor is navigable, including at night. The reconstruction of the navigation lock at Thrikkunnapuzha is under way. In addition, tenders have been invited for dredging the waterway south of Chavara up to Kollam,” said IWAI Director Mathew George. Transit of cargo through the Akkulam-Chavakkad waterway, which is part of the 620-km Kovalam-Bekal waterway, too has not gained momentum. Moreover, the detailed project report (DPR) for extending NW III beyond Kottappuram up to Kozhikode is yet to be finalised. Work to dredge and widen the Kollam-Kovalam and Kozhikode-Beypore State waterways too is yet to fully materialise, it is learnt. All this has resulted in just a few inland waterway canals in Ernakulam being relied on for transporting ammonia, sulphur, rock phosphate, and hydrochloric acid from the port to industrial units in the city suburbs. The IWAI’s roll-on roll-off (Ro-Ro) vessels ferry container-laden lorries in the Willingdon Island-Bolgatty Island corridor, while Water Metro ferries are slated to commence operations from April 2022 through NW III stretches in the Greater Kochi area. Hazardous cargo Interestingly, the State government has not taken a policy decision on transporting hazardous cargo like petroleum products, LPG, and chemicals through underutilised waterways, despite fatal accidents involving lorries transporting them. Sources in petroleum firms said pipelines like the one between Kochi and Salem were being readied to transport hazardous cargo like LPG. “No policy decision has been taken to curb their transport through roads. In the long run, one will need specialised barges and terminals to transport such hazardous cargo through waterways. “Another option is to introduce Ro-Ro barges, which will ensure last-mile connectivity too,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waterway-cries-for-attention-14-years-after-its-inauguration/article38052708.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Construction of bridge at Kathrikadavu rescheduled||Even as the preparation of the detailed project report (DPR) for widening the Thammanam-Pullepady road and extending it to M.G. Road and the NH Bypass is in the final stage, stakeholders have decided to postpone the construction of a bridge at Kathrikadavu in the corridor to the second phase of the project. The PWD (Design Wing) had submitted a draft DPR a couple of months ago to the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB), the agency which is executing the work. Among the options suggested was to limit the project to widening the road to 22 metres and extending it to either side, while constructing the bridge at Kathrikadavu in the second phase. The PWD was to submit the DPR by the end of December. However, it has been postponed to January, sources said. Mayor M. Anilkumar said it had been decided to extend the road and widen it into a four-lane stretch in the first phase, following which the bridge project will be taken up. “Constructing the bridge simultaneously will in all probability delay financial sanction for the road project, the work on which had begun three decades ago. The bridge construction can be taken up as a separate project soon after the road is realised. For now, efforts will be made to streamline traffic flow at the junction where the bridge was proposed,” he added. Preparatory work to widen and extend the road is expected to begin once the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) approves the DPR for the road project. The DPR will have details like the estimated cost of the road project. In addition, the road owned by the Kochi Corporation ought to be fully vested with the PWD to obtain funds to speed up its widening. The land acquisition process will follow. Mr. Anilkumar said the Corporation was working in tandem with the District Collector, MLAs, and others to speed up the development of the road. Review meetings are held every month. The bridge proposed at Kathrikadavu and the eastward extension of the road beyond Chakkaraparambu on the NH Bypass will be considered in subsequent phases. A stakeholder associated with the road project said it had to be seen how potential traffic problems that could arise on the northern side of the Katrikadavu bridge when the road is developed ought to be addressed beforehand, failing which a situation like at Vyttila junction could develop. It is possible since the bottlenecked bridge at Kathrikadavu on Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road, located 30 metres away from the junction, is even otherwise causing traffic hold-ups. The junction needs a bridge parallel to Thammanam-Pullepady Road to ensure smooth traffic flow, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/construction-of-bridge-at-kathrikadavu-rescheduled/article38052718.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tribal students hit hard by digital divide||For over a month last year since securing admission for BA History at the Government College, Thripunithura, Vijeesh K., a 22-year-old from a tribal colony at Sulthan Bathery in Wayanad, was effectively shut out of online classes. The Internet network was at best patchy, and he could hardly afford to recharge the mobile connection with his mother’s meagre daily wages. That he got admission through supplementary admission meant that he had already missed classes by the time he had joined. “We could not submit our assignments in time or complete notes. Initially, the college authorities were also in the dark about our plight,” said Vijeesh. Volunteers working among tribal students lamented that online classes with little access, inadequate gadgets, and hardly any awareness on how to participate in online education had dealt a severe blow to the academic development of tribal youth. “The state of our children is pathetic, as many of them have even forgotten how to read and write. The SSLC results among tribal students this year were good solely owing to liberal valuation. But the reality is that many tenth passed tribal students could neither write their names during admission nor had any clue about the course for which they had gained admission,” said C. Manikandan, a teaching assistant at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University at Wayanad and also an active volunteer of Adi Shakthi Summer School, a collective of Adivasi and Dalit youths under the Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha. He added that the government’s conviction that providing devices to access online education would ensure smooth learning among tribal students is misplaced, not to mention the misuse of devices. Mentors should be drawn from among retired officials and educated members of the community for monitoring and guiding learning and safekeeping of devices at least in the case of SSLC and higher secondary students, said Mr. Manikandan. The situation seems to be no different at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels either. “Many educational institutions were using dedicated apps, and most tribal students had no clue about how to use them. They could not submit projects and assignments in time either owing to access issues. The prolonged online education has left a big gap in learning among tribal youth,” said Mary Lydia, State coordinator of Adi Shakthi Summer School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-students-hit-hard-by-digital-divide/article38052716.ece
28 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Clash may trigger xenophobia against migrants, fear activists||The clash between the police and migrant workers at Kizhakkambalam may further aggravate the discriminatory treatment of migrant workers across the State, while regionally, it may worsen the fractured relations between local residents and the largely migrant workforce of Kitex Garments. That a gathering of migrants for an immunisation drive, a routine affair, at Chittethukara on Sunday whipped up uncharacteristic consternation among local residents and people’s representatives and brought the police to the scene was probably a sign of things. “The extremely deprived migrant community from the Dalit, Adivasi and marginalised sections may become collateral damage to what is a one-off incident. For a State, which may be among the first to experience the fallout of population decline in the country and may have to depend on migration, fuelling such xenophobic sentiments may be counterproductive,” says Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development. George Mathew, chairperson of the Progressive Workers’ Organisation, termed the violence as the frustration of an “enslaved” migrant workforce boiling over. “Even their mobility is largely restrained by the company authorities, leaving little room for interaction with local residents. Neither can they contribute to the local economy like in other migrant labour-intense places such as Perumbavoor, which makes it a mutually beneficial relation,” he said. “The local residents’ tense relation with the migrants is actually a reflection of their ire towards the company for favouring cheap migrant labourers at their cost. Political leaders should also be careful not to paint the entire migrant worker community as hooligans by their thoughtless statements,” he said. Eldho Cheriyan, a resident in the neighbourhood of the clash, blamed the company for the fractured relation between the local community and its largely migrant workforce. “The recent incident will instil fear about the migrants among local residents now that they have thrashed the police,” he said. P.H. Anoop, a former UDF councillor from ward 6 where Kitex Garments is located, alleged that the company had used its workforce to remove flex boards put up by an action council against pollution caused by the company in 2012. “The company had then dubbed it as the natural eruption of discontent of the workers against targeting their employer,” he alleged. Muhsin K.M., another local resident, said the migrant workers felt emboldened to cross the limits thanks to the support of the company management, which had bailed them out in the past. Meanwhile, questions are being raised about whether the police underestimated the situation while handling a mob, which was on a high following celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clash-may-trigger-xenophobia-against-migrants-fear-activists/article38052714.ece
28 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A farm that showcases 65 varieties of amaranthus||The Department of Agriculture and the National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR) have joined hands to set up a demonstration farm comprising 65 leafy vegetables (amaranthus), including the traditional varieties grown in the State, at St. Philomina’s Higher Secondary School at Koonammavu, near Kochi. The demonstration farm is the result of a programme jointly organised by the Kottuvally Grama Panchayat Krishi Bhavan and NBPGR and will serve both as a demonstration farm as well as a centre for familiarising the young generation with the traditionally grown leafy vegetables in the country. The 60-cent plot on which the demonstration farm has been set up is basically meant to encourage young people, especially school students, to take up farming in their spare time and to generate seeds of these plants, including those that are extremely rare, said sources in the department. There are around 500 students from the school involved in the programme. Just as the demonstration farm will draw attention to traditional varieties of amaranthus, it will also be a centre for seed production. The programme is meant to increase the spread of the cultivation of these leafy vegetables all over Kerala, sources added. NBPGR has facilities to conserve seeds for long years, with a view to spreading the cultivation of traditionally grown varieties in the country. The Department of Agriculture has taken its own initiatives to collect the seeds of varieties grown dominantly in Kerala like Ponnakanni and Vlathankara cheera as part of the demonstration farm at Koonammavu. As a follow-up action, the Krishi Bhavan is likely to set up a demonstration farm for 160 varieties of brinjal with the the help of NBPGR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-farm-that-showcases-65-varieties-of-amaranthus/article38052720.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Crime Branch arrests accused 17 years after twin murder||Seventeen years after a twin murder, including a woman who was also raped, at Ponekkara, the Ernakulam unit of the Crime Branch arrested the accused who turned out to be a serial murderer and rapist. The arrested was identified as K.P. Jayanandan aka ripper Jayanandan who was undergoing life imprisonment in another case in a high-security cell at the Thiruvananthapuram Central Jail. The 74-year-old woman and her 60-year-old relative were murdered at their house on May 30, 2004. After being moved to a high-security cell a year ago, the accused had developed a close bond with one of the three cell mates. An extrajudicial confession by the accused to his cell mate in a jubilant mood after the Supreme Court reduced his sentence from capital punishment to life imprisonment in a case related to the murder of a woman at Puthenvelikkara in 2006 helped investigators establish his link to the Ponekkara murders. The identification of the accused by a neighbour of the victim who had spotted him during an alleged attempted theft during the night of the offence further corroborated the evidence, leading to his arrest on December 23, Crime Branch Additional Director General of Police S. Sreejith told the media here on Monday. The Kalamassery police who had originally registered the case had found the theft of 44 sovereigns of gold ornaments and silver coins weighing 15 grams. The case was handed over to the Crime Branch after an action council formed in the wake of the incident protested against the lack of progress in the investigation. The Crime Branch found that the victim had been raped as well. Though the Crime Branch had all along suspected the involvement of Jayanandan, accused of similar offences in Paravur, Mala, and Kodungalloor, they could not arraign him in for want of conclusive evidence. The accused has six cases of murders claiming eight victims registered against him at Mala, North Paravur, Mathilakam, Puthenvelikkara and Vadakkekara police stations. It was in addition to 15 cases of thefts and robberies. All the alleged offences were committed between 2003 and 2006, and he was convicted in eight cases. He was also convicted for jumping the jail on three occasions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-branch-arrests-accused-17-years-after-twin-murder/article38052724.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Help desk comes to the aid of youngsters||The admission help desk run by Adi Shakthi Summer School, a collective of Adivasi and Dalit youths under the Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha, has facilitated undergraduate and postgraduate admissions for around 350 tribal students since its inception last year. Even during normal times, securing admission for higher education was a herculean task for tribal youth, and it worsened last year when the admission procedures turned fully online. “We used to hold summer camps for helping tribal youth with admission and giving orientation for selection of courses. The pandemic coupled with floods last year prompted us to launch the help desk,” said Mary Lydia, State coordinator, Adi Shakthi Summer School. It is being run with the help of around 300 volunteers drawn from NSS volunteers, social work students, educated members from tribal communities, and academically-inclined youth from marginalised communities. The help desk remains swarmed with various problems thrown up by online admission procedures. “For instance, with the payment of fee being system-driven, tribal students are also required to pay many fees, which they are actually exempted from. Our volunteers have to constantly contact the college authorities to resolve such problems,” said Ms. Lydia. Tribal students pursuing higher education and volunteers working for them put forward a slew of demands to address the various bottlenecks in the admission process. “The Tribal department should take initiative for ensuring fee exemption for tribal students and uniform admission process and fee structure. The department should also deploy liaison officers for interacting with college authorities, as help desk volunteers have little authority,” said Rejani P.V., a B.Ed student and vice chairperson, Adi Shakthi Summer School. Tribal students also take umbrage at what they accuse as “unethical and unconstitutional” conversion of seats reserved for scheduled communities into general pool without giving adequate time for eligible candidates to claim them. This, they allege, is done in a non-transparent way, as vacant seats are publicised in media not accessible in deep-lying tribal areas. The proposed liaison officers should in coordination with tribal offices should ensure that the seats are claimed. “New-generation courses should also be covered under e-grantz. Besides, accommodation and lodging assistance for tribal students should at least be doubled from the existing Rs. 3,500 and fund allocation for paying guest facility should also be made universal,” said Jishnu G., a BA Economics student. (e-grantz is web-based solution for disbursement of educational assistance to all post-metric students of SC, ST, and OBC as well as economically weaker sections.) Jagan Nandha, general secretary, Adi Shakthi Summer School, called for increasing the number of post-metric hostels for tribal students substantially. The girls hostel in Kochi should also be opened immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/help-desk-comes-to-the-aid-of-youngsters/article38052712.ece
28 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||High Court directive to Wayanad DDMA||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), Wayanad, to file a statement explaining the steps taken in response to the finding of an expert panel that constructions were being undertaken in landslip-prone areas in Vythiri taluk in violation of a ban on buildings above 10 metres. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar passed the order recently on a writ petition filed by Western Ghats Protection Council, Wayanad. According to them, illegal constructions were going on in connection with a hospital project and it was a threat to the existence of Western Ghats and its neighbouring meadows. The constructions were being undertaken in the vicinity of the highly sensitive area at Vythiri taluk in Wayanad district and around Banasura Sagar project in total violation of environment laws and statutory as well as executive orders. In fact, the chairman of the Wayanad District Disaster Management Authority had banned all the constructions above 10 metres or three floors on mountain slopes in Ambukuthi mala, Vaduvanchal, Puthumala, Vythiri and Lakkidi as they were prone to large-scale landslips, the petitioner said. The expert panel headed by the Town Planner, Wayanad, had found that the constructions were being made in gross violation of the orders issued by the District Disaster Management Authority. The building complex was found to be more than three storeys, that too exceeding the limit of 10 metres. The petitioner sought a directive to take immediate steps to demolish the existing structures constructed for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-directive-to-wayanad-ddma/article38052688.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man arrested on murder bid charge||The Cheranalloor police on Monday arrested a man on the charge of attempt to murder. Martin, 40, of Edayakunnam is accused of hacking his brother-in-law. The victim is undergoing treatment in the ICU of a city hospital. The accused allegedly assaulted his mother under the influence of alcohol, and the victim was reportedly hacked for intervening. The accused has been remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-murder-bid-charge/article38052723.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police step up security in city ahead of New Year bash||The Kochi City police have beefed up security ahead of New Year celebrations. Patrol parties have been deployed at all important junctions. Patrol has been further strengthened by deploying 23 control room vehicles, 23 station mobile units, eight foot patrol parties, and traffic police. Overspeeding, illegal parking, and violation of the COVID protocol will be strictly dealt with. Surveillance has been strengthened to monitor movement of inter-State robbers taking advantage of the festive occasion and to check robberies on public transport. Sale of banned contraband will be strongly dealt with. “We have deployed woman police and pink police for the safety of women and children. Women in distress can either contact the police through the Nirbhaya app or emergency number - 112,” said Aishwarya Dongre, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kochi City. Checking officers have been deployed at the sub-divisional level. Information on drug peddling could be passed on to the police through the Yodhav app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-step-up-security-in-city-ahead-of-new-year-bash/article38052722.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two arrested on charge of assaulting shop owner||The Perumbavoor police arrested two persons on the charge of assaulting a shop owner for not repairing a mobile phone to their satisfaction. Azhar Ali, 26 of Vengola and Muhammad Riyas, 26, of Marampilly were reportedly part of a seven-member gang that assaulted the victim who runs a mobile phone shop near the Perumbavoor bus stand. The incident took place on December 7. The victim is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. A hunt has been launched for the rest of the accused. A team comprising Inspector Ranjith, Sub Inspectors Rins M. Thomas and Jossy M. Johnson, Assistant Sub Inspector Muhammed, and senior civil police officers Subair and Shinoj made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-on-charge-of-assaulting-shop-owner/article38052725.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Govt. not revealing K-Rail details’||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said that the State government is shying away from revealing the details of SilverLine. Even after demanding a discussion on the project in the Assembly, the government had not been forthcoming with the details, he told a press conference here on Monday. He said the Opposition had asked the government to make public the detailed report. But that had not been done so far. Mr. Satheesan accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of trying to provide space for the BJP through his efforts to weaken the Muslim League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-not-revealing-k-rail-details/article38052738.ece
28 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||‘Govt. firm on K-Rail’||Asserting that the K-Rail project formed part of the election manifesto of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Monday said the government would proceed with the project. Addressing mediapersons here, he denied reports of differences of opinion over the project within the LDF and said any issues raised by the coalition partners would be discussed. The government would not abandon the project in the face of political opposition, he said. Mr. Balakrishnan said the project would be having only a minimum footprint on the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-firm-on-k-rail/article38052728.ece
28 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Thamarassery shows the way in waste management||The Thamarassery grama panchayat in Kozhikode is slowly and steadily heading towards zero-waste status through well-planned refuse management. The ‘Haritham Sundaram Thamarassery’ project of the panchayat has made waves among local people through various innovative awareness programmes in just five months after it was conceptualised. Ensuring that non-biodegradable waste is collected from all houses and establishments regularly was the first step. “Haritha Karma Sena members collect plastic and other non-biodegradable waste from all the households once a month. As for establishments, especially shops, the collection is done twice a month,” said Sathar Pallippuram, coordinator of ‘Haritham Sundaram Thamarassery’. Meanwhile, cleaning of public places is also held on a regular basis with the help of voluntary organisations. “As we speak, National service Scheme volunteers of nearby colleges are cleaning our marketplaces,” Mr. Sathar said, adding that they have been able to keep public places clean as a result of the project. The collected waste is taken to a Material Collection Facility at Pullanjimedu where it is sorted and sent for recycling. On the other hand, the panchayat’s 15-year-old waste dumping yard is getting a facelift. Dumped waste is gradually removed and sorted in an effort to clean up the place. The panchayat is getting a great deal of help from Green Worms Eco Solutions in its waste management efforts. “The MCF is managed by Green Worms. They have mostly completed clearing of the old dumping ground as well, with only around 20% of the waste left there,” Mr. Sathar said. Green Worms also plays a major role in creating awareness about waste management through innovative campaigns. The Christmas star made by the members of the Haritha Karma Sena using plastic bottles collected from public places helped spread the message of recycling plastic and preventing littering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thamarassery-shows-the-way-in-waste-management/article38052697.ece
28 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kite festival draws crowds to Beypore Water Fest||The clownfish and the octopus were flying side by side on the skies of Beypore on Monday afternoon. But the kids were most interested in the duck, Batman and Spiderman, who were strung together like beads of the same necklace. The National Kite Festival featuring kites from 13 States was the key attraction on Monday, the second day of Beypore Water Fest. The kite festival is organised under the aegis of One India Kite Team which has won accolades in many international kite festivals across the world, and has members from most Indian States. The 60-foot-kite of the team that bagged the first prize in Dubai International Kite Festival a few years ago was one of the key attractions of the evening. The three-day kite festival will have kite flyers vying for the top spot in various categories. The height of flying and the design of the kites are the main criterion for the competition. Meanwhile, kite surfing, the art of balancing a kite standing on a surfboard, was demonstrated by Philip Dartnel from the U.K. He even trained a few local kite flyers on how to balance the kite that required great strength as it moved fast from one direction to the other. Earlier, P.Prasad, Minister for Agriculture, opened the kite festival amidst cheering by the crowd of spectators who had come from far and wide to witness the massive kites taking off. Though the lighter kites soared high, the heavier and bigger ones did not rise up much owing to poor wind. In another part, large gatherings were seen along the Marina and the breakwater to witness several water-related competitions. Sit on top kayaking, white water kayaking, stand up paddle race and rod fishing were among the competitions on Monday. Several adventurous water sports such as flying board were demonstrated under the aegis of Jelly Fish water sports. They also demonstrated their brand new Churulan Vallam. Meanwhile, Naval ship INS Kabra has been thrown open to the public for the whole day. Later, it was seen illuminated. The festival will draw to a close on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kite-festival-draws-crowds-on-2nd-day-of-beypore-water-fest/article38052692.ece
28 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Murali slams State govt. over Kizhakkambalam violence||K. Muraleedharan, Vadakara MP, has criticised the State government over the violence at Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district, where migrant workers attacked police personnel and set a police jeep on fire on Sunday. Inaugurating an event in memory of late Chief Minister K. Karunakaran on Monday, he alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who also holds the Home Department, cannot protect members of the police force from goondas. “…Those police personnel were mercilessly beaten up. It is reported that workers were under the influence of drugs. Who gave them drugs?”, Mr. Muraleedharan asked. He alleged that goonda gangs were dictating terms in Thiruvananthapuram district.  ‘Convince Opposition’ Criticising the government move to implement the semi high-speed rail (SilverLine) project, Mr. Muraleedharan said it would cost more than the Rs. 1.26 lakh crore projected by NITI Ayog. The State government, however, says it would cost only Rs. 64,000 crore. ‘Metroman’ E. Sreedharan had pointed out that it would take 10 years to complete the project. “Who can predict if the CPI(M) will exist in Kerala then? Who would allot funds for the works? The Union government has said it would not sponsor the project,” he said. Mr. Muraleedharan demanded that the government convince the Opposition about the details instead of branding them anti-development. The event was organised by the Kozhikode District Congress Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-cannot-protect-police-from-goondas-says-mp/article38052699.ece
28 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students’ movie screened||Students of Government Higher Secondary School, Madappally, Kozhikode, as well as other cast of the movie Madappally United finally got a chance to watch their movie on Friday. The small movie that had made waves in international film festivals across the world was screened for the first time in the district at Falke Film House in Vadakara.  Madappally United bagged the award for the Best Fictional Film at the International Film Festival in Tehran recently. The movie had also won awards in Indian Film Festival of Cincinatty and International Sports Film Festival in Kenya. Most of the debutant actors in the movie are students of the Madappally school. They were trained in acting through various acting workshops under the Madappally Academic Programme for Learning and Empowerment (MAPLE), instituted by ULCCS Foundation for comprehensive development of students in the coastal area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-movie-screened/article38052695.ece
28 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Drop move to discuss quota, says Syndicate member||A Syndicate member aligned with the United Democratic Front (UDF) has urged the Calicut University authorities to drop considering reservations for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, and Economically Weaker Sections categories in the appointment of teaching and non-teaching staff in affiliated aided colleges without a minority tag. This issue has been listed on the agenda of the Syndicate meeting scheduled for December 30. The recommendation for reservations was made by the University Grants Commission. P. Rasheed Ahammed, the Syndicate member, said in a letter to Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj that there was a clear direction in the university statute on the reservations for the posts of teaching and non-teaching staff in affiliated colleges. The quota should be based on the direct payment agreement reached between the government and college managements decades ago, based on which salaries for staff are being paid by the government. Mr. Ahammed claimed that the existing reservation system was not against the UGC’s policies. Referring such matters to the Syndicate undermined the Office of the Registrar. A public discussion would not only lead to friction in society, but would also help communal organisations, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-move-to-discuss-quota-says-syndicate-member/article38052700.ece
28 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Around 2 lakh teenagers to get COVID jabs in Kozhikode||Kozhikode has close to two lakh people in the 15-18 age group who are scheduled to start getting the COVID-19 vaccine from January 3. Health workers, frontline workers as well as those aged above 60 with co-morbidities will get “precaution doses” from January 10 too. The government is likely to give priority to children’s vaccination after January 2. Only two vaccines are approved by the Centre for this age group now: ZyCoV-D produced by Zydus Cadila and Covaxin produced by Bharat Biotech. The former has three doses and the latter two. Health Department sources indicated that Covaxin was likely to be the choice since there is some uncertainty over procuring ZyCoV-D. In Kozhikode district, the target group is over 1.9 lakh people. There are around 5 lakh people aged above 60 and close to one lakh healthcare workers as well, said the sources. The “precaution” doses would be given only nine months after getting the second dose. The process would start on January 10. People aged above 60 may have to produce medical certificate to prove their condition. Meanwhile, 24,26,157 people aged above 18 in the district have so far received the first dose of the vaccine and 18,13,725 have got the second dose. There are 24,99,523 people aged above 18 here. The sources said that the health condition of children might be examined before administering the injection. The authorities are exploring the possibility of holding camps in schools. However, it is learnt that they are awaiting a directive from the Union Health Ministry before taking a final decision. The effort would be to complete the process as soon as fresh stock arrives from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/around-2-lakh-teenagers-to-get-covid-jabs-in-kozhikode/article38052702.ece
28 December 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Pinarayi accuses IUML of adopting communal stance||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday accused the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) of adopting a communal stance on various issues, but the IUML leadership countered the charges, saying nobody could ignore their contributions in retaining the “beauty” of the secular face of the southern State like this. When Mr. Vijayan alleged that the IUML was nowadays taking up the slogans of the Jamaat-e-Islami and the Popular Front of India (PFI), IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, said his party had never compromised its secular stand on any issue. Lashing out at the BJP and the Opposition United Democratic Front, in which the IUML is a key partner, Vijayan said the right wing forces were yet to cope up with the fact that the Marxist party government has come to power in the State for the second consecutive time. False campaign So they were unleashing a propaganda against the Left Democratic Front government and trying to communalise even small issues, he said inaugurating a party conference here. The UDF, BJP, Jamaat-e-Islami and all such groups were together in that move against the government, he alleged. Alleging that a deliberate attempt to communalise issues was being witnessed in the State, Mr. Vijayan said a “politicised communalisation” was seen in the ‘Love Jihad’ and ‘Halal’ controversies. However, Mr. Kunhalikutty rubbished the charges and said that the credit of all the achievements and developments, which Kerala boasted now, went to the IUML also. “The presence of the IUML is one of the reasons for retaining the beauty of the secular face of Kerala like this among other States in the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-accuses-iuml-of-adopting-communal-stance/article38052739.ece
28 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||CPI(M) may have new faces in Pathanamthitta||In line with the party’s decision to induct fresh blood and ensure women representation at the top, the Pathanamthitta district committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) is likely to have new faces. A three-day conference of the party district unit got under way in Adoor on Monday with the Politburo member S. Ramachandran Pillai inaugurating the delegates’ meet. As many as 185 party delegates, including 33 district committee members and 150 members from 11 area committees, are attending the event. The conference is slated to deliberate on the various political and development issues including the support received to the CPI(M)-led council from the lone SDPI member at the Kottangal panchayat. The setback suffered in the Pandalam municipality during the local body elections last year, the murder of the CPI(M) local committee secretary P.B. Sandeep Kumar, allocation of the Ranni Assembly seat to the Kerala Congress (M), and the various cases involving the party workers such as the sex scandal in Thiruvalla and the Seethathodu cooperative bank scam, are also expected to be featured in the discussions. While K.P. Udayabhanu is most likely to continue as the district secretary for the third consecutive term, the district secretariat will also have new office-bearers and a woman member. Stellar performance The State leadership has taken into account the stellar performance of the party under the leadership of Mr. Udayabhanu, since the Konni byelection in 2019, and his attempts to quell internal dissent that was evident in the form of a scathing attack on Health Minister Veena George during the Pathanamthitta area conference. While the new district committee and secretariat members will be announced at the end of the conference on Wednesday, all eyes are now on whether Ms. George will make it to the list. The party currently has about 23,000 active workers in the district while the strength of the new district committee may go up to 34 members. In view of the age limit set for the leaders, several senior members are likely to be exempted from the revamped committee. The event will draw to a close on December 29 with the CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan inaugurating a public meeting to be attended by 10,000 party workers. Several senior party leaders including T.M. Thomas Isaac, K.K. Shylaja, A.K. Balan, etc. will also take part.  The new district committee and secretariat members will be announced at the end of the conference||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-may-have-new-faces-in-pathanamthitta/article38052775.ece
28 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Man killed, another injured in brawl||A 55-year-old man was killed while another person sustained serious injuries after being stabbed by a person in their neighbourhood. The deceased was identified as Joly of Kannalil while the injured person was identified as Babu of Vadakkemuiriyil. The incident took place near the Kurumbanmuzhy Causeway late on Sunday when the duo picked up an argument with a person, identified as 57-year-old Sabu. According to the police, Babu sustained injuries while attempting to intervene in the dispute, which abruptly took a violent turn. In custody The accused, who had gone into hiding, was later taken into police custody. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-killed-another-injured-in-brawl/article38052777.ece
28 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Drive launched to snuff out organised crime||In view of a rise in organised crimes and goon attacks across the district, the Pathanamthitta district police have launched a special drive in the district. According to R. Nishanthini, a special team of 10 police officers led by Narcotics Cell Deputy Superintendent of Police R. Pradeep Kumar has been floated besides a three-member team led by a Sub Inspector at the station level. To curb smuggling The teams have been tasked to check various anti-social and smuggling activities. As many as 599 people, including anti-socials and goons, have been inspected while about 280 homes were searched. As many as 141 were taken into custody and 107 preventive arrests were made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-launched-to-snuff-out-organised-crime/article38052776.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||25-kW hydrokinetic power project planned||In an effort to tap the power generation potential of irrigation channels, a 25-kilowatt hydrokinetic power project will be piloted in the left bank canal of the Moolathara regulator in Palakkad district. The Energy Management Centre, Kerala (EMC), the Power department agency which is spearheading the project, has selected Maclec, a New Delhi-based firm, for implementing it and is expected to issue the work order soon. The 25-kW project is estimated to cost Rs. 65 lakh. If successful, a larger, three-megawatt (3 MW) project will be established in the same canal with the support of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), EMC director R. Harikumar said. Hydrokinetic power projects generate electricity by directly utilising the kinetic energy of flowing water, unlike large hydropower projects which rely on the potential energy of water stored in dam reservoirs. Athirappilly project With large hydel initiatives such as the 163-MW Athirappilly project shelved on account of environmental concerns, the Power department and the KSEB have been pushing small hydel projects and similar alternatives to tap the hydropower potential of the State’s waterbodies. In June this year, the Power department cleared a proposal submitted by the EMC for deploying hydrokinetic turbines in irrigation channels and the tail race schemes of the hydel project managed by the KSEB. At Malampuzha initially “For the 25-kW pilot project, we had initially selected the Malampuzha dam, but dropped it as the capacity utilisation factor of the canal there was found to be low,” the EMC director said. Studies also showed that the left bank canal at Moolathara has a steady water flow for 10.5 months in a year, which is ideal as the consistency and velocity of flow is crucial for hydrokinetic power projects. The EMC is also exploring the possibility of installing a hydrokinetic project in the tail race scheme of the Lower Periyar power project of the KSEB in Idukki.  If the Rs. 65-lakh project is successful, a larger, three-megawatt project will be established in the same canal in Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/25-kw-electricity-project-proposed/article38052711.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. moots amendments to bylaw on pet licencing||The city Corporation is considering amendments to its bylaw on pet licencing after concerns were raised on some of the clauses by NGOs that provide shelter for street dogs. The civic body had held discussions with various organisations and activists regarding the law recently. The amendments will be soon brought to the Corporation council for clearance. The bylaw was prepared following the Kerala High Court’s order early in July to all local bodies to bring in a licencing system for pets. One of the issues raised pertains to a uniform licencing fee of Rs. 250 per pet, regardless of the breed. The NGOs have demanded that the licencing fee be done away with for native breeds, which are usually found on the streets. Instead, higher licencing fee can be charged from owners of exotic dog breeds who pay even lakhs to buy pets. “The number of dogs on the street will reduce only if we promote their adoption among the public. If you introduce a uniform licence fee for all dogs, people from the lower income groups who adopt indigenous breeds will be reluctant to do so. Licencing system is in a way a good step, but the fee has to be collected only for those who adopt dogs of costlier breeds,” says Arun Raj of Street Dog Watch Association. As per the new norms, institutions breeding pets have to keep a register recording the details of the pets as well as that of the persons they are sold to. However, people who work in the field argue that this will also affect those who provide shelter to street dogs. The organisations have put forward a suggestion to have some kind of distinction between professional breeders and those who provide shelter to street dogs. Categorisation also has to be done based on the number of dogs in the facility. Anti-rabies vaccine The organisations have lauded the requirement that the owner should submit an anti-rabies vaccination certificate attested by a veterinary surgeon while applying for the licence. As per the bylaw, the new owner has to submit an application for a transfer of licence with a copy of the original licence within 30 days of the sale. The licence will get cancelled if the transfer of ownership is to a person residing in another local body. Though the pet licence has to be renewed annually, there is also an option for obtaining a licence for five years. But the licence will get cancelled if the preventive vaccination is not administered on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-moots-amendments-to-bylaw-on-pet-licencing/article38052894.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10 tonnes of tomato brought from A.P. to slash price||The tomatoes that arrived from Andhra Pradesh on Monday will be sold at Rs. 48 per kg, officials of the Kerala State Horticultural products Development Corporation (Horticorp) said. The consignment consisting of 10 tonnes was unloaded at the World Market at Anayara in the capital. They will be sold primarily in the southern districts through the Christmas-New Year markets and other outlets of Horticorp and Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council, Keralam (VFPCK). Market intervention Horticorp had struck a deal with farmers in Mulakalacheruvu, Chittoor district, Andhra Pradesh, as part of a market intervention measure launched by the Agriculture department in November to arrest soaring vegetable prices. Vegetable prices had shot up in November following crop damage in the southern States. At one point, tomato retail prices had touched Rs. 120 per kg in the Kerala markets. Subsequently, Horticorp started direct purchases from farmers in Mysuru and Tirunelveli. Last week, the Agriculture Department also launched the ‘Thakkali Vandi’ (tomato van) for retail sales of tomato at Rs. 50 per kg. T. V. Subhash, director, Agriculture department, Horticorp managing director J. Sajeev and VFPCK CEO Sivaramakrishnan received the consignment at Anayara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-tonnes-of-tomato-from-andhra-pradesh-reach-capital/article38052780.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) launches drive to seek support for SilverLine||In a bid to outdo naysayers of the government’s SilverLine project, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] has launched a counter-campaign to drum up support for the endeavour. Pamphlets are being distributed during the three-day door-to-door campaign to explain the salient features of the K-Rail project and dispel alleged falsehoods propagated by its critics. CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan told media persons here on Monday that outreach programmes will be organised in each district to present the government’s vision among eminent personalities representing socio-cultural, industrial and other avenues. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will lead the State-wide programme that will get under way in the capital city on January 4, he said. “The State government and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) will spare no efforts to allay the genuine concerns that have cropped up over the project. At the same time, we will not be deterred by those who aim to torpedo infrastructure development in the State,” said Mr. Nagappan. He expressed confidence that the aggressive campaign will turn the tide in favour of the government, which had faced a similar crisis during the initial stages of the GAIL pipeline project. The CPI(M), however, refused to comment on Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor’s stance on the project. The Congress leader has come under fire within the party for reportedly distancing himself from the party’s campaign against the SilverLine project. Mr. Nagappan also announced that the district conference of the CPI(M) will be held at Parassala from January 14 to 16. As many as 198 delegates are expected to participate. Host of programmes A slew of programmes are lined up in the run-up to the conference. They will get under way with a seminar on Post-Truth Media led by media critic Sebastian Paul in Udiyankulangara on Tuesday (December 28). A dance performance by Soumya Sukumaran later will kick off the cultural programmes scheduled to be held across the district. A ‘kisan mazdoor mahapanchayat’ will be held at Neyyattinkara on January 6 to honour the participants of the farmers’ protest in the national capital. Leaders of All India Kisan Sabha and All India Agricultural Workers Union will participate. Former Education Minister C. Raveendranath will inaugurate a two-day Science Festival for school students at Parassala on January 8. Health Minister Veena George will participate in the valedictory programme the following day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-seek-support-for-silverline/article38052709.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TCCI seeks improved trade ties between city, Tamil Nadu||The Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TCCI) has sought measures to boost trade and commerce between Thiruvananthapuram and the southern districts of Tamil Nadu, mainly Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli. TCCI representatives, who met Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Monday in Chennai, said Mr. Stalin promised measures to improve infrastructure and consider favourable policy intervention in this regard. The TCCI requested Mr. Stalin to create an industrial corridor connecting Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari with Thiruvananthapuram with special emphasis on agro, marine and green energy-based industries and the MSME sector. The corridor would spur economic activity in the region and create jobs on either side of the border, TCCI president S. N. Raghuchandran Nair said in a statement. According to him, Mr. Stalin agreed to intervene to ensure that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) does not foreclose the two projects four-laning the stretch linking the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border to Kanyakumari. The TCCI stressed the need for a road bypassing the bottle-neck at Nagercoil. Cargo transport The organisation also urged Tamil Nadu to revive the Anantha-Victoria-Marthandam (AVM) Canal and make it navigable so as to enable cargo transportation via waterways and promote tourism in the region. The TCCI sought a centralised collection point and warehouse for vegetables at Kaliyikkavila and a special economic zone for jewellery manufacturing and exports at Nanguneri. TCCI secretary Abraham Thomas, vice president B. Govindan and TCCI Tamil Nadu coordinator Vishnu Sachiv were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chamber-seeks-better-trade-with-tn/article38052774.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Will not deal with affairs of varsities any more: Governor||Remaining firm on his stance in the controversy over his Chancellorship, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said that he will not deal with matters concerning State universities any longer. He told media persons here on Monday that his office at the Raj Bhavan had been instructed not to receive any files from universities. Instead, it had been asked to direct the files to the government. “I stand by my decision since I do not wish to engage in any confrontation [with the government]. I have already written to the government to make alternative arrangements,” he said. According to him, his responsibility as the Chancellor of universities was not a Constitutional duty as opposed to his position as Governor. “The responsibility [of Chancellor] is given to Governors by an Act of the legislature. If I am unable to discharge my own functions in accordance with the law, then I should stop,” Mr. Khan said. He reiterated that he “succumbed” to the government in the re-appointment of Kannur University Vice Chancellor. “I have admitted that my actions were not right. I said it went against my better judgment because I scuttled the (selection) procedure that got under way with an order I had issued. By taking back the order, I did not act in the right manner,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-not-deal-with-affairs-of-varsities-any-more-governor/article38052729.ece
28 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State registers 1,636 more cases, 2,864 recoveries||The State registered 1,636 cases of COVID-19 on Monday with Thiruvananthapuram district logging the highest number of 344, followed by Kozhikode with 233, and Ernakulam with 190. With this, the total caseload in the State went up to 52,24,929. The COVID-19 death toll in the State went up to 46,822 in the State with 23 deaths reported over the past few days and 213 accounted for as per the Supreme Court guidelines. As many as 42,149 samples collected across the State were tested over 24 hours. Containment measures Strict containment measures are in place in six local body wards where the Weekly Infection Population Ratio is above 10. According to data released by the Health department, 1,19,025 persons are under surveillance, of which 1,15,182 are under house/institutional quarantine and 3,843 are in hospital. Of the 1,636 new cases reported on Monday, 836 were infections in fully vaccinated citizens while 86 were partially vaccinated and 537 were unvaccinated. 21,224 active cases With 2,864 more people recovering from the disease, the total recoveries reached 51,68,028 and the active cases dropped to 21,224.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-registers-1636-more-cases-2864-recoveries/article38052735.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Blockchain summit tomorrow||Kerala Blockchain Academy, a centre of excellence functioning under Digital University Kerala, is set to hold its fourth annual Kerala Blockchain Summit ‘BlockHash LIVE 2021’ on December 29. Top blockchain experts and thought leaders from around the world will take part in the one-day virtual conference. Multiple blockchain workshops and tech talks will be organised as part of the event. Registrations can be done free-of-charge onhttps://blockhash.live/. Participants will be awarded a blockchain-powered certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blockchain-summit/article38052710.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested for attempt to murder||The Aruvikkara police on Monday arrested two persons for allegedly attempting to murder a motorcyclist after hurling a firecracker at him on Saturday. According to the police, the arrested have been identified as Sachin of Kachani and Gokul of Vattiyurkavu. Efforts were on to nab another accused, identified as Ashiq of Netta. Following an argument, the gang accosted Rahul and hacked him after throwing a firecracker at him near the Kachani Government School around 10 p.m. on December 25, the police said. The two accused were later remanded in judicial custody after being produced in a local court, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-for-attempt-to-murder/article38052893.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSCSTE announces Science Literature Awards||The Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE)  announced the winners of the Science Literature Awards 2020 for commendable contributions to science literature in Malayalam on Monday. Lizymol Philipose, a senior scientist at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, and Sabna S., a medical officer with Vayomithram project of the Kerala Social Security Mission, have been adjudged joint winners of the Science Book (Children’s Literature) category for their respective books Dantha Suchithvavum Arogyavum and Kochu Ma Kathakal . Writer-journalist C. Rahim won the award in the Science Book (Popular Science) category for his book Salim Ali — Indian Pakshi Shasthrathinte Pithavu . Journalist Jimmy Philip won the Science Journalism award. Germany-based scientist Vivek Poonthiyil and Denny Thomas, a sessional lecturer and subject facilitator at La Trobe University, Melbourne, have shared the award in the Science Book (Malayalam translation) category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kscste-announces-science-literature-awards/article38052886.ece
28 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Drive for LIFE Mission land||The Local Self-Governments department will launch a campaign titled ‘Manasodithiri Mannu’ for wider participation of the public in the third phase of the State government’s Livelihood Inclusion Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission housing project. In a press release, Minister for LSGs M.V. Govindan said the government aims to find enough land to construct houses for 2.5 lakh homeless people in three years. However, this would need ample support from the public as well. The campaign, which aims at getting land or donations from the public, will be launched in Ernakulam on December 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-for-life-mission-land/article38052887.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. to hold exhibition on plastic alternatives||The city Corporation will organise an exhibition of environment-friendly alternatives for plastic carry bags and other disposable items at the Putharikandam Maidan on December 31, January 1 and 2. As part of promotional activities ahead of the event, competitions in drawing, elocution, quiz and essay writing were organised in schools and colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-hold-exhibition-on-plastic-alternatives/article38052895.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 caseload slides||The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload continued to slide further to reach 3,583 as it recorded 511 recoveries on Monday even as 344 fresh cases were reported. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district stood at 6.6%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-caseload-slides/article38052890.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sivagiri pilgrimage: clean-up drive under way||The Varkala municipality has launched a clean-up drive in the local body in connection with the upcoming Sivagiri pilgrimage. Garbage has been removed from roads that come under the municipal limits, municipal chairman K.M. Laji said on Monday. In a statement here, Mr. Laji said the Sivagiri Madhom premises and nearby areas were being sanitised on a daily basis. Green protocol Stringent measures were in place in order to enforce green protocol in the region. National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers from schools and colleges, and student police cadets will be deployed at various parts for the purpose, said Mr. Laji. The Sivagiri convention centre, which used to function as a COVID-19 first line treatment centre (CFLTC), has been thoroughly cleaned, disinfected and handed back to the madham authorities, he said. Nearly 700 non-functioning street lights put up at various wards in the Varkala municipality have been refurbished and re-installed in places likely to witness large crowds of devotees. Temporary toilets have also been set up at the Sivagiri High School ground, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivagiri-pilgrimage-clean-up-drive-under-way/article38052891.ece
28 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth killed, another hurt in Vembayam accident||A youth was killed and another injured when two motorcycles collided against each other at Vembayam town on Sunday midnight. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Rashid (21) of Ozhukupara in Vembayam. Jagir (21) of Kattakkal in Vembayam sustained critical injuries in the incident. Rashid was pursuing a mobile technician course at an institute in Thampanoor, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-killed-another-hurt-in-vembayam-accident/article38052892.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||SSLC exams from March 31||IT practical examinations for SSLC students will be held from March 10 to 19, while Plus Two higher secondary practicals will be from February 21 to March 15, and for VHSE from February 15 to March 15. The exam notification, including for the THSLC (Technical High School Leaving Certificate), SSLC (Hearing Impaired), THSLC (Hearing Impaired), and AHSLC (Art High School Leaving Certificate) exams, has been published on pareekshabhavan. kerala.gov.in. The examination fee can be remitted without fine from January 3 to January 13, and with fine from January 14 to January 19. The ‘focus area’ that was fixed at 60% of the total portion to be studied will be available on the website of the State Council of Educational Research and Training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-exams-from-march-31/article38052783.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Night-time curbs for four days||Containment measures would be stepped up to curb the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Medicines, beds, and syringes would be stocked in anticipation of a third wave and oxygen stocks would be increased. District Collectors of Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam were directed to send more samples for genome sequencing, in view of the rise of Omicron cases in the two districts. The meeting was informed that 98% of the eligible population in the State had received the first dose of COVID vaccine and 77% had been fully vaccinated. Mr. Vijayan stressed the need to complete the vaccination process at the earliest. Proper ventilation It was decided to closely monitor the pandemic situation for the formation of clusters and impose severe restrictions to curb the spread of infections. Organisers of indoor events would be directed to ensure proper ventilation, keeping in view the potential of the Omicron variant to spread in closed areas. The Chief Minister also instructed the Health Department to make the necessary arrangements to vaccinate children and provide booster dose for health and front-line workers and senior citizens and distribute Ayurveda and homoeo medicines to boost immunity. It was decided to convene a meeting involving the General Education Minister and officials of various departments for the smooth conduct of the SSLC and Plus Two examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/night-time-curbs-for-four-days/article38052781.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Celebrations on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebrations-on/article38052706.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Golden years||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/golden-years/article38052770.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ahead of Hope Fest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ahead-of-hope-fest/article38052900.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Space for succour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/space-for-succour/article38052863.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Flying fish||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flying-fish/article38052737.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Large as life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/large-as-life/article38052889.ece
28 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No let-up in bird flu cases in Alappuzha||Bird flu was confirmed in one more grama panchayat in Alappuzha. Officials of the Animal Husbandry Department (AHD) said Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) culled 16,605 ducks within a one-km radius of the hotspot in Ambalappuzha North grama panchayat on Monday. Earlier, following the mass death of ducks in the local body in recent weeks, the AHD sent samples of dead birds to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analyses, which tested positive for avian influenza. Six grama panchayats The outbreak has so far been confirmed in six grama panchayats in Alappuzha. Avian flu was first confirmed in ducks at Kunnumma South (ward 10) in Thakazhy grama panchayat on December 8. Later, the outbreak was confirmed in Nedumudi and Karuvatta on December 14. It was followed by cases in Purakkad and Cheruthana. Following the reporting of the disease from Ambalappuzha North, District Collector A. Alexander on Monday chaired an emergency meeting and took stock of the situation.  Containment zones The places within a one-km radius of the affected area in Ambalapuzha North have been declared as containment zones. The movement of people and vehicles to and from these places have been banned. The District Collector has issued an order banning movement and sale of duck, chicken, quail and other domestic birds and the use of their egg and meat in Ambalappuzha North, Purakkad, Thakazhy, Pulinkunnu, Nedumudi, Kainakary, Punnapra North, Punnapra South, and Champakulam grama panchayats. Culling As part of containment measures, RRTs killed more than 70,000 birds, mostly ducks, in bird flu affected areas in the district in less than three weeks. Besides, it also destroyed more than 28,000 eggs and 1,700 kg of feed during this period. Mr. Alexander directed the assistant conservator of forests to monitor migratory birds for avian influenza. It is the fourth outbreak of bird flu to strike the district in the last seven years. Earlier this year, avian flu caused by the H5N8 strain of the Influenza A virus was detected from five places at Nedumudi, Thakazhy, Pallippad, Karuvatta, and Kainakary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bird-flu-in-one-more-panchayat-in-kerala/article38052280.ece
28 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP questions rationale behind OTS, asks people not to pay amount||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) former Ministers and party cadres turned out in large numbers at a protest rally in the city on Monday to oppose the collection of Rs. 10,000 from people of poor backgrounds for the house sanctioned to them decades ago and gave a call to the poor not to pay the amount. Former Ministers Kalava Sinivasulu, Paritala Sunitha, Palle Raghunatha Reddy, Public Accounts Committee Chairman Payyavula Keshav, former Anantapur Mayor Madamanchi Swarupa, and party Hindupur district president B.K. Parthasarathy participated in a long march from the old city to the District Collector’s office and held a sit-in in front of the main gate when they were not allowed to go into the Collectorate complex. Mr. Keshav questioned the rationale behind collecting money for the houses constructed by the past governments and allocated to the beneficiaries. “If you do not withdraw the One Time Settlement scheme, people will not vote for you,” said Mr. Keshav asking Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to stop the collection of money forthwith and register houses ‘free-of-cost’. Despite the best efforts of the district administration, only 50,000 out of 5.3 lakhs beneficiaries had paid the amount, and that too when they were threatened with discontinuation of all social welfare schemes, said Mr. Kalava Srinivasulu.  Telugu Desam Party activists staged demonstrations in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh also on Monday in protest against the One Time Settlement scheme. The activists organised rallies in cities and towns in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts and raised slogans against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government for allegedly “fleecing” people falling under below poverty line(BPL) category who had been distributed houses by the previous governments. Leading the protest in Ongole after paying floral tributes to the statue of NTR on the arterial Kurnool road, TDP State vice-president Damacharla Janardhana Rao alleged that Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy, who came to power seeking one chance from the electorate, would turn out to be a one-time Chief Minister if his government was bent upon collecting charges from housing scheme beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-questions-rationale-behind-ots-asks-people-not-to-pay-amount/article38052836.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tejasvi Surya withdraws his remarks on re-conversions||Tejasvi Surya, national president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BYJM) and Bengaluru South MP, has “unconditionally withdrawn” his statements made as part of a speech at Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt recently. Mr. Surya, speaking at the valedictory function of Admar Mutt Paryaya “Vishwarpanam” on ‘Hindu Revival in Bharat’, had said stopping conversions from Hinduism won’t solve the problem and that Hinduism needs to adopt something new, not part of its DNA, and go for large-scale reconversions. Target “Every temple and mutt must have a target for reconverting people to Hinduism. We should convert even the Muslims of Pakistan back to Hinduism. At a recent event, the sarsanghachalak of RSS also laid stress on ghar wapsi,” he said. Coming days after the BJP Government passed the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, popularly known as the anti-conversion Bill, in the Assembly, the statements had raised eyebrows and were also trolled on social media, probably promoting Mr. Surya to withdraw his statements. “Certain statements from my speech have regrettably created an avoidable controversy. I therefore unconditionally withdraw the statements,” he tweeted on Monday. However, there is no clarity as to which part of his speech he has withdrawn. This is not the first time Mr. Surya has embarrassed his party. In May this year, he led a raid on the Bengaluru South Zone control room at the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. He alleged a bed blocking scam, read out the names of 16 Muslim contract employees, and questioned why they were on the rolls. They were fired and did not get their jobs back. The incident drew ire from the Opposition and also on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tejasvi-surya-withdraws-his-remarks-on-reconversions/article38052289.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Congress will scrap anti-conversion Bill 2021’||As some sections of society have been opposing the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, popularly known as anti-conversion Bill, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday said the Congress will scrap the Bill within a week if voted to power. Speaking to reporters here, the former Chief Minister said “the Congress will scrap the anti-conversion Bill within a week of the party coming to power or the first session of the State Legislature after coming to power. There is no doubt about it.” The Congress leader has been opposing the anti-conversion Bill, which was passed by the State Legislative Assembly last week. The Bill is yet to be introduced in the Legislative Council owing to lack of majority for the ruling BJP. In 2016, then Karnataka Law Commission chairman V.S. Malimath had prepared the draft Bill and he (Siddaramaiah) had signed it, saying that it should be brought before the Cabinet. The draft Bill was later transferred to then Social Welfare Minister H. Anjaneya. However, after verifying various aspects, he had told Mr. Anjaneya to close the file. Hence the draft Bill did not come before the Cabinet for discussion, Mr. Siddaramaiah said. Speaking in the Assembly, Mr. Siddaramaah had earlier said, “Even I oppose forced religious conversions. There are provisions in the Constitution to prevent forcible conversions, so what was the need to bring in a separate law for this? All sensible people must oppose the anti-conversion Bill. It is being propagated that Buddhism, Jainism, Lingayat religion, and Sikhism are all part of Hinduism. This is a dangerous development as these religions were formed in opposition to Vedic religion and there are efforts to hide this information now.” Though he had asked the government to extend the Legislature session for one more week for taking up discussion on bitcoin and alleged 40% commission in execution of development works by contractors, the session was hurriedly ended, the Congress leader alleged.  The Bill is yet to be introduced in the Legislative Council owing to lack of majority for the ruling BJP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-will-scrap-anti-conversion-bill-if-voted-to-power-siddaramaiah/article38052286.ece
28 December 2021||Guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare POEMS syndrome diagnosed in Guntur||A rare syndrome, which had left many doctors baffled, has been finally diagnosed by doctors of the Neurology Department at the Guntur Government General Hospital recently. POEMS syndrome (a rare autoimmune syndrome marked by Polyneuropathy, Organomegaly, Endocrinopathy, Myeloma Protein and Skin Changes) is a rare disease. The patient, a 28-year-old software engineer residing in the United States., came to N.V. Sundara Chary, Professor of Neurology at GGH, in the first week of November on a wheelchair accompanied by his father and brother with chief complaints of weakness of legs and arms, wasting and weakness of hands, swelling of both lower limbs and distension of abdomen with protruding umbilicus for the past six months. Initial examination of reports suggested that doctors in the U.S. had diagnosed the condition as ‘Transverse myelitis’, and treated him for that with mild improvement. Further examination revealed quadriparesis, ascites, umbilical hernia and non-pitting oedema of both lower limbs with thickened skin. He was admitted to hospital and doctors started investigations. The brain MRI revealed no acute intracranial abnormality but the MRI of the spine revealed subtle T2 hyperintensity in cervical discs from C3 -C7. The MRI was suggestive of subtle myelitis and interpreted by the day-to-day reports in the hospital. The patient’s Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) was high suggesting an infection/inflammation /malignancy. Lymphadenopathy was found suggestive of underlying lymphoproliferative syndrome, Castleman disease. In the meantime, he had developed respiratory insufficiency and was intubated and mechanically ventilated for that. After extubation, he was subjected for nerve conduction studies. As days progressed, his leg oedema disappeared, and he became bright. Bone marrow aspiration was repeated and showed reactive marrow with plasmacytosis (~10%) and megakaryocytic hyperplasia. More tests followed. Ascitic fluid analysis was done suggestive of transudation and also negative for malignant cells. Lumbar puncture for CSF analysis done in the U.S. revealed a rise in protein without pleocytosis. After aligning clinical features with investigations, Dr. Sundarachary and post-graduate K. Deepthi concluded that the man was affected by POEMS/Castleman Syndrome. The oncologist suggested bone marrow transplantation as the definitive treatment and the patient was referred to a centre with bone marrow transplantation facilities. The patient was started on chemotherapeutic drugs and is doing well now. “We want to make a point that without proper symptom analysis and clinical examination, the diagnosis can be missed if importance is given to subtle changes in the imaging findings which probably were artificial. Further, it highlights the importance of history and clinical examination in the modern era of technological advances,” summed up Dr. Sundarachary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-poems-syndrome-diagnosed-in-guntur/article38052338.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana Cong. chief held, not allowed to visit Erravelli||The Hyderabad police have arrested Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) A. Revanth Reddy at his Jubilee Hills residence here on Monday afternoon as he tried to proceed to Erravelli village in Siddipet district, where Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s family has a farmhouse, to hold ‘Rythu Rachhabanda’, a protest on the issue of paddy cultivation this rabi season. A large number of police were deployed around the residence of Mr. Reddy, who is also the MP of Malkajigiri, from the early on Monday to prevent him from proceeding to Erravelli in Markook mandal in Gajwel Constituency “to expose the double standards of the Chief Minister on paddy cultivation this season as he has taken it up on a large-scale in his farmhouse but advised farmers not to go for it.” The State government has advised farmers not to cultivate paddy this season following the decision of Food Corporation of India (FCI) not to procure parboiled rice, only which is produced in the rabi season in Telangana, henceforth stating that it has the stocks of the custom milled rice sufficient for the next four years. It has also told the farming community that it would not take up paddy procurement for rabi in the wake of FCI decision. Tension prevailed at Mr. Revanth Reddy’s residence as jostling took place between the Congress activists and the police following a heated altercation on preventing him from proceeding to Erravelli. The police told Mr. Reddy that his protest at Erravelli has no permission due restrictions imposed by the government on protests, public meetings, gatherings and rallies as part of measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, particularly the Omicron variant. As the police prevented Mr. Reddy from venturing out of his residence here, their counterparts elsewhere in the State also took Congress activists into custody while proceeding to Erravelli. Several leaders were also kept under ‘house arrest’ as they were not allowed to come out of their houses by the police deployed there. Those who were not allowed to come out of their houses include senior leaders T. Jeevan Reddy, D. Sridhar Babu, Vikarabad DCC president T. Rammohan Reddy, State Mahila Congress president T. Sunitha Rao and several others. However, national vice president of Kisan Congress M. Kodanda Reddy held Rythu Rachhabanda at Itikyala, a neighbouring village of Erravelli. Congress Legislature Party leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka, V. Hanumantha Rao, Madhu Yaskhi, Mallu Ravi, Balaram Naik others condemned the house arrests of the party leaders. Speaking after his release from Amberpet police station, Mr. Revanth Reddy alleged that TRS and BJP were jointly enacting a drama on the issue of paddy procurement in the State and the day of farmers teaching fitting lesson to both of them is not far away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-cong-chief-held-not-allowed-to-visit-erravelli/article38052278.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discoms propose tariff hike ranging from 50 paise to Rs. 1 per unit in Telangana||The two power distribution companies (Discoms) of Telangana have proposed increase in the retail supply tariff (RST) after a gap of five years by requesting Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) to allow them to revise energy charges by 50 paise per unit for domestic and Rs. 1 per unit for other consumers in low-tension (LT) category. Further, they have also proposed an increase of Rs. 1 per unit for high-tension (HT) consumers of all categories. With the revision in energy supply tariffs, the power utilities plan to mop up an additional revenue of Rs. 6,831 crore, including Rs. 2,110 crore from LT consumers and Rs. 4,721 crore from HT consumers, compared to the existing revenue. RSTs submitted The mop up of revenue proposed by the Discoms — TSSPDCL and TSNPDCL — are expected to help them bridge the revenue deficit of Rs. 10,928 crore as projected by them in the Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) reports for 2022-23 submitted before the TSERC on November 30. Chairman and Managing Director of Southern Discom G. Raghuma Reddy and CMD of Northern Discom A. Gopal Rao submitted the RSTs for 2022-23 on Monday. Senior executives of the two power utilities stated that they have proposed increase only in the unit rate and did not make any changes in the categories both in LT and HT users. Mr. Raghuma Reddy stated that the category-wise tariffs proposed by them would be uploaded on their websites. The Discoms have also submitted to the ERC that they would bridge the remaining revenue deficit of Rs. 4,097 crore by taking up internal efficiency improvement measures such as reducing line losses and plugging revenue pilferage as also seek additional support from the State government. Both the Discoms and the ERC have indicated already that increase in the RST was inevitable this time as the tariff was revised for 2017-18 last time. The ERC observed that “in order to bridge the revenue gap/strengthen the financial position of the Discoms, there is a need to enhance the RST” when the Discoms filed their ARRs. The Discoms have justified their proposals for tariff revision on the grounds that there was no increase in the tariff for the last five years, there was increase in the clean energy cess to Rs. 400 per tonne of coal from Rs. 50, increase in the coal cost by about Rs. 800 per tonne, increase in railway freight charges by 40% and increase in petrol diesel prices since the tariff was revised last. They have also listed increase in employee cost due to wage revision twice, and increase in the cost of finance due to strengthening of transmission and distribution network with an investment of Rs. 34,087 crore to ensure reliable supply.  What ARRs and RST translate into:  Revenue requirement from projected energy need (84,222 MU) – Rs. 53,054 cr. Projected revenue from existing tariff including government subsidy – Rs. 42,126 cr. Revenue deficit – Rs. 10,928 cr. Additional revenue mop up from tariff revision proposed – Rs. 6,831 cr. Requirement of energy for LI scheme projected at 13,826 MU For agriculture it’s projected at 18,707 MU Availability of energy projected at 87,288 MU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-discoms-propose-tariff-hike-ranging-from-50-p-to-rs-1-per-unit/article38052627.ece
28 December 2021||hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime against women sees a rise in Rachakonda in 2021||Overall crime, including crime against women, showed an upward trend in Rachakonda, the country’s largest police commissionerate, this year, when compared to the lockdown-hit 2020 and the previous year. Presenting the annual ‘Progress Report’ of his unit for the sixth time in a row, Commissioner of Police Mahesh Muralidhar Bhagwat said that 21,685 cases have been registered in 2021, which has shown an increase of 9% over 19,857 cases last year. “Cases pertaining to murder for gain, robbery, housebreaking, murders, bodily and other offences have seen a spike this year,” he said. Cases of rape, domestic violence, dowry murder, molestation, and overall cases of crime against women, have also seen a significant increase in Rachakonda. This year 377 rape cases were registered as against 329 last year, and 277 cases in 2019. Substantiating the claims, the Commissioner said that rapes include both technical as well as actual. Technical rapes denote sexual assault on women by promising marriage. “Of the total rape cases registered, only in nine cases the accused are strangers, while in the rest of the cases persons known to the victims have committed the offences,” the 1995 batch IPS officer said. cyber crimes Further, he said that the commissionerate has seen a 123% increase in the number of cybercrimes in the year with 1,360 cases when compared to 610 in 2020. The number of cases registered in 2019 was 334. “The number of cases has increased this year as we have started registering cybercrime cases in law and order police stations too,” Mr. Bhagwat said. Stating that they have waged a war against the drug mafia, the officer said that in 2021 alone they seized over 5.7 tonnes of ganja, 400 kgs of opium poppy seeds, over seven litres of hashish oil and several psychopathic drugs, and invoked Preventive Detection Act against 33 peddlers. Child marriages  Appreciating the SHE teams for their work, he said that the team has prevented as many as 31 child marriages this year. He also said that the conviction rate has been increased from 51 % in 2020 to 55 % in 2021 and police have secured 227 convictions in contested cases, including eight life imprisonments. According to Mr. Bhagwat, during the period of consideration, a total of 379 cases have been detected with the help of CCTV, video enhancement, data analytics and facial recognition system. “With the help of CCTV cameras and video enhancement, we have detected seven murder cases, one rape case, 12 robbery cases, and one kidnap and rape case,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crime-against-women-sees-a-rise-in-rachakonda-in-2021/article38052656.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Orders reserved in bail cancellation plea||Justice Ujjal Bhuyan of Telangana High Court on Monday reserved orders on the maintainability of a writ petition filed by YSRCP rebel MP Raghurama Krishnam Raju seeking cancellation of bail granted to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in CBI cases. Arguments by the counsels of the petitioner and the CBI were completed on Monday. The MP’s counsel, presenting his contentions, said that the Supreme Court earlier held that a third party can file a petition seeking cancellation of bail in a case. The lawyer said there was a likelihood of Mr. Reddy influencing the witnesses by virtue of being CM of the State. Some of the accused in the CBI cases were given key position in Mr. Reddy’s government and hence it was unlikely that they would become approvers in the case. Mr. Reddy, after taking over as CM, kept the power of assessing the performance of IAS officers with him. The lawyer said even the petitioner was sent to prison after a criminal case was registered against him. At this stage, the judge sought to know if the petitioner moved the court to settle personal scores. Justice Ujjal Bhuyan said that courts cannot be used as platforms for politics. The judge noted that the petitioner could not explain any instance of violation of bail conditions. What was the need for the petitioner to approach the court for cancellation of bail when the CBI, the agency investigating cases against Mr. Reddy, did not prefer to make such moves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/orders-reserved-in-bail-cancellation-plea/article38052665.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. workers defy police||Congress workers on Monday succeeded in giving a slip to the police and reached the farmhouse of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at Erravalli village of Murkook Mandal in Siddipet district. The administration deployed a heavy police force and heightened security was put in place in and around the village. All the main roads, as well as sub passages, were taken into control and the police searched every house located in the vicinity to check whether there were any party activists hiding in them. Determined to reach the venue, the Congress workers however sprang a surprise by arriving in small groups and reaching the village by all available modes of transport. Some came riding bicycles and some others walking through the fields and more than 50 activists led by district Congress committee president T. Narsa Reddy were arrested. They were later shifted to different police stations. Police had a tough time in dealing with the Congress workers who barged into the village breaking the police cordon. Tension was palpable in the area ever since the Congress announced its resolve to conduct Rachabanda, face-to-face interaction with people, in the village where the Chief Minister’s farmhouse was located. Security arrangements were tightened after TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy announced that he would personally lead the Congress’ delegation. Meanwhile, Forest Development Corporation chairman V. Pratap Reddy visited the village warning that the Congress’ Rachabanda would not be allowed in the village. On Sunday some of the TRS leaders manhandled the Congress workers. “Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao has been asking farmers not to cultivate paddy after the Centre made it clear that it will not purchase paddy in the summer. But the Chief Minister has been cultivating paddy in about 150 acres in his farms. How can he justify this?” asked Mr. Narsa Reddy before being arrested by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-workers-defy-police/article38052279.ece
28 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||State adds 12 cases to Omicron tally||Telangana recorded 12 new Omicron cases by Monday evening, including two contacts of people with the variant. Ten cases were detected during random sampling tests carried out among air passengers at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport after they landed from countries other than those designated ‘at risk’. Now, the count of people with Omicron variant in the State has reached 56. Of the 263 passengers from at-risk countries subjected to tests at the airport, 24 turned out to be positive. This took the daily caseload in the State to 182 and the total up to 6,80,844. One person succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 4,023. The State has 3,417 cases in isolation or treatment at various facilities. On Monday, 37,839 samples were tested as against 20,576 the previous day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-adds-12-cases-to-omicron-tally/article38052645.ece
28 December 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||98 collection centres, nine cold storages sanctioned for E. Godavari||The State government has sanctioned 98 collection centres and nine cold storages to provide better marketing facility for horticulture crops in the East Godavari district. The Farmers Producers Organisations (FPO) and the Horticulture Department officials have been tasked to identify suitable locations for setting up the new facilities. The farmers could store their produce, including flowers, fruits and cashew, in the collection centres for better price. Capacity of each cold storage is 10 metric tonnes and runs with solar power. Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Monday announced that the collection centres and cold storage facilities would be set with the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. The Horticulture Department is the implementing agency. “The State government will offer 75% subsidy on the collection centres and cold storages after completion of the construction of the respective facility. The banks will also offer 90% loan with 3% interest,” said Mr. Kannababu. The State government has targeted to set up 945 collection centres and 344 cold storages with the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. Horticulture Assistant Director S. Rammohan and other officials explained details to Mr. Kannababu during the review meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/98-collection-centres-nine-cold-storages-sanctioned-for-e-godavari/article38052845.ece
28 December 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada smart city to get 13 UPHCs||Kakinada Municipal Corporation Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar on Monday said that 13 new Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) would be set in the Kakinada smart city in East Godavari district. On Monday, Mr. Swapnil inspected the construction of the eight UPHCs in the city. Each Urban Primary Health Centre is equipped with a mini ward, minor operation theatre, conference room, dressing room, labour room, lab, pharmacy and two operation theatres. The engineering authorities have been told to complete the construction of the eight Urban Primary Health Centres as early as possible to improve the medical infrastructure facilities in the smart city. Municipal Superintending Engineer P.V.V.V. Satyanarayana Raju and other officials explained the status of the construction activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kakinada-smart-city-to-get-13-urban-public-health-centres/article38052844.ece
28 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Families of policemen receive financial aid||East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranth Babu on Monday handed over cheques of financial aid of Rs. 3 lakh each to the family members of seven police personnel who succumbed to COVID-19 in the district. The aid was offered by the Delhi-based Mankind Pharma group. Mr. Ravindranth Babu and the family members of the seven police personnel were present in an online meeting addressed by Director-General of Police Gautham Sawang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/families-of-policemen-receive-financial-aid/article38052842.ece
28 December 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||164 held for assault and arson in Kerala||The Kunnathunadu police have arrested 164 people in two cases registered in connection with the assault on police personnel and arson by migrant workers employed by Kitex Garments at Kizhakkambalam, near here, in the early hours of Sunday. In the case registered for assaulting V.T. Shajan, station house officer of the Kunnathunadu police station, 100 identifiable persons were arraigned as accused. In the other case, 200 identifiable persons were arraigned as accused on charges of arson and destruction of public property of Rs. 12.05 lakh. So far, 51 persons have been arrested in connection with the first case and 113 in the second case. Remanded By Monday evening, the police produced 50 accused before the Kolenchery First Class Magistrate Court, which remanded them in judicial custody in the Viyyur jail. “We will produce the rest of the accused before the end of the day in keeping with the legal mandate. We are in constant touch with the Collector and the District Medical Officer to ensure uninterrupted service of doctors for the medical examination of the accused as this is a prominent case,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The remanded accused are being sent to different jails depending on the availability of space. Going by the number of accused in the two first information reports (FIR), 136 more persons remain to be arrested. Among the charges invoked in the FIRs are Indian Penal Code Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 143 (unlawful assembly), 144 (unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 440 (mischief committed after preparation made for causing death or hurt), and relevant sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The remand report says the accused attacked Mr. Shajan with sticks and stones, shouting to ‘kill him’. He suffered a fracture on his left arm and is under treatment at the Kolenchery Medical College Hospital. They also allegedly assaulted Sivadasan, assistant sub-inspector of Kunnathunadu police, civil police officer Rejeesh, and grade sub-inspector Sajan. The accused allegedly set afire a police vehicle, wireless set, and a tab (Rs. 7 lakh), vandalised a control room vehicle, wireless set (Rs. 4 lakh), vandalised another vehicle of the Edathala police (Rs. 50,000), smashed the windshield of a police bus (Rs. 50,000) and that of the SHO’s vehicle (Rs. 50,000).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/164-held-for-assault-arson-in-kerala/article38052293.ece
28 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bid to shut down company’||Kitex managing director (MD) Sabu M. Jacob on Monday alleged that there was a conspiracy to shut down the company and there was an attempt to carry out political vendetta against the Twenty20 party. He said several innocent workers of his company had been taken into custody in connection with the violent incidents early on Sunday in which a group of migrant workers attacked the police. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan sought an impartial inquiry into the incidents. At a press meet, he wanted the police to investigate if the Kitex management had been involved in the incidents in any way. Benny Behanan, Congress MP, demanded that the police inquire how intoxicating substances entered the hostels completely under the Kitex Group. Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) Kizhakkambalam unit has raised the question why while thousands of labourers from other States worked in Kerala, only those in the Kitex Group engaged in violent activities. Alleges lapse Speaking to the media at Kizhakkambalam, Mr. Jacob accused the police of serious lapse in identifying the culprits and claimed that the Kitex company had identified only 23 people as actually involved in the violence. He said those involved in the violent attacks might have used intoxicating substances. However, the police had a major failure in not testing immediately the blood and urine samples of those taken into custody to find out what substances had been used. Mr. Jacob said the Kitex Group would not protect any criminal. The company would extend support to people deemed innocent by it, he said. He also said that there was a narcotics mafia working in the State to exploit migrant workers and the government must make determined efforts to identify the supply sources and punish those involved. While the police had taken 164 persons into custody, only 13 were identified using CCTV footage as having been involved in the incidents. “Another 10 persons have been handed over to the police,” he said. Comprehensive probe The DYFI Ernakulam secretariat, in a statement, demanded an investigation against Mr. Jacob and the criminals who unleashed the violence. P.V. Sreenijan, Communist Party of India (Marxist) MLA, called for a comprehensive inquiry into the incidents and said the management of the Kitex Group might be hiding facts. He also said the Excise department should inquire into the use of intoxicating substances by the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bid-to-shut-down-company/article38052290.ece
28 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centuries-old black rock art depictions found in Kurnool||Rare black stick-like drawings of human beings have been found in two caves at Paibogula village in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district close to the Kundu river. An assistant professor of history at Sri Sathya Sai University for Human Excellence, Kalaburagi, in Karnataka, Yadava Raghu, who had been studying rock art in various places in the district and Kadapa for a long time, chanced upon these drawings dating back to the Megalithic period (1500 to 500 BC) and early historical period (500 BC to 600 AD). An ethno-aqrchaeologist, Mr. Raghu told The Hindu that these newly explored rock art sites in the Kundu river valley in Gadivemula Mandal are 40 km from Kurnool city and these caves are locally known as Yedoorlagayi; Siddhulagayi, and Gurralapadah. These sites have rock art in black, red, and white pigments, along with cupules or cup marks of varying sizes, which need to be studied further for the exact dating, he added. These cupules were made on gneissic granite, a very hard and erosion-resistant rock type. The largest of these measures 10 cm in diameter and 5 cm in depth. A gorge at the entrance of the village, called Chinna Kanuma, houses about 100 black-coloured portrayals, which is extremely rare, Mr. Raghu claimed. These are very unique findings in Andhra Pradesh, he opines and the majority of the depictions were of human figures or stick figures (representation of humans by stick-like drawings). The drawings depict a confident standing human with his left hand on his waist; a human with a trident-shaped weapon in his right hand; a bird that appears to be a pea-hen; and a human clutching a shield in his left hand. The second shelter (Gurrala Padah or cave of horses), is located about 500 metres south of the village on the bank of a brook called Palle Pullamma Sela, which joins Kudu river. This shelter measures 19 metres in length from East to West and 11 metres from North to South. “We discovered red ochre and white pigment paintings on the rock shelter ceilings depicting a herd of horses; horses in association with humans; deer (red ochre) and a bull (white pigment) with a high hump,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-black-rock-art-depictions-found-in-ap/article38052282.ece
28 December 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walayar sisters committed suicide: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) submitted its chargesheet before the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court here on Monday after reinvestigating the sensational Walayar case in which two minor sisters were found dead hanging on different dates in 2017. The CBI too found fault with the five men, including a minor, who had been the accused in the chargesheet submitted by the police earlier. The CBI submitted that the siblings aged 13 and nine had committed suicide after having undergone sexual abuse for a long period. Valiya Madhu, aka Madhu, Shibu, and Madhu were charge sheeted in connection with the elder sister’s death. Valiya Madhu and the minor boy were accused in the death of the second girl. CBI Thiruvanathapuram unit Dy.SP Ananthakrishnan filed the chargesheet before the POCSO court. Charges of rape and abetting suicide were slapped on the accused under various sections, including POCSO Act. Charges under the SC/ST Atrocities Act were slapped on Shibu. The elder sister was found hanging on January 7, 2017 and the younger sister on March 4, 2017. Suspicions were raised over the police assumption that the younger sister had also committed suicide. An uproar was raised when the POCSO court exonerated all the accused in 2019 as the prosecution failed to prove that it was a murder. The CBI took over the investigation following a High Court directive. Samiti to move HC The Walayar Samara Samiti protested against the chargesheet filed by the CBI. Samiti leader C.R. Neelakandan said it would approach the High Court after studying the chargesheet. The victims’ mother said the CBI too committed the same mistake as done by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walayar-siblings-ended-life-cbi-report/article38052291.ece
28 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||No recommendation letters will be entertained: TTD||The TTD has made it clear that it will not entertain any kind of recommendation letters in the darshan of Lord Venkateswara on January 1 and during the 10-day Vaikunta Dwara Darshanam from January 13 to 22. However, VIPs coming in person will be extended with courtesies to which they stand eligible. Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said that all efforts were being made to extend satisfactory darshan to the visiting devotees in strict adherence to COVID protocols. The TTD has also dispensed with the advance reservation of cottages system from January 11 to 14 in connection with Vaikunt Ekadasi and Dwadasi festivals and resolved to provide them under current booking on first-come-first-serve basis. Similarly, no privilege would be extended to donors in the allotment of cottages during the period. Dwelling at length, he said PPE kits would be made available to barbers at Kalyanakatta and free meals provided to pilgrims from 4 a.m. to 12 midnight on all the 10 days during the Vaikunta Dwara darshanam. Special medical teams would be deployed at vital points and restrictions imposed on vehiuclar traffic. Mr. Reddy said devotees should bring the COVID certificate or the test report of the RTPCR done 48 hours in advance along with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-recommendation-letters-will-be-entertained-ttd/article38052320.ece
28 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srivani break darshan tickets’ release today||The TTD will release the online quota of Srivani break darshan tickets for January and February at 3 p.m. on Tuesday. Around 1,000 tickets would be available online for January 1, and Vaikunta Ekadasi on January 13. Laghu darshan would be conducted on January 1 and Maha Laghu on the day of Ekadasi. As many as 2,000 tickets would be made available from January 14 to 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srivani-break-darshan-tickets-release-today/article38052851.ece
28 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. seeks Rs. 13,100 cr. from Union Power Ministry||The State government has appealed to the Union Government to provide Rs. 13,100 crore towards revamping its power distribution sector. Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao, who formally received the Minister of State for Power Krishan Pal Gurjar on his arrival on a pilgrimage, put forth the appeal to consider the proposal for Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme, which is aimed at reducing losses and strengthening and stabilising the power infrastructure. The scheme is extended as 60% grant and 40% soft loans, with a provision for an additional 15% grant if deadline compliance is ensured. Of the Rs. 13,100 crore, the share of Discom, which covers Rayalaseema region, comes to Rs. 5,500 crore. Mr. Gurjar enquired about the State’s position vis-a-vis finances and power supply fronts. “With 18 lakh agricultural power connections, the State has not completed feeder bifurcation process due to a variety of reasons, and as such requires Central support,” Mr. Haranatha Rao explained to the Minister. He also showcased the Discom’s achievement in the form of underground sub-stations in Tirupati under the Smart City Project and SCADA (remotely operated) sub-stations in Nellore, taken up with Central assistance. The CMD sought the Minister’s help in getting the Rs. 6,000 crore dues from the Telangana government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-seeks-rs-13100-cr-from-union-power-ministry/article38052852.ece
28 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa man bags place in Guinness World Records||Thummala Guru Shankar of Railway Koduru in Kadapa district has bagged a place in the Guinness World Records for memorising the most decimal places of Euler’s number. Euler’s number is a mathematical constant that is 2.718281.., that goes on up to infinity. Mr. Shankar recited 7777 digits post decimal, thus breaking the previous record of 5005 digits. As is the norm, the recitation for record was done in the presence of two witnesses and two independent PE masters on December 15. The recall of numbers should be continuous, with a gap for not more than fifteen seconds. “Guru Shankar attempted this record title using a visualisation technique,” confirms the Guinness World Records in its website under the head ‘Most decimal places of Euler’s number memorised’. “I attempted this record to prove the inherent capacity of the human brain,” says the 28-year-old life coach. He dedicated the record to his father Thummala Sivaiah, who passed away in March this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-man-bags-place-in-guinness-world-records/article38052839.ece
28 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traditional start to music festival||It was a ceremonial start to the music festival-cum-awareness programme organised under the joint aegis of Sri Venkateswara College of Music and Dance and Sri Venkateswara Nadaswara, Delhi School on Monday. Titled ‘Sunada Swararaga Sudha – Vaggeyakara Kruti Vaibhavam’, the five-day event is conducted as part of ‘Dhanurmasam’, to spread devotional fervour. The concert sought to explain the Ranjani Raga series, with nine Kritis, for the benefit of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traditional-start-to-music-festival/article38052837.ece
28 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) adopts resolution urging people to ‘unite in fight for SCS’||The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) has adopted a resolution urging people to gear up for a united struggle to achieve Special Category Status (SCS) for Andhra Pradesh and demand the implementation of assurances made in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014. The party also demanded that the State government continue having the capital city in Amaravati and establish the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Kurnool. The CPI(M) has resolved to launch agitations in the State in this regard. The CPI(M) A.P. 26th State conference began on Monday. On the occasion, CPI(M) Central Committee member V. Srinivasa Rao, who moved the resolution, said it was time to fight the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging that it had betrayed the people of the State on several counts. “There has been no development and progress in the residuary State since bifurcation of the State. The Central government has shrugged off its responsibilities, such as paying compensation to the families displaced by the Polavaram project, and providing rehabilitation and relief measures,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged. Addressing the conference, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury stated that ‘dethroning the Modi government at the Centre’ was the party’s main objective. “The BJP, being at the helm of affairs, is implementing the RSS agenda of a Hindu Rashtra. They are undermining the Constitution and are paving the way for the replacement of a Secular Democratic Republic with a fascist Hindu Rashtra. They are destroying the foundations of the Constitution and the characteristics of the Indian Republic Party cadres need to strengthen the people’s agitations against the Central government and its policies,” Mr. Yechury said. ‘People burdened with taxes’ The CPI(M) leaders also condemned the rise in taxes. “The ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) is not allocating adequate funds to its own flagship programmes and schemes. On the other hand, it is trying to create an impression that the Navaratna schemes are a one-stop solution to all problems. The State government is burdening the people with taxes. No steps are being taken to control the exorbitant prices of essential commodities,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged. “On the other hand, the BJP is busy trying to divide people on communal lines. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and the YSRCP are vying with each other to extend support to the BJP. The TDP and Jana Sena Party are requested to distance themselves from the communal agenda of the BJP. The ruling YSRCP is requested to lead an all-party delegation to Delhi to mount pressure on the Centre to achieve the rights of the State,” the party said in the resolution. CPI(M) politburo members Prakash Karat, B.V. Raghavulu, CPI Andhra Pradesh State secretary P. Madhu, CPI(M) Telangana State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram, and CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna were present||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-adopts-resolution-urging-people-to-unite-in-fight-for-scs/article38052854.ece
28 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 years on, Ayesha Meera’s parents still wait for justice||Justice delayed is justice denied. In Ayesha Meera’s alleged rape and murder case, justice has been reportedly delayed for the last 14 years. The B. Pharmacy student was brutally murdered by some miscreants after she was allegedly sexually assaulted in her hostel room at Ibrahimpatnam, on Vijayawada outskirts, on the intervening night of December 26 and 27, 2007. The case took may twists and the victim’s family members staged protests along with people’s organisations several times demanding that the culprits be brought to book. The police recovered the body in the washroom of Sri Durga Ladies hostel in the early hours on December 27, 2007. They collected the scientific evidence and recorded the statements of the witnesses at the spot. “Justice was done in Nirbhaya case occurred in 2012, in Delhi, and in Disha case reported in Hyderabad in 2019. But, why is justice delayed in Ayesha case,” questioned Shamshad Begum, mother of the victim. The sensational case shook the united Andhra Pradesh, and the issue rocked the Assembly. The High Court pulled up the police for the poor investigation and monitored the probe. Still there is no development in the investigation, Ayesha’s parents said. The Central Bureau of Investigation, which took up the investigation of the case in 2018, registered a case against some court staff for destroying the evidence. CBI officials visited the spot, reconstructed the scene, and filed a petition the court seeking permission to allow narco analysis tests on the hostel warden and other inmates of the hostel, who stayed along with Ayesha in the hostel then. However, the court dismissed the petition. “We cooperated for the CBI investigation. Though it is against our sentiment, we convinced the religions heads to exhume the body after 12 years of the incident. But, the mortal remains of our daughter were not returned to us and we don’t know why the investigation in the case was stopped,” Ayesha’s father Iqbal Pasha. “Even after 14 years, justice is not rendered to us and we are living in constant fear,” Ayesha’s parents bemoaned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-years-on-ayesha-meeras-parents-still-wait-for-justice/article38052341.ece
28 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||App to help students comprehend news articles||Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), in collaboration with Reading Right, an Ed-Tech start-up, has launched ‘Smarticles’, noetic (Intelligence-driven) news articles taken from newspapers/periodicals/journals written by experts. The app explains the articles in a simple manner using technology that brings into play text, image, video and audio modes. Reading Right is providing this app free of cost for one year to students of Andhra Pradesh and it can be downloaded from the Google Play Store (Android version) and the App Store (iOS version) while a web version is available at web.readingright.in. “Many students find it difficult to comprehend newspaper jargon and therefore lose interest in reading them. We have employed a technology that explains the articles in a lucid way using text, image, video and audio modes,” says K. Hemachandra Reddy, chairman of APSCHE. Elaborating further, he says that to understand a particular word or a sentence, the reader has to click on it to get their meaning. “They are simple enough for even a 10-year-old student to understand,” says Prof. Reddy. Referring to the growing demand for well-rounded personalities in a highly competitive global market today, the APSCHE chairman says that the app brings to its readers news articles taken from publications that are neither commercial nor sensational and leaves no piece of information incomprehensible for them. For all ages Anyone from the age of 10 should opt for ‘Smarticles’ that would be of immense help in shaping their careers, he says. Using Smarticles does not need any guidebook, as the app is intrinsic. The analysis of every ‘Smarticle’ is crafted in a way that it gets the thinking ball rolling from the word go, says Prof. Reddy. Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar says the app would help students read and understand all kinds of articles and can be a game-changer in charting out a career. Reading Right Founder CEO Shrishti Jain says the app would enable readers to think, analyse and critically explore the articles they read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/app-to-help-students-comprehend-news-articles/article38052339.ece
28 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pet dog dies after killing snake||A pet dog, Kaizar, who fought with a cobra, died after killing the reptile at a guest house at Nandigama. The canine, which was guarding the guest house, prevented the cobra from entering the premises. The snake and the dog fought for some time and the cobra was killed. Kaizar, which suffered snake bite too died later. Dog owner, N. Murali, broke down on seeing his pet. He performed the final rites of his loving dog in a traditional manner on Sunday. Kaizar was guarding the guest house for the last five years with another dog, Mr. Murali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pet-dog-dies-after-killing-snake/article38052340.ece
28 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of star-rated appliances through Discoms on the cards||To make star-rated home appliances affordable by the public and in turn increase energy efficiency in households, a model of supplying such appliances for low prices with easy payment methods is being planned in the State. The Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) is currently working on the feasibility and a financial model for such an initiative by the State government’s power distribution companies (Discoms). APSECM Chief Executive Officer and TRANSCO Executive Director A. Chandrasekhar Reddy said that the A.P. Electricity Regulation Commission (APERC) has recently directed distribution companies to examine the model of selling star-rated appliances that largely contribute to energy conservation in collaboration with manufacturers to the public so that they become more affordable and are widely used. “APSECM, in coordination with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), is preparing a financial model and it will soon be submitted to the government and the APERC,” Mr. Reddy said. “The use of star-rated appliances in households contributes to energy conservation, and to promote star-rated appliances that consume lesser power, the issue of higher costs should be addressed,” Mr. Reddy added. He said that as per the model being prepared, Discoms would ensure the availability of star-rated appliances at lower costs from the manufacturers and the consumers would pay for the appliances in instalments along with their power bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sale-of-star-rated-appliances-through-discoms-on-the-cards/article38052850.ece
28 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh opposes hike in GST on textile products||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary Nara Lokesh has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take up the issue of the hike in Goods and Service Tax (GST) on handicrafts and textiles with the Centre at the earliest, claiming that the hike will deal a fatal blow to the sector in the State. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister on Monday, Mr. Lokesh said that the increased GST rate would prove to be too big a burden on the weavers and artisans. ‘Profit margins low’ “Unless the Andhra Pradesh government provides subsidy, these sections would slip into financial crisis. The GST rate on textile and handloom products is set to rise from 5% to 12% from January 1, 2022. Most of the textile-making units, especially in the handloom sector, are small. Their profit margins are low, and range between 2% and 5% on average. A higher tax burden will put their lives in disarray. Production and marketing costs for such labour-intensive products will become loss-making,” he said. Mr. Lokesh wrote to the Chief Minister that there have already been demands made from other States, especially Telangana and Tamil Nadu, to waive the tax altogether or keep it unchanged at 5%. “I request the Andhra Pradesh government to urgently consider and implement the required measures to help our weavers and textile-makers get back on their feet,” the TDP general secretary added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-opposes-hike-in-gst-on-textile-products/article38052856.ece
28 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh lauds Sathiya for winning gold medal||Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh has lauded Sathiya, a native of Mangalagiri, for winning gold in the international powerlifting competitions held at Istanbul in Turkey. In a statement on Monday, Mr. Lokesh said Sathiya made the State proud by achieving a memorable feat in a global event. Sathiya competed in the 57 kg category and lifted overall 395 kg which included 167.5 kg squat, 70 kg bench press and 157.5 kg deadlift. She won the overall gold medal and brought global recognition for Mangalagiri. “The Mangalagiri girl brought laurels by winning gold in the Asian Powerlifting Championships,” said Mr. Lokesh Assuring all support, Mr. Lokesh praised Sathiya's father and coach Sandhani for playing a key role in inspiring her to win the gold medal. Necessary help would be provided to Sathiya who had been proving her mettle in the international competitions, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-lauds-sathiya-for-winning-gold-medal/article38052343.ece
28 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagananna Palavelluva’ to be launched in Nuzvid||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the 'Jagananna Palavelluva' programme in Krishna district on Wednesday, said Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development, and Fisheries S. Appalaraju. Speaking to reporters after a review meeting with officials on Monday, Dr. Appalaraju said the programme, which was started in Kadapa, Prakasam, Guntur and West Godavari districts, was successful and by the end of 2022 it would be launched in all the districts of the State. He said the programme would be inaugurated in the 100 villages of nine mandals in the Nuzvid cluster in the Krishna district. He said so far 15,000 farmers had registered, and in the trial run being conducted for the past two weeks, over 3,800 farmers were supplying milk at 7,500 litres per day. In the first phase in Krishna district, the programme would be launched in 303 villages of 26 mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-palavelluva-to-be-launched-in-nuzvid/article38052911.ece
28 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop on waste to compost held||Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi said the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation will always extend support to organisations and residential welfare associations practising various solid waste management methods. Ms. Bhagya Lakshmi inaugurated the workshop on waste to compost by Fun Times Club and Rose Society of Andhra Pradesh held at Fun Times Club on Monday. Corporator D. Aparna said that VMC should set up vermi composting plants in all the municipal wards. Fun Times Club committee vice-president S. Swarupa Rani was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-on-waste-to-compost-held/article38052342.ece
28 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees zero COVID deaths in last 24 hours||The State reported 54 COVID-19 infections and zero deaths in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. Only 17,940 samples were tested during the past day and their test positivity rate was 0.30%. The cumulative tally increased to 20,76,546, while the toll remained at 14,490. The number of active cases came down to 1,099 with 121 patients recovering in the past day. Nearly 70% (759) of the active cases were in five districts of Chittoor (248), Krishna (139), East Godavari (137), Visakhapatnam (121) and Nellore (114). Chittoor district reported 19 COVID-19 infections in the past day. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (13), Guntur (7), East Godavari (5), Nellore (5), Krishna (4) and Kurnool (1). West Godavari, Srikakulam, Kadapa, Prakasam, Anantapur and Vizianagaram reported no infections in the past day. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,95,065), Chittoor (2,48,704), West Godavari (1,80,013), Guntur (1,79,270), Visakhapatnam (1,58,832), Anantapur (1,58,228), Nellore (1,47,087), Prakasam (1,38,792), Kurnool (1,24,221), Srikakulam (1,23,682), Krishna (1,20,666), Kadapa (1,15,979) and Vizianagaram (83,112).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-zero-covid-deaths-in-last-24-hours/article38052849.ece
28 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unification of Left parties discussed||The issue of ‘unification of Communist parties’ cropped up at the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) Andhra Pradesh 26th State conference held on Monday. Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna, who took part in the conference, recalled that 16 years ago, CPI(M) State secretary of combined Andhra Pradesh B.V. Raghavulu batted for Left unification. “However, there were no concrete moves for the unification of the Communist parties. Many of the leaders in the CPI and CPI(M) are aging. Everyone feels that the merger of the Communist parties is the need of the hour,” he said. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said there was no time frame for the merger. “There is no time frame for the merger. But we are trying for it to happen at the earliest. It may take two months or six months. But it will definitely happen and that is our determination,” he said. The CPI leaders said they were amenable to the idea of unification of the Communist parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unification-of-left-parties-discussed/article38052857.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police step up vigil to prevent witchcraft-related violence||The district police have stepped up vigil to deal against witchcraft-related violence in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district. Following instructions from Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, the rural police organised a rally at Araku town and have also initiated steps to conduct awareness programmes to educate people urging them not to believe in superstitions, including blackmagic and witchcraft. Three weeks ago, a fight between two families over allegations of witchcraft and blackmagic in an interior village, Bhagmaravalasa in Ananthagiri mandal, had led to to violence and disrupted peace in the tribal hamlet. Three persons, including a man and his son, were brutally killed, while a few more were severely injured. The Araku police have arrested 13 persons in the case. “Believing in blackmagic, some tribals are attacking others. Law and order situation is being disturbed in villages and some families are losing their breadwinners. We have also appealed to mahila police, sarpanches, village heads and community leaders to create awareness against such beliefs,” said Araku Circle Inspector G.D. Babu during the rally. According to some officials from the Police and Health Department, health issues are major reasons behind the witchcraft-related violence in 11 mandals of the Agency. When some health issues crop up in villages, tribals tend to believe in superstitions, they said. They cite the issue of a series of deaths of infants at Rudakota village for the last two years. While many locals believed that they occurred due to some paranormal activity, a survey by a team of doctors from King George Hospital (KGH) ascertained that lack of proper awareness on handling newborn babies led to the deaths. Tribals warned “Even still now, a number of tribals depend on quacks (‘Natu Vaidyam’) and special prayers which are performed by some people which claim themselves to have some magical powers. When the medical facilities improve even in the interior villages, such superstitious beliefs and attacks related to them will be completely mitigated,” said a senior medical officer from Paderu. The district police are also appealing to people to approach medical staff in case of health issues, but not to people who claim themselves having special powers. Police also warned tribals not to spread rumours on blackmagic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-police-step-up-vigil-to-prevent-witchcraft-related-violence-in-agency-areas/article38052349.ece
28 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Almost 3 years on, South Coast Railway yet to be flagged off||It has been almost three years since the announcement was made on the formation of a new railway zone called South Coast Railway (SCoR) with Visakhapatnam as its headquarters. However, the new zone is yet to take final shape as a formal notification is yet to be issued, with the delay causing frustration among railway officials and the public. The recent statement made by Union Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw in Parliament that there were no proposals for any new zones, and the subsequent furore which led him to hastily retract his remarks, was unwarranted, feel many. The new zone, with its headquarters based in Visakhapatnam, was announced by the then Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on February 27, 2019. The statement of Mr. Vaishnaw that no time frame can be fixed for operationalisation of the new zone, had thus stirred a hornet’s nest. While the Opposition raised doubts about the intentions of the Centre in the operationalisation of SCoR, official sources say the fears are unfounded as SCoR has already been declared and funds allocated to it in the ‘pink book’. The Detailed Project Report (DPR) was prepared by S.S. Srinivas, the first Officer on Special Duty (OSD) of SCoR, which was submitted to the Railway Board by his successor over two years ago. At the time of announcement of the zone, Mr. Goyal had declared that a decision was taken to bifurcate Waltair Division and merge one part with the proposed new railway division headquartered at Rayagada in Odisha, and the residual part of Waltair Division with Vijayawada Division. This is said to be one of reasons for delay in operationalisation of the zone. Employees of Waltair Division as also the locals advocate continuation of the existing Divisional Headquarters also in Visakhapatnam by retaining the residual part. The employees apprehend that they will lose their seniority on moving to Vijayawada Division. Railway assets like coach depot, wagon repair shop, Diesel Loco Shed (DLS) and Electric Loco Shed (ELS), are all located in Visakhapatnam and the staff would continue to work in Visakhapatnam. Employees and officers of some departments like Accounts would be moved to Vijayawada, if the Divisional Headquarters is shifted. An officer at the rank of Additional DRM would have to be anyway posted in Visakhapatnam for quick decision-making and coordination with local industries and allotment of wagons for movement of goods. Visakhapatnam is among the top revenue-earning divisions in the country as it is a wagon generation point due to the presence of a large number of major industries in the city. In fact, the revenue of the division is much more than some of the existing zones, according to sources. The first OSD had suggested, in the DPR, construction of the zonal headquarters office in an extent of 20 acres of land at an estimated cost of Rs. 111.02 crore on the railway land available between the existing DRM’s Office and the Officers Rest House in Wireless Colony, in view of its proximity to the railway station. He had also suggested retention of the residual part of Waltair Division and continuation of the Divisional Headquarters in the DPR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-years-on-work-on-south-coast-railway-yet-to-be-flagged-off/article38052858.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP activists stage protest against OTS scheme||A large number of workers and leaders of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) staged a protest before the Collector’s Office against the State government, demanding withdrawal of One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme immediately and issuance of registration certificates for houses to the poor for free. The TDP leaders reached the Collectorate in a rally and staged a dharna on Monday. They raised slogans against the State government and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mild tension prevailed as the police reached the spot and tried to disperse them. Later, Former MLA and TDP Parliamentary Constituency president, Palla Srinivasa Rao, Former MLA Bandaru Satyanaraya Murthy, Visakhapatnam (East) MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and others submitted a representation to District Collector A. Mallikarjuna during the ‘Spandana’ programme. The TDP leaders said that while the Ministers assert that OTS is voluntary, the Gram Sachivalayam staff and volunteers have been creating panic among people by demanding Rs. 10,000 in villages, Rs. 15,000 in municipalities and Rs. 20,000 in municipal corporations under the OTS scheme. The State government has also been harassing the poor, claiming that they would have to forego pension and other government welfare schemes, if they do not pay money for the OTS scheme. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the OTS scheme was completely unlawful and the government planned to extort money from the poor. He said that already people were overburdened due to the COVID-19 pandemic and increase in rates of essentials, but the State government instead of helping them, was trying to extract money from them. Former MLA Bandaru Satyanarayana appealed to people not to pay any money towards OTS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-activists-stage-protest-against-ots-scheme/article38052915.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need to conduct caste-based census, says Andhra University official||The Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy (CSSEIP), Andhra University, organised a one-day national webinar on ‘Caste Census among BC Communities in India: Strategies for Inclusive Development’ here on Monday. Officer on Special Duty, AU, V. Krishna Mohan, who inaugurated the event, stated that BCs were lagging behind socially, economically and politically, and enumeration of caste-based census would help in designing appropriate policies for their development. He emphasised the need for undertaking such enumeration based on the population size and by region. In his virtual address, V. Subrahmanyam, former Member, BC Commission, and Emeritus Professor, Department of Anthropology, Andhra University, said that caste was a unique feature of the Indian social system and each individual would be identified with a particular caste in which he/she was born. Director, Centre for Study of Discrimination and Exclusion, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, Y.Chinna Rao, gave a historical account of castes as they existed in India during the early nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Prof. Chinna Rao said caste-based census among BCs was the need of the hour as it would bring out the social, economic and educational indicators in comparison with upper castes. CSSEIP Director P. Subba Rao underlined the need to identify the extent of social and economic backwardness among the BC communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-conduct-caste-based-census-says-andhra-university-official/article38052920.ece
28 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP will win next Assembly elections, says Atchannaidu||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu on Monday said he was confident of former Chief Minister and TDP supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu returning to power in the State in the next Assembly elections. The TDP leader urged people to ‘not repeat their mistake of electing the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) in the last elections, which resulted in the State falling into a debt trap. Mr. Atchannaidu said that only able leaders like Mr. Naidu would be able to put the State back on the path of progress. “A.P. has to get Rs. 6,500 crore from Telangana towards the power sector as part of the assurance given at the time of the bifurcation of the State. The credit for introduction of reforms in the power sector goes to Mr. Naidu. During the tenure of Mr. Naidu as Chief Minister, there was a power deficit of 22.5 trillion units. He had pumped in Rs. 36,000 crore and procured 10,000 MW of power,” Mr. Atchannaidu said. He alleged that the government was planning to close the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant though the power generation in the State has declined. Uninterrupted power was being supplied during the TDP rule, he claimed. “We felt workers stood with us as their services were regularised and we gave them DA and HRA. They (workers) were won over by the false promises made by Mr. Jagan during his padayatra. The Chief Minister’s statement that their salaries would go down if PRC is given, is ridiculous,” Mr. Atchannaidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-will-win-next-assembly-elections-says-atchannaidu/article38052860.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Respiratory failure probable reason for infant deaths at Rudakota: doctors’ team||A team of doctors from King George Hospital (KGH), headed by Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) P.V. Sudhakar, had visited P Rudakota village of Pedabayulu mandal where around 14 infants died under mysterious circumstances in Visakhapatnam Agency during the last two years. The team, which visited the village last week, spoke to the locals, observed water, soil and other parameters to ascertain the cause. During preliminary assesment, doctors found that respiratory failure, probably due to lack of awareness on handling newborn babies, had led to the deaths. Further study is on. The village, located around 17 km from Pedabayulu mandal headquarters, houses about 150 families consisting of about 600 people. Dr. Sudhakar said that all the babies, who died were aged between one month and three months. “After breastfeeding, if a baby is made to sleep immediately, the milk enters the lungs, resulting in choking. The baby should not be laid on the bed till he/she releases a burp, so that the food gets digested,” he said. Dr. Sudhakar said that there was no problem with the water, soil and air in the village. ‘Create awareness’ The doctors’ team have also submitted a recommendation to District Collector A. Mallikarjuna to create awareness on burping and steps to be taken while breastfeeding a newborn at the hospitals, where the pregnant women come for deliveries. The team suggested conducting a drill to create awareness. They have also asked the administration to keep an ambulance at the village, so that any such case could be brought to the hospital immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/respiratory-failure-probable-reason-for-infant-deaths-at-rudakota-doctors-team/article38052848.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Araku passenger train to run with 3 Vistadome coaches till January 31||Train no. 18551/52 Visakhapatnam-Araku-Visakhapatnam passenger will continue to run with three Vistadome coaches, in both the directions, till January 31, 2022, in view of the tremendous demand from tourists. Earlier, the augmentation of the third Vistadome coach was announced till December 31. Additional coach Similarly, one additional sleeper coach each will be attached to following trains to cater to the holiday rush. They are: 20807 Visakhapatnam-Amritsar Hirakud Express, leaving Visakhapatnam on December 31, train no. 20808 Amritsar-Visakhapatnam Hirakud Express, leaving Amritsar on January 2, 18503 Visakhapatnam- Gandhidham Express, leaving Visakhapatnam on December 30, 18504 Gandhidham-Visakhapatnam Express, leaving Gandhidham on December 31, 18567 Visakhapatnam-Kollam Express, leaving Visakhapatnam on December 30 and train no. 18568 Kollam-Visakhapatnam Express, leaving Kollam on December 31||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/araku-passenger-train-to-run-with-3-vistadome-coaches-till-january-31/article38052347.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Family of police constable receives financial aid||Superintendent of Police B, Krishna Rao on Monday handed over a cheque of about Rs. 3 lakh to the family members of A.V.S. Satyanarayana, a police constable of Cheedikada Police Station, who died due to COVID-19 recently in Visakhapatnam district. He gave away the cheque at a programme organised virtually by Director General of Police (DGP), Gautam Sawang, along with the management of the Mankind Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/family-of-police-constable-receives-financial-aid/article38052919.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple killed in accident||A couple died when the two-wheeler on which they were travelling was hit by a lorry on NH-16, near Thatichetlapalem, here on Monday. The deceased were identified as Nagesh and Swarna, aged around 45 years, from Gullepalle. According to Inspector of Kancharapalem Police Station Krishna Rao, the accident occurred when the couple were heading towards the city from NAD Kotha Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-killed-in-accident/article38052878.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 new COVID cases reported in Vizag||The district recorded 13 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,340. As many as 14 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the virus, have recovered during the same time. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,58,112. The death toll stands at 1,107 as no COVID-19 death was reported in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stands at 121.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-new-covid-cases-reported-in-vizag/article38052879.ece
28 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special train from Vizag to Araku from Dec. 30||Special trains will be run by the East Coast Railway between Visakhapatnam-Araku-Visakhapatnam from December 30 to January 16 in view of the demand from tourists. Train no. 08525 Visakhapatnam- Araku special train, will leave Visakhapatnam at 7 a.m. with effect from December 30, 2021 to January 16, 2022, to reach Araku at 11.30 a.m. In the return direction, train no. 08526 Araku-Visakhapatnam special train, will leave Araku at 2 p.m. daily with effect from December 30 to January 16, 2022, to reach Visakhapatnam at 5.30 p.m., according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. This pair of trains will have eight Second Class coaches and two Second Class-cum-Luggage coaches (all reserved) in its composition. This pair of trains will have stoppages at Simhachalam, Kottavalasa, Shrungavarapukota and Borraguhalu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-train-to-araku-from-dec-30/article38052847.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||LPG tanker overturns at Parawada Pharmacity||An LPG tanker overturned at Parawada Pharmacity here on Monday. Tension prevailed as rumours spread that there was a leakage of some amount of gas creating panic among people. Inspector of Parawada Police Station Eswara Rao said that the 17 tonne-gas tanker had arrived from HPCL to the Pharmacity at around 5.30 a.m. While parking the vehicle, it overturned and fell on its side, he said. Fire Department officials along with fire tenders, a technical team of the gas company and police officials reached the spot and have initiated steps to prevent leakage of gas and to get the vehicle to its original position. “There was no gas leak. Some foam came out after it overturned. However it was controlled by the team,” Mr. Eswara Rao said. Meanwhile, many people started leaving the area as a precautionary measure suspecting gas leak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lpg-tanker-overturns-at-parawada-pharmacity/article38052917.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM Cup Table Tennis Championship from tomorrow||East Coast Railway Sports Association (E Co RSA), Waltair, will conduct the DRM Cup Table Tennis Championship at the Railway Indoor Sports Enclave (RISE) here on December 29 and 30. A poster of this tournament was released by Divisional Railway Manager and president of ECoRSA Anup Satpathy . Interested players can submit entries up to 6 p.m. on December 28 to K. Kiran, secretary, or R. Srinivasa Reddy, General Secretary, at RISE, Railway Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drm-cup-table-tennis-tourney-from-tomorrow/article38052846.ece
28 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training programme on motivation begins||A weeklong online Short-Term Training Programme (STTP) on ‘Mastering Self-Motivation and Attitude-Art of Living’ sponsored by All India Council for Technical Education was inaugurated by Vice-Chairman of AP State Council of Higher Education K. Ramamohan Rao at Andhra University on Monday. Prof. Ramamohan Rao said that self-motivated persons could achieve their goals with ease. Programme coordinator K. Rama Sudha, P. Mallikarjuna Rao and K. Padma spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-programme-on-motivation-begins/article38052918.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||What’s the hurry?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/whats-the-hurry/article38052841.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trek of faith||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trek-of-faith/article38052345.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health for all||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-for-all/article38052922.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB, IICT collaborating on indigenous mRNA vaccine||The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) is working in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology among others for developing an indigenous mRNA vaccine. “It is going to take a while with rigorous development and testing before it can be brought out in the form of an injectable vaccine,” says CCMB director Vinay Kumar Nandicoori. “This had been started by my predecessor Rakesh Mishra and we are continuing the process — doing analysis, testing out multiple steps in the last few months like making the RNA, and packaging into lipid particles etc,” he explains. The director points out that although the mRNA vaccine-making is not novel because two mRNA vaccines — Moderna and Pfizer — are already in use across the world to tackle the COVID pandemic, it nevertheless requires a lot of work as the process has not been obtained from any company. Genome sequencing The premier scientific institute has been at the forefront right from the time the pandemic broke out in March 2020, working on validation of diagnostic kits, developing new technologies, testing new drugs, training personnel and for genome sequencing. “We have worked heavily on genome sequencing and approximately 12% of all the sequences across the country have come out of CCMB,” he says. With generous funding from the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) and others like Rockefeller and SBI Foundations, the institute has been able to utilise next-generation sequencing platform ‘Novaseq’ where 700-800 sequences can be done at a time. Through another method called ‘Nanopore’, 50 sequences can be done in one go. “In the recent past, we have got most samples from Andhra Pradesh. Those are travellers samples and genome sequencing is being done to identify Omicron cases among them,” Mr Nandicoori says. The Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics handles the Telangana and Hyderabad airport samples. Apart from working on improved diagnostics for the detection of new variants, testing new drugs and vaccinations, surveillance, genome sequencing, testing in air and sewage sampling may be done consistently to get an idea about the spread of the infection and emergence of new variants. “Genome sequencing turnaround is about three to four days, so by testing and genome sequencing of COVID-positive samples, we can get information regarding the spread of new variants. Once we test for a certain number of samples, we will know the Omicron percentage in the general population,” he adds. He remarks that the “whole world should get vaccinated” and maximum possible vaccine coverage should be ensured “before a more virulent variant than Omicron comes from other parts of the world, challenging our immune system”.  By testing and genome sequencing of COVID-positive samples, we can get information regarding the spread of new variants. Vinay Kumar Nandicoori, Director, CCMB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-iict-collaborating-on-indigenous-mrna-vaccine/article38052639.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bandi warns of laying siege to Assembly||State BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar warned that if the TRS government does not issue jobs notification by next month, the party in association with the unemployed youth associations, will lay siege to the Legislative Assembly and will not let it run. “Our three MLAs inside will root for the cause of the unemployed youth,” he said. Neither the unemployed youth, waiting in vain for the job notifications nor the employees, who played a stellar role in separate Telangana agitation, and now under duress due to the ‘whimsical’ zonal transfer policy of the government, are happy, he claimed and wondered if sacrifices made for statehood had any meaning when there are no jobs for the youth. The BJP leader was addressing partymen after his one-day protest fast demanding the government to immediately issue jobs notifications and fill up the existing vacancies. “There has been no Group 1 notification for the last seven years and not a single vacancy was filled in last three years. Why is Mr. Rao so angry with the youth? Where are the employee unions? Why are they so silent when every employee family is suffering,” he asked. Earlier in the day, police prevented many leaders from converging at the venue by putting them under house arrest. The party was also forced to shift the venue from Dharna Chowk at Indira Park as the police refused permission citing COVID control rules issued by the government. Top leaders from general secretary Tarun Chugh, K. Laxman, Vijayashanti, E. Rajender, P. Sudhakar Reddy, NVSS Prabhakar and several others sat with Mr. Sanjay Kumar expressing their solidarity. Mr. Chugh said except for family and the kith and kin of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, none had benefitted during the TRS rule. “Our party understands the frustrations of the youth and other sections in Telangana with this government. We are ready for any kind of debate with Mr. Rao in any forum and any place about his rule vis-a-vis with that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said. “Except for his family no one else benefitted in ‘Bangaru’ Telangana. Hundreds of contract employees have been thrown out even as not a single step has been taken to fill the more than one lakh vacancies. People of Telangana are no longer ready to tolerate this. We will force the government to fulfil its forgotten promises, including stipend to the unemployed youth,” said the general secretary. Former MP Vijayshanti criticised the government for trying to put curbs on those wishing to participate in the protest. She advised the youth to take up the struggle against the current government for their employment right and not resort to extreme acts. “We need the same commitment and courage as was shown during the separate TS agitation,” she said and urged the employees to consider taking up lunch hour demonstration in support. Mr. Rajender accused the Chief Minister of being a ‘coward’ and spreading canards about the Central government over paddy procurement stating that the latter will pay a heavy price soon. Secretary Premender Reddy presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-warns-of-laying-siege-to-assembly/article38052674.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GMRVF gets NTI status for agri-entrepreneurship course||GMR Varalakshmi Foundation (GMRVF), the corporate social responsibility arm of GMR Group, has been recognised as a Nodal Training Institution (NTI) under the Agri Clinic and Agri Business Centre (AC & ABC) scheme of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare on Monday. The scheme is managed by National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) here, and graduates of the agri and allied streams will be trained in entrepreneurship through a course conducted by the NTI. The GMRVF centres at Shamshabad (airport campus) and Rajam (Srikakulam district, Andhra Pradesh) have been selected as NTIs for conducting the course under AC & ABC scheme, informed an official spokesperson. For the course, the trainee intake per batch will be 35. Unemployed agricultural graduates, agricultural diploma holders, students who have completed their intermediate in agriculture and biological science, graduates with PG in agri-related courses with at least one-year gap after education can apply. Selected trainees will undergo a 45-day training at the NTIs that would include specific technical skills, entrepreneurial and management skills, and extension strategies for agri-entrepreneurship. Training will focus on agriculture and agri-allied activities like horticulture, animal husbandry, dairying, fisheries, beekeeping, mushroom cultivation, sericulture, forestry, poultry and farming, to name a few. The NTIs will also work with MANAGE and other nodal technical/financial institutions for setting up business units by trained candidates. GMRVF will provide free training as well as boarding and lodging to all selected candidates during the training period. A separate hostel facility will be available for women candidates. It will also guide trainees in preparing detailed project reports for obtaining bank loans and government subsidy. The first batch of this course is scheduled to start from January 1, 2022. “Skill development and entrepreneurship will ensure employment growth among the youth as entrepreneurship in agriculture is limited in our country,” said GMRVF CSR director Avanish Kumar, the release added.  The first batch of the course, with 35 trainees, is scheduled to start from January 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gmrvf-gets-nti-status-for-agri-entrepreneurship-course/article38052640.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three-year-old undergoes surgery for ‘laughing epilepsy’||Doctors at Kamineni Hospitals on Monday claimed to have performed a rare surgery on a three-year-old girl, who was taken to the hospital at L.B. Nagar here by her parents with a developmental disorder — unusual episodes of laughing epilepsy, medically known as ‘Gelastic’ seizures. Gelastic seizures are usually present in childhood, even in the newborn period, and are manifested by frequent attacks of inappropriate laughter resulting from seizure activity. Studies show that Gelastic seizure is very rare, and only one in every 2,00,000 children suffers from this abnormality. Six months ago, the child used to get seizures once a month and it lasted 10 seconds, but later, the frequency increased to 5-6 times a day, lasting one minute. The child also developed new-onset squint in the left eye. Her parents took her to many hospitals but a proper treatment eluded her. A multi-disciplinary team of doctors at the Kamineni Hospitals evaluated her case and a MRI brain scan showed large lesion extending from hypothalamus with compression on major vessels and nerves especially to vision and extra ocular movements. After counselling the parents, the child was operated on in a minimally invasive manner without disturbing major structures, especially the nerves responsible for vision, extra ocular movements and vessels.  Fewer seizures Post-surgery, the frequency of seizures has significantly come down, said consultant neurosurgeon Ramesh. “A common cause of Gelastic epilepsy is a small tumour in the hypothalamus. Majority of such tumours are benign. Early identification, proper diagnosis and management can help children have better outcomes,” he added.  A common cause of Gelastic epilepsy is a small tumour in the hypothalamus (an important part of the brain). Majority of such tumours are benign. Ramesh, Consultant neurosurgeon, Kamineni Hopsitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-year-old-undergoes-surgery-for-laughing-epilepsy/article38052641.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS third in health index: report||The State has been adjudged third in the health index, ‘Healthy States, Progressive India’, among the larger States in the country. Telangana, according to the report released by the NITI Aayog, performed well both in terms of overall performance as well as incremental performance and secured third position in both. Kerala emerged best performer in terms of overall performance for the fourth consecutive round of evaluation. The report indicated that the southern states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana were among the best performers in terms of overall performance. State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar said the strategies implemented in a planned way by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao ensured that the State was among the top performers. Steps would be taken to ensure that Telangana leads the country in terms of health infrastructure and parameters in the coming days. The top three performers, he noted, were the southern States governed by regional parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-third-in-health-index-report/article38052643.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Haritha Haram trees: Shorn of life before they could serve||A large number of avenue trees on both sides of a road near Kokapet have been marked for removal within a few years of their plantation, without required permissions. The medium sized trees were planted merely three to four years ago as part of the Telangana government’s flagship mass afforestation programme Telangana Ku Haritha Haram, sources informed. A total 345 trees on both sides of the service road of the Outer Ring Road, between Kokapet toll plaza and the Movie Tower road, were spotted shorn of their foliage on Monday, in apparent attempt of translocation. The saplings were planted along the 1.6 kilometre road only a few years ago, under the Haritha Haram, but marked for removal now for widening of the road. However, the executing agency, Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) has neither notified nor sought permission from the Forest department before preparing the trees for the translocation. Officials from the Forest department have confirmed the same, and said they have stopped the work, and are preparing to issue notices to the urban development authority for the violation. “We are insisting that removal of any tree within the city should be approved by the department, irrespective of its age and size. The trees have been pruned without any consultation with the department, and we are taking action against the violation,” informed an official. This is not the first time saplings planted under Haritha Haram are removed to make way for developmental works. P.Uday Krishna from Vata Foundation notes that scores of trees planted under the programme were put to an axe in Kollur even before it came to anybody’s notice. There had been another similar instance on the National Highway 44 near Kamareddy where the saplings planted under Haritha Haram were uprooted within a short time. “There must have been several instances which have not come to our notice. With so many saplings of the Haritha Haram programme removed within no time, the programme appears to be mere jugglery of numbers,” says Mr.Uday Krishna. The trees pruned in the latest instance are mostly of the species Tabebuia argentea, a flowering variety which does not have a root ball conducive for translocation, hence little or no chance of survival, Mr.Uday Krishna says. There are also members of Alstonia species, which is a forest variety, officials from the Forest department said. When contacted, HMDA authorities, on the condition of anonymity, claimed that the pruning was done by the Engineering wing without their knowledge or consent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/haritha-haram-trees-shorn-of-life-before-they-could-serve/article38052663.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS lashes out at Cong., BJP||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders have lashed out at both Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for planning/staging protests on the issues of paddy procurement and unemployment in the State. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said both the “national” parties are raising the issue of paddy/rice procurement blaming the State government when the Centre and the Food Corporation India are the culprits. He ridiculed the Congress leaders plan to hold ‘Rythu Rachhabanda’ at Erravelli. The Minister reiterated that the State government is very clear on the issue ever since the Centre had started playing politics around the issue. The State government had been explaining farmers that the FCI had refused to buy paddy/parboiled rice produced from this rabi season. However, the farmers were given free hand to raise the crop for their own consumption or by having buy-back arrangement with rice millers, private traders or seed companies. It was also told to farmers that the State government would not open any paddy procurement centres for rabi season. Mr. Niranjan Reddy suggested both the Congress and BJP to fight for ensuring minimum support price for all crops and to increase the quantity only up to 25% of the crops procured under MSP operations. On the other hand, the BJP leaders who had provoked farmers to go for paddy itself in the beginning of this season had gone silent on it now and had picked up the issue of unemployment when nearly nine lakh vacancies remain unfilled in the Central government offices. Other leaders including Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, legislators M. Gopal, K. Venkatesh, Balka Suman, T. Bhanuprasad Rao, T. Mahesh Reddy, N. Bhagath and others alleged that both the Congress and BJP were enacting dramas on the issues of paddy procurement and unemployment. They sought to know from BJP as to how many Telangana youth were given Central government jobs during the last seven years and alleged that the credit of taking unemployment from 56.% to 9.4% should go only to the present BJP government. They also suggested the BJP leaders to get national project status to Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation scheme in case they have any say with the central leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-lashes-out-at-cong-bjp/article38052669.ece
28 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cyberabad sees manifold rise in cyber crimes||With technology becoming a silver lining during the COVID-19 pandemic as personal interactions and business moved online, cyber crime cases in Cyberabad police commissionerate increased drastically by 218 % this year when compared to 2020. While 1,212 cybercrime cases like OLX, KYC, job and loan frauds, were registered last year, the number went up by 3,854 cases this year. “Cases have increased as people also started reporting the offences through National Cybercrime Reporting Portal, its helpline number 155260 and various social media platforms,” Commissioner of Police M. Stephen Raveendra said on Monday. Presenting the crime statistics to the mediapersons at the annual press meet, he said that overall crime in his jurisdiction has seen an increase of 13.24% – 30,954 cases this year as against 27,336 cases in 2019 – during the period at review, while crime against women has seen a slim spike by 2%. Even the economic offences had an enormous increase of 39 % when compared to the lockdown hit 2020. He said that as many as 354 rape cases out of 356 were found to be ‘technical rapes’ in which the accused are known to the victims. “While 277 cases were on the false promise of marriage, only in two cases the accused were strangers,” Mr. Raveendra said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Vijay Kumar S.M. said that road accident deaths in the unit had seen a slight dip of 3% when compared to 2020. “A total of 784 deaths happened on various roads in Cyberabad last year and this year the number came down to 759,” he said, adding that most of the road accidents occur between 3 p.m. and 12 a.m. Mr. Kumar said that 36,512 drunk and drive cases were booked and 3,825 tippler drivers were convicted and 1,356 driving licences were sent for suspension. While 39 persons died in 33 road accidents on Nehru Outer Ring Road, the majority of the accidents took place due to ‘sleep-deprived drivers’. “Overall road accidents have increased by 18 % in the area. While the number of accidents was 3,380 in 2020, it increased to 3,989 this year,” he said. Of 434 deaths of two-wheelers and pillion riders, 356 deaths occurred as they were not wearing helmets. Earlier, Mr. Raveendra said that the average response time of Dial 100 calls in the Madhapur zone was 5.6 minutes, and it was 6.5 minutes and 6.2 minutes in Shamshabad and Balanagar, respectively.  When asked about the Biodiversity Park flyover accident which claimed the life of a woman in November 2019, the officer said a charge-sheet was already filed against the accused, Kalvakuntla Milan Rao, who is facing trial now. “We are sure that he will get a conviction in the case,” he said. Responding to the presence of an Additional DCP rank officer at Raidurgam police station when Sandhya Convention Managing Director Saranala Sridhar Rao was arrested in a cheating case, Mr. Raveendra said that he had already written a detailed report to Hyderabad Police Commissioner to take action against the former. “I am expecting that action will be taken against that officer,” he said and restrained himself from disclosing the name of the officer. So far 13 cases, including unnatural offences, was registered against Sridhar Rao in the last couple of months. “In two cases he was arrested and later approached High Court,” he said. He further said that they are conducting forensic auditors in the socialite Shilpa Chaudhary cheating cases to know if there are any hidden assets. When asked about comedian Munawar Faruqui show, which BJP requested police to stall, the Commissioner said “so far no one has approached us for permission to his show.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manifold-rise-in-cyber-crimes/article38052658.ece
28 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rumble strips a killjoy for motorists||“These days we’re having too many rumble strips on Hyderabad roads. I know these are for speed control, but these are laid at irregular height and literally damaging our vehicles. Appreciate if you can instruct the concerned department to smoothen these,” B. Pavan Kumar made this plea on a social media platform in May seeking intervention of Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao. Months down the line, every small lane and street has these rumble strips that are being taken in stride by motorists. “Rumble strips are meant to wake up drivers. I am on the Durgam Cheruvu flyover, the rumble strips are there every 10 metres. They take the fizz out of speeding which is a good thing,” says Dr. Surya Prakash Voleti, a spine surgeon. According to the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways rumblers are part of traffic calming techniques for arterial roads. The MORTH specifies where the rumblers should be laid — 10-20 m before zebra crossing for pedestrian crossing and at intersections. For residential areas, the traffic calming technique prescribed by the ministry includes, texture change, raised paint markings and paint markings. The rumble strips also have to be matched with signages. But on the city streets, there are no markings about the rumble strips catching the motorists unawares. However, the rumble strips have just multiplied in Hyderabad with double width and double height flavours that have been a teeth-chattering experience for motorists. In a 1.5 kilometre stretch of inner road between Gudimalkapur and Prince Hotel in Mehdipatnam there were 111 rumble strips. “Can someone help me understand the use of rumble strips in #Hyderabad roads. It’s more of inconvenience than use,” says Irfan Shaik. As the work on the Shaikpet flyover nears completion, there is a new set of rumblers on the road. Rumble strips provide both an audible warning (rumbling sound) and a physical vibration to alert drivers, beside alerting inattentive drivers. In foggy conditions, rumble strips help drivers stay on the road. “We are laying rumble strips to reduce the speed of vehicles. There are being laid where there are hospitals, shops and other places with movement of people,” said an official who is part of the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/motorists-slowed-down-on-their-tracks-see-rumble-strips-on-city-roads-as-a-killjoy/article38052661.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to raise Rs. 2,000 crore OMB ahead of crediting Rythu Bandhu||The State government has decided to raise Rs. 2,000 crore State Development Loan through auction of securities on the Reserve Bank of India’s e-Kuber platform on Tuesday. With the proposed Rs. 2,000 crore, the open market borrowings (OMBs) during the current quarter reached Rs. 10,000 crore as against the Rs. 6,295 crore projected in the tentative calendar of borrowings for the third quarter. The development comes in the light of the government’s decision to start crediting Rs. 5,000 an acre as investment support for over 15 lakh farmers under the Rythu Bandhu scheme from Tuesday. Amidst concerns expressed over the State’s financial situation, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced recently that the next instalment of funds will be credited from December 28. The government has credited the first instalment of Rythu Bandhu into the accounts of over 63 lakh farmers totaling to Rs. 7,508 crore in June. Crediting of the second instalment would take the total expenditure incurred through the scheme for the current fiscal to more than Rs. 15,000 crore. Given the financial situation in the State which was adversely affected by the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic since last two years, the State government has been depending on OMBs to ensure that farmers receive the amounts without fail. The government has earlier this month raised Rs. 3,500 crore OMBs in two tranches – Rs. 2,000 crore on December 21 and Rs. 1,500 crore on December 7 – taking the total borrowings during the month to Rs. 5,000 crore. The government has been crediting the amount to farmers’ accounts twice a year since past three years and with increase of the assistance from Rs. 4,000 an acre to Rs. 5,000 an acre has entailed additional expenditure on the State exchequer. The Finance Department officials are said to be under pressure to mobilise resources for the spree of welfare programmes being implemented in the State, including Rythu Bandhu and revised pay scales to employees that entails an additional Rs. 10,000 crore expenditure. Coupled with this is the Chief Minister’s announcement on implementation of Dalit Bandhu envisaging promotion of entrepreneurship among dalit families extending a one-time grant of Rs. 10 lakh each. The scheme was implemented on a pilot basis in Huzurabad constituency and the government recently released Rs. 250 crore for implementation of Dalit Bandhu on a saturation mode in four selected mandals with SC population. Following the instructions from the Chief Minister, officials are now said to be working out modalities for ensuring disbursal of grant under Dalit Bandhu to 100 members from each of the 119 assembly constituencies before the end of the current financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-to-raise-rs-2000-crore-omb-ahead-of-crediting-rythu-bandhu/article38052676.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Bank Staff College marks diamond jubilee||A function as part of the diamond jubilee celebrations of State Bank Staff College, Hyderabad, was organised on Monday, in which State Bank of India (SBI) chairman Dinesh Khara and senior officials participated. Mr.Khara and the officials recalled the days they spent at the institute and learning on the beautiful, green campus. The event was like a visit to the alma mater, they said. Unveiling of a plaque, planting of saplings and donation of a bus to Lakshya Sadhana, an organisation working for people with intellectual and developmental disability, marked the function. The State Bank Staff College, Hyderabad, was established on December 2, 1961, and is a pioneer institution in the country for training officers in the field of banking and finance. It has trained generations of bankers not only within SBI but also from other banks in India and abroad. The institute also conducts training programmes for educational institutions and government officials, SBI-Hyderabad Circle said in a release. SBI deputy managing directors Om Prakash Mishra and R.Vishwanathan were among those who participated in the programme held on the institute’s premises in Begumpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-bank-staff-college-marks-diamond-jubilee/article38052634.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Teachers stage dharna at Collectorate||Tension prevailed for sometime at Sangareddy Collectorate on Monday when some of the teachers held protests demanding that transfers should be made based on seniority. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao pacified them by assuring that he would follow only the government orders. He made it clear that it was not possible to deviate from the orders. Teachers have alleged that injustice is being meted out to them as all the vacancies were not being shown. They have also stated that teachers were forced to accept the orders. Joint Action Committee of Teachers’ Organisations (JACTO) leaders Chandrasekhar, Srinivas Rathod, Raju, Khayyum, MK Prabhakar Reddy and Pratap Reddy participated in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teachers-stage-dharna-at-collectorate/article38052672.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT’s second Kilo Lab opened||Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) director-general Shekhar C. Mande virtually dedicated to the nation the second ‘Kilo Lab’ at the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology campus, named after Acharya Prafulla Chandra Ray. “The Kilo Lab will be of immense utility to the industries. It is another contribution of IICT, which is known for its role in providing various solutions to fight COVID,” said Mr. Mande, who is also secretary, department of scientific and industrial research. Vijnana Bharathi national organising secretary Jayant Sahasrabudhe unveiled P.C. Ray’s bust at the facility which will be used for process development and scaling up of agro-chemicals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iicts-second-kilo-lab-opened/article38052632.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speed up vaccination, says Harish||Health Minister T. Harish Rao has instructed officials to expedite the ongoing drive to vaccinate maximum people against COVID-19 and complete the second dose. In a review meeting held with health officials here at MCR HRD Institute on Monday, Mr. Harish Rao said there was a need to speed up the vaccination process in view of the rising COVID-19 cases across the globe. He stated that arrangements are being made to vaccinate the youth aged between 15 and 18 years and give booster doses to those above 60 years. “While the national average for first-dose vaccination is 90%, Telangana has clocked 99.46%. Similarly, for the second dose, we are at 64% whereas the national average is 61%,” he said. The State has about 22.78 lakh persons aged between 15 and 18 years, 41.6 lakh above 60 years and 6.34 lakh frontline and healthcare workers, he said, adding, “To vaccinate all of them, 70 lakh doses are needed.” He directed the officials concerned to make arrangements for administering vaccine to the youth from January 3 and to senior citizens from January 10. Health Secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, TSMIDC chairman Errolla Srinivas and Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speed-up-vaccination-says-harish/article38052636.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man, minor daughter electrocuted, wife injured||In a shocking incident, two persons, including a minor, were electrocuted at Isnapur in Patancheru police station limits of Sangareddy district on Monday. According to sources, one Basudev Malik (36) residing at Isnapur tried to take a cloth with an iron rod which accidentally fell on a live wire resulting in the accident. Trying to save her husband, his wife Reena Malik, with her minor daughter in hands, pulled him and also got an electric shock. While the minor girl was also electrocuted, Reena was shifted to a hospital for treatment. Her condition was stated to be serious. The bodies were shifted to government hospital for post-mortem. Patancheru police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-daughter-electrocuted-wife-injured/article38052650.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 66.6 lakh farmers to get nearly Rs. 7,646 crore||The investment support given under the Rythu Bandhu scheme for taking up rabi crops at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre to all landholding (pattadar) farmers will commence on Tuesday with transfer of amount to their bank accounts. According to Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, a total of 66.61 lakh farmers are eligible to get the grant of Rs. 7,645.66 crore for their landholdings of 152.91 lakh acres.  RoFR pattas All farmers having pattadar passbooks and whose details were updated till December 10 as also those having RoFR (Recognition of Forest Rights) pattas issued by the Commissioner of Tribal Welfare till that date would get Rythu Bandhu benefit amount this time. Under Recognition of Forest Rights, about 94,000 farmers have pattas for 3.05 lakh acres. The electronic transfer of the Rythu Bandhu benefit would be take up in a phased-manner every day, extent-wise. Day one On day one on Tuesday, farmers having landholding up to one acre would be credited the amount into their bank accounts. The Minister stated that in seven phases of Rythu Bandhu so far, an amount of Rs. 43,036.64 crore was given to farmers as investment support for taking up cultivation of Kharif and Rabi crops starting with 2018-19 kharif season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-666-lakh-farmers-to-get-nearly-rs-7646-crore/article38052668.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR wants sewage treatment plants designed as green spaces||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has asked the HMWS&SB officials to design the sewage treatment plants in the city as green spaces where the residents can relax In a review meeting on Monday, Mr.Rama Rao asked them to expedite the construction of new STPs in city. He asked the officials to identify fast urbanising localities outside the ORR and plan construction of STPs there too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-wants-sewage-treatment-plants-designed-as-green-spaces/article38052651.ece
28 December 2021||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||3 new cases of variant in Sircilla||With the detection of three new Omicron cases here on Monday, the district’s Omicron tally rose to four. Genome sequencing results of two primary contacts — wife and mother — of the first Omicron infected person here, a Gulf returnee of Gudem village in Mustabad mandal, returned positive, sources said, adding that a foreign returnee of Yellareddypet mandal has also tested positive for Omicron. The trio were shifted to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad on Monday afternoon. Sources said the first Omicron-infected person from Gudem village is undergoing treatment at TIMS. District health authorities have initiated contact-tracing and testing of those who have come in contact with the three Omicron-infected persons. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old foreign returnee of Bank Colony in Warangal city tested positive for Omicron variant on Monday. He was also shifted to TIMS for better treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-new-cases-of-variant-in-sircilla/article38052649.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Big cat cooling off||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/big-cat-cooling-off/article38052647.ece
28 December 2021||Araria,||Five injured in leopard attack in Bihar||Five people, including a 13-year-old girl, were injured in a leopard attack in Bihar’s Araria district on Monday, a forest officer said. The big cat remained on the prowl for several hours in tribal-dominated Fatehpur and Pithaura panchayats of Narpatganj block, before being caught and sent to a zoo. District Forest Officer Naresh Prasad said that the leopard was caught in a densely populated village in Fatehpur where it was hiding in a house, surrounded by a large number of locals who were armed with bows, arrows and bamboo sticks. Forest personnel entered the house, trapped the leopard and placed it inside the cage they were carrying. The leopard, which appears to have escaped from a forest in adjoining Nepal, has been sent to the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park in Patna, Mr. Prasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/five-injured-in-leopard-attack-in-bihar/article38052748.ece
28 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to give Rs. 507 cr. aid for crop loss due to Cyclone Jawad||The Odisha government on Monday announced a Rs. 507-crore special package for farmers who suffered crop loss due to unseasonal rain that lashed the State under the influence of Cyclone Jawad on December 4 and 5. The government has decided to convert short-term farm loan to medium ones in areas where crop loss is 33% or more. “Efforts will be made to extend institutional loan to farmers for the Rabi crop. Steps will be taken expeditiously to make loans available to sharecroppers through Joint Liability Groups,” said the State government in a statement. The package has been approved by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. As per the package, the government will pay small and marginal farmers at the rate of Rs. 6,800 per hectare in rain-fed areas if crop loss is 33% and above while the compensation will be Rs. 13,500 per hectare for irrigated land. The compensation for the loss of horticulture per hectare of land has been fixed at Rs. 18,000. Input subsidy Farmers will be given a minimum of Rs. 2,000 as an input subsidy for loss of all-season crop and Rs. 1,000 for other crops. About 12,000 quintals of certified high quality seeds will be supplied to farmers in the 12 affected districts at concessional rate. Besides, 25% of concessional price will be provided to farmers through direct benefit transfer mode for the 2021-22 Rabi crop season. Similarly, farmers in the affected districts will be provided with 50,000 mini kits of pulse seeds. Moreover, 4 lakh kits of vegetable seeds will be made available to farmers free of cost. One lakh farmers will be assisted for hybrid vegetable crop. Each farmer will get assistance to the tune of Rs. 4,000 for 0.20 hectare. The government will give concession for purchase of farm implements and machineries. The State government assured to complete crop cutting experiment to ensure that farmers registered under the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme get their compensation at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-to-give-rs-507-cr-aid-for-crop-loss-due-to-cyclone-jawad/article38052762.ece
28 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Sidhu’s remark starts new row||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has courted controversy while praising two party members, saying “they are capable of making policemen wet their pants”. Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Daljit Singh Cheema slammed him over the purported remark and a Chandigarh police officer sent him a defamation notice. “I have sent a defamation notice to him for humiliating the police,” Chandigarh Deputy Superintendent of Police Dilsher Singh Chandel said. A Sub-Inspector also issued a video message condemning the remark. Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu has backed the policemen and praised them for their role during militancy and COVID-19 times. The controversy erupted after Mr. Sidhu, at a recent rally in Sultanpur Lodhi while pointing towards sitting MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, said he can “make a thanedar (policeman) wet his pants”. He repeated the remark at a rally in Batala on Sunday. Punjab Lok Congress president Capt. Amarinder said it was sad that the men in uniform were being disrespected. “Sad to see our men in uniform being disrespected. 1700 @PunjabPoliceInd personnel sacrificed their lives to bring the State out of the dark days and now they are being mocked by @INCPunjab leaders & above all their President. Shameful!” he tweeted. Mr. Cheema questioned the “silence” of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa over the remark. In a video message, S-I Balbir Singh said, “Such language was used by a senior leader against us, I strongly condemn it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sidhus-remark-starts-new-row/article38052764.ece
28 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Former Mayor of Mohali joins AAP||Former Mohali Mayor and realtor Kulwant Singh on Monday joined the Aam Aadmi Party ahead of the Punjab Assembly polls next year. AAP leader Raghav Chadha and State party chief Bhagwant Mann inducted him to the party fold. Mr. Mann said Mr. Singh’s familiarity with Mohali’s issues and voters will help the party a great deal. In another development, BJP’s SC Morcha national executive member Sheetal Angural also joined AAP with his associates at party headquarters here. Mr. Chadha said people are continuously joining the party and with the support of Mr. Angural, AAP will be strengthened in Jalandhar West.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/former-mayor-of-mohali-joins-aap/article38052761.ece
28 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Majithia moves High Court for bail||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia, booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, on Monday moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking anticipatory bail. The plea, moved by Mr. Majithia’s counsels Damanbir Singh Sobti and Arshdeep Singh Cheema, submitted that “to target the applicant/petitioner is one of the major election planks of the current government” led by the Congress in Punjab. A Mohali court on December 24 had dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. In his bail plea, Mr. Majithia submitted that the State government had “left no stone unturned to misuse its powers and position for wreaking vengeance upon its political opponents”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/majithia-moves-high-court-for-bail/article38052539.ece
28 December 2021||Gurugram,||Five killed in accident involving 3 buses on Chandigarh expressway||Five persons, including a woman, were killed and eight sustained injuries in an accident involving three private buses on Ambala-Chandigarh Expressway in the early hours of December 27. Two of the injured are said to be critical. The buses on the way from Jammu to Uttar Pradesh and Delhi mostly carried labourers and devotees from Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine in Katra. The accident took place near the multi-speciality Healing Touch Hospital on Sultanpur Chowk around 3 a.m. when one of the buses hit another parked on the expressway. The third bus coming from behind rammed the two buses already involved in the accident.  ‘Driver dozed off’ “It seems the driver of the bus that hit the stationary bus dozed off causing the accident. The injured were taken to Civil Hospital and the Healing Touch Hospital. Two of the injured are critical,” said Traffic Police Assistant Sub-Inspector Shravan. The accident took place in the jurisdiction of the Baldev Nagar police station. Androz Kumar on board one of the ill-fated buses, in his complaint to the police, said he along with his cousin Rahul was travelling from Jammu to Delhi when a speeding bus hit their bus from behind. “Four persons, including my cousin and a woman, sustained serious injuries in the accident. A little later an ambulance reached the spot and took the injured to Civil Hospital where my cousin and an unidentified man were declared brought dead,” said Mr. Kumar, in the FIR. A case has been registered on charges of causing death by negligence and rash driving against unknown people at Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/five-killed-in-accident-involving-3-buses-on-chandigarh-expressway/article38052751.ece
28 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Congress seeks to strengthen its organisation in Rajasthan||Gearing up for the 2023 Assembly election, the ruling Congress in Rajasthan is making concerted efforts to strengthen its organisational structure with focus on creating awareness of the party’s ideology at the block and district levels. A three-day training camp for the party workers has been organised at Bara Padampura near Jaipur with this objective. Inaugurated by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday, the camp is imparting training to about 350 workers to make the party strong in their respective areas, register more members and counter the narrative set by the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The contributions of the Congress in the independence movement were also highlighted at the camp. Addressing the participants on the camp’s second day on Monday, AICC general secretary Ajay Maken said the party workers should give more importance to ideology than ambitions. “Those who stay with the ideology throughout their lives find a respectable place in politics. A leader who changes his ideology for greed of power is not fit to be in politics,” he said. Mr. Maken said the training camps provided an opportunity to the workers to understand and assimilate the party’s ideology. Citing his own experience, Mr. Maken said his relationship with the Congress was “built for the lifetime” after he attended a camp as a member of the National Students’ Union of India at the young age of 18. Varied themes The sessions in the camps were devoted to the themes such as elements of public awareness campaigns, achievements of Congress governments, formation of India as a nation and the philosophy, ideology and policies of the Congress. The camp’s conclusion on Tuesday will coincide with the foundation day of the Congress. AICC national spokesperson Mohan Prakash said the BJP was making attempts to destroy the legacy handed down by the great leaders at the time of Independence, while the Congress had strengthened the heritage of freedom movement. He said the party workers should highlight the threats posed to the country’s unity by the BJP’s brand of politics. ‘A disciplined party’ Earlier, Mr. Gehlot spoke about the importance of party workers and affirmed that the work done and message conveyed by them could not be accomplished even after spending crores of rupees on advertisements. Calling upon the workers to stand firmly with the party in the hour of crisis, Mr. Gehlot said the Congress was a “disciplined party”. Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra said the Congress was the only party in which the examples of great sacrifices for the sake of ideology and principles could be found. He said a concerted action to convey the impact of wrong policies of the BJP government at the Centre would help strengthen the Congress in Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congress-seeks-to-strengthen-its-organisation-in-rajasthan/article38052536.ece
28 December 2021||Jaipur,||Constable suspended for ‘molesting’ tribal woman||A police constable was suspended after a tribal woman accused him of molesting and harassing her in Rajasthan's Udaipur district, police said. Constable Jitendra and Assistant Sub-Inspector Rajkumar of Panarwa police station had allegedly taken the woman, her parents and another man to Gujarat in a private vehicle on Friday in connection with a probe over the missing of a girl, they said. Police suspected that the woman knew about the whereabouts of the girl who has been missing for about four years. Jitendra and Rajkumar took the woman, along with others, to Gujarat without a lady constable on Friday, according to the complaint filed by the women with the police. Before travelling to Gujarat, the woman and her parents were kept at a police post on Thursday night during which she was molested by Jitendra, it stated. They returned on Saturday and informed local people about the matter, who went to the police station to register a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/constable-suspended-for-molesting-tribal-woman/article38052747.ece
28 December 2021||Kolkata,||‘Be on guard against bids to peddle divisive agenda’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday asked everyone to be on guard against any attempt to peddle “divisive agenda” during the upcoming Gangasagar Mela. Ms. Banerjee, at a meeting here on the preparations made for the annual religious fair, said there will be 13 medical camps at Sagar Island, where RT-PCR tests will conducted and requisite assistance provided. A 600-bed COVID-19 hospital will also be readied for meeting any eventuality, she said. Urging the administration and the police to maintain strict vigil at the island, she said “this is one of the best fairs in the country. Please see to it that no one makes any provocative speech to create fissures among people.” She also impressed upon officials to take measures to check the spread of COVID-19. “Many people will assemble. We have to take special steps to ensure COVID-19 does not spread during the fair. There will be 13 screening camps, where RT-PCR tests will be carried out. A 600-bed COVID hospital will be readied, besides five isolation centres,” she stated. Devotees will be given masks free of cost by the government, the Chief Minister said. More trains will be made available in Sealdah south and Howrah sections for ease of commutation, she maintained, adding that the fair venue will be a “plastic-free zone”. According to officials, ms. Banerjee will leave for Sagar Island on Tuesday to take stock of the arrangements. Lakhs of Hindu pilgrims gather at Sagar Island on the occasion of Makar Sankranti every year to take a holy dip at the confluence of river Ganges and the Bay of Bengal and offer prayers at the Kapil Muni Temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/be-on-guard-against-bids-to-peddle-divisive-agenda/article38052758.ece
28 December 2021||Mumbai,||Consider widow’s plea for compassionate job as a special case: HC||The Bombay High Court has urged the Secretary of Education Department of Maharashtra government to consider a widow’s case as a special case and pass an appropriate order on her plea for a job on compassionate grounds. A Division Bench of Justices Prasanna Varale and S.M. Modak was hearing a petition filed by Tejaswi Todkar. She had challenged a Education Department communication dated January 1, 2018, informing her that she had completed 45 years of age and as per the government policy her claim for appointment cannot be considered as she is an over-aged candidate and that her name should be deleted from the waiting list. Her husband Subhash Todkar was working as a senior clerk in the Education Department and passed away on June 30, 2011, while in service. Facing financial difficulties, she applied for appointment on compassionate grounds in place of her husband. An application was submitted to the Deputy Director of Education, Kolhapur division on March 15, 2012 and a reminder application was also sent to the Commissioner (Education), Office of the Commissioner Education, Pune on June 29, 2017, apprising that her claim was pending. Govt.’s submission The Commissioner submitted to the Principal Secretary that though the Commissioner is a competent authority to take decision on the issues of direct appointments, he does not possess power to deal with the cases of compassionate appointments. The General Administration Department submitted an affidavit which states, “As per a government resolution she cannot be considered and a necessary affidavit be filed in this Court.” The court noted, “We are surprised to see the approach of the State Government. There is no dispute that the entire object of providing a compassionate appointment is to provide succour to the family in distress. The family losing an earning member faces difficulty not only in day-to-day life but even difficulty in educating the minor children and considering these difficulties being faced, a scheme of compassionate appointment is formulated.” The Bench then directed the Secretary of Education Department to consider her case as a special case and pass an appropriate order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/consider-widows-plea-for-compassionate-job-as-a-special-case-hc/article38052753.ece
28 December 2021||Mumbai,||CM Thackeray calls to speed up vaccination||In view of the rising COVID-19 cases in the State, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday held a Cabinet meeting directing district administrations to speed up the vaccination process. The State has recorded 50% increase in the number of active cases in last 20 days. Mr. Thackeray also directed to hold a meeting of the State task force on COVID-19 within a day or two to review the situation in the State. According to the presentation made by State’s Health Secretary Pradeep Vyas in the Cabinet meeting, the pace of vaccination in the State has come down to five lakh per day from 8 lakh. “The State had around 6,200 active cases on December 8 while the number has gone up to around 10,000 till today,” said Mr. Vyas in his presentation. While the number of active cases has increased by 50% in last 20 days, it has tripled in merely last six days. The present positivity rate in the State is1.06%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-thackeray-calls-to-speed-up-vaccination/article38052750.ece
28 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra government, Governor disagree on Speaker’s election process||The fate of Maharashtra Assembly Speaker’s election remains uncertain as Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari informed the government that the amendment brought by the legislature’s Rules Committee needs legal scrutiny as prima facie it is unconstitutional. The MVA government held a Cabinet meeting on Monday afternoon to discuss the issue as the government is firm on going ahead with the poll process. By evening, senior leaders met once again to discuss possible scenario. Tuesday is the last day of the winter session of the Assembly. On Sunday, senior MVA Ministers met Mr. Koshyari requesting him to clear the changes made by the Rules Committee. The amendment brought by the government requires the Speaker’s election to be through open vote instead of secret ballot. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party had opposed the move. Mr. Koshyari reportedly said legal scrutiny is required for the same. The election of the Speaker is set to become yet another point of conflict between Mr. Koshyari and the State government. The Governor is yet to approve the Cabinet’s proposal to appoint 12 MLCs at the State Council. According to sources, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is of the opinion to not succumb to the Governor’s ‘tactics’ and go ahead with the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-government-governor-disagree-on-speakers-election-process/article38052765.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rising from the ashes||“Everything has turned into rubble; Our livelihood lost in a matter of seconds,” said 62-year-old Roop Singh as he frantically searched for whatever remained of his valuables in mounds of ash. Mr. Singh, a ragpicker, and his 10-member family live in shanties in Neb Sarai’s Kumhad Basti in south Delhi. The discarded materials he collected each day were stored in the hut. Last month, a blaze, which the police claimed, broke out after a few people lighted a fire to keep themselves warm, gutted around 45 huts, majority of them occupied by the ragpickers.  NGOs offer help  Nearly a month  after the incident, the residents have rebuilt their houses using tin, plastic and wood, donated by NGOs, who have also provided them with blankets and clothes. Sunita Devi, 30, said the fire broke out around 6 p.m. when she was inside her hut. “Suddenly, I heard a commotion outside as people started screaming. I took my children and fled the spot. Had it happened late in the night, we wouldn’t have survived.” She and other slum dwellers had to spend the night in an abandoned building nearby. Many of them were barefoot and without adequate warm clothing in the cold temperature. “Nobody cares about us, she said. The fire call from Neb Sarai slum is one of the 92 calls that the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) has received so far this year from Jhuggi Jhopri (JJ) clusters. As many as 33 people died and 206 sustained injuries in these incidents. Officials said at least five per cent of all fire calls every year are from JJ clusters.  Ticking bomb  According to firefighters, JJ clusters area ticking time bomb. Storage of combustible material inside the huts, hastily placed overhead wires, use of gas stoves in cramped spaces lead to these frequent blazes. A fireman said most of the shanties in JJ clusters are built with tin and plastic sheets, polythenes and logs. “Most materials used are inflammable, besides the huts are stacked with garbage,” he said. “It becomes difficult for firefighters in their safety gears and carrying other equipment, to navigate in these congested areas. By the time we are able to access the area by extending the hose by several metres, the fire spreads and causes enough damage to property and lives,” said a fireman, wishing to remain anonymous. “It also becomes difficult to recover bodies due to poor visibility,” he added.  Primary cause  A DFS official said in most cases, the causeis found to be the local gas cylinders. “People use the small gas cylinders that are usually not ISI accredited. These leak and explode,” he said. The official said the residents are unaware of what could trigger a fire. “Broken glass bottles are strewn around and sunlight causes eruption of minor flames in them which also break out into bigger fires,” he added. DFS officials are briefed on rescue operations in slums and are trained to ensure minimum damage to lives and property. But their job is never easy. In September, five people succumbed to burn injuries when a fire broke out in a slum near the Rewari line of south-west Delhi’s Mayapuri. The cause was found to be cylinder blast.  Dip in numbers  DFS chief Atul Garg claimed though hundreds of shanties are gutted annually during summers, the number of fire incidents in slums has actually come down in recent years because many slum clusters have been concretised. Whenever fire outbreak calls are received, Mr.Garg said, depending on the enormity of the blaze adequate number of fire tenders are rushed to the spot. “It is part of our standard operating procedure,” he said. “Handling slum fires is one of the toughest jobs of a firefighter. Reaching the spot is an uphill task due to congestion and generally there is no source of water near most slums; we are faced with lack of rescue supplies,” Mr. Garg added.   Rehabilitation  Sunil Kumar Aledia, executive director, Centre for Holistic Development, said rehabilitation of slum dwellers to resettlement colonies gets stuck because their documents perish in the fire. “This is a grey area which needs to be looked into by land agencies because such localities are disaster-prone. The victims are offered meagre compensation and left to fend for themselves,” he said. The State government, through the District Magistrate’s office, provides a compensation of Rs. 25,000 to families of victims of slum fires, for rebuilding their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rising-from-the-ashes/article38052533.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. likely to discuss GRAP implementation today||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday issued orders related to the imposition of night curfew in the Capital, given the continuing spurt in COVID cases. This comes even as Delhi government sources said that Health Minister Satyendar Jain is scheduled to chair a meeting on Tuesday on the implementation of various provisions of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to the increasing trend in COVID-19 cases. Divided in four parts — yellow, amber, orange and red — are the various response patterns which are supposed to kick in with fluctuations on the positivity rate and the number of daily COVID cases emerging in the city. Yellow alert The yellow alert, for instance, is supposed to come into effect when the positivity rate goes beyond 0.5% for two consecutive days or if 1,500 cumulative positive cases keep surfacing for a duration of seven days and there is an average oxygenated bed occupancy of 500 beds for a duration of seven days. The positivity rate on Sunday was recorded at 0.55% and 0.68% on Monday which, according to government sources, is in line with the yellow alert. This, according to sources, is most likely to be discussed on Tuesday following which a government order proclaiming the implementation of the GRAP is expected to be announced. Under the yellow alert level, all construction activities are allowed, shops and establishments dealing with non-essential goods and services and malls are allowed to open according to the odd-even scheme from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Restaurants with 50% capacity from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. and bars with 50% capacity are allowed from 12 noon to 10 p.m. under this level while the Delhi Metro is allowed to operate with 50% of the seating capacity with no standing passengers. The night curfew is also a part of the plan. Meanwhile, patients and pregnant women, people out to buy essential items and those travelling to or from railway stations, bus stops and airports were exempted from the night curfew that kicked in at 11 p.m. on Monday, according to a DDMA order. The restrictions will be in place from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m., till further orders, the DDMA said, adding government officials involved in emergency services, judges and judicial officers, medical personnel and media persons along other categories of individuals were exempted from the night curfew. Only the exempted category people will be allowed in metro trains and public transport buses during the night curfew hours, the DDMA order said. The BJP took the opportunity to accuse the Delhi government of not being able to rein in COVID yet again with Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta demanding that city schools be shut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-likely-to-discuss-grap-implementation-today/article38052520.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||City reports 6 more dengue deaths; cases cross 9,500||The Capital recorded 131 cases of dengue and six deaths over the past week (till December 25), a civic report said on Monday. This takes the current season’s caseload to 9,545 and the death toll to 23. According to civic body officials, the six deaths occurred in the months of October and November and the victims were admitted at private and government hospitals. The victims were an eight-month-old boy, a 15-year-old boy, a seven-year-old boy, an eight-year-old girl, a 13-year-old boy and a 10-year-old boy. Till December 18, the death toll for the season stood at 17. Previously, a senior official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which is also the nodal agency for data collection, had confirmed that there were more deaths due to the vector-borne disease which were yet to be declared as the cases were still under investigation. Low immunity Responding to the increase in the number of children succumbing to dengue this season, a senior SDMC official said that a major reason was “the low immunity levels of the younger ones”. “Another factor was the circulation of multiple dengue serotypes which can be fatal. However, it is possible that there will be no new deaths after this point and the cases of dengue have reduced quite significantly,” a senior SDMC official said. Over the past week, south Delhi recorded 37 cases, followed by north Delhi with 29 and east Delhi with 16. This season, north Delhi recorded the highest number of cases at 2,645, followed by south Delhi with 2,570 cases and east Delhi with 1,129 cases. Apart from the corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council recorded 84 cases of dengue while Delhi Cantonment and other agencies recorded a total of 167 cases for this season. A total of 2,950 cases remain untraced after investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-reports-6-more-dengue-deaths-cases-cross-9500/article38052516.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Not easy to live with partner having mental health issues’||The Delhi High Court has annulled a 16-year marriage noting that failure on the part of the woman to disclose her mental disorder before her marriage constituted a fraud perpetrated upon the man. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh rued that the life of the man “has been ruined and he has remained stuck in this relationship for 16 years without any resolution” while granting Rs. 10,000 as token cost to him. “Marriage is not made of only happy memories and good times, and two people in a marriage have to face challenges and weather the storm together. It is not easy to live with a partner who has mental health issues, and such ailments come with their own challenges for the person facing the problem, and even more so for the spouse,” the court said. The High Court’s judgment came on a petition by the man challenging the decision of a family court rejecting his plea to annul the marriage. The man, in his plea, said that their marriage was solemnised on December 10, 2005. He alleged the marriage was the outcome of a “calculated fraud” that was perpetrated by the woman and her family members as they chose not to disclose a vital and crucial fact regarding her mental ailment. Acute schizophrenia He claimed that the woman was suffering from acute schizophrenia before the marriage. He claimed that she behaved in a very unusual manner after her marriage in the matrimonial home, as well as during their honeymoon. The man said he had shown the woman to several specialists, and the medications prescribed show that they were relevant for treatment of schizophrenia. While the man said the marriage never got consummated, the woman said otherwise. She also claimed that she has never suffered from any mental or physical ailment. She also refused to undergo medical examination by a board of experts to establish her mental well-being. “The fact that the parties could not live together beyond nine weeks itself shows that the mental disorder suffered by the respondent is of a kind, and to such an extent as to be unfit for marriage and the procreation of children,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/not-easy-to-live-with-partner-having-mental-health-issues/article38052518.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi court grants anticipatory bail to man accused of rape||A Delhi court has granted anticipatory bail to a man, a government employee, after noting that the allegations of rape made against him by his wife have come after a lapse of considerable time. Additional Sessions Judge Gagandeep Singh noted in his order, passed on December 10, that in the woman’s complaint to the Crime Against Women Cell (CAW), the details with regard to the incident, that allegedly took place on October 13, are completely silent regarding the allegations of rape. The accused in the case, Pardeep Kumar Khatri, who works as a junior assistant in the Department of Training and Technical Education, was booked under IPC Sections 376 pertaining to rape, and 498A which pertains to harassment of woman. Mr. Khatri’s wife alleged that the incident took place on October 13 but the FIR was lodged 22 days later on September 9. Police harassment Pertaining to the delay in lodging the FIR argued by the accused’s counsel, the court noted that the delay has been explained by claiming that the police officers refused to record her statement on one or the other pretext, “but the plethora of documents filed on record on behalf of the accused/applicants reflect otherwise”. The court further said that several handwritten complaints have been lodged by the complainant regarding the matrimonial dispute and that she was being harassed by the police authorities with the last complaint dated September 2. “It is a detailed complaint to CAW cell wherein several incidents have been mentioned. The details of the incident dated October 13 are completely silent with regard to allegations of rape,” the court order read. With regard to CCTV footage placed by the accused before the court, ASJ Singh stated that the said CCTV also puts a question mark over the veracity of the allegations levelled by the complainant.  The details of the incident dated October 13 are completely silent with regard to allegations of rape Court order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-man-accused-of-rape/article38052523.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. likely to discuss GRAP implementation today||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday issued orders related to the imposition of a night curfew in the Capital given the continuing spurt in COVID cases. This comes even as the Delhi Government sources said Health Minister Satyendar Jain was scheduled to chair a meeting on Tuesday regarding the implementation of the various provisions of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to the increasing trend in COVID-19 cases. Divided in four parts - yellow, amber, orange and red are the various response patterns which are supposed to kick in with fluctuations in relation to the positivity rate and the number of daily COVID cases emerging in the city. Yellow alert The yellow alert, for instance, is supposed to come into effect when the positivity rate goes beyond 0.5% for two consecutive days or if 1,500 cumulative positive cases keep surfacing for a duration of seven days and there is an average oxygenated bed occupancy of 500 beds for a duration of seven days. The positivity rate on Sunday was recorded at 0.55% and 0.68% on Monday, which according to Government sources, is in line with a yellow alert. This, according to sources, was most likely to be discussed on Tuesday following which a government order proclaiming the implementation of the GRAP was expected to be announced. All construction activities are allowed, shops and establishments dealing with non-essential goods and services and malls are allowed to open according to the odd-even scheme from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. under the yellow alert level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-likely-to-discuss-grap-implementation-today/article38052752.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Extend validity of vehicle documents’||Citing various concerns related to their financial condition due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, drivers’ associations in the Capital on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal demanding that the validity of vehicular documents be extended till March 31, 2022. Delhi Taxi, Tourist Transporters’ Association president Sanjay Samrat said the community is still feeling the adverse economic impact of the pandemic and things had further deteriorated due to the emergence of the Omicron variant. “Schools have been shut all this while and just when tourism had somewhat started picking up, the Omicron variant surfaced. Banks and financial institutions have started repossessing the vehicles of operators because they could not pay their loan EMIs on time,” Mr. Samrat wrote in his letter. “Despite all this, the government is charging road tax and various fines from drivers who have no means to renew their vehicular documents. We request that the government extend the validity of such documents to March 31, 2022 as relief to us,” he added.  We request that the government extend the validity of vehicular documents to March 31 Delhi Taxi, Tourist Transporters’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/extend-validity-of-vehicle-documents/article38052522.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Winter break for govt. school students from January 1 to 15||Winter break for students up to Class V at Delhi government schools will be from January 1 to 15 and no online or offline teaching learning activity can be conducted during this period, the Directorate of Education (DoE) said on Monday. It also said that to help students consolidate their learning, the syllabus of the academic session 2021-22 covered, so far, is to be revised during this break through assignments. “All the heads of Sarvodaya Vidyalayas are, hereby, informed that the winter break for pre-primary and primary classes shall be observed from January 1-15, 2022, and the online and offline teaching learning activities through worksheets, shall not be conducted during this period,” an official order said. The DoE said the assessment record of winter break assignments and activities must be maintained scrupulously and shall count towards internal assessment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/winter-break-for-govt-school-students-from-january-1-to-15/article38052525.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Extortion call to Union Minister: accused sent to judicial custody||A Delhi court on Monday remanded in judicial custody (JC) for two weeks the five people arrested in connection with an extortion call made to Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra. Duty Magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain sent the accused to judicial custody till January 9 after the Delhi police produced them before him on expiry of their three-day custodial interrogation granted earlier. Two week custody The police moved an application seeking judicial custody of the accused for two weeks, saying they were not required for further interrogation. The court also allowed the police plea seeking voice samples of the two accused — Amit Kumar Manjhi and Nishant Singh Rana — under the law. The Delhi police had arrested the five people in connection with the case. The Minister has been in the news recently after his son was arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3, in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/extortion-call-to-union-minister-accused-sent-to-judicial-custody/article38052513.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||127 buses prosecuted for plying without permits||As many as 127 buses have been prosecuted across the city for plying without valid permits, out of which 25 have been impounded, the traffic police said on Monday. Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Vivek Kishore said they received an information on December 23 regarding illegal plying of ‘Daggarmar Buses’ at Dhaula Kuan, following which a team of traffic police was formed to crack down on such buses. On-the-spot drive “A total 11 cases were prosecuted, out of which seven were impounded for permit violation during on-the-spot drive against buses plying without proper permit,” Mr. Kishore said. The JCP said that most of these buses have contract carriage permit or all India tourist permit, that is they can pick passengers from one particular spot and drop them at a particular destination. They are not allowed to pick and drop passengers between the originating point and their destination. “However, they pick up passengers for different destinations offering single seat, thereby violating contract carriage permit conditions,” Mr. Kishore said, adding that the buses were prosecuted under Section 66 of the Motor Vehicle Act.  These buses pick up passengers for different destinations offering single seat, thereby violating contract carriage permit conditions Vivek Kishore Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/127-buses-prosecuted-for-plying-without-permits/article38052511.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bike-borne men rob Rs. 50 lakh at gunpoint||Two employees of a businessman were robbed of Rs. 50 lakh at gunpoint in broad daylight at Tilak Nagar flyover on Monday afternoon. Police have registered a case and begun probe. A senior police officer said that a PCR call was received at 1.35 p.m. regarding a robbery at Tilak Nagar flyover. When police reached the spot, they were informed that two men on a black bike fired and snatched a bag containing Rs. 50 lakh from the victims. Police said that the complainants Lucky Mehra and Harvinder Singh, who work for a businessman, were on their way from Vikas Puri to Karol Bagh when the incident took place. A case has been registered and and teams have been formed to nab the accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bike-borne-men-rob-rs-50-lakh-at-gunpoint/article38052514.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality improves to ‘poor’ category||Air quality of the city improved to the ‘poor’ category on Monday, after being in the ‘severe’ category for six consecutive days, as per official data. “The AQI is expected to be ‘very poor’ for the next two days, government-run monitoring agency SAFAR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-air-quality-improves-to-poor-category/article38052519.ece
28 December 2021||Patna,||Nitish calls for public shaming of those flouting prohibition||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday called for public shaming of those flouting liquor ban in the State, while hardening his stance against relaxing the stringent prohibition law for those coming to the dry State from elsewhere. Addressing a gathering of women’s self-help groups ‘Jeevika’, Mr. Kumar said, “Don’t come to Bihar if you find the ban inconvenient.” Reiterating that relaxing the ban for visitors from outside the State was out of question, the Chief Minister claimed his decision to impose prohibition was admired widely and he was invited by advocacy groups in U.P. and Jharkhand to share his experience after he took the step in 2016. “But despite our best intentions, there will always be some mischief mongers...I urge all of you, if you find anybody flouting prohibition in your village, report the matter to police but also take out a demonstration and raise slogans,” he said. He added the police had been asked to protect the whistle blowers and seek to put the wrongdoers to shame. Invoking Mahatma Gandhi to stress that drinking was a ‘social evil’, Mr. Kumar quoted from a WHO report to underscore health hazards that were directly associated with drinking. He added that he held in low esteem those who drank, no matter how kaabil (accomplished) they were presumed to be. Reform campaign Mr. Kumar is on a State-wide social reform campaign launched last week to galvanise public opinion against drinking, dowry and child marriage. His government has been under fire since hooch tragedies around Deepawali claimed more than 40 lives. Stern warning to police officers against laxity allegedly led to an overkill by the men in uniform who have ended up conducting searches at wedding parties and rounding up visitors who carried liquor bottles, unaware of the prohibition law. Mr. Kumar also held forth on ill-effects of child marriage on the physical and mental well-being of girls and asked people of the State to follow his example in discouraging dowry. “As a matter of principle I have stopped accepting wedding invitations wherein the card does not declare that the marriage will take place sans any dowry. You should do the same. You will see a change.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nitish-calls-for-public-shaming-of-those-flouting-prohibition/article38052538.ece
28 December 2021||Pithoragarh (Uttarakhand),||Students eat mid-day meal together after caste row||For the first time since a casteist row erupted at a secondary school in Champawat district of Uttarakhand, all 66 students of Classes 6-8 of the school took mid-day meal prepared by a cook on Monday. The district administration had held a meeting with the parents of all children on Sunday to build a consensus among them so that the row could be settled. For the first time since the row began, all the 66 students of the school studying in Classes six to eight had mid-day meal together, Champawat District Magistrate Vineet Tomar said. The school had reopened on Monday after a two-day closure. The row had broken out after upper caste students had refused to take mid-day meal cooked by a Dalit ‘bhojanmata’ (cook) at the school on December 13. She was replaced following the development by an upper caste ‘bhojanmata’ but Dalit students of the school retaliated by boycotting mid-day meal cooked by the latter on December 23, prompting the district administration to intervene. The district education authorities had made procedural lapses the ground for sacking the Dalit ‘bhojanmata’. “All the guardians have agreed to let their wards take MDM till the report of a three-member inquiry committee is complete,” the DM said. The students took mid-day meal on Monday, he said. According to Purnagiri sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Kafaltia, the three-member inquiry committee chaired by chief education officer of Champawat R.C. purohit will only inquire into procedural lapses, if any, in the appointment of ‘bhojanmata’. Inquiry panel “There were three women applicants for the post, at first Pushpa Bhatt, a upper caste woman, was appointed and soon she was replaced by Sunita Devi after Shakuntala Devi retired. The inquiry committee will find out why the woman first appointed was removed and why the second, the Dalit woman, was appointed and then removed after a few days,” said SDM Kafaltia. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradeep Tamta, who visited the school and met all persons involved in the row, said Sunita Devi was not given appointment letter till date by the officials despite her selection was according to the norms. According to local social activist PC Joshi, the actual situation will come to light when the inquiry committee submits its report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-in-uttarakhand-school-eat-mid-day-meal-together-after-caste-row/article38052534.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/up-in-arms/article38052528.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Polluting the air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/polluting-the-air/article38052756.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre of attraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centre-of-attraction/article38052760.ece
28 December 2021||Ankara,||Turkey urges Russia to drop ‘one-sided’ NATO demands||Turkey urged Russia on Monday to drop “one-sided” demands and adopt a more constructive approach in its stand-off with Western powers and NATO over Ukraine. NATO member Turkey has irritated Moscow by supplying combat drones to Ukraine that Russia fears could be used by Kiev in its conflict with separatists in two eastern regions. But Turkey has also upset Washington and NATO by acquiring an advanced missile defence system from Russia that resulted in sanctions from the United States. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu urged Moscow and the Western defence alliance to air their differences in direct negotiations proposed by NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg. ‘Be constructive’ Russia wants NATO to provide Moscow with a binding security guarantee and withdraw its forces to positions they held before a wave of eastward expansion that began after the Soviet Union’s collapse. “For any proposal to be accepted, it should be acceptable by both sides. Russia made some proposals. But maybe NATO seeks the same kind of guarantees from Russia. This is not a one-sided issue,” Mr. Cavusoglu told reporters. “If the requests are maximalist — I’m not saying that Russia is maximalist in any case — both sides must be constructive,” he said. “They should come to the table with proposals that both sides can accept,” the Minister added. A NATO spokesman said the Brussels-based alliance had been “in touch” with Moscow about holding a meeting of the NATO-Russia Council on January 12. Russia has not yet formally accepted the offer. “If Russia has any certain specific expectation or issue from Turkey regarding reducing tensions between Russia and NATO, Turkey will evaluate this positively because our objective is clear,” said Mr. Cavusoglu. “Everyone would be affected, God forbid, by conflict in the region.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkey-urges-russia-to-drop-one-sided-nato-demands/article38052087.ece
28 December 2021||Islamabad,||Pak. approves ‘citizen-centric’ National Security Policy||Pakistan’s top security panel on Monday approved its National Security Policy for 2022-26, placing “economic security at the core” of the first-of-its kind document to ensure a “citizen-centric approach to security”. The policy was presented and approved at the 36th meeting of the National Security Committee (NSC), chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan and attended by Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Nadeem Raza and all Services Chiefs. National Security Adviser (NSA) Moeed Yusuf, presenting the document, said Pakistan was shifting to a Comprehensive National Secu- rity Framework — the ultimate purpose of it being safety, security and dignity of citizens. This is the first time a National Security Policy has been approved in Pakistan. “To ensure this citizen-centric approach to security, the NSP put economic security at the core. A stronger economy would create additional resources that would in turn be judiciously distributed to further bolster military and human security,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement. Federal Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Defence, Information, Interior, Finance and Human Rights as well as other senior civil and military officers were present at the meet.   ‘Ready to face threats’ Prime Minister Khan emphasised that the security of Pakistan rests in the security of its citizens, reposing confidence that Pakistan is well prepared to meet any internal and external threat. Terming the NSP’s formulation and approval a historic moment, he noted that the policy must guide all organs of the government to ensure that their efforts are synchronised with the overall direction of the NSP. The NSP will now be presented to the Cabinet before being officially adopted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-approves-citizen-centric-national-security-policy/article38052224.ece
28 December 2021||Washington,||Scientist E.O. Wilson, dubbed modern-day Darwin, dead||Edward. O. Wilson, the trailblazing U.S. scientist, professor and author whose study of insects and clarion call to protect earth earned him the nickname “Darwin’s natural heir”, has died at age 92. Wilson, whose death was announced on Monday by his foundation, was an award-winning biologist and long-time Harvard University research professor, considered the world’s leading authority on ants and their behaviour. While an entomologist early in his career, he broadened his scope immensely, studying not just insects but the social interactions of birds, mammals and humans, and he effectively — and controversially — established a new field of science known as sociobiology. He was the author of hundreds of scientific papers and more than 30 books, two of which won him Pulitzer Prizes for non-fiction: 1978’s On Human Nature , and The Ants in 1990. “Ed’s holy grail was the sheer delight of the pursuit of knowledge,” said Paula Ehrlich, president of the E.O. Wilson Biodiversity Foundation and co-founder of the Half-Earth Project. “A relentless synthesizer of ideas, his courageous scientific focus and poetic voice transformed our way of understanding ourselves and our planet. “His greatest hope was that students everywhere share his passion for discovery as the ultimate scientific foundation for future stewardship of our planet.” Wilson, who died on Sunday in Massachusetts, had become renowned for his advances in global conservation, and advised pre-eminent scientific and conservation organisations.  But his trailblazing work was not without controversy. In much of his 1975 book Sociobiology , he laid out his theory of animal behaviour, which earned high praise from fellow scientists. In the final chapter, though, Wilson caused an uproar by proposing that human behaviour is largely genetically based, and that humans acquire a predisposition to such matters as the division of labour between genders, tribalism, male dominance and parental-child bonding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/scientist-eo-wilson-dubbed-modern-day-darwin-dead/article38052085.ece
28 December 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka makes NOC must for foreign spouses||Foreigners seeking to wed Sri Lankans will need security clearances from the Defence Ministry, under new regulations that were met with scorn and ridicule by the Opposition. The new rules will require foreigners from next week to get a clean bill of health and a security check before their nuptials, with Registrar-General W.M. Weerasekara attributing the policy to “national security” concerns. “We have seen some foreigners wanting to marry Sri Lankans here with ulterior motives like engaging in drug trafficking and money laundering,” Mr. Weerasekara told the local Sunday Times newspaper. The new regulations have prompted scorn from Opposition lawmakers who pointed out that several members of the ruling family are dual nationals. Cabinet posts “How about security clearance for foreign nationals to hold Cabinet ministerial portfolios...?” legislator Shanakiyan Rasamanickam tweeted. Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa held U.S. citizenship until two years ago. After coming to power, he scrapped a constitutional provision that barred dual citizens from contesting elections. His brother Basil, the Finance Minister, remains a dual citizen of the United States and Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-makes-noc-must-for-foreign-spouses/article38052086.ece
28 December 2021||Montreal,||Dallas Buyers Club director passes away||Award-winning Canadian film-maker Jean-Marc Vallee has died at age 58, his publicist announced on Sunday. The cause of death was not immediately known “Rest In Peace, Jean-Marc Vallee. The world is far less interesting without you in it,” Hive Communication Collective wrote on Instagram. The Quebecois producer and director was Oscar-nominated for Dallas Buyers Club in 2013, for which actors Matthew McConaughey and Jared Leto both took home Academy Awards. In recent years, he has drawn acclaim for his work on HBO shows Big Little Lies , for which he won an Emmy award, and Sharp Objec ts .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dallas-buyers-club-director-passes-away/article38052082.ece
28 December 2021||Tehran,||Iran seeks assurances as nuclear talks resume||Iran said nuclear talks that are set to resume on Monday in Vienna should focus on lifting sanctions on the Islamic republic and “guarantees” that the U.S. will return to the fold. Negotiations to salvage the 2015 Iran nuclear deal resumed in late November, after a five-month hiatus following the election of ultraconservative Iran President Ebrahim Raisi. The talks seek to bring back the United States, after it withdrew from the accord in 2018 under then President Donald Trump and began imposing sanctions on Iran. Iran has reported progress in the talks, but European diplomats have warned they are “rapidly reaching the end of the road”. U.S. negotiator Rob Malley has said there are only “weeks” left to revive the deal, if the Islamic republic continues its current pace of nuclear activities.  Ahead of the resumption, Iran’s Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian said the agenda on Monday should be “the issue of guarantees and verification” on the lifting of U.S. sanctions if it returns to the accord. “The most important thing for us is to reach a point where we can verify that Iranian oil will be sold easily and without any limits, that the money for this oil will be transferred in foreign currency to Iranian bank accounts, and that we will be able to benefit from all the revenues,” he said, quoted on Monday by state news agency IRNA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tehran-seeks-assurances-as-vienna-nuclear-talks-resume/article38052083.ece
28 December 2021||Yangon,||UN envoy calls for a New Year ceasefire in Myanmar||The new United Nations special envoy to Myanmar on Monday said she was “deeply concerned” by escalating violence in the country and called for a New Year ceasefire between the military and its opponents. Nationwide protests against the February coup have been met with a bloody crackdown, with more than 1,300 people killed and over 11,000 arrested, according to a local monitoring group. Diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis led by the UN and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations have made little headway so far, with the generals refusing to engage with opponents. ‘Deeply concerned’ Special envoy Noeleen Heyzer “is deeply concerned by the continued escalation of violence in Kayin State and other parts of Myanmar”, she said in her first statement since taking on the role. She also called for “all parties to... allow humanitarian assistance to be provided to those in need, including those forced to flee the violence”, and for all sides to come to a New Year ceasefire. On Sunday, a UN official said he was “horrified” by credible reports that at least 35 civilians were killed and their bodies burned in an attack on Christmas Eve in eastern Myanmar, and demanded the government launch an investigation. Two workers for non-profit group Save the Children remain missing -- their vehicle was among several that were attacked and burned in the incident in Kayah State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-envoy-calls-for-a-new-year-ceasefire-in-myanmar/article38052084.ece
28 December 2021||Abu Dhabi,||UAE marriage licence issued to non-Muslims||The UAE issued its first civil marriage licence for a non-Muslim couple, state media reported on Monday. The United Arab Emirates — where foreigners make up 90% of the approximately 10-million population — has been amending its laws to present itself as a modernising force in a largely conservative region. The official WAM news agency said a Canadian couple were the first to marry under a new law on the personal status of non-Muslims in the Emirati capital Abu Dhabi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-marriage-licence-issued-to-non-muslims/article38052313.ece
28 December 2021||London,||UK police probe video after intruder held at Queen’s castle||The British police said on Monday they were assessing a video purportedly made by a man who tried to break into a castle where Queen Elizabeth II was spending Christmas in which he said he wanted to kill her. In the video, obtained by The Sun tabloid, a masked figure in a dark hoodie holding a crossbow claims he will “attempt to assassinate Elizabeth, Queen of the Royal Family”. The figure identifies himself as an Indian Sikh intent on “revenge” for the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre. The video was shared on Snapchat, around 24 minutes before the 19-year-old suspect was detained early on Christmas Day within the grounds of Windsor Castle, west of London.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-police-probe-video-after-intruder-held-at-queens-castle/article38052089.ece
28 December 2021||BANGKOK,||AS--Myanmar||A court in military-ruled Myanmar postponed its verdicts on Monday on two charges against ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi in which she is accused of importing and possessing walkie-talkies without following official procedures, a legal official familiar with the case said.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-myanmar/article38052091.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The cold truth about India’s income inequality||The latest edition of the World Inequality Report (https://bit.ly/3Fx8vv4 and https://bit.ly/3EvazlY) has confirmed that the world continues to sprint down the path of inequality. “Global multimillionaires have captured a disproportionate share of global wealth growth over the past several decades: the top 1% took 38% of all additional wealth accumulated since the mid-1990s, whereas the bottom 50% captured just 2% of it.” India’s case is particularly stark. The foreword by Nobel laureate economists, Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo, says, “India is now among the most unequal countries in the world.” This means that the gap between the top 1% and the bottom 50% is widest for India among the major economies in the world. The gap is wider in India than the United States, the United Kingdom, China, Russia and France. Poverty has persisted The journey of this inequality over time reveals that “socialist-inspired Five Year plans contributed” to reducing the share of the top 10% who had 50% of the income under colonial rule, to 35%-40% in the early decades after Independence. However, since the mid-1980s, deregulation and liberalisation policies have led to “one of the most extreme increases in income and wealth inequality observed in the world”. While the top 1% has majorly profited from economic reforms, growth among low- and middle-income groups has been relatively slow, and poverty has persisted. In recent years, on the economic front, India, post-2014, seems to have got into a phase of an even greater reliance on big business and privatisation to fix economics and the result has been to beget even more inequality. The latest World Inequality Report firmly concludes that the “bottom 50% share has gone down to 13%. India stands out as a poor and very unequal country, with an affluent elite”. Static growth rate But beyond all this, what bears emphasis is the observation by Aunindyo Chakravarty, in The Tribune , about what was happening to the income of the bottom 50% in India since 1951. This grew at the rate of 2.2% per year between 1951 and 1981, but what is telling is that “the growth rate remained exactly the same over the past 40 years”. This makes it clear that irrespective of the economics or politics at play, the state of the bottom half of India barely changed, with an abysmal rate of income growth. That inequality in terms of the immobility of those at the bottom (at least one half of India) stood, irrespective of the economic policies adopted, is an irrefutable fact. It was because of the social conditions and constraints in India. Clearly, the very social structure that underpinned India, encouraged and fanned this inequality. Plenty changed after India’s Constitution was adopted. In the Nehruvian years — and after that too — a bid was made to battle the basic absence of social democracy in India, but it remained confined to States and regions. Therefore, one sees a little more mobility and well-being in States such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Parts of Karnataka and Andhra also recorded attempts at smashing social structures that had pushed those at the bottom to a life in perpetual poverty and deprivation, and those attempts showed in better economic prospects. So, beyond these economic policies which have been fanning inequality, it is the ruling party tying faith directly into politics and backing of old social structures – far from getting rid of them, strengthening them each day – that should set alarm bells ringing. The linkages between our social structures and income inequality and poverty must be faced up to. Survey and data Globally, the economic transformation of people and particularly the lessening of inequality has never happened unless socially regressive mores have been challenged. Path-breaking research across 106 countries in 2018 tackled the elephant in the room when researchers from the Universities of Bristol in the U.K. and Tennessee in the U.S. used data from the World Values Survey to get a measure of the importance of religion spanning the entire 20th century (1900 to 2000) and found “that secularisation precedes economic development”. Furthermore, the findings show that secularisation only predicts future economic development when it is accompanied by a respect and tolerance for individual rights. That can only happen when beyond sufferance of diversity or tolerance, a society is able to see all shades of humans, of varying castes, creeds, faith, colour, gender and choices as equal. The central aspect of secularisation is delinking of religion from public life. It leads to respect for each citizen irrespective of their faith and for science and rationalism. This is clear from the European experience over centuries or of Asian countries such as China, Vietnam, South Korea and others — the old social structures need to be smashed and not resurrected. ‘One size nation’ is flawed The rapid movement of India in the reverse direction of secularisation, with the Union government’s now-stated policy to prioritise members of one religion and one language, has severe economic consequences too and the widening income inequality only reflects that. The quick descent into a ‘One size nation’, does not fit its many diversities. The avenues available for all kinds of citizens to make a life, informal if not formal, is deeply inhibited by India’s social fabric being torn by the Government’s new priorities and policies. Far from pushing for social and economic equality, which can be done by dismantling old shibboleths in which India’s rank social and economic inequalities are anchored, the state is now fanning systems and principles to further them. This fundamentally distorts the hard wiring that had made modern India possible. Criminalising the freedom of religion and choices, which is what the Indian compact is based on, by hunting out the diverse, mixed or cosmopolitan as inauthentic has consequences, both social and economic. It was exactly this that B.R. Ambedkar had warned of: “In politics we will be recognising the principle of one man one vote and one vote one value. In our social and economic life, we shall, by reason of our social and economic structure, continue to deny the principle of one man one value. How long shall we continue to live this life of contradictions? How long shall we continue to deny equality in our social and economic life?” B.R. Ambedkar had issued a grim warning in 1949 that if we continue to deny social and economic inequality for long, we could “blow up the structure of political democracy”. We risk much more. There is no ‘destiny’ of nations foretold. Choices are made and destinies created. By choosing to reverse the idea of modernisation, linking religion firmly into the public sphere, trying to unmake the modernity India had tried to set for itself as an ideal, we may be already setting ourselves on a narrow path which ends in places that scores of nations in the world and several in our neighbourhood have already arrived at, only to their peril and dismay. Seema Chishti is a journalist-writer based in Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-cold-truth-about-indias-income-inequality/article38052068.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The gaps in the plan to tackle plastic waste||In October, the Environment Ministry published draft regulations on Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR), set to come into effect by the end of this year. Disregarding the commitments made by the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016; the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016; and the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), these regulations denote a backslide, particularly with respect to integration of the informal sector. EPR requires the manufacturer of a product, or the party that introduces the product into the community, to take responsibility for its life cycle. An FMCG company should not only account for the costs of making, packing and distributing a packet of chips, but also for the collection and recycling/reuse of the packet. In India, producers have externalised these costs due to the presence of a robust informal sector composed of waste pickers. By failing to mention waste pickers or outlining mechanisms for their incorporation under EPR, the guidelines are retrogressive. An effective EPR framework should address the issue of plastics and plastic waste management in tandem with the existing machinery, minimise duplication and lead to a positive environmental impact, with monitoring mechanisms including penalties for non-compliance. The guidelines fall short in three areas: people, plastics and processing. People For decades, waste pickers, working in dangerous and unsanitary conditions, have picked up what we throw away. They form the base of a pyramid that includes scrap dealers, aggregators and re-processors. This pyramid has internalised the plastic waste management costs of large producers. Besides, by diverting waste towards recycling and reuse, waste pickers also subsidise local governments responsible for solid waste management. Further, they reduce the amount of waste accumulating in cities, water bodies and dumpsites and increase recycling and reuse, creating environmental and public health benefits. Unfortunately, most informal waste pickers remain invisible. Between 1.5 and 4 million waste pickers in India work without social security, health insurance, minimum wages or basic protective gear. The SBM Plastic Waste Book attributes India’s high recycling rate to the informal sector. But the guidelines not only disregard waste pickers and don’t involve them as stakeholders in formulating the guidelines, but also direct producers to set up a private, parallel plastic waste collection and recycling chain. This is akin to dispossessing waste pickers of their means of livelihood as all plastic waste, contributing up to 60% of their incomes, will likely be siphoned away from them and channelised into the new chain. EPR funds could be deployed for mapping and registration of the informal sector actors, building their capacity, upgrading infrastructure, promoting technology transfer, and creating closed loop feedback and monitoring mechanisms. For easily recycled plastics, EPR requirements could have been fulfilled by formalising and documenting the work of the informal sector and adequately compensating them. Without strong government regulation, the millions of workers who have shouldered the burden of waste management for decades will stand to lose their livelihoods – only so that companies can keep meeting their targets to continue producing plastic. Plastics The EPR guidelines are limited to plastic packaging. While a large part of plastics produced are single-use or throwaway plastic packaging, there are other multi-material plastic items like sanitary pads, chappals, and polyester that pose a huge waste management challenge today, but have been left out of the scope of EPR. Plastic packaging can be roughly grouped into three categories: recyclable and effectively handled by the informal sector, technologically recyclable but not economically viable to recycle, technologically challenging to recycle (or non-recyclable). Rigid plastics like PET and HDPE are effectively recycled. In keeping with the EPR objective that all recyclable plastics are effectively recycled at the cost of the producer, the government could support and strengthen the informal recycling chain by bridging gaps in adequate physical spaces, infrastructure, etc. Typically flexible plastics like LDPE and PP bags are recyclable, but due to their contamination with organic waste, light weight, and high volume, the costs of recycling are prohibitively expensive relative to the market value of the output. Market value for these plastics can be increased by increasing the demand for and use of recycled plastics in packaging, thus creating the value to accommodate the current costs of recycling. The mandated use of recycled plastics, as prescribed in the draft regulations, is a strong policy mechanism to create this value. Multi-layered and multi-material plastics form the abundant type of plastic waste. These are low weight and voluminous, making them expensive to handle and transport. Since they are primarily used in food packaging, they often attract rodents, making storage problematic. Even if this plastic is picked, recycling is technologically challenging as it is heterogeneous material. The Plastic Waste Management Rules mandated the phase-out of these plastics. However, in 2018, this mandate was reversed. Processing Not all processing is recycling. Processes like waste-to-energy, co-processing and incineration have been proven to release carbon dioxide, particulate matter, harmful dioxins and furans which have negative climate and health impacts. Technologies like chemical recycling and pyrolysis are capital-intensive, yielding low returns and running into frequent breakdowns and technological problems. They also release carbon dioxide and other pollutants. The SWaCH-ITC Ltd project has diverted over 1,000 MT of multi-layered and low-value flexible plastics since its inception. However, project scalability suffers due to the absence of processing plants that can consistently accept multi-layered plastics. These end-of-life processes are economically, environmentally and operationally unsustainable. A number of gasification, pyrolysis and other chemical recycling projects have figured in accidents such as fires, explosions and financial losses. GAIA estimated that such technologies wasted at least $2 billion in investments, due to permit complications, operating costs, etc. While the environmental impact and desirability of these processes continues to be debated, the draft regulations legitimise them to justify the continued production of multi-layered plastics. In conclusion, the government should redo the consultation process for the draft guidelines and involve informal workers. The scope of plastics covered by the guidelines could be altered to exclude those plastics which are already efficiently recycled and to include other plastic and multi-material items. And end-of-life processing technologies should be closely evaluated, based not only on their health and environmental impacts, but also on the implications for continued production of low-quality and multi-layered plastics. Satyarupa Shekhar provides leadership and coordination within the Break Free from Plastic movement and Siddharth Ghanshyam Singh is Deputy Programme Manager at the Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-gaps-in-the-plan-to-tackle-plastic-waste/article38052076.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Why the Aadhaar-voter ID link must be stopped||The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that was passed in haste in the winter session in the Lok Sabha, and which facilitates amendment to the Representation of People’s Act, is a step toward implementing online-based remote e-voting for which the use of Aadhaar will be the primary identity. The linking of Aadhaar with one’s voter ID was primarily to build a biometric dependent voting system from the very beginning. The tall claim made to support this change was to fight “fraud and duplicates” in the electoral rolls. At the same time, in practice, in places where it was used — done by the mashing of Electors Photo Identity Card (EPIC) data with surveillance databases — it facilitated a selective removal of voters from the lists. In the 2018 Telangana Assembly elections for instance, the consequence of such a measure led to the deletion of an estimated two million voters. The case of two States In 2014, the Election Commission of India (ECI) conducted two pilot programmes on linking the voter id with Aadhaar in the districts of Nizamabad and Hyderabad. Using the claim of effectiveness in removing duplicate voters, the ECI called for a National Consultation on Aadhaar and voter id linking, organised in Hyderabad in February 2015. The ECI launched the National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication Programme (NERPAP) on April 1, 2015, which had to be completed by August 31, 2015. After a Supreme Court of India order on August 11, 2015, it was announced that this NERPAP would be shut down. But as Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were early adopters of this programme since 2014, both States have nearly completed linking Aadhaar and voter id for all residents. Though the composite State of Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated in 2014, there was only one office of Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Telangana and Andhra Pradesh as the bifurcation procedure was not yet complete in 2015. Database integration The methodology followed by the ECI to find duplicate voters using Aadhaar is unknown to the general public. Nor is the information available in the public domain. Several applications under the Right to Information Act to the Chief Electoral Officer, Telangana asking for this information have been in vain. In 2018, the ECI wrote back to the CEOs asking for the methodology used in NERPAP for Aadhaar data collection after questions were raised about the ECI collecting Aadhaar data without the consent of voters. In a letter (No. 1471/Elecs.B/A1/2018-3, April 25, 2018), from the CEO Andhra Pradesh (then for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh) to the ECI, it is clear that the State Resident Data Hub (SRDH) application of the Government of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh was used to curate electoral rolls. The SRDH has data on residents of the State which is supplied by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) or collected further by the State governments. The UIDAI initially created the SRDH to give States information on residents — similar to the Aadhaar database without biometrics. Private parties now maintain the SRDH. While the UIDAI was constrained not to collect data on caste, religion and other sensitive information data for Aadhaar, it recommended to the States to collect this information, if required, as part of Aadhaar data collection; it termed the process as Know Your Resident (KYR) and Know Your Resident Plus (KYR+). In Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the State governments also conducted State census where voter data, Aadhaar data, 360-degree profiling with details such as caste, religion, bank accounts and other sensitive personal information were also collected. These State Census surveys were called the Samagra Kutumba Survey 2014 and the Smart Pulse Survey 2016. The SRDHs are now a part of the State surveillance architecture targeted at the civilian populace. It is these SRDH applications that the ECI used to curate electoral rolls which resulted in the deletion of a sizeable number of voters from the list in Telangana in 2018. It is not just Telangana but across India; the ECI has already linked Aadhaar and voter IDs of close to 30 crore people resulting in voter deletions (Unstarred question 2673, Rajya Sabha of January 2019). Disenfranchisement The role of the ECI to verify voters using door-to-door verification (in 2015) has been subsumed (based on RTI replies from the ECI, and widely reported in 2018, after the Telangana Assembly elections in December); a software algorithm commissioned by the Government for purposes unknown to the public and maintained by a private IT company is in control now. While the role and autonomy of the ECI itself is speculative, subjecting key electoral rolls to surveillance software damages the concept of universal adult suffrage. What the experience in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh highlights is voter suppression and disenfranchisement. A mock election (in October 2021) was conducted in Telangana by the State Election Commission with smartphones using facial recognition, voter ID, Aadhaar number and phone number for authentication while voting (this was tweeted by the Collector, Khammam) . This method kills the “secret ballot”. In a situation where the role of money makes a mockery of the democratic process, linking Aadhaar will be futile. Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), if foolproof, put an end to the days of booth capturing prevalent in the days of paper ballots. But these manifestations are about to bring the age back. E-voting can also be gamed using malware to change the outcome of an election. While the Bill does not look into large-scale e-voting, there is an issue of ensuring electoral integrity. An Aadhaar-voter ID linkage will also help political parties create voter profiles and influence the voting process. Online trends on the day of voting and micro-targeting voters using their data will make it easier for political parties in power to use data for elections. A ruling coalition will always have an advantage with the data it possesses. An example is of the Chief Ministers from certain States being asked to get the data of the beneficiaries of welfare schemes. How this data was used in the 2019 elections is a pointer. The way Aadhaar has been pushed across the country has been undemocratic and unconstitutional since its inception. Aadhaar itself has several fake and duplicate names, which has been widely documented. The linking of Aadhaar with voter ID will create complexities in the voter databases that will be hard to fix. This process will introduce errors in electoral rolls and vastly impact India’s electoral democracy. Kiran Chandra Yarlagadda is General Secretary, Free Software Movement of India (FSMI). Srinivas Kodali is Researcher, FSMI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-the-aadhaar-voter-id-link-must-be-stopped/article38052071.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||If not Hindutva, then what?||There is ferment in the Opposition space on who will lead the Opposition in the upcoming 2024 election. Implicit in this ferment is the idea that there needs to be one principal challenger to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This idea has some justification. With increasing complexity of governance and fragmentation of public discourse, personalisation of elections has become a way to simplify the choices for the voter. It is felt that this principal challenger will be the Opposition’s answer to the question, ‘If not Modi, then who?’ However, this is only half the question. The more substantive question is, ‘If not Hindutva, then what?’ It is only by articulating an electorally salient counter-narrative that the response to the question ‘if not Modi, then who?’ can emerge. Major strands of the discourse The Opposition discourse has two discernible strands. The first is that the Modi government is ‘killing democracy’ by upending norms on Centre-State relations and parliamentary procedures and toppling governments through the misuse of central agencies and money. However, it is unclear whether these issues, especially in their present articulation, are the basis of an electorally resonant agenda. Not only is there some preference for a strongman, but the Opposition has also not been able to showcase that predatory tactics are somehow unique to the Modi Government. The second strand is an aggregation of grievances against the Government. Inflation, unemployment, economic slowdown and pandemic mismanagement are important but the articulation lacks an overarching framework and the Opposition’s tendency to get in the weeds on a range of issues ends up as noise instead of undermining Mr. Modi’s credibility. What is missing is a clear counter-narrative with a pan-Indian imagination. This is a central contradiction in the Opposition ranks and among liberals. Other than state welfare, the Opposition has no narrative to catch the imagination of the electorate. The problems with welfare as a national narrative are manifold. First, the narrative is not adequately different from the narrative of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which mixes welfare and Hindutva. Second, the state has a poor track record of implementing its own mandate. Third, welfare is not aspirational. The youth who spend a lot of time on social media cannot feel excited about an unemployment allowance of Rs. 3,500 a month. Regional parties have been able to fight against the BJP juggernaut by doubling down on their regional identity but this makes it difficult for them to set a coherent narrative on the national stage. A strong cultural identity or a core caste base can be the basis of victory at the State level but does not have the carrying capacity for a national narrative. The Janata Dal (United) leader, Nitish Kumar, realised this and sought to use prohibition as a way to transcend Bihar’s borders but his own opportunism undercut his national aspirations. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has a more versatile narrative — a welfare model driven by the proceeds of savings from honest governance. However, this cannot bring all the Opposition parties together since this requires positioning AAP as a uniquely honest party among its peers. An agenda that confuses people Failing in its own national narrative, the Opposition is lapsing into an agenda set by the BJP — of overt Hinduism and hyper-nationalism. The Opposition may attempt to provide nuance within this framework but nuance neither lends itself well to mass communication nor is it an electorally salient strategy — voters may get confused. Most importantly, this strategy seems to concede that Hindus, as long as they are ‘good’ Hindus, have some special right to rule India, instead of holding the non-negotiable bottom line that India belongs equally to all Indians, with citizenship conferred by birth and not religion. This brings us back to the question, if not Hindutva, then what? It is clear that the Opposition needs a coherent national narrative to mobilise public opinion. The national election is not an aggregate of different State elections. It is also facile to say that Mr. Modi got only 37% of the vote in 2019 because the BJP constructed its majority by securing over 50% vote share in 16 States. This underscores the limits of a plank constructed entirely around anti-BJPism because even if the Opposition had come together, it wouldn’t have changed the outcome. The next step then is not backroom parleys to anoint the Leader of the Opposition but deliberation on a narrative and collaboration on political programmes. Public leaders lose legitimacy if they frame their personal ambitions without a broader appeal to public interest. In the absence of an expansive people’s agenda, this is a danger to the Opposition now. Ruchi Gupta is co-founder and director, Future of India Foundation, and Advisor, Samruddha Bharat Foundation. Twitter: guptar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/if-not-hindutva-then-what/article38052078.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Belagavi on the boil||The border town of Belagavi, which has been a part of Karnataka since 1956, has been tense over the last fortnight. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), a Marathi outfit formed to seek Belagavi’s inclusion into Maharashtra, made a fresh bid to rekindle the decades-old Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute. While the Karnataka Government has been holding the winter session of the Legislature in Belagavi since 2006, to send a message that the town is a part of the State, the MES has been holding ‘Maha Melava’ rallies to coincide with the session to press for its demand. This time, trouble began after some Kannada activists blackened the face of a MES leader during the rally, which coincided with the first day of the session on December 13. In turn, some Marathi outfits burnt the Kannada flag in Kolhapur in Maharashtra. This was widely condemned by Kannada organisations and the Basavaraj Bommai-led government in Karnataka. To settle scores, some Kannada activists poured ink on a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji in Bengaluru. MES activists then vandalised a statue of Sangolli Rayanna, a 19th century icon of Karnataka who fought the British, at Belagavi. These incidents have spurred some Kannada organisations to call for a State bandh on December 31. Though not all organisations are on board with the bandh call, the demand for a ban of the MES has been articulated widely among Kannada groups and a section of politicians. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray condemned the Shivaji statue incident, and sought the Centre’s intervention. Mr. Bommai said Karnataka would stand with border villages with a large Kannadiga population if they wished to be part of the State, which irked the Maharashtra Government. The MES, founded on the eve of Independence, is not a political party but its members have been sending out representatives to the Assembly and to the local body as independent candidates. However, its political fortunes have been sagging lately. Control over the town of Belagavi is a powerful symbol of MES politics. Political conflict along linguistic lines continues to be a major factor in local politics in Belagavi and has also resonated beyond the local level. It was in 1966 that then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi found herself under pressure to show some action towards resolving the border row. For this purpose, she established the Mahajan Commission a few months before the 1967 general elections and its report was released after the elections. It said Belagavi town should stay with Karnataka. The decision was not accepted by Maharashtra. A petition by Maharashtra in the Supreme Court, staking a claim over Belagavi, is pending. One major factor for renewal of the conflict came in 1986 from then Karnataka Chief Minister Ramakrishna Hegde when he made the Kannada language test mandatory for anyone joining the State Government service. Though the decision was apparently aimed at bolstering the Janata Party’s position, the stoppage of the concession given to linguistic minorities strained relations between two linguistic groups. Later, Hegde had to assure Marathi leaders that Kannada would not be made compulsory in primary education in the border areas. MES-supported candidates, who have been winning one or more seats in the district since the 1957 Karnataka Assembly elections, were defeated in the 2018 Assembly elections. As another election draws close in 2023, the MES is keen to revive its political fortunes. Three decades ago, political scientist Atul Kohli had noted that the MES will become irrelevant if the border dispute is allowed to die. While keeping the issue alive serves political purposes on both sides, the onus is on the two State governments to ensure peace at the borders. nagesh.p@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/belagavi-on-the-boil/article38052080.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A progressive step||The announcement by the Nagaland government that a high-powered panel will be set up to look into the withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act in the State addresses a key concern in the Northeast following the Mon massacre where a botched ambush by an armed forces unit led to the deaths of 15 civilians earlier this month. As is typical of how the Union government has dealt with issues concerning Nagaland in the recent past, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) — whose Additional Secretary (Northeast) is to head the committee — has been tight-lipped about the proposed panel with the information about it emanating only from the Nagaland government. Nevertheless, the gesture to set up a panel, even if it is acknowledged only by the Nagaland government, should help in assuaging some concerns of citizens of the State who had immediately associated the massacre with the impunity afforded by the unpopular Act. The Indian Army has also reiterated that it deeply regretted the loss of lives and that a probe into the incident was progressing, even as the Nagaland government in its statement mentioned that a court of inquiry will initiate disciplinary proceedings against the Army unit and personnel involved in the incident. The Act is in place in Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, three districts of Arunachal Pradesh, and areas falling within the jurisdiction of eight police stations of the State bordering Assam, with the authority to use force or open fire to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”. The Meghalaya Chief Minister has already sought its revocation in the Northeast, while Manipur is also set to discuss the demand for its repeal. People in the Northeast associate the series of civilian killings in the region over a number of years with the Act being in effect. The Justice Jeevan Reddy Committee set up by the previous UPA-led government at the Centre in 2005 had recommended the repeal of the Act calling it “highly undesirable” and that it created an impression that civilians in the Northeast were being targeted for hostile treatment. But the Act has remained in place because of the resolute opposition to its repeal by the Army. The panel can take recourse to studying precedents — Tripura revoked the Act in May 2015 after noticing an improvement on the ground in the State while Meghalaya did the same on April 1, 2018. Both States did so after the Act was in force for decades. A clear-cut understanding on the definition and the extent of “disturbed areas” in Nagaland following discussions among the State, the MHA and armed forces’ representatives will go a long way in working towards a rethink on the Act’s relevance in the entire region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-progressive-step/article38052063.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Tightening grip||July 1, 2022 will mark 25 years since Hong Kong’s return to China. Next year’s anniversary is imbued with a special significance. It marks the halfway point in Deng Xiaoping’s 50-year guarantee, made in 1997, that Hong Kong’s “previous capitalist system and way of life shall remain unchanged for 50 years”, a promise enshrined in the Basic Law under which Hong Kong is governed. For much of the past 24 years, Hong Kong defied wide expectations that the “one country, two systems” model would crumble shortly after the handover. On the contrary, it thrived as an unlikely democratic enclave within an authoritarian state, and as Asia’s financial centre, which global firms eyed as a gateway to the China market. Recent developments, however, suggest the model is coming under unprecedented stress. On December 23, construction crew quietly removed one of the most well-known statues, the “Pillar of Shame”, standing on the campus of Hong Kong University since 1997. It was erected after a commemoration that year of the June 4, 1989 crackdown at Tiananmen Square. The annual Tiananmen vigil at Hong Kong’s Victoria Park itself became a symbol of the freedoms enjoyed in the SAR. This year, the park was cordoned off by the police and the anniversary went without commemoration. Last week, memorials to Tiananmen at three other universities were also removed. A new national security law passed by China last year has been cited as the reason for the actions. The law also led to Hong Kong’s most well-known pro-democracy newspaper, Apple Daily , ceasing publication. Meanwhile, the SAR government is revising the academic curriculum to promote patriotism and dilute the emphasis on liberal values. The law, along with a radical overhaul of Hong Kong’s electoral system earlier this year, undoubtedly marks the two biggest changes since the handover. The electoral reforms reduced the share of directly elected representatives in Hong Kong’s legislature and introduced a new candidate review committee to ensure only “patriots” can run for office. Pro-Beijing candidates swept the “patriots only” polls on December 19, which saw the lowest turnout of any polls since 1997, with many of the pro-democracy opposition figures either boycotting the elections or unable to contest, a marked change from the December 2019 district elections held shortly after months of protests that were swept by the Opposition. The changes reflect Beijing’s sense of strength and perception that it is no longer bound by commitments made 24 years ago. Chinese officials, betting on the access to the China market offered by Hong Kong, believe the lure of commerce will not dent Hong Kong’s financial status. That may well be true, but the impact of the changes is being felt elsewhere. Across the Taiwan Strait, fewer and fewer people view the “one country, two systems” idea, once mooted as a possible model for peaceful unification, as a future that they would want.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tightening-grip/article38052064.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Age of marriage (From an Editorial)||A Census Survey of certain rural and urban blocks indicates that the median age of marriage is 16.1 in villages and 17.1 in the urban areas. The tendency to-day among boys and girls is to postpone marriage until they are able to complete a certain course of education and become self-reliant economically. In the case of girls, particularly those from the lower middle class, the persistence of traditional extortions like the dowry also causes postponement until such time the parents feel they can afford to pay up. The median age would be even higher but for the very early marriages that still take place in many backward pockets largely due to the lack of awareness of the implicit economic responsibility. It is reported, for instance, that as many as 69 per cent of girls and 39 per cent of boys in Haryana villages are married at below the age of 15. It is much more shocking to learn that 26.4 per cent of the brides and 11.5 per cent of bridegrooms in these cases were below 10 years of age. The Government of India is now understood to have decided to raise the age of marriage of boys to 21 from 18 and of girls to 18 from 15, with special safeguards against any breach of this provision. The safeguards consist in the two-fold responsibility of the enforcement machinery to educate the illiterate and backward classes about the economic risks of child marriage and to bring to the notice of the Government for suitable action cases of infringement of the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/age-of-marriage-from-an-editorial/article38052072.ece
28 December 2021||MUMBAI,||RBL Bank’s financial health stable, says RBI; stock slides 18%||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday said the financial position of RBL Bank Ltd. remains ‘satisfactory’ and that depositors need not worry. “There has been speculation relating to RBL Bank Ltd. in certain quarters, which appears to be arising from recent events surrounding the bank,” the RBI said in a statement. On Monday, the bank’s stock plunged 18.3% to Rs. 140.90 on the BSE. “The bank is well capitalised and the financial position of the bank remains satisfactory. As per half-yearly audited results as on September 30, 2021, the bank has maintained a comfortable Capital Adequacy Ratio of 16.33% and Provision Coverage Ratio of 76.6%,” it said. “The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) of the bank is 153% as on December 24, 2021 as against regulatory requirement of 100%,” it added. “There is no need for depositors and other stakeholders to react to speculative reports. The bank’s financial health remains stable,” the RBI said. The RBI also clarified that “appointment of Additional Director/s in private banks is undertaken... as and when it is felt that the board needs closer support in regulatory / supervisory matters.” On December 24, the RBI had appointed Yogesh K. Dayal, Chief General Manager, RBI, as additional director to the bank’s board with a two-year tenure. The next day, the board accepted the request of its MD and CEO Vishwavir Ahuja to proceed on leave with immediate effect. The board also appointed executive director Rajeev Ahuja as interim MD and CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbl-banks-financial-health-stable-says-rbi-stock-slides-18/article38052055.ece
28 December 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Assets under management by LIC doubled in 2020-21’||The Assets Under Management (AUMs) of the IPO-bound Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) more than doubled to Rs. 36.7 trillion on a standalone basis in FY21 from Rs. 16.18 trillion in the previous year, according to officials privy to presentations made to potential investors. AUMs comprise investments made by the behemoth and assets held to cover linked liabilities. LIC’s AUMs exceed that for the entire Indian mutual funds industry, which had AUM of approximately Rs. 31.4 trillion, the officials said. These are some of the data points the LIC management highlighted to potential investors ahead of its Initial Public Offering (IPO), which is expected to hit the market in the last quarter of this fiscal. The officials also pointed out that LIC’s equity holdings equal about 4% of the National Stock Exchange’s (NSE) total market cap. As of August 2021, the NSE had a market cap of $3.4 trillion. They said LIC commanded market share of 66% in the Indian life insurance industry. In the 2019-2021 period, LIC grew at a compounded annual growth rate of 13.2%. As of March 31, 2020, LIC’s total investment portfolio stood at Rs. 33.7 lakh crore, roughly four times that of the total for private insurance firms, they said. Interestingly, its non-performing assets are about 6%, compared with the industry norm of 1.5-2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/assets-under-management-by-lic-doubled-in-2020-21/article38052053.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Google moves HC, seeks more time to respond in CCI probe||Tech titan Google has filed a writ in the Karnataka High Court seeking more time to reply to CCI’s queries pertaining to a probe into Play Store rules. Google said it respects the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) investigative process and “will continue to engage cooperatively and constructively in the interest of a fair investigation”. “We have filed a writ in Karnataka High Court regarding the interim relief application in the Google Play probe by the CCI, seeking to move forward in line with established due process principles,” a Google spokesperson said in an email on Monday. A source aware of the company’s position on the matter said Google had extended the timeline for developers in India to integrate with Play’s billing system to October 31, 2022. The source also said that Google believed this voluntary extension of the deadline extinguishes the need for the ‘interim injunctive relief’ sought by ADIF (Alliance of Digital India Foundation). Hence, the insistence on tight timelines is ‘concerning as there is no cause for undue haste’, the source added. Google also made some other ‘procedural’ requests to the CCI with regard to identity of the complainants as well as the inclusion of a judicial member in the probe panel. In the ‘absence of any urgency’, Google believed the CCI should observe due process in the interest of a fair and thorough investigation, the source said. Earlier this month, Google said it was deferring the deadline for developers in India to integrate with its Play billing system from March 2022 to October next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-moves-hc-seeks-more-time-to-respond-in-cci-probe/article38052048.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Digital, new energy, health set to be Tatas’ strategy themes’||Digital, new energy, supply chain resilience and health will be the themes of the over $100-billion Tata Group’s strategy going forward, according to its chairman N. Chandrasekaran, even as he asserted that all ambitions were contingent on learning to live with the coronavirus. In his New Year address to the more than eight lakh employees of the salt-to-software conglomerate, Mr. Chandrasekaran said businesses and society must adapt to the virus by preparing as ‘best as we can for new outbreaks and variants. We are seeing this now with the spread of Omicron.’ Reflecting on the year gone by, he said the group is becoming ‘simpler and financially stronger than we have been in a long time.’ “We have also made good progress addressing our carbon footprint and positioning our companies to benefit from revolutionary new technologies. Our most important milestone this year culminated in our bid to win Air India. It is indeed a historic moment,” he said. On the way forward, he said, “Our strategy, looking ahead, has four themes: digital, new energy, supply chain resilience, and health. Our companies are already adapting to these changes, and we are witnessing a stronger performance.” The group’s new pilots and businesses, from 5G to TataNeu (digital platform) and Tata Electronics, are poised to benefit from these four themes going forward. He said as a business, the group can play its part in the evolution of India, with its ambitions to become a $3 trillion economy by 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/digital-new-energy-health-set-to-be-tatas-strategy-themes/article38052050.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dec. exports rise 28% from pre-pandemic level||India’s merchandise exports have hit $23.82 billion in the first three weeks of December, almost 28% higher than in the same period in the pre-COVID year 2019, the Commerce Ministry said on Monday. The country’s exports in November stood at $30.04 billion, but imports had surged faster taking the country’s trade deficit that month to a record $22.9 billion. “Exports in the first three weeks of this month are 36.2% [higher] over the same period of 2020 and up by 27.7% from the corresponding weeks in December 2019,” an official said, adding that outbound shipments in the third week of this month accounted for about $7.36 billion. “Goods exports, excluding petroleum products, increased in this three-week period by 28.08% compared to 2020 and 28.75% over the corresponding period of 2019-20,” the official added. $120-bn deficit this fiscal Total merchandise exports between April and November of 2021 were $263.57 billion, while the total imports stood at $384.34 billion, leading to an overall trade deficit of more than $120 billion so far in this financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dec-exports-rise-28-from-pre-pandemic-level/article38052058.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘DoT’s 5G test bed to be ready by Dec. 31’||The indigenous 5G test bed project, funded by the telecom department, has reached the final stages and the project is likely to be completed by December 31, according to an official statement. According to the statement, telecom operators, including Bharti Airtel, Jio and Vodafone Idea have established 5G trial sites in Gurugram, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Delhi, Jamnagar, Ahmadabad, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Pune and Gandhi Nagar.   “Costing about Rs. 224 crore, the project is likely to be completed by December 31, paving the way for end-to-end testing of 5G user equipment (UE) and network equipment by 5G stakeholders,” DoT said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dots-5g-test-bed-to-be-ready-by-dec-31/article38052060.ece
28 December 2021||Mumbai,||IPPB signs MoU with HDFC Bank to provide banking products in semi-urban, rural India||India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with HDFC Bank to offer various banking products and services to its [IPPB] customers in semi-urban and rural areas, focusing on unbanked and underserved segments. More than 4.7 crore customers of IPPB are expected to benefit from this partnership, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ippb-signs-mou-with-hdfc-bank-to-provide-banking-products-in-semi-urban-rural-india/article38052052.ece
28 December 2021||Mumbai,||Rainbow files papers with SEBI for over Rs. 2,000-crore IPO||Rainbow Children’s Medicare Ltd., a multi-specialty hospital chain backed by the U.K.-based CDC Group Plc., has filed the draft red herring prospectus with SEBI for an initial public offering (IPO). The IPO size is expected to be more than Rs. 2,000 crore. The company proposes to use the proceeds towards early redemption of NCDs, capital expenditure and general corporate purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rainbow-files-papers-with-sebi-for-over-rs-2000-crore-ipo/article38052056.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Capillary Technologies files draft papers to raise Rs 850 cr via IPO||Capillary Technologies (India) Ltd., backed by Warburg Pincus and Sequoia Capital, has filed preliminary papers with markets regulator SEBI to raise Rs. 850 crore through an initial share-sale. The initial public offering (IPO) consists of a fresh issue of equity shares aggregating to Rs. 200 crore and an offer-for-sale of Rs. 650 crore by Capillary Technologies International Pte. Ltd.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/capillary-technologies-files-draft-papers-to-raise-rs-850-cr-via-ipo/article38052057.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||JSW Group to provide up to Rs 3 lakh incentive to employees to buy EVs from Jan 1||JSW Group on Monday announced an initiative to provide up to Rs. 3 lakh in incentives to its employees to buy electric vehicles (EVs) across India. This electric vehicle policy will come into effect for its nationwide workforce on January 1. The new EV policy will facilitate up to Rs. 3 lakh incentive for employees to purchase electric vehicles, it said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jsw-group-to-provide-up-to-rs-3-lakh-incentive-to-employees-to-buy-evs-from-jan-1/article38052059.ece
28 December 2021||Birmingham,||Lukaku engineers Chelsea’s come-from-behind win||Romelu Lukaku came on to score his first Premier League goal since September to keep Chelsea in the title race as the European champion came from behind to beat Aston Villa 3-1. Reece James’ own goal put Villa ahead, but Jorginho quickly levelled from the penalty spot in a clash between two of the many English sides hit by cases of coronavirus. Lukaku was one of Chelsea’s absentees due to a positive test for draws against Everton and Wolves last week that saw it lose ground in the title race. But he made his return off the bench at the break and made an almost instant impact to head home Callum Hudson Odoi’s cross. The Belgian’s blistering run then won a second Chelsea penalty in stoppage time that Jorginho slotted home. Thomas Tuchel’s men move level on points with Liverpool, which has a game in hand, and back to within six of Manchester City. Villa’s own Covid outbreak saw manager Steven Gerrard forced into isolation after he tested positive on Christmas Day. Gerrard has made a big impression since taking over in November, but this was another lesson in the gap he has to bridge to the Premier League’s top three after defeats to City and Liverpool. The home side got off to the perfect start when James flicked Matt Targett’s effort over his own goalkeeper Edouard Mendy to open the scoring on 28 minutes. However, the lead lasted just six minutes due to Matty Cash’s rash challenge on Hudson-Odoi inside the area. Jorginho was Chelsea’s top league scorer last season despite all of his goals coming from penalties and the Italian international is his side’s leading marksmen in all competitions thanks to nine spot-kicks this season. Lukaku will expect that to change over the coming weeks as the club’s record signing finds his form after a disrupted start to his second spell at Stamford Bridge. He is still yet to start in the Premier League since suffering an ankle injury in October, with his positive test for Covid coming just as he was returning to full fitness. But a Lukaku in form is what Chelsea needs if it is to mount a serious title challenge with clashes against Liverpool and City to come in January. The former Manchester United striker took just 11 minutes to make the difference as he timed his run perfectly to meet Hudson-Odoi’s cross and powered a header low past Emiliano Martinez. Chelsea should have run out more a comfortable winner as Mason Mount dragged his shot wide with the goal gaping after rounding Martinez. The Argentine then spread himself to deny Hudson-Odoi when one-on-one. But the only way Ezri Konsa could stop Lukaku as he powered his way through the Villa defence late on was by hauling him down and Jorginho got the better on Martinez once more from the spot. Neal Maupay struck a stunning goal against his former club as Brighton picked up a first Premier League win in 12 games by beating Brentford. Maupay sent an unstoppable effort into the top right corner in the 42nd minute after Leandro Trossard had already volleyed Brighton in front. Brentford had second-half opportunities to salvage something but was denied by a couple of superb saves from Brighton goalkeeper Robert Sanchez, while home defender Marc Cucurella cleared Ethan Pinnock’s header off the line. Victory for Graham Potter’s side ended a poor streak stretching back to a 2-1 success over Leicester on Sept. 19, and it lifted the south coast team to ninth in the standings. Brentford is three points behind in 13th place in its first Premier League campaign.  The results:   Aston Villa 1 (James 28-og) lost to Chelsea 3 (Jorginho 34-pen, 90-pen, Lukaku 56); Brighton 2 (Trossard 34, Maupay 42) bt Brentford 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lukaku-engineers-chelseas-come-from-behind-win/article38052364.ece
28 December 2021||Centurion,||Unrelenting rain results in washout on the second day||Covers guarded the square, super sopper was at work, and the groundsmen toiled. But then, rain was unrelenting on day two of the first Freedom Test between India and South Africa at the SuperSport Park here on Monday. The day’s play was abandoned in the afternoon without a ball being bowled. India held the aces finishing day one at 272 for three with K.L. Rahul unbeaten on a 248-ball 122. And the freestroking Ajinkya Rahane, finally finding some form, was on a busy 40. India would have sought to consolidate on the second day. Now it has to race against the clock with an entire day’s play being washed out. The visitor would surely relook its game-plan for the next three days. Will India go for quick runs on the first session of day three (if weather permits play) and a declaration is on the cards somewhere. Rahul Dravid was an attacking captain and his mindset is likely to be no different as a coach. Fortunately, the forecast for Tuesday and Wednesday is much better. However, a downpour is expected on day five. Outstanding innings The break in play also gave us an opportunity to reflect on K.L. Rahul’s outstanding innings. His was a knock that had everything, impeccable judgment around off-stump, patience, a sound defence, decisive footwork and typically flowing strokes. Importantly, he played the ball late that is so crucial on these pitches against the sort of attack he faced. Rahul did not commit himself and get caught out. He allowed the ball to come to the bat, watching it till the last moment. And anything outside his eyeline, he ‘left.’ The point is when you ‘leave’ so well — Rahul was letting go deliveries that were only just outside the off-stump — frustration sets in for the bowler. And then his line gradually shifts. And when it gets to middle-and-leg, it is easy pickings. When the ball was at the stumps, Rahul’s defensive bat appeared as broad as the sight screen. Breathtaking strokeplay And when it was pitched up at the stumps, he drove beautifully. Some of his cover-drives, all grace, elegance and class, took one’s breath away. The manner Rahul got on top of the bounce to punch the pacemen between cover and point off the backfoot showed he was comfortable batting on such pitches. The body weight was beautifully distributed, and there was balance. Rahul can be a compulsive hooker and puller and the South African pacemen did bounce at him. However, Rahul, his sights set on a big innings, did not fall for the bait. He let these deliveries go. Only in the later stages of his innings did Rahul venture into the hook and was fortunate that a top-edge fell just short of Jansen running in from long-leg. Constructing an innings, brick by brick, is an art. You got to be diligent, show enterprise when the occasion demands and keep your concentration levels high. Dravid always spoke about ‘staying in the present’ and switching ‘on’ and ‘off’ between deliveries to retain focus. Rahul did very much that, never allowing his mind to drift. He was on the ‘ball’. And he had a willing opening partner in the resilient Mayank Agarwal. The value of opening partnerships on away campaigns cannot be overemphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unrelenting-rain-results-in-washout-on-the-second-day/article38052310.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Mirabai Chanu lifted Indian spirits with a silver at Tokyo||Mirabai Chanu’s heart-warming tale of redemption at the Tokyo Olympics was the defining moment for Indian weightlifting in a reasonably successful 2021 but the sport itself faced an uncertain future globally with long-standing governance and doping-related problems threatening its place in the Olympics going forward. Mirabai, a former world champion, had left the 2016 Rio Olympics in tears after failing to log a legitimate lift but five years on, she displayed brilliant composure for a historic silver medal. This, despite the fact that her plans took a hit when the Olympics were postponed by a year, leading to her schedule going haywire amid the COVID-19 pandemic. She set a new world record in the clean and jerk section and also bettered her own national record en route winning her first Asian Championship medal, a bronze in April. The 27-year-old Indian lifted 86kg in snatch and a world record of 119kg in clean and jerk for a total of 205kg, getting the better of both her Chinese opponents who won the gold and silver. The year only got better for Mirabai, who now has medals in all big tournaments barring the Asian Games. With a new world record in her kitty and an imbalance issue sorted, Mirabai, was one of India’s brightest medal hopes heading into the Olympics and she lived up to that top billing. She opened the country’s tally on the opening day, an unprecedented feat that sent the entire nation into a frenzy. Sporting Olympic-ring-shaped earrings gifted to her by her mother before the 2016 Rio Games, the diminutive iron lady from Manipur capitalised on the not-so-competitive field and clinched the 49kg category silver medal in Tokyo. Born in a poor family in Nongpok Kakching village about 20 kilometres from Imphal, Mirabai, whose childhood was spent cutting and collecting wood from the nearby hills, and fetching water from nearby ponds in milk powder cans, lifted a total of 202kg (87kg+115kg). It was not her personal best but it was enough to end India’s over two-decade-long wait for a weightlifting medal at the Olympics. Karnam Malleswari was the first to do that with a bronze in the Sydney Games in 2000. With that massive achievement, Mirabai’s year ended as the Manipuri pulled out of the World Championship and Commonwealth Championships which were held simultaneously. Bitersweet year While Mirabai was the lone ranger for India in weightlifting at the Olympics, Jeremy Lalrinnunga, touted as the one for the future in the sport, endured a bittersweet year. He missed out on an Olympic spot in the 67kg category due to a knee injury suffered during the Asian Championships which also compromised his performance at the junior world championships a month later. However, the teenager from Mizoram, who is a 2018 Youth Olympics champion, was able to end the year with a gold medal at the Commonwealth Championships earlier this month. With a top of the podium finish at the event, Jeremy also booked a spot for the 2022 Birmingham Commonwealth Games as did Achinta Sheuli (73kg), who also bagged a silver medal at the junior world championships in May. Ajay Singh (81kg) and Purnima Pandey (+87kg) too won gold medals at the event. The country’s lifters, despite capping off the year by winning 18 medals in the Commonwealth Championships and smashing several national records, weren’t competitive at the Worlds, which was pretty much expected. Hanging in balance In the global scheme of things, as lifters around the world continued to harbour dreams of participating in the Olympics, the fate of the sport at future Games hung in balance. Dismayed by decades of rampant doping, bribery, vote-rigging and corruption at weightlifting’s highest levels, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) finally took action and threatened to drop the sport from the Olympic roster. Earlier this month, the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) was described as a problem due to corruption and history of doping by IOC president Thomas Bach.  Weightlifting was left off the initial list for the 2028 Los Angeles Games, which will be placed before the IOC members for approval in February. Since then, the IWF has been busy repairing its tarnished image but only time will tell whether it would be able to secure a future for the sport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirabai-chanu-lifted-indian-spirits-with-a-silver-at-tokyo-olympics/article38052362.ece
28 December 2021||KOLKATA,||Tiago scores a brace for Real Kashmir||Brazilian Tiago Adan’s brace enabled Real Kashmir FC (RKFC) to record a 3-2 win over former champion Aizawl FC in an I-League encounter at the Kalyani Stadium on Monday. RKFC displayed its solid defence and made the most of the opportunities that came its way to collect three points. Tiago headed in a Surchandra Singh corner to put RKFC ahead in the ninth minute. Aizawl equalised through Lalthakima’s brilliant header in the 38th minute. Tiago slotted in a rebound following an attempt off a corner to restore RKFC’s lead at the stroke of half-time. Captain Mason Robertson’s header, which completed a beautiful move from the left, put RKFC in an advantageous position in the 66th minute. Aizawl, which had 70% of possession, narrowed the margin when Ramhlunchhunga stunned the Snow Leopards by slamming home a loose ball in the 85th minute. That made the closing minutes interesting, but could not stop the IFA Shield champion from beginning the season with a win. In another match, Spanish striker Sergio Mendigutxia’s hat-trick on debut powered Neroca FC to a 3-2 win over Sreenidi Deccan FC.  The results: Real Kashmir 3 (Tiago Adan 9, 45+2, Mason Robertson 66) bt Aizawl 2 (Lalthakima 38, Ramhulnchhunga 85).   Neroca 3 (Sergio Mendigutxia 16, 22, 50) bt Sreenidi Deccan 2 (Mahesh Khosla 41, David Munoz 59); Mohammedan SC 2 (Sk. Faiaz 13, Marcus Joseph 53) bt Sudeva Delhi 1 (Abhijit Sarkar 90+1)..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tiago-scores-a-brace-for-real-kashmir/article38052357.ece
28 December 2021||Melbourne,||Fire-breathing Australia takes stranglehold||A dazed England lost four wickets in a hostile late spell to leave it at 31 for four — still trailing Australia by 51 runs — and fighting to save its Ashes hopes after day two of a gripping third Test here on Monday. The visitors’ bad day began with the news of four positive COVID cases in their camp, although no players were among them. Anderson strikes Australia was all out for 267, earning an 82-run first-innings lead. Marcus Harris top-scored with a battling 76 against a dangerous English attack led by veteran Jimmy Anderson, who was at his fearsome best with four for 33 in 23 overs. After heavy defeats in Brisbane and Adelaide, England must win to keep the five-Test series alive, with Australia only needing a draw to retain the urn as holder. But faced with surviving the final hour against a revved-up Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins, England collapsed again. Struggling opener Zak Crawley never looked comfortable and after dodging 15 balls he was caught by wicketkeeper Alex Carey for five off Starc. Dawid Malan came in but incredibly was out first ball to Starc, lbw after an unsuccessful review. Then Scott Boland ruined Haseeb Hameed’s day on seven, with Carey pouching an edge. Fired-up Boland bowled Jack Leach without scoring two balls later to leave skipper Joe Root unbeaten on 12 and Ben Stokes on two — and England in deep trouble. Key wickets England earlier took its chances with the key wickets of Marnus Labuschagne (1) and Steve Smith (16), along with nightwatchman Nathan Lyon, before lunch. Harris and Travis Head (27) surrendered in the second session before England mopped up the rest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fire-breathing-australia-takes-stranglehold/article38052300.ece
28 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Ramkumar sanguine about the future||After his maiden ATP Challenger tennis title in Manama (Bahrain), India’s No. 1 Ramkumar Ramanathan is now gearing up for the 2022 Australian Open qualifying rounds to be held at the Melbourne Park from January 10 to 14. The 27-year-old ranked 184 in the world, has not qualified in any of his earlier Grand Slams, but the Manama victory has given him a world of confidence, and Ramkumar is eager to capitalise on the momentum and do his best. “I don’t want to put any pressure. I want to keep trying. I am happy where I am. That’s the most important part. I will take things as it comes,” said Ramkumar, at a felicitation function organised by AMPA Group, here on Monday, for bagging the singles title at Bahrain. Palaniappan Ampa, managing director of AMPA Group, said: “We are very happy to be associated with and promote Ramkumar. We would like to see him grow in the ATP ladder and reach the top 100.” Good opportunity Ramkumar said India has a good opportunity to beat Denmark on grass at home (New Delhi) in the Davis Cup World Group-I play-off tie to be held on March 4 and 5. “Denmark is a tough team, we can’t take them lightly. There are two good players in Mikael Torpegaard and Holger Rune, who has won five ATP Challenger Tour titles on clay this season. I honestly feel we have a good chance,” he said. His mentor T. Chandrasekaran said Ramkumar has all the resources to do even better. “Our immediate goal is to closer to the top 100.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-sanguine-about-the-future/article38052411.ece
28 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Massive win for SGPC||SGPC, Amritsar, took the honours, slamming in 21 goals against a hapless and goalless Damodar English High School, Goa, in a group B match on what was a day of high-scoring one-sided games at the 49th Nehru junior hockey tournament. Also pumping in a score of goals was Anwar Hockey Academy against Government Boys Sr. Sec. School, Poonch, in Group F.  The results: Group A: One Thousand Hockey Legs 2 (Anshuman Jha, Atif Mohd.) bt Mukherjee Seminary School, Muzaffarpur 0.   Group B: SGPC, Amritsar 21 (Harpreet Singh 4, Sukhman Singh 4, Charanjit Singh 4, Harshdeep Singh 3, Harwinder Singh 2, Sukhmanjit Singh, Kawaljit Singh, Navjot Singh, Jaskaranbir Singh) bt Damodar English HS, Goa 0.   Group C: Roundglass Punjab HA 26 (Gursewak Singh 6, Suraj 4, Shivam Rana 3, Harpreet Singh 3, Om Ranjesh Saini 3, Himanshu Bansal 2, Sukhpal Singh 2, Savraj Singh 2, Jarman Singh) bt Govt. Thakur Pyarelal School, Rajnandgaon 1 (Devendra Yadav).   Group D: St. Ignatius HS, Gumla 6 (Ankit Ekka, Premjeet Topno, Bukla Munda, Patras Hassa, Amrit Tirkey, Jiwan Purty) bt SRHS, Baria 0.   Group E: Malwa HA, Ludhiana 6 (Sukhwinder Singh 2, Arshdeep Singh, Novjot Singh, Manpreet Singh, Jasandeep Singh) bt CRZ Sr. Sec. School, Sonepat 3 (Anil 3).   Group F: Anwar HA, Pratapgarh 20 (Shahrukh Ali 6, Ketan Kushwaha 4, Arsh Mohd. 3, Arish Khursheed Mohd. 3, Mohd. Ahad 2, Danish Mohd. Atif Raynee Mohd.) bt GBSSS, Poonch 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/massive-win-for-sgpc/article38052500.ece
28 December 2021||Coimbatore,||SRMSC retains CDCA’s first division title||Sri Ramakrishna Mills Sports Club (SRMSC) retained the first division league title for the year 2019-20 and took home the Lakshmi Card Clothing Trophy during the 63rd CDCA Annual Day celebration here recently. Former India cricketer Sriram Sridharan, chief guest for the day, along with R.S. Ramasaamy, the TNCA Secretary, N. Venkataraman, its Assistant Secretary, K.S. Viswanathan, CEO of Chennai Super Kings and D. Lakshminarayanaswamy, the CDCA president, gave away the trophies to the winners and the best performers.  CDCA league winners (2019-20): I div. (Lakshmi Card Clothing Trophy): 1. Sri Ramakrishna Mills SC, 2. Sri Ramakrishna CT.   II div. ( Universal Heat Exchangers Trophy): 1 Sri Ramakrishna CAS, 2. Rajasekar Mani MCC.   III div. (N. Damodharan Welfare Trust Trophy): 1. EAP CA, 2. Sri Shakthi IET CC.   IV div. (Elgi Equipments Trophy): 1. Sachin CC, 2. Kovai Comrades.   V div. (CASA Grande Trophy): 1. Kongu CC, Devil Strokers.   VI div. (CDCA Trophy): 1. Kovai Legends CA, National Sports School CA.   CDCA inter-school tournaments: U-12 (A.V. Lakshmanan Chettiyar Trophy): 1. R.K. Sreerangammal Kalvi Nilayam HSS, 2. Sri Satchidananda Jothi Niketan IS, Kallar.   U-14 (Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis Trophy): 1. Sri Ramakrishna MSS, 2. Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Vidyalaya MHSS.   U-16 (TSS & Co Trophy): 1. Sri Ramakrishna MHSS, 2. Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Vidyalaya MHSS.   Non age group (Coimbatore United Round Table 186 Trophy): 1. Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Vidyalaya MHSS, Sri Ramakrishna MHSS.   Inter-district: CDCA senior team winners of S.S Rajan Trophy.   Best performers:   I div.: Batsman: S. Radhakrishnan (Sri Ramakrishna CT); bowler: T. Veeramani (Kovai Knights); wicketkeeper: E. Manoharan (Sri Ramakrishna Mills SC).   II div.: Batsman: T. Vijay Abimanyu (Sri Ramakrishna CAS); bowler: A.H. Abul Hakkim; wicketkeeper: V. Madasamy (RKS CA).   III div.: Batsman: K. Kabib Sanjay (Sri Shakthi IET); bowler: R. Marimuthu (EAP); wicketkeeper: V. Mithun Chandar (Sri Shakthi IET).   IV div.: Batsman: A. Rajeel Abdul Rahman (Kovai Comrades); bowler: M. Siva Alaghu Nachiyappan (Sachin CC); wicketkeeper: S. Muthukumar (Young Friends).   V div.: Batsman: M. Sakthivel (Devil Strokers); bowler: G. Shabeer (GCC); wicketkeeper: M. Sakthivel.   VI div.: Batsman: R. Suresh Babu (National Sports School); bowler: K. Narasimhan (Kovai Legends); wicketkeeper: R. Vengadesh (National Sports School).   Overall best performances bt Vels Arena.com:   Batsman: R. Suresh Babu; bowler: R. Marimuthu (EAP); wicketkeeper: M. Sakthivel.   Best maintained ground: PSGIMSR ‘A’.   Best markers: Sri Ramakrishna CAS .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srmsc-retains-cdcas-first-division-title/article38052446.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Harsha and Vaishali shine on opening day||Harsha Bharathakoti lived up to his reputation of being a fine player in the shorter time duration as he notched up 3.5 points, same as Vidit Gujrathi, after five rounds of the World rapid chess championship at Warsaw on Sunday. In the 13-round competition, defending champion Magnus Carlsen (Norway), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Poland) and Jobava Baadur (Georgia) shared the lead on 4.5 points in the 173-player field. The players are allotted 15 minutes on the clock plus 10-second increments for each move. In the 11-round women’s competition, 49th-ranked R. Vaishali kept the Indian flag flying by holding the fourth position with 3.5 points from four rounds. Notably, she stunned fourth seed Marika Muzychuk (Ukraine) and 18th seed Alina Kashlinskaya, representing Chess Federation of Russia (CFR), following a creditable draw with 16th seed Nino Batsiashvili (Georgia) in the second round. Alexandra Konsteniuk and Valentina Gunina (both CRF) shared the lead at four points.  Among the Indians, Harsha punched way above his weight. Armed with a starting rank of 110, the youngster defeated 22nd seed Rauf Memedov (Aze), 36th-ranked Vladislav Kovalev (FIDE) and Volodymyr Onyshchuk (Ukr) in the first three rounds before losing to Carlsen. He drew with 30th seed Sergie Movsesian (Arm) to share the 17th spot. Vidit defeated three lower-rated rivals, but lost to fourth seed Ian Nepomniachtchi (CRF) and drew with fifth seed Maxime Vachier-Lagrave before setting up a sixth-round meeting with sixth seed Fabiano Caruana (USA). The biggest disappointment was P. Harikrishna, the highest rated Indian in the field. The 18th seed, rated 2705, managed only two points to be placed 130th.  Indians’ points-tally: Open (after five rounds): Vidit Gujrathi, Harsha Bharathakoti (3.5 each), Nihal Sarin, S.L. Narayanan, D. Gukesh (3 each), Abhimanyu Puranik, Raunak Sadhwani, Arjun Erigaisi, Mitrabha Guha, Aditya Mittal (2.5 each), P. Harikrishna (2) and Sankalp Gupta (1).   Women (after four rounds): R. Vaishali (3.5), K. Humpy, Vantika Agarwal (2.5) and Padmini Rout (2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harsha-and-vaishali-shine-on-opening-day/article38052302.ece
28 December 2021||Centurion,||Olivier missed Test due to COVID hangover and hamstring strain||When the South African XI was announced on Sunday, just about everyone was surprised. Where was Duanne Olivier, widely tipped to take Anrich Nortje’s place in the eleven. Instead young left-arm quick Marco Jansen was handed a Test debut. Now it has come to light that it was not a case of Olivier not being picked; he was forced to miss the Test because of COVID-19 hangover and a hamstring strain. “Duanne Olivier is healthy and well, but did return a positive COVID-19 test result a number of weeks ago, which forced him to quarantine and took time away from his training ahead of the current Betway Test series against India,” Victor Mpitsang, the convenor of selectors said. Mpitsang revealed, “Olivier picked up a hamstring niggle during the two-day, inter-squad match at the start of the camp and the selectors did not want to risk him unnecessarily when there are two more Test matches to think about.” In all likelihood, Olivier will feature in the second Test at the Wanderers, his home ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olivier-missed-test-due-to-covid-hangover-and-hamstring-strain/article38052303.ece
28 December 2021||Centurion,||‘South African team is searching for its identity’||Alviro Petersen’s eyes, that picked out the little things around him on a rainy, gloomy day revealed the kind of resilience that enabled him carve out a successful career for South Africa after toiling in the domestic circuit for long. He formed a fruitful partnership with Graeme Smith at the top of the order and finished with 2093 Test runs in 36 matches at a creditable average of 34.88 batting in difficult seamer-friendly conditions. “This South African team is searching for its identity,” he said in a chat with The Hindu here on Monday. Transitional phase He added, “There have been so many retirements and the team is going through a transitional phase.” Was Dean Elgar the best man for captaincy? “We do not have anyone else at the moment. Perhaps Aiden Markram but he is still young,” he said. When Petersen made his Test debut, against India at the Eden Gardens in 2010, the South African line-up had Smith, Hashim Amla, Jacques Kallis, A.B. de Villiers, Ashwell Prince and Jean-Paul Duminy. Now there are holes in the Proteas’ line-up. Petersen felt the quality of domestic competition had gone down in South Africa. “Domestic cricket is not producing quality cricketers any more. Previously, we had six teams and all of them were strong. Now we have 11 teams and have many mediocre players in there.” The 41-year-old South African opener was mighty impressed with the 117-run opening partnership between K.L. Rahul and Mayank Agarwal. He said, “To me it was a statement of intent. They were putting a marker and saying we are here to fight and win. The partnership set the tone for the series.” Petersen lavished praise on Rahul’s unbeaten century. “It is the finest hundred I have seen from a sub-continental opener in South African conditions.” Always in control He elaborated, “Rahul left so well. And he made them bowl to him. He was patient, waited before playing his shots and was always in control. And he handled the short-pitched bowling so well.” Petersen said the South African pacemen should pitch the ball up and make the Indian batsmen play. He had a lot of respect for the Indian pace pack. “They bowl to a game-plan. Bumrah is the spearhead. He pushes the batsmen back and the follow-up delivery is fantastic.” On big runs eluding India skipper Virat Kohli, Petersen said, “All great batsmen go through such phases. But his dismissal yesterday showed however good you might look, you are never quite ‘in’ on these South African pitches.” Like us all, Petersen is craving for brightness and sunshine at Centurion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-african-team-is-searching-for-its-identity/article38052305.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Siril downs Sankalp||Top seed A.S.S. Siril Varma defeated Sankalp Chandragurala of Maharashtra 21-13, 21-14 in the men’s singles first round (main draw) of the BAI Series senior badminton tournament here on Monday.  The results (from Telangana otherwise mentioned):   First round: Men: A.S.S. Siril Varma bt Sankalp Chandragurala (Mah) 21-13, 21-14; K. Sathish Kumar (TN) bt K. Jagadeesh (AP) 21-18, 21-8; Aditya Joshi (Utr) bt Alap Mishra (MP) 21-18, 15-21, 21-16; S. Bhargav (Kar) bt H. Arunesh (TN) 21-18, 21-16; Kiran George (Ker) bt Maisnam Meiraba (Mnp) 21-13, 21-15; Siddhanth Gupta (TN) bt Rishabh Deshpande (Mah) 21-14, 21-15; Dhruv Rawat (Utr) bt M. Srivarshan (TN) 17-21, 21-16 (retd.); Kartik Jindal (Har) bt Himanish Das (Asm) 21-7, 21-7.   Kartikey Gulshan Kumar (Dli) bt Rohan Gurbani (AI) 21-10, 21-6; Darshan Pujari (Mah) bt P. Kashyap (PSCB) 19-21, 21-14 (retd.).   Bodhit Joshi (Utr) bt Harshit Aggarwal (Kar) 22-20, 21-8; G. Aditya Bapineedu bt S. Sankar Muthusamy (TN) 21-18, 21-13; Siddth Pratap Singh (Chg) bt Nabeel Ahmed (Mah) 21-16, 21-12; Chirag Seth (UP) bt Aman Kumar (Har) 21-16, 19-21, 21-12; M. Raghu (Kar) bt M. Kiran Kumar 21-17, 21-7; Kaushal Dmamer (Mah) bt B.S. Vaibhav (Kar) 21-16, 21-17; Bharat Raghav (Har) bt Anant Shivam Jindal (Har) 21-7 (retd.); Abhishek Yeligar (Kar) bt Harshal Bhoyar (MP) 21-16, 21-16; P. Sai Vishnu bt Dhruv Kumar (Del) 21-14, 21-16; M. Mithun (Rly) bt R.M.V. Guru Sai Dutt (PSCB) 21-12, 21-18; G. Pranav Rao bt B.M. Rahul Bharavaj (Kar) 21-18, 18-21, 24-22; Abhishek Saini (Har) bt Siddharth Thakur (Mah) 21-11, 21-10.   Women: Aakarshi Kashya (Chg) bt Navya Kanderi (AP) 21-6, 21-12; V. Shriyanshi bt B. Prashansa 21-16, 22-20; Vidushi Singh (Del) bt S. Kavipriya (Py) 20-14 (retd.); K. Preethi (AP) bt Taranjeet Kaur (UP) 21-14, 21-15; Kanika Kanwal (Rly) bt Sneha Rajwar (Utr) 21-19, 21-7; Tara Shah (Mah) bt Chimran Kalita (Asm) 21-17, 21-15; Mugdha Agrey (Mah) bt M. Akanksha (AP) 21-15, 21-10; M. Tanishq (AP) bt Unnati Bisht (Utr) 21-12, 21-12; R. Mounika (TN) w/o Ira Sharma (Har); A. Neysa Cariappa (Kar) bt Smit Toshniwal (Mah) 21-14, 21-16; Aashi Rawat (Del) bt Khushi Thakkar (Del) 21-15, 21-17.   Radhika Sharma (Pun) bt K. Sri Krishna Priya (RBI) 8-11 (retd.); Purva Barve (AI) bt Mansa Rawat (Utr) 21-11, 21-7; Ruth Misha Vinod (Kar) bt Shravya Dande 21-17, 15-21, 21-13; Aditi Bhatt (Utr) bt Samiya Imad Farooqui 24-26, 21-17, 21-16; Vijetha Harish (Kar) bt M. Nivetha (TN) 15-12, 17-15; Namita Pathania (Del) bt G. Srivedya 22-24, 21-19, 21-14.   A. Abhilasha bt Uthsava Palit (WB) 13-21, 21-15, 23-21; Neha Pandit (Mah) bt C.S.R. Pranavi (AP) 17-21, 21-19, 21-19; Surya Charishma Tamiri (AP) bt Riya Mookerjee (Rly) 21-14, 14-6 (retd.); Shriyanshi Pardeshi (MP) bt Revati Devasthale (Mah) 21-18, 21-16; Anura Prabhudesai (Goa) bt Gayathri Rani Jaiswal (Kar) 20-22, 21-14, 21-5; Ch. Sai Uttejitha Rao (AP) bt Mihika Bhargav (MP) 21-16, 21-15; Malvika Bansod (AAI) bt M. Meghana Reddy 14-21, 21-14, 21-14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siril-downs-sankalp/article38052619.ece
28 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Tanmay to lead Hyderabad Ranji team||A five-member selection panel, comprising Ahmad Quadri, Zakir Hussain, Amol Shinde, Alfred Christopher Absolem and Md. Faiz Ahmed, named a 25-member Ranji Trophy squad for the coming season on Monday. Opener Tanmay Agarwal will be the captain and the support staff will be announced in couple of days.  The squad:   Tanmay Agarwal (capt.), N. Thakur Tilak Varma (vice-capt.), P.S. Chaitanya Reddy, Buddhi Rahul, Javed Ali, Prateek Reddy (wk), C.V. Milind, Tanay Thyagarajan, Rohit Rayudu, Mickhil Jaiswal, Kartikeya Kak, Chandan Sahani, Himalay Agarwal, Mehdi Hassan, Alankrit Agarwal, Dheeraj Goud (wk),   T. Ravi Teja, Abrar Mohiuddin, Rakshan Reddi, Abdul Ela Qureshi, Afridi, N. Surya Teja, Aliga Vinay, Md. Saqlain, Surya Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanmay-to-lead-hyderabad-ranji-team/article38052620.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Confident HFC looks to continue run||Hyderabad FC will look to continue its invincible run when it meets Odisha FC in Match 43 of the Indian Super League at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolin in Goa on Tuesday. Hyderabad FC has not lost a game since its opening fixture and will be looking to get over its tendency to drop points, something that has troubled it in its last two games against FC Goa and SC East Bengal respectively. Hyderabad’s head coach Manolo Marquez was full of praises for Kiko Ramirez, the Odisha manager but bubbled in confidence about his team’s preparation as well. “For me, Odisha has the best foreign players in the league, even better than the teams at the top of the table..of course, they have a strong team, and they can beat any team, but then again we can beat them,” he said before the match. Odisha FC, in spite of initial sparks from Javier Hernandez and Aridai Cabrera, has fizzled out after a promising start in the league, managing to earn just four points from a possible 15 in its last five games. But Ramirez has looked optimistic, saying that he sees the team in a good position with just three points from the second position with one game in hand. He clarified that Sahil Panwar was fit again to play and will be available for selection in the game. As for Arshdeep Singh, he said he was doing okay as well. Hyderabad, currently sits fourth and a win here would take it to the second position, while a win for Odisha FC will be its first after three games and will help it storm into the top four. The match is scheduled for kick-off at 7:30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/confident-hfc-looks-to-continue-run/article38052625.ece
28 December 2021||Mumbai:,||Zuccarelli in fine fettle||Trainer P. Shroff’s ward Zuccarelli, who won the Pune Derby last month in great style, is in fine fettle and may repeat his performance in the Arion Horse Company Indian 2000 Guineas (Gr. 1), the second classic of the season here on Sunday (Dec. 28). There will be no false rails.  CASTLEBRIDGE PLATE (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 2.00 pm: 1. C’est L’Amour (5) Aniket 59, 2. Turmeric Tower (4) Dashrath 59, 3. Gusty Girl (10) P. Vinod 58.5, 4. Viva La Vida (3) Ayyar 58.5, 5. Lambretta (1) Bhawani 57.5, 6. Windy City (7) Sandesh 57, 7. Zarriya (2) Mosin 57, 8. Little More (9) Kaviraj 53.5, 9. Princess Snow (8) Raghuveer 53 and 10. La Peregrina (6) Peter 52.5.  1. WINDY CITY, 2. TURMERIC TOWER, 3. C’EST L’AMOUR   NAWABZADA RASHIDUZZAFAR KHAN TROPHY (1,800m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86 — 2.30: 1. Magistero (2) Bhawani 59, 2. Giant Star (1) Yash Narredu 52.5 and 3. Successor (3) Sandesh 52.  1. GIANT STAR   PHOENIX TIGER PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 3.00: 1. Fuhrer (12) Aniket 61, 2. Red Carnation (4) Kaviraj 60.5, 3. Columbian (13) P.S. Chouhan 60, 4. Rising Brave (2) Shahrukh 56.5, 5. Juiced (9) Parmar 55, 6. Safdar (6) Mosin 54.5, 7. Nord (7) Bhawani 54, 8. Reciprocity (1) S. Amit 54, 9. Red Riot (11) Ayyar 54, 10. True North (3) Peter 54, 11. Lex Luthor (8) Zervan 53.5, 12. Peppoli (5) P. Vinod 53.5 and 13. Dubai Skyline (10) Shelar 52.5.  1. COLUMBIAN, 2. FUHRER, 3. JUICED   FAIZ JASDANWALLA TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 3.30: 1. Treasure Gold (5) T.S. Jodha 60.5, 2. Zarak (1) Suraj Narredu 59.5, 3. Circle Of Love (2) Sandesh 59, 4. Aira (6) Bhawani 57, 5. Sky Storm (4) Antony Raj S 56.5 and 6. Botero (3) P.S. Chouhan 56.  1. ZARAK, 2. BOTERO   M.N. NAZIR TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 4.00: 1. Sharareh (8) Bhawani 59.5, 2. Endeavour (2) Kirtish 58.5, 3. Polyneices (4) Shelar 57, 4. Cellini (6) T.S. Jodha 56, 5. Baby Bazooka (7) Zervan 55.5, 6. Excelerator (5) Sandesh 54.5, 7. Spring Grove (3) Parmar 54 and 8. Skyfall (1) P.S. Chouhan 52.5.  1. CELLINI, 2. EXCELERATOR, 3. ENDEAVOUR   ARION HORSE COMPANY INDIAN 2000 GUINEAS (Gr. 1) (1,600m), 3-y-o only — 4.30: 1. A Star Is Born (7) Suraj Narredu 57, 2. Alastair (13) C. Umesh 57, 3. Commandment (12) T.S. Jodha 57, 4. Darwin (5) C.S. Jodha 57, 5. Majorella Blue (9) Zervan 57, 6. Presidential (2) Neeraj 57, 7. Pure (4) Sandesh 57, 8. Rasputin (3) A. Imran Khan 57, 9. Red Merlot (10) Dashrath 57, 10. Regal Command (1) Bhawani 57, 11. Souza (6) Kaviraj 57, 12. Stockbridge (11) Antony Raj S 57 and 13. Zuccarelli (8) P.S. Chouhan 57.  1. ZUCCARELLI, 2. STOCKBRIDGE, 3. A STAR IS BORN   MACHIAVELLIANISM PLATE (1,400m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 5.00: 1. Chancellor (1) Sandesh 59, 2. Twelfth Earl (5) S. Sunil 58..5, 3. Black Cherry (7) Kaviraj 57.5, 4. Memorable Moments (3) Kirtish 56, 5. The Flutist (4) T.S. Jodha 54, 6. Aadhya (2) Ayyar 53, 7. She Is On Fire (8) Zervan 53 and 8. Polaris (6) C.S. Jodha 51.5.  1. CHANCELLOR, 2. MEMORABLE MOMENTS, 3. THE FLUTIST  Day’s Best: ZUCCARELLI  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Super Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zuccarelli-in-fine-fettle/article38052820.ece
28 December 2021||NAVI MUMBAI,||Chance for Indians to end the season on a high||It will be a nice chance for the Indian players to finish the season on a high, even though none of them gets a seeding in the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament that begins at the Ganesh Naik Complex on Tuesday. The presence of Riya Bhatia should lend an edge to the Indian aspirations, along with the other direct entrants Zeel Desai, Sowjanya Bavisetti, Rutuja Bhosale, Vaidehi Chaudhari and Pranjala Yadlapalli. Riya may have a tough start against qualifier Sathwika Sama who won her three matches with ease in making it to the main draw. Pranjala has been grappling with an injury and will be up against Vaidehi. Humera Baharmus also did well to qualify and will be up against wild card entrant Jennifer Luikham who has stepped up her game this season. National champion Shrivalli Bhamidipaty will open against fifth seed Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia. And the Fenesta national champion Zeel Desai will play Clara Vlasselaer of Belgium. Qualifier Arthi Muniyan will challenge Ekaterina Reyngold of Russia who reached the semifinals last week in Pune. Anna Siskova of the Czech Republic is the top seed and will play Valeriya Strakhova of Ukraine in the first round. The champion of the last tournament, Moyuka Uchijima of Japan will open against sixth seed Nigina Abduraimova of Uzbekistan.  The results: Qualifying singles (third and final round): So-Ra Lee (Kor) bt Jagmeet Kaur Grewal 7-6(2), 6-0; Sathwika Sama bt Prathyusha Rachapudi 6-2, 6-2; Saki Imamura (Jpn) bt Saumya Vig 6-1, 4-6, [10-0]; Arthi Muniyan bt Weronika (Baszak (Pol) 5-1 (retired); Sai Samhitha bt Soha Sadiq 1-6, 6-4, [10-7]; Humera Baharmus bt Nidhi Chilumula 6-2, 6-4.   Second round: So-Ra Lee bt Niditra Rajmohan 6-1, 6-3; Jagmeet bt Shreyas Tatavarthy 6-3, 4-6 (10-4); Sathwika bt Himadri Kashyap 6-1, 6-3; Prathyusha bt Yashika Venu 6-1, 6-1; Saki bt Riya Uboveja 6-2, 6-4; Saumya bt Daksha Patel 7-5, 5-7, [11-9]; Weronika bt Bela Tamhankar 7-6(4), 7-5; Arthi bt Laalitya Kalluri 6-2, 5-7, [10-6]; Soha bt Yubarani Banerjee 2-6, 7-5, [10-5]; Sai bt Sudipta Kumar 6-2, 6-2; Nidhi bt Sharmada Balu 6-4, 6-3; Humera bt Smriti Bhasin 7-5, 2-6, [10-4].   The seedings: 1. Anna Siskova (Cze), 2. Nefisa Berbovic (BIH), 3. Anna Danilina (Kaz), 4. Chihiro Muramatsu (Jpn), 4. Diana Marcinkevica (Lat), 6. Nigina Abduraimova (Uzb), 7. Akiko Omae (Jpn), 8. Ekaterina Yashina (Rus).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chance-for-indians-to-end-the-season-on-a-high/article38052501.ece
28 December 2021||Madrid,||Samuel Eto’o faces tax charges||Cameroon football legend Samuel Eto’o owes nearly one million euros in taxes from his time in Spain, local authorities said on Monday. The 40-year-old, who earlier this month was elected president of the Cameroon Football Federation, appeared on a list published by the Spanish tax office of people and companies that owe over €600,000 ($678,000). The former striker is listed as owing €981,598.19 to the Spanish tax office. The four-time African player of the year played for a series of Spanish clubs, including Real Madrid and Barcelona, before retiring from football in 2019. Spanish public prosecutors in 2016 accused Eto’o of conspiring to evade €3.9 million in taxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samuel-etoo-faces-tax-charges/article38052499.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Watch My Stride reigns||Hyderabad: Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s Watch My Stride ridden by Akshay Kumar won in a close finish from Beauty On Parade the Kaleshwaram Cup, the feature event of Monday’s (Dec. 27) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy.  1. GENTLEMAN’S DEAL PLATE (DIV. I) (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II): ASHOKA (Ashad Asbar) 1, Almas (C.S. Jodha) 2, Lady Dynamite (Kiran Naidu) 3 and Maa (B. Nikhil) 4. Not run: Mysterious Angel. 3/4, 2 and 10-1/4. 1m 5.96s. Rs. 15 (w), 12, 10 and 21 (p). SHP: 24, THP: 30, SHW: 11 and 15, FP: 25, Q: 16, Tanala: 57. Favourite: Ashoka. Owner: Mr. B.E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  2. THUNDER STORM PLATE (1,200m), 3-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): SILVER SET (R. Ajinkya) 1, Theo’s Choice (Santosh Raj) 2, Berkeley (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Wot’s Up Jay (Koushik) 4. Reining Queen. Nk, Nose and 2. 1m 13.99s. Rs. 107 (w), 22, 12 and 36 (p). SHP: 29, THP: 78, SHW: 61 and 16, FP: 398, Q: 157, Tanala: 7,428. Favourite: Theo’s Choice. Owner & Trainer: Mr. Syed Shah Faisal Hassan.  3. GENTLEMAN’S DEAL PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II): SUPERLATIVE (C.S. Jodha) 1, The Image (Ashad Asbar) 2, Milton Keynes (Kiran Naidu) 3 and White Roses (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 1/2, 3-1/2 and Sh. 1m 6.30s. Rs. 16 (w), 11, 26 and 41 (p). SHP: 124, THP: 110, SHW: 10 and 4, FP: 205, Q: 189, Tanala: 1,739. Favourite: Superlative. Owners: Mr. Homi Framroze, Mehta, Mrs. Anaheeta Homi Mehta & Mr. Jehangir Homi Mehta. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  4. RIBERIO PLATE (1,100m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GUSTY NOTE (Ashad Asbar) 1, Golden Forza (R. Ajinkya) 2, Flamingo Fame (Santosh Raj) 3 and Apenzelle (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Nk, 1/2 and Nk. 1m 5.72s. Rs. 82 (w), 23, 27 and 29 (p). SHP: 93, THP: 74, SHW: 37 and 76, FP: 2,188, Q: 869, Tanala: 81,097 (C/O). Favourite: Top In Class. Owners: Wing Commander D.S. Gill, Mr. Rajesh Sanghani & Mr. T. Amarender Reddy. Trainer: D. Netto.  5. KALESHWARAM CUP (1,100m), 3-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): WATCH MY STRIDE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Beauty On Parade (A.A. Vikrant) 2. Blissful (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Amyra (Kiran Naidu) 4. Sh, 2 and 1/2. 1m 5.32s. Rs. 17 (w), 13, 18 and 17 (p). SHP: 74, THP: 80, SHW: 15 and 29, FP: 117, Q: 75, Tanala: 266. Favourite: Watch My Stride. Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  6. DIVINE LIGHT PLATE (1,400m), 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): PALADINO (Santosh Raj) 1, Indie (Abhay Singh) 2, Isra (Aneel) 3 and Special And Thong (B. Nikhil) 4. 3-1/2, 1-1/4 and Hd. 1m 26.68s. Rs. 36 (w), 10, 26 and 25 (p). SHP: 75, THP: 71, SHW: 23 and 41, FP: 250, Q: 181, Tanala: 1,797. Favourite: Solar Eclipse. Owner: Mr. M. Ramakrishna Reddy. Trainer: L D’Silva. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 12,173 (25 tkts.), 30%: 931 (140 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: 2,727 (43 tkts.). Treble: (i) 274 (150 tkts.), (ii) 1,311 (50 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/watch-my-stride-reigns/article38052353.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Brown ’tricks, NEUFC held||Deshorn Brown 3 Mumbai City 3. Thus read the scoreline at the end of a thrilling ISL encounter between NorthEast United and the defending champion at Fatorda on Monday night. But for the brilliant hat-trick from the Jamaican striker, the Mumbai men would have gone back to their winning ways, after their stunning loss to Kerala Blasters in the last match. Instead, they had to settle for just one point, which came courtesy goals from Igor Angulo (two) and Bipin Singh. Angulo’s second goal had given them a 3-1 lead, seven minutes into the second half, and would have hoped to widen the lead at the top of the table. Brown’s first goal came off a counter-attack. He raced in with great pace to receive the superb long ball from Imran Khan, chested it down and beat the hapless Mumbai goalkeeper Mohammad Nawaz. Just four minutes later, however, Mumbai equalised, as Cassio Gabriel’s ball into the box was set up perfectly for Angulo by Bipin Singh with a square pass. Another seven minutes later, it was Angulo’s turn to provide the assist, as Bipin made it 2-1 for Mumbai. Brown then brought NorthEast back into the contest. If his first two goals were more about his speed and power, the third one needed only a deft touch to the shot towards goal from Imran.  The result: NorthEast United 3 (Deshorn Brown 29, 56 & 80) drew with Mumbai City 3 (Igor Angulo 33 & 52, Bipin Singh 40) .   Today’s match: Hyderabad FC vs Odisha FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brown-tricks-neufc-held/article38052308.ece
28 December 2021||New Delhi,||Sr. women’s camp starts with 60 players||A total of 60 players have joined the senior women's national hockey camp which began at the Sports Authority of India south centre in Bengaluru on Monday. The players have been selected on the basis of their performance at the recently-held 11th senior women's national championship, the inter-department national championship and other Hockey India sanctioned domestic events. The 60-member list also includes players who have been retained from the senior women's core group based on their performance in international tournaments, a Hockey India release stated. Players who have done well for the junior women's team have also been selected in this group which will be pruned down to 33 players ahead of their preparations for next year's Women's Asia Cup. "This list of players has been selected keeping in mind their international performances in both senior and junior women's tournaments as well as the Senior Women National Championship 2021, 1st Senior Women Inter-Department National Championship 2021 and other Hockey India sanctioned domestic events. "While most of the players from the previous 33 senior women's core probable group have made it to this list, they are aware that they need to establish their potential during the trials to ensure they are picked in the final list of 33 players," said women's team chief coach Janneke Schopman. "I will get to watch some of the fresh talent who are expected to add depth to the existing pool of players. “With several top tournaments next year including the Asia Cup, FIH Hockey Pro League and then the FIH Women’s World Cup and the Asian Games, it will be critical for us to have a strong pool of 33,” she added.  List of players: Goalkeepers: Savita, Rajani Etimarpu, Bichu Devi Kharibam, Alpha Kerketta, Sheweta, Susmita Patil. Defenders: Deep Grace Ekka, Gurjit Kaur, Nikki Pradhan, Manpreet Kaur, Rashmita Minz, Suman Devi Thoudam, Mahima Choudhary, Gagandeep Kaur, Udita, Akshata Dhekale, Ishika Chaudhary, Marina Lalramnghaki, Priyanka, Reet, Reema Baxla, H.R. Anjali, Renuka Yadav, Mudita.   Midfielders: Nisha, Salima Tete, Pukhrambam Sushila Chanu, Jyoti, Navjot Kaur, Monika, Lilima Minz, Namita Toppo, Reena Khokhar, Mariana Kujur, Sonika, Neha, Ajmina Kujur, Baljeet Kaur, Sushma Kumari. Forwards: Rani, Lalremsiami, Navneet Kaur, Rajwinder Kaur, Vandana Katariya, Sharmila Devi, Deepika, Jiwan Kishori Toppo, Lalrindiki, Sangita Kumari, Archana Bhardwaj, Sarabdeep Kaur, Navjot Kaur, Jyoti, Monika Sihag, Preeti Dubey, Raju Ranwa, K.M. Arya, Upasana Singh, Dipti Lakra, Aishwarya Chavan .   The 60-member list includes players who were retained from the senior women’s core group It will be pruned down to 33 ahead of preparations for next year’s Women’s Asia Cup||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/senior-womens-hockey-camp-starts/article38052352.ece
28 December 2021||Chennai:,||A win for Chennai City Police||Chennai City Police defeated Chennai Friends 25-15, 25-19 in a men’s match of the SNJ Group-Chennai District ‘B’ division volleyball league tournament held here on Monday.  The results: Guru Nanak bt John Memorial 25-14, 25-14; Hindustan IST bt North Chennai 25-20, 25-19; ESIC bt St. Peter’s Academy 25-10, 25-11; SDAT SHE bt Hindustan IST Lion 25-22, 25-18; Chennai City Police bt Chennai Friends 25-15, 25-19; SRM Academy bt Vijay Friends 25-13, 25-14; ICF bt Virugambakkam Police Boys 25-15, 25-8; Mini Sports bt John Memorial 25-7, 25-12; Sacred Heart Friends bt AKC Foundation 25-12, 25-13 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-win-for-chennai-city-police/article38052407.ece
28 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Volleyball selections on Dec. 29||The Visakhapatnam District Volleyball Association (VDVA) will conduct selections for men and women’s teams from 3 p.m. on December 29 at the Railway ground here. The selected will take part in the state senior inter-district championships to be held in Palakoderu (Bhimavaram,West Godavari) from Jan. 20 to 23, 2022. Contact G.V.V. Prasad Raju, secretary, VDVA. DRM Cup TT East Coast Railway Sports Association (ECoRSA) will organise the DRM Cup table tennis championship on Dec. 29 and 30 at the Railway Indoor Sports Enclave. Competitions will be held in 17 categories and interested may send their entries before 6 p.m. on Dec. 28 to K. Kiran, secretary, or R. Srinivasa Reddy, general secretary, at RISE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/volleyball-selections-on-dec-29/article38052834.ece
28 December 2021||KOLKATA,||Bajrang lands in Moscow for training||Tokyo Olympics wrestling bronze medallist Bajrang Punia arrived in Moscow on Monday for a 26-day pre-season training stint, scheduled until January 21. “I chose Russia as its wrestlers win most of the medals at the Olympics and World championships. I will benefit from training with the experienced wrestlers here,” said Bajrang, on his first camp after the Olympics. Jitender Kumar and Anand Kumar have accompanied Bajrang as his sparring partner and physiotherapist respectively. The Union Sports Ministry’s Mission Olympics Cell (MOC) has approved Bajrang’s trip at an overall cost of Rs. 7.53 lakh, said a statement. The ace wrestler, considered a medal contender at the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year and the 2024 Paris Olympics, will compete in Ranking Series events in Italy and Turkey in February and the Asian Championships in Mongolia in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bajrang-lands-in-moscow-for-training/article38052360.ece
28 December 2021||Melbourne,||COVID scare in England camp||England was rocked by a major COVID scare ahead of day two of the third Ashes Test on Monday with four members of the team camp — two support staff and two family members — testing positive for coronavirus. The team and management were forced to undergo urgent rapid antigen tests just as they were about to leave their hotel for the Melbourne Cricket Ground. They were given the all-clear barely 45 minutes before play was due to begin, with the start pushed back half an hour to give them a chance to warm up. “Cricket Australia has been informed that two members of the England Cricket team’s support staff and two of their family members have returned a positive Covid-19 rapid antigen test,” it said in a statement. “The affected individuals are currently isolating. The entire playing group and all other support staff have undertaken rapid antigen tests this morning and all have tested negative,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-scare-in-england-camp/article38052298.ece
28 December 2021||Dubai,||India in semifinals||A match-winning 65-run seventh wicket stand between Raj Bawa and Kaushal Tambe ensured a fighting four-wicket victory for India over a gritty Afghanistan as they entered the semifinal of the U-19 Asia Cup tournament on Monday.  The scores: Afghanistan U19 259/4 (Ijaz Ahmad Ahmadzai 86 not out, Suliman Safi 73; Kaushal Tambe 1/25) lost to India U19 262/6 (Harnoor Singh 65; R. Bawa 43 n.o.; Noor Ahmad 4/43) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-in-semifinals/article38052306.ece
28 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Intense action||V. Ajith Kumar’s heroics with raids was not good enough for former champion U Mumba as it had to settle for a 30-30 tie against Tamil Thaliavas in their Pro Kabaddi League match here on Monday. The raider scored 15 points in the match to help U Mumba take a lead after trailing for long periods, but a last-minute blunder by the season-2 champion helped Thalaivas escape with a tie, their second of the season. For the third match in a row, Thalaivas had allowed a team to make a comeback and take the lead. But the team from Chennai calculated the last raids effectively to ensure Mumbai had to make a do-or-die attempt in the last move of the match. Ajith Kumar went for the touch instead of sacrificing himself for a bonus point and the Thaliavas defence rounded him off to clinch a tie.  The results: U Mumba 30 tied with Tamil Thaliavas 30.   Today’s matches: Puneri Paltans vs Patna Pirates, 7.30 p.m.; Telugu Titans vs Haryana Steelers, 8.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/intense-action/article38052312.ece
28 December 2021||Mysuru:,||Rathanvel triumphs||IM V.S. Rathanvel (MPL) from Coimbatore won the rapid and blitz titles on the concluding day of the R. Hanumantha Memorial Cup all-India rapid and blitz tournament 2021, conducted by Mandya Chess Academy and Smart Queens' chess Academy at Mandya on 25 & 26th. In the rapid tournament, three players, fifth seeded IM V.S. Rathanvel, eighth seeded IM. P. Saravana Krishnan and FM Aradhya Garg tied with eight points from nine rounds, but based on his better tie-break score of 49.50, Rathanvel won the title. Saravana Krishnan and Aradhya Garg secured the second and third places. Mysuru's Grand Master M.S. Thejkumar finished fifth with 7.5 points from nine rounds. In the blitz tournament, Rathanvel won the title with 8.5 points from nine rounds. IM V. Pranav (TN), Abhishek Das (Jha) and IM K. Ratnakaran, with eight points each, secured the second and third places. Thejkumar finished ninth with seven points from nine rounds.  Final Placings (Rapid) after 9 rounds:   1. IM V.S. Rathanvel 8 (49.50), 2. IM Saravana Krishnan 8 (49.25), 3. FM Aradhya Garg 8 (46.50), 4. IM P. Shyam Nikhil 7.5 (45.25), 5. GM M.S. Thejkumar 7.5 (44.25), 6. V. Pranav 7.5 (43.25), 7. Abhishek Das 7.5 (42.75), 8. Shet Prajwal 7.5 (42), 9. ACM Sexena Aditya 7.5 (42). Blitz: After 9 rounds: 1. IM V.S. Rathanvel 8.5, 2. IM V. Pranav 8 (45.75), 3. Abhishek Das 8 (45.50), 4. IM K. Ratnakaran 8 (45.25), 5. Shet Prajwal P 7.5 (46.25), 6. IM S. Nitin 7.5 (46), 7. P. Shyam Nikhil 7 (45.75), 8. A. Balkishan 7 (45.50), 9. GM M.S. Thejkumar 7 (45.25) .    M. Darshan (46 & four for 47) enabled YMCC register a facile 16-run win over Vijaya Cricketers in the KSCA Mysore zone third division league match played at the JSS-SJCE grounds here recently.  The scores:   III div.: YMCC 159 in 46.3 overs (M. Darshan 46, M. Srinidhi 33, D. Srinivasan four for 34) bt Vijaya Cricketers 143 in 38 overs (M. Darshan four for 47, M.S. Ranjan three for 24). IV div.: CPCP 246 in 50 overs (Nitish Kumar 64, Chandan 43, R. Rajesh 42, B. Mahesh 35, Vyshak Nagraj three for 36) bt Agraharam CC 71 in 27.4 overs (Mohan Jakati 25, Chandan five for 17) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rathanvel-triumphs/article38052794.ece
28 December 2021||Alappuzha:,||Team Emerald wins title||Team Emerald defeated Team Ruby by 12 runs to win the KCA Pink Challengers T20 cricket tournament title at the SD College ground here on Monday. Emerald, the most consistent team in the tournament, defended a modest target (106) largely through Aleena Surendran’s all-round performance. Aleena (30) figured in a match winning 72-run partnership for the fourth wicket with Darsana Mohanan (34) after N.R. Anjana’s opening spell (three for 14) shook Emerald early. Later Aleena’s tight spell (one for 15) was instrumental in restricting Ruby to 93 for seven.  The scores: Team Emerald 105/4 in 20 overs (Darsana Mohanan 34, Aleena Surendran 30, N.R. Anjana 3/14) bt Team Ruby 93/7 in 20 overs (A. Akshaya 43).   Individual awards: Player-of-the-final: Aleena Surendran; Best batter: Jincy George; Best bowler: Vinaya Surendran; Player-of-the-tournament: Akshaya; Best all-rounder: Minnu Mani; Promising youngster: Anaswara Santosh .      The Veli Lions Club, which entered the final of the 38th C.H. Mohammed Koya memorial football tournament defeating Aluva’s Amateurs at Fort Kochi on Sunday, has been disqualified for flouting player registration rules. “Veli Lions played with three States Club players, there was a protest regarding this from Amateurs. We checked it and advised the tournament committee to debar the Lions and bring Amateurs to the final,” said an Ernakulam District Football Association official on Monday. “This sort of thing is happening after a long time, in future we plan to verify players’ registration before matches so that this does not happen again.” Amateurs will play Udaya SC in the final at Fort Kochi’s Veli ground on Tuesday. B.S. Vivek scored twice as Udaya defeated Bolghatty Footballers 3-1 in the second semifinal on Monday.  The result (semifinal): Udaya SC 3 (Mohammed Ashik 15, B.S. Vivek 16 & 62) bt Bolghatty Footballers 1 (Abhimanyu 2) .      P.K. Midhun scored 83 as Kollam’s Pratibha CC defeated host Tripunithura CC ‘A’ by 31 runs and entered the quarterfinal of the 71st Pooja all-India cricket tournament at the Palace Oval, Tripunithura, on Monday.  The scores: Prathibha CC, Kollam 199 in 38.4 overs (P.K. Midhun 83, Shivaraj 3/30) bt Tripunithura CC ‘A’, Ernakulam 168 in 37.1 overs (Abdul Bazith 88, Jose Perayil 41) .      International R. Sreekala sparkled with 16 points as Kerala University brushed aside Acharya Nagarjuna 66-19 in the South Zone inter-university women’s basketball championship which began at the St. Berchmans and Assumption colleges here on Monday. Irrigation Minister Roshy Augustine inaugurated the event.  Other resul ts: Visvesvaraya, Belagavi bt Thiruvalluvar, Vellore 75-13; Bharathiar, Coimbatore bt MGU, Nalgonda 84-7; Bangalore City bt Dr. MGR, Chennai 67-5; Mother Teresa, Kodaikanal bt Bangalore 63-14; Vinayaka Mission, Salem bt Venkateswara, Tirupati 37-31; J.N. Tech., Hyderabad bt Vikrama Simhapuri, Nellore 34-16; Mysore bt Kakatiya, Warangal 76-20 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-emerald-wins-title/article38052767.ece
28 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Haryana dismissed for 247||Haryana scored 247 in the first innings against Mumbai on the first day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match at Kandukuri Cricket Academy here on Monday. Sarvesh Rohilla (55, 7x4) was the top-scorer for Haryana. In reply, Mumbai was 32 for no loss at close of play.  The scores:   Haryana 247 in 71.2 overs (Mayank Shandilya 32, Arun Kumar 38, Ahaan Poddar 43, Sarvesh Rohilla 55, Musheer Khan 4/74) vs Mumbai 32/0 in 16 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haryana-dismissed-for-247/article38052819.ece
28 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Parantap, Reddy shine||Yashovardhan Parantap (five for eight) and Thippa Reddy (98 batting, 117b, 12x4, 3x6) helped Karnataka take command against Puducherry on the first day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) Elite Group E match here on Monday. Put in to bat, Puducherry was bowled out for 59 in 43.1 overs with Parantap being the main wicket-taker. In reply, Karnataka was 147 for no loss at close of play.  The scores:   Puducherry 59 in 43.1 overs (Yashovardhan Parantap 5/8) vs Karnataka 147/0 in 44 overs (Vishal Onat 47 batting, Thippa Reddy 98 batting).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parantap-reddy-shine-for-karnataka/article38052351.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The yogic tradition||Sir John George Woodroffe, a judge of the Calcutta High court, once found a yogi outside his court, and tested him to see if he indeed had supernatural vision, said M.A. Manickavelu in a discourse. The yogi said he could tell the judge what was happening back home in his house in England. He asked the judge to lock him up in a room , and when later the yogi emerged from the room, he told the judge what was happening at that particular moment in the judge’s family home in England. Much later, the judge had a letter from his daughter, which said a yogi had visited the judge’s family in England, and she had told the yogi about the happenings in England. The yogi, whom Woodroffe had questioned, had not left India. He had just spent some time in a room and had accurately narrated what was happening thousands of miles away. And yet, here was the judge’s daughter claiming he visited them. Woodroffe realised the power of the yogi, and understood the greatness of the Hindu yogic tradition. He came to believe in Hindu tantric traditions, and wrote a book on Kundalini yoga titled ‘The Serpent Power – The Secrets of Tantric and Shaktic Yoga.’ Upasana of Goddess Shakti gives one spiritual strength. No wonder Abirami Bhattar stresses that She is worshipped by mortals, devas and by sages, known for their purity. Bhattar says Siva and Sakthi are inseparable. If one worships Sakthi alone, She will depart from one’s heart. Bhattar shows that for Her to reside always in one’s heart and mind, one must worship both Siva and Sakthi. If we have wicked thoughts how can the soft feet of Ambal be placed in our hearts? We must get rid of undesirable thoughts and keep our hearts pure so that we can welcome Her into our hearts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-yogic-tradition/article38052260.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 07:19 IST,||Sudoku — December 28, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-28-2021/article38052925.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The 2021 Indian Wine Power List||Last year during the lockdown, when wine stocks dried up in home bars across the country, Indians began to look to local producers to meet their needs. This not only gave the industry a boost, but as consumers began trading up, and drinking better quality, Indian premium wine moved front and centre. A few wine stalwarts led this change, bringing new ideas and processes to the table. Whether it is in terms of upping quality levels of premium Indian wine, introducing a diverse international portfolio to the Indian market, championing the cause of sustainability (a hot button topic worldwide), making wine a fun and joyous topic, or just directing world focus on to India with ambitious plans and projects, there is much happening that is positive. Those featured on The Hindu Weekend ’s pandemic Power List are few, but already it is possible to see new shoots everywhere — the doughty Indian spirit of entrepreneurship is blooming quickly across the country. While next year’s list will hopefully be longer and more diverse, this year's already brings new cheer and confidence as we move into 2022.                                                Uma Chigurupati| 61 Founder, KRSMA Estates Focus on sustainable viticulture and a portfolio with premium-only wines Two years ago,Uma was worrying about the lack of rainfall at their vineyards near Hampi. Today, she is despairing at quite the opposite. “Our crop is fantastic this year, but with rain during veraison [ripening of grapes]… the risk of damage to the fruit and increase in pests is high.” The size of harvest is important as KRSMA boasts premium-only wines in their focussed portfolio, made from grapes grown only in their vineyards. So, production is small (50,000 bottles), their market smaller, out of choice (Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Goa), and they dominate the premium wine landscape in India. While Uma leads with decision-making — from vineyard to the finished product — her husband, and co-founder, Krishna, steps in to offer advice when required. “I tend to play safe, he is the bolder decision-maker,” she explains. Her wish list includes growing the production of their ‘second’ wine, the approachable, fruity brand K2, which caters “to those getting introduced to wine drinking”. Uma is firm about following the rules of sustainable viticulture. “It is vital to stay away from indiscriminate use of fungicides and herbicides. When a consumer opens a bottle of wine, they shouldn’t taste chemicals.” Soon on the cards is their Covid-delayed project — constructing a state-of-the-art tasting room overlooking their vineyards, as well as a couple of rooms for visitors to the winery. “People visit us while they’re at Hampi [a 1.5-hour drive away] so we do not need larger hospitality facilities.” While Uma regrets ignoring repeated demands to export to countries like the US, the UK and Japan, as well as withdrawing from New York, where they were once listed at top restaurants and bars — “we couldn’t continue owing to growing domestic demand” — she hopes to now increase their plantings, which will help their ability to supply to additional markets. At the end, what is vital for her is quality. “We are not about numbers. KRSMA is not a business for us, but a passion project.” End-of- pandemicwine :  La Sirena2010 Cabernet Sauvignon by Heidi Barrett is a bold and well-balanced wine with fine tannins that is well integrated with oak. Ravi Viswanathan| 58 Chairman, Grover Zampa Vineyards Put his money behind high tech at the winery and vineyards He madenews when he snapped up three barrels of top Burgundy at the iconic Hospice de Beaune charity auction in 2018. Now, he’s charting a course with sustainability at the forefront. A new state-of-the-art winery is being built in Karnataka not far from Grover Zampa Vineyards’ old flagship, containing everything from solar panels to gravity flow tanks. “It will be a completely green winery,” says Viswanathan. “Every element to support sustainability has been built into the design, and targets problems specific to India, such as higher temperatures.” Under his charge, Grover Zampa Vineyards has introduced a slew of high tech: from plans for weather systems and drones in the vineyard to detect vine disease early, soil monitoring sensors to improve water efficiency, to a canopy growth vegetative index to provide regular assessment of yields. In the winery, modern temperature-controlled amphorae, new French foudres and tanks are already being put to use. Research is also being done to increase the life cycles of vines from 20 to 30 years, thereby reducing costs and decreasing use of herbicides. Viswanathan strongly believes that Indian wine drinkers, though still small in numbers, are more knowledgeable than their counterparts in developed countries (at this stage of their wine journey). “The consumer today is very different from 10 years ago — there’s a growing appetite to try new styles and grape varieties, as wines gain acceptability in social circles.” Two of the world’s largest trade fairs, Prowein and Vinexpo, have now reached India in 2021, he points out. He is also betting big on wine tourism. Besides the Nashik project, each of their four wineries will feature hospitality services, from chalets to wine boutiques, restaurants and lounges. Rajeev Samant| 54 Founder-Chief Sustainability Officer, Sula Vineyards Led the way with reuse of waste water and rainwater harvesting Samant soldhis first bottle of wine in 2000 and has now crossed the one million mark. But he isn’t pausing for breath. This September, Sula embraced sustainability by signing on with the Miguel Torres-led IWCA (International Wineries for Climate Action), which has over 20 big-brand wineries on board, including Australia’s biodynamic star Cullen Wines and USA’s Jackson Family Wines. This, according to Samant, is another step towards their commitment to fight climate change, and make Sula future-ready. “Ten years ago, we installed our first solar panel. Today we generate 65% of our energy requirements. If we aren’t sustainable, we lack the meaning to exist.” There is change happening on all fronts. With increased focus on the premium end of their portfolio, brands Rasa and The Source have seen new packaging and improved sales — the award-winning Source Rosé is now established as India’s top-selling rosé brand. On the wine tourism front, Sula already sees a record-breaking 400,000 visitors to their hospitality centres, The Source and Beyond. When we speak, this has hit 100% occupancy, and Samant is thrilled. “The pandemic was a very difficult time for us and the bounce back is very welcome.” They opened five new rooms in the last month and now “need to take a breath”. Sustainability remains Samant’s raison d’etre . Addressing India’s acute water shortage, Sula is reusing waste water to save up to 33% per case of wine produced, while large-scale rainwater harvesting supplies 85% of their fresh water needs. Among other measures is e-vehicles for winery-linked transportation, a major contributor to greenhouse gases. Sula also aims to touch 75% solar energy use by 2023. End-of- pandemic wine: La Romaneeby Liger Belair or La Grande Rue by Domaine Lamarche. They are the true expressions of Pinot Noir. End-of- pandemic wine: La Romaneeby Liger Belair. It is a true expression of Pinot Noir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-2021-indian-wine-power-list/article38052741.ece
28 December 2021||December 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The 2021 Indian Wine Power List||Last year during the lockdown, when wine stocks dried up in home bars across the country, Indians began to look to local producers to meet their needs. This not only gave the industry a boost, but as consumers began trading up, and drinking better quality, Indian premium wine moved front and centre. A few wine stalwarts led this change, bringing new ideas and processes to the table. Whether it is in terms of upping quality levels of premium Indian wine, introducing a diverse international portfolio to the Indian market, championing the cause of sustainability (a hot button topic worldwide), making wine a fun and joyous topic, or just directing world focus on to India with ambitious plans and projects, there is much happening that is positive. Those featured on The Hindu Weekend ’s pandemic Power List are few, but already it is possible to see new shoots everywhere — the doughty Indian spirit of entrepreneurship is blooming quickly across the country. While next year’s list will hopefully be longer and more diverse, this year's already brings new cheer and confidence as we move into 2022.                                                Uma Chigurupati| 61 Founder, KRSMA Estates Focus on sustainable viticulture and a portfolio with premium-only wines Two years ago,Uma was worrying about the lack of rainfall at their vineyards near Hampi. Today, she is despairing at quite the opposite. “Our crop is fantastic this year, but with rain during veraison [ripening of grapes]… the risk of damage to the fruit and increase in pests is high.” The size of harvest is important as KRSMA boasts premium-only wines in their focussed portfolio, made from grapes grown only in their vineyards. So, production is small (50,000 bottles), their market smaller, out of choice (Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Goa), and they dominate the premium wine landscape in India. While Uma leads with decision-making — from vineyard to the finished product — her husband, and co-founder, Krishna, steps in to offer advice when required. “I tend to play safe, he is the bolder decision-maker,” she explains. Her wish list includes growing the production of their ‘second’ wine, the approachable, fruity brand K2, which caters “to those getting introduced to wine drinking”. Uma is firm about following the rules of sustainable viticulture. “It is vital to stay away from indiscriminate use of fungicides and herbicides. When a consumer opens a bottle of wine, they shouldn’t taste chemicals.” Soon on the cards is their Covid-delayed project — constructing a state-of-the-art tasting room overlooking their vineyards, as well as a couple of rooms for visitors to the winery. “People visit us while they’re at Hampi [a 1.5-hour drive away] so we do not need larger hospitality facilities.” While Uma regrets ignoring repeated demands to export to countries like the US, the UK and Japan, as well as withdrawing from New York, where they were once listed at top restaurants and bars — “we couldn’t continue owing to growing domestic demand” — she hopes to now increase their plantings, which will help their ability to supply to additional markets. At the end, what is vital for her is quality. “We are not about numbers. KRSMA is not a business for us, but a passion project.” End-of- pandemicwine :  La Sirena2010 Cabernet Sauvignon by Heidi Barrett is a bold and well-balanced wine with fine tannins that is well integrated with oak. Ravi Viswanathan| 58 Chairman, Grover Zampa Vineyards Put his money behind high tech at the winery and vineyards He madenews when he snapped up three barrels of top Burgundy at the iconic Hospice de Beaune charity auction in 2018. Now, he’s charting a course with sustainability at the forefront. A new state-of-the-art winery is being built in Karnataka not far from Grover Zampa Vineyards’ old flagship, containing everything from solar panels to gravity flow tanks. “It will be a completely green winery,” says Viswanathan. “Every element to support sustainability has been built into the design, and targets problems specific to India, such as higher temperatures.” Under his charge, Grover Zampa Vineyards has introduced a slew of high tech: from plans for weather systems and drones in the vineyard to detect vine disease early, soil monitoring sensors to improve water efficiency, to a canopy growth vegetative index to provide regular assessment of yields. In the winery, modern temperature-controlled amphorae, new French foudres and tanks are already being put to use. Research is also being done to increase the life cycles of vines from 20 to 30 years, thereby reducing costs and decreasing use of herbicides. Viswanathan strongly believes that Indian wine drinkers, though still small in numbers, are more knowledgeable than their counterparts in developed countries (at this stage of their wine journey). “The consumer today is very different from 10 years ago — there’s a growing appetite to try new styles and grape varieties, as wines gain acceptability in social circles.” Two of the world’s largest trade fairs, Prowein and Vinexpo, have now reached India in 2021, he points out. He is also betting big on wine tourism. Besides the Nashik project, each of their four wineries will feature hospitality services, from chalets to wine boutiques, restaurants and lounges. Rajeev Samant| 54 Founder-Chief Sustainability Officer, Sula Vineyards Led the way with reuse of waste water and rainwater harvesting Samant soldhis first bottle of wine in 2000 and has now crossed the one million mark. But he isn’t pausing for breath. This September, Sula embraced sustainability by signing on with the Miguel Torres-led IWCA (International Wineries for Climate Action), which has over 20 big-brand wineries on board, including Australia’s biodynamic star Cullen Wines and USA’s Jackson Family Wines. This, according to Samant, is another step towards their commitment to fight climate change, and make Sula future-ready. “Ten years ago, we installed our first solar panel. Today we generate 65% of our energy requirements. If we aren’t sustainable, we lack the meaning to exist.” There is change happening on all fronts. With increased focus on the premium end of their portfolio, brands Rasa and The Source have seen new packaging and improved sales — the award-winning Source Rosé is now established as India’s top-selling rosé brand. On the wine tourism front, Sula already sees a record-breaking 400,000 visitors to their hospitality centres, The Source and Beyond. When we speak, this has hit 100% occupancy, and Samant is thrilled. “The pandemic was a very difficult time for us and the bounce back is very welcome.” They opened five new rooms in the last month and now “need to take a breath”. Sustainability remains Samant’s raison d’etre . Addressing India’s acute water shortage, Sula is reusing waste water to save up to 33% per case of wine produced, while large-scale rainwater harvesting supplies 85% of their fresh water needs. Among other measures is e-vehicles for winery-linked transportation, a major contributor to greenhouse gases. Sula also aims to touch 75% solar energy use by 2023. End-of- pandemic wine: La Romaneeby Liger Belair or La Grande Rue by Domaine Lamarche. They are the true expressions of Pinot Noir. End-of- pandemic wine: La Romaneeby Liger Belair. It is a true expression of Pinot Noir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-2021-indian-wine-power-list/article38052742.ece
