29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two more vaccines and a drug join India’s fight against COVID||India has approved two more COVID-19 vaccines and the antiviral drug Molnupiravir under emergency use authorisation, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted on Tuesday. Currently, India uses Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V for vaccination. Corbevax, to be made by Hyderabad-based Biological E, is a protein subunit vaccine, and Covovax, to be manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Pune, is a nanoparticle-based vaccine. Corbevax has been co-developed by Biological E, the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, U.S., and the U.S. company Dynavax Technologies. Covovax is produced by the Serum Institute of India under licence from Novavax, a U.S.-based biotechnology company. The vaccine has been approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) under its Emergency Use Listing and, therefore, will be available globally as part of the COVAX initiative to ensure that at least 40% of world is vaccinated on priority. Molnupiravir, which was approved this month by the U.S. Food and Drugs Administration (USFDA), close on the heels of Paxlovid by Pfizer Inc, is said to be a promising drug for those with mild and moderate disease and also easily administered as a pill. Thirteen companies in India are set to manufacture it. It has been approved under emergency use authorisation for treating adults with COVID-19 “who have high risk of progression to disease”. USFDA urges caution The USFDA, in a recent statement, said that because molnupiravir worked by introducing genetic errors into the virus, it ought to be prescribed with caution and was not recommended as a preventive and only in “certain adults” for whom alternative COVID-19 treatment options authorised by the FDA were not accessible or clinically appropriate. Paxlovid is yet to be approved in India. Cipla, one of the licencees, said in a statement that it planned to launch Molnupiravir under the brand name Cipmolnu. There were no details available on when these vaccines would be included in India’s vaccination programme. There are no studies so far to show how effective the new vaccines will be in giving protection against symptomatic infection when employed as a third dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-vaccines-and-a-drug-join-indias-fight-against-covid/article38059613.ece
29 December 2021||MANGALURU,||NHAI urged not to renew collection contract for NITK Toll Plaza||The Toll Gate Virodhi Horata Samithi, Surathkal, on Tuesday urged National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) not to further renew the toll collection contract for the NITK-Surathkal Toll Plaza on National Highway 66. If NHAI renews the collection contract again, the samithi will launch an agitation, it said. Samithi convener Muneer Katipalla told reporters here that there were reports of the contract being renewed again for another three months despite periodical promises against doing it. These periodical renewals for three months and six months, despite assurances by MP Nalin Kumar Kateel and MLA Y. Bharath Shetty against such a move, indicate the acquiescence of elected representatives to illegal toll collection, he said. Mr. Katipalla noted that when NITK Toll Plaza was being operationalised six years ago, NHAI and elected representatives had promised to merge it with the Hejamady Toll Plaza, 9 km away from NITK, in Udupi district. However, that did not happen and the NHAI has been periodically renewing collection contract at the NITK Toll Plaza in contravention of all rules and regulations governing toll collection. Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari’s promise in December 2019 to hold a detailed meeting with all stakeholders to sort out the NITK Toll Plaza issue had not materialised so far even as Mr. Kateel continued to hold out promises that he will resolve the issue. Mr. Katipalla urged the MP to arrange a meeting with Mr. Gadkari, who is scheduled to visit Dakshina Kannada on January 10, to resolve the issue, failing which samithi will launch a black flag protest. Mr. Katipalla said that NHAI had made several attempts to deny free passage to Mangaluru (KA19) registered private vehicles at the toll plaza which the samithi has been opposing. While one each lane at the plaza was left without FAStag scanners to facilitate movement of private vehicles with KA19 registration, toll is being collected for buses whose operators pass on the hefty fee to passengers. NHAI’s proposal to merge NITK Toll Plaza with the Hejamady Toll Plaza sent to the Ministry in 2018 has not been implemented so far, Mr. Katipalla regretted. The samithi had launched a 11-day protest a couple of years ago against the illegal toll collection, he said and recalled the promise made by the MLA [Dr. Bharath Shetty] to make B.C. Road-Surathkal stretch of National Highway 75 and National Highway 66 toll-free. The promise is yet to be implemented, he regretted. Surathkal Jaya Karnataka president Raghavendra Rao, advocate Dinesh Hegde Ulepadi, the former Councillor Dayananda Shetty and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nhai-urged-not-to-renew-collection-contract-for-nitk-toll-plaza/article38060000.ece
29 December 2021||Srinagar,||Clean chit to forces in Hyderpora case||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Jammu and Kashmir police, headed by Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) Sujit Kumar Singh, on Tuesday gave a clean chit to the security forces that carried out the November 16 Hyderpora operation in which non-local militant Haider and three local people were killed, triggering widespread protests. ‘Killed by foreigner’ “Prima facieevidence shows Dr. Mudasir Gul was shot dead by the foreign militant on the directions possibly from across [Pakistan]. Building owner Altaf Bhat was used as a human shield by the militant and was killed in a crossfire,” Mr. Singh said at a press conference held along with Director-General of Police Dilbagh Singh and Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar. The police said the third civilian, Amir Magray from Ramban, was seen with the foreign militant prior to the encounter. “CCTV footage and other evidence showed that Magray had accompanied the militant during the Jamalata attack in Srinagar. Magray would often travel to Bandipora and Gurez, an angle that is still under investigation,” Mr. Singh said. According to the police, the militant was living in Dr. Gul’s chamber along with Magray, who worked as a helper with the doctor-turned-real estate dealer. The police said two pistols and four magazines were recovered from the encounter site. They were also investigating the slain building owner’s relation with Dr. Gul and his associate. The families of Dr. Gul, Bhat and Magray had accused the security forces of using them as human shields and killing them. The police had to exhume and return the bodies of Dr. Gul and Bhat to their families in the wake of protests by regional political parties. J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on November 18 ordered a magisterial inquiry into the encounter and had promised “to take suitable action as soon as the report is submitted”. ‘Report concocted’ The Gupkar alliance termed the SIT report “concocted” and a “cover-up”. “Today’s press briefing of J&K police about last month’s Hyderpora tragic incident is only a repetition of an old story. It does not even slightly give any objective picture of this shocking incident,” its spokesman M.Y. Tarigami said. There was a strong public perception that the civilians killed in the incident were used as human shields by security forces, he said. “The alliance firmly believes that nothing short of a credible judicial probe will clear the doubts,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clean-chit-to-forces-in-hyderpora-case/article38059604.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Five committees to study quality of old tenements||Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board on Tuesday constituted five committees, with support from Anna University, to evaluate the quality of its tenements in 62 sites in Chennai that are at least 25-years-old. The committees will evaluate and recommend by Friday whether these tenements have to be demolished and reconstructed or not. The move comes after the collapse of one of the buildings in the TNUHDB tenements on Village Street in Tiruvottiyur on Monday. According to the order to form committees issued by the Board’s Managing Director M. Govinda Rao, buildings in 123 schemes in Chennai are at least 25 years old. TNUHDB considers buildings in each of these sites as separate ‘schemes.’ Of these, 61 schemes, comprising of 22,271 housing units, were already evaluated and recommendations were made to demolish and reconstruct 20,453 housing units. The five committees will evaluate the remaining 62 schemes, comprising 17,734 units, over the next three days. The order said the committees have been constituted in view of the urgency of the issue and to ensure safety of the public in the wake of the building collapse in Tiruvottiyur. Daily progress The committees have been asked to report their daily progress everyday by 5 p.m. to the head office and submit final reports by Friday. Of the five teams, four are headed by a Chief Engineer from the board, with an expert from Anna University, a Superintending Engineer (SE) and an Executive Engineer (EE) from the Board as members. Another team is headed by an expert form Anna University, with a SE and two EEs from the Board as members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-committees-to-study-quality-of-old-tenements/article38059681.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Audit irregularities’ led to FCRA denial, says official||The Foreigners Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) registration of Missionaries of Charity (MoC), a Catholic religious congregation set up by Nobel laureate Mother Teresa in 1950, was not renewed because of “audit irregularities”, a senior government official said on Tuesday. The comment comes a day after the Union Home Ministry said it refused to renew the registration as “some adverse inputs were noticed”. In a statement on Monday, the Ministry said the decision was taken on December 25 as the congregation did not meet the eligibility conditions. It has not requested a review of the refusal. FCRA registration is mandatory for any NGO or association to receive foreign funds or donations. The Home Ministry is the controlling authority of the FCRA and it conducts inspections and audits of NGOs to establish if their books are in order. The latest annual financial returns filed by the congregation on December 13, running into 76 pages, had details of donations and expenditures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/audit-irregularities-led-to-fcra-denial-says-official/article38059606.ece
29 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Bridegroom, invitees suffer injuries as police storm into Mehndi function||A team of policemen from Udupi’s Kota Police Station, led by a Sub-Inspector of Police, is said to have stormed into a Mehndi function that was going on in a colony of Koraga tribal community and assaulted the bridegroom and others at Kotatattu village on Monday night. Kotatattu is a place from where Minister for Social Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary hails. The Mehndi function was being held in the house of Gulabi, a resident. Her grandson’s marriage is scheduled on Wednesday. Dalit activist Sunder Master told reporters that some people complained to the police about loud music being played at the venue. Though Gulabi’s family members assured them of winding up the event at 11 p.m., the police team, led by Sub-Inspector Santosh, resorted to a lathicharge against Gulabi’s family members and others who were attending the event. Several innocent people, including the bridegroom, have suffered injuries, he said. Sub-Inspector Santosh and other members of the team should be placed under suspension, he said. After a representation made by Dalit activists, Superintedent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan said that the Sub-Inspector concerned and six police personnel have been ordered to report to his office. The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Udupi, has been asked to inquire into the charge made against Sub-Inspector Santosh and other police personnel Mr. Vishnuvardhan told reporters that the police went twice to the venue after complaints were made by residents about loud music being played there but the event continued unabated. Sub-Inspector Santosh and six police personnel went to the venue after a third complaint came. Meanwhile, condemning the action taken by the police, Mr. Poojary said that the function was organised by people whom he knew closely. And, nine innocent people were injured in the lathicharge. In a statement, Mr. Poojary said that the State Government will not tolerate such action. And, he has asked Mr. Vishnuvardhan to take strict disciplinary action against the police personnel concerned. Kundapur MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty too condemned the incident during his visit to the place on Tuesday. He apologised before the victims for the conduct of the police. Udupi district BJP president Kuilady Suresh Nayak has also demanded action against the police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bridegroom-invitees-suffer-injuries-as-police-storm-into-mehndi-function/article38060003.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,||Four arrested in Nandini ghee adulteration racket case||Four persons have been arrested in connection with the Nandini ghee adulteration racket, which was unearthed in Mysuru recently. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Superintendent of Mysuru district police R. Chetan said police had taken the case seriously as it involved public health and assured to complete the probe at the earliest and submit a charge-sheet to the court. He also pointed out that a special team had been constituted for the investigation into the case and did not rule out more arrests as the probe progressed. “We have just started the investigation. We will have to question the operators of the racket and the persons, who were marketing the product. The investigation will also try to find out who were the final recipients of the product,” he said. Mr. Chethan said the racket had begun in Hosahundi about two months ago. A total of 10 tonnes of ghee, including adulterants like vegetable cooking oil, flavouring and colouring agents, besides original Nandini brand ghee had been recovered from the godown in Hosahundi, which was raided on December 16 by activists of a human rights organisations before police took up the case and the officials of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) seized the material and sent it to the laboratory. Though the names of the accused were not divulged, Mr. Chethan said they have been residing in Mysuru for a long time. The police will also investigate the role of the land owner, who had rented out the place in Hosahundi, where the adulteration racket was busted. To questions, Mr. Chethan said the investigation so far showed that there is no role of Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) employees in the racket. Soon after the racket came to light, the Mysuru District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Societies’ Union Limited announced the setting up of a vigilance squad to counter the distribution of fake dairy products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ghee-adulteration-racket-four-held/article38059654.ece
29 December 2021||MANGALURU,||30 new COVID-19 cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday reported 10 new COVID-19 cases. With 32 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 123. Test positivity rate was put at 0.20%. A fine of Rs. 1,10,42,470 has been collected so far in 91,482 cases of violation of norms. In Udupi district, 20 new cases were reported of which 18 are from Udupi taluk and one patient each from Kundapur and Karkala taluks. All the 20 patients are under home quarantine. With three patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 67. With 4,358 vaccinated on Tuesday, the total number of persons covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 29,26,738 of which 16,04,536 have received their first dose and 13,22,202 their second. In Udupi, 3,068 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 17,94,603 of which 9,60,623 have received their first dose and 8,33,980 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-new-covid-19-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article38060001.ece
29 December 2021||Beijing,||China fumes over ‘close encounter’ in space||Beijing on Tuesday accused the U.S. of irresponsible and unsafe conduct in space over two “close encounters” between the Chinese space station and satellites operated by Elon Musk’s SpaceX. Tiangong, China’s new space station, had to manoeuvre to avoid colliding with one Starlink satellite in July and with another in October, according to a note submitted by Beijing to the UN space agency this month. The note said the incidents “constituted dangers to the life or health of astronauts aboard the China Space Station”. “The U.S... ignores its obligations under international treaties, posing a serious threat to the lives and safety of astronauts,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said at a routine briefing on Tuesday. Starlink, a division of SpaceX, operates a constellation of close to 2,000 satellites. SpaceX is a private American company, independent of the U.S. military and civilian space agency NASA. But China said in its note to the UN that members of the Outer Space Treaty — the foundation of international space law — are also responsible for actions by their non-government entities. SpaceX has not responded to a request for comment. Evasive manoeuvres to reduce the risk of collisions in space are becoming more frequent as more objects enter earth’s orbit, said Jonathan McDowell of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. “We have really noticed the increase in the number of close passes since Starlink started getting deployed,” he told AFP. Any collision would likely “completely demolish” the Chinese space station and kill everyone on board, Professor McDowell added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-space-station-has-close-shave-with-elon-musks-satellites/article38059589.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,||NEET exemption Bill under consideration: Raj Bhavan||The Bill to admit students to undergraduate medical courses in Tamil Nadu on the basis of the Class XII marks is “under consideration” of Governor R.N. Ravi, the Raj Bhavan has said in response to a question under the RTI Act. P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, State Platform for Common School System-Tamil Nadu, had filed an application for information on the status of the Bill and the action taken by the Governor. “The file is under consideration,” the Raj Bhavan said in a response given, on December 17, by S. Venkateshwaran, under-secretary to the Governor and Public Information Officer. Mr. Babu had also asked the Chief Minister’s Secretariat and the office of the Chief Secretary whether any letter or question was received from the Governor and whether the State had sent any reply or reminder. Clarifying that the Chief Secretary is not an official designated to share information (or an appellate authority) under the Act, his office forwarded the application to the Health Department, which in turn sent it to the Law Department. On September 13, the Assembly passed the Bill seeking to “dispense” with the requirement for candidates to qualify in NEET for admission to undergraduate medical courses. The Bill was sent to the Raj Bhavan, when Banwarilal Purohit was the Governor, for being forwarded to the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Incidentally, on November 27, the State government released a photograph of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin meeting the Governor and said Mr. Stalin had pressed the Governor for forwarding the Bill to the President immediately. But the Raj Bhavan had released a photograph of the meeting the same day and said the “steps taken by the government to handle the incessant rain and the COVID-19 pandemic” were discussed. It made no mention of any discussion on the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neet-exemption-bill-under-consideration-raj-bhavan/article38059657.ece
29 December 2021||Srinagar,||Clean chit to security forces in Hyderpora case||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Jammu and Kashmir police, headed by DIG Sujit Kumar Singh, on Tuesday gave a clean chit to the security forces that carried out the November 16 Hyderpora operation in which non-local militant Haider and three local people were killed. “Prima facieevidence shows Dr. Mudasir Gul was shot dead by the foreign militant on the directions possibly from across [Pakistan]. Building owner Altaf Bhat was used as a human shield by the militant and was killed in a crossfire,” Mr. Singh said at a press conference. The police said the third civilian, Amir Magray from Ramban, was seen with the foreign militant prior to the encounter. “CCTV footage and other evidence showed that Magray had accompanied the militant during the Jamalata attack in Srinagar,” Mr. Singh said. According to the police, the militant was living in Dr. Gul’s chamber along with Magray, who worked as a helper with the doctor-turned-real estate dealer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clean-chit-to-security-forces-in-hyderpora-case/article38060068.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Thousands of NGOs in limbo over renewal||Not just Missionaries of Charity, the international trust set up by Mother Teresa, but thousands of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and charitable trusts are awaiting a decision from the government on the renewal of their permissions to receive foreign funds by the year-end. ‘Tough stance’ With more than 22,000 NGOs registered under the Foreign Contributions (Regulations) Act (FCRA), experts are saying a tough line by the Modi government means at least 10-15% of the groups that have applied for renewal are likely to be denied permissions, and stopped from accessing funding from abroad. Unless the government extends the date of scrutiny of renewal applications by some months, even those whose applications are pending could be stopped from accessing foreign funds until they are cleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thousands-of-ngos-in-limbo-over-renewal/article38059607.ece
29 December 2021||Srinagar,||Clean chit to security forces in Hyderpora case||A SIT of the Jammu and Kashmir police, headed by DIG Sujit Kumar Singh, on Tuesday gave a clean chit to the security forces that carried out the November 16 Hyderpora operation in which non-local militant Haider and three local people were killed. “Prima facieevidence shows Dr. Mudasir Gul was shot dead by the foreign militant on the directions possibly from across [Pakistan]. Building owner Altaf Bhat was used as a human shield by the militant and was killed in a crossfire,” Mr. Singh said at a press conference. The police said the third civilian, Amir Magray from Ramban, was seen with the foreign militant prior to the encounter. “CCTV footage and other evidence showed that Magray had accompanied the militant during the Jamalata attack in Srinagar,” Mr. Singh said. According to the police, the militant was living in Dr. Gul’s chamber along with Magray, who worked as a helper with the doctor-turned-real estate dealer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clean-chit-to-security-forces-in-hyderpora-case/article38060131.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Boycott extends to day 12; Doctors meet Mandaviya||Resident doctors, who alleged police brutality during a march in the city on Monday, continued to boycott work for the 12th day on Tuesday in protest against the delay in NEET-PG counselling. About 5,000-6,000 resident doctors from multiple city hospitals boycotted all work except COVID-19 duty on Tuesday, according to the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA). ‘Matter sub judice’ In the afternoon, members of FORDA met Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who urged the protesting doctors to rejoin duty so that the public does not suffer. “Today, I met the resident doctors. We are not able to do counselling because the matter is sub judice before the Supreme Court. There is a hearing on [the matter] on 6th [January] and the government will submit its report to the court before that... I will request for the counselling to start soon,” the Minister said after the meeting. After the meeting, FORDA president Manish said the protest was still on and they would take a call on the future course of action after a meeting at 8 p.m. Following a meeting with the resident doctors’ associations, FORDA said it will continue the boycott.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boycott-extends-to-day-12-doctors-meet-mandaviya/article38059770.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Two killed as car rams truck||Two occupants were killed and four others sustained severe injuries after their speeding sedan rammed into a truck on the outer ring road in Rajendranagar in the early hours of Tuesday. The victims were identified as Manoj, the man at the wheel who died instantly, and Sushil Gupta, who breathed his last while undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital. They were part of a group of friends who were proceeding towards Gachibowli after a birthday party. Police said except for the hired driver, the remaining five persons were drunk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-killed-as-car-rams-truck/article38059863.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,||Another Omicron case in Mysuru||An African student of the University of Mysore here tested positive for the Omicron variant of COVID-19 on Tuesday. This is the second case of Omicron in Mysuru. The first case is of a nine-year-old child who returned from an overseas trip, a few days ago. District Health Officer K.H. Prasad told The Hindu that the student tested positive on her return to Mysuru. The student is asymptomatic and has been isolated in hospital, he added. Dr. Prasad said the student’s contacts are being traced and all of them would be subjected to genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-omicron-case-in-mysuru/article38059640.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu comes in for praise from CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has commended Tamil Nadu for having put in place a system of issuing the permit — Consent to Operate — only to industrial units that have obtained no-objection certificates from the authorities for groundwater extraction. Pointing this out in its performance audit report on groundwater management and regulation, which was placed in Parliament last week, the CAG said such a system was in place only in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Its study covered the period of 2013-18 and information was updated till September 2020. In Tamil Nadu, the regulation for the groundwater management and issue of no-objection certificates for groundwater extraction authorises the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and the Bureau of Indian Standards to accord permission only after ensuring that applicants have got the no-objection certificates. Besides, no schemes can be formulated in over-exploited and critical ‘firkas’ (which are smaller than blocks and encompasses 10-15 villages). All schemes should be formulated through the State Ground and Surface Water Resources Data Centre, Chennai. The CAG’s appreciation assumes importance as its study of 328 cases in 18 States has revealed that 77% of the industrial projects were operating without the no-objection certificates for groundwater extraction. Assessment unit The country’s topmost auditor has also lauded the State for adopting ‘firka’ as the assessment unit because this is expected to help in identification of pockets of groundwater potential within the over- exploited and critical blocks, leading to optimal utilisation of the resources. For the purpose of effective regulation and implementation of assessment, the the State Ground and Surface Water Resources Data Centre decided in 2011 to take the ‘firka’ as the assessment unit. As for the variations in guidelines between those of the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) and those of the States and the Union Territories, the CAG observed that in Tamil Nadu, “individual households are exempted from obtaining the no-objection certificate, whereas this is not so in the CGWA guidelines”. It stated that there was “no specific mention” of mandatory recycle or reuse. After the repeal of the groundwater law for parts of the State other than the Chennai Metropolitan Area, a fresh law has not yet been framed. (The present State government is working on it). More importantly, the CAG clubbed Tamil Nadu with seven other States for having a high stage of groundwater extraction. In respect of Tamil Nadu, the stage was 81%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-lauded-for-regulating-industrys-groundwater-extraction/article38059730.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||No doctor’s certificate for third dose||Those below 18 and eligible for vaccination can register on CoWin from January 1, and those above 60 with co-morbidities do not need a doctor’s certificate to register for a “precaution” dose, or third dose, of a vaccine that a recipient has previously been inoculated with, the Centre said on Tuesday. Those in the 15-17 category will be eligible for shots from January 3 and the rest can expect them from January 10. On Monday, the Health Ministry said those over 60 with co-morbidities could get a “precaution” shot “following doctor’s advice”, echoing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on December 25. The Ministry’s announcement provoked consternation and criticism, seen as implying that a medical certificate would be needed to attest “co-morbidity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-doctors-certificate-for-third-dose/article38059601.ece
29 December 2021||Chennai,||SEBI tightens rules on use of IPO proceeds||Stock markets regulator. the Securities and Exchange Board of India, on Tuesday approved a ceiling on the Initial Public Offering (IPO) proceeds to be used to make unspecified acquisitions. In its Board meeting, the Securities and Exchange Board of India approved rules capping at 35% the amount for future inorganic growth — but where no acquisition target had been identified — combined with that meant for general corporate purpose. Tagging a major portion of a fresh issue for unidentified acquisitions caused uncertainty for investors, the SEBI had noted earlier. The SEBI also tweaked rules for shareholders selling shares in an IPO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sebi-tightens-rules-on-use-of-ipo-proceeds/article38059608.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Panel formed on cinema ticket pricing||The State government has constituted a new committee to examine and rationalise the rates of admission into cinema halls in the State. A government order by the Home Department was issued to this effect on Tuesday. The order (G.O. No. 35) issued earlier was contested by the petitioners in the High Court. “Aggrieved by the GO, some of the exhibitors moved the High Court praying to direct the respondents to permit the petitioners to run theatres as per the rates prevailing to passing of the impugned order,” the order issued by Gudi Vijaya Kumar, in-charge Principal Secretary to Government, said. The government after taking into consideration the overall scenario and in pursuance of the orders of the High Court hereby reconstituted the committee consisting of all stakeholders to examine the issue in a comprehensive manner for making recommendations for fixing the rates of admission into cinema theatres, the GO stated. “The committee shall take into account all the factors relevant to the fixation of admission rates such as classification of theatres such a multiplexes and single screens with due regard to the location and the amenities provided to the cinegoers,” the GO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-on-cinema-ticket-pricing-formed/article38059566.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||100% take first dose of vaccine||The Telangana government has successfully administered the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to the targeted 2.77 crore population, Health Minister T. Harish Rao said on Tuesday. As far as the second dose is concerned, the coverage stands at 66%.Page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/100-take-first-dose-of-vaccine/article38059866.ece
29 December 2021||Kochi,||Actor rape case: HC admits plea||The High Court on Tuesday admitted a petition by the prosecution challenging the orders of the Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Court rejecting its applications seeking to recall some of the witnesses and summon additional witnesses for examination in the sexual assault case of a woman actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/actor-rape-case-hc-admits-plea/article38059959.ece
29 December 2021||Srinagar,||Clean chit to forces in Hyderpora case||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Jammu and Kashmir police, headed by Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) Sujit Kumar Singh, on Tuesday gave a clean chit to the security forces that carried out the November 16 Hyderpora operation in which non-local militant Haider and three local people were killed, triggering widespread protests. “Prima facieevidence shows Dr. Mudasir Gul was shot dead by the foreign militant on the directions possibly from across [Pakistan]. Building owner Altaf Bhat was used as a human shield by the militant and was killed in a crossfire,” Mr. Singh said at a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clean-chit-to-forces-in-hyderpora-case/article38060116.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID cluster in Rajajinagar apartment||A major cluster has been detected in an apartment in Rajajinagar after 23 residents tested positive for COVID-19. The BBMP health officials have now collected samples from these persons and sent them for genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cluster-in-rajajinagar-apartment/article38059634.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Metro pillar foundation exposed near Halasuru||The foundation of the Namma Metro pillar near the Halasuru station was exposed when the BBMP started repair work on the storm water drain adjacent to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-pillar-foundation-exposed-near-halasuru/article38059635.ece
29 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||We have put an end to the ‘ABCD’ of SP: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said the BJP government in U.P. has put an end to the vocabulary of apradh (crime), bhai bhatija- wad (nepotism), corruption and dange (riots) that existed during the Samajwadi Party’s reign. “We have put an end to their ‘ABCD’,” said Mr. Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-have-put-an-end-to-the-abcd-of-sp-shah/article38059767.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Curbs back as cases rise, Delhi issues ‘yellow alert’||A ‘yellow alert’ has been sounded in Delhi and some restrictions imposed under the Graded Response Action Plan in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-back-as-cases-rise-delhi-issues-yellow-alert/article38059769.ece
29 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Judge says courts need adequate infrastructure||Supreme Court Judge S.A. Abdul Nazeer on Tuesday said that litigation that affect peace and order can be smoothly resolved when courts have adequate infrastructure and the role of State governments becomes crucial in providing proper infrastructure to the judiciary. He was speaking after inaugurating the new building of the Bar Association and laying the foundation stone for the second phase of court building construction in Puttur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/judge-says-courts-need-adequate-infrastructure/article38059998.ece
29 December 2021||KALABURAGI,||Gulbarga University gets 9,559 applications||Gulbarga University has received 9,559 applications against a total intake of 6,375 seats for 45 post-graduate and post-graduate diploma courses at 37 study centres for the 2021-22 academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gulbarga-university-gets-9559-applications/article38059839.ece
29 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Farmers oppose private farm produce market||Some farmers leaders have opposed the plan of the State Government to push for a private farmers market yard coming up in Belagavi despite the Union Government withdrawing the new farm laws that facilitated such markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-oppose-private-farm-produce-market/article38059840.ece
29 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Bommai will complete term: BJP Executive||The BJP State executive committee, which began its two-day meeting in Hubballi on Tuesday, sought to clear the air on speculation over a possible change of leadership by sending out a clear message that Basavaraj Bommai will complete full term as Chief Minister. The committee also barred its leaders and members from discussing the issue in public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bommai-will-complete-term-bjp-executive/article38059841.ece
29 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana Cabinet gets two more Ministers||Kamal Gupta, Hisar MLA from the BJP, and Devender Singh Babli, Tohana MLA from the Jannayak Janta Party, were inducted into the Haryana Cabinet on Tuesday. The second expansion in two years took the strength of the State Cabinet to 14, the maximum permissible in the 90-member Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-cabinet-gets-two-more-ministers/article38059766.ece
29 December 2021||Mumbai,||MVA govt. postpones Speaker’s election||On the last day of the winter session of the Maharashtra Assembly on Tuesday, the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government postponed the election of the Assembly Speaker to the Budget session, which is likely to be held in February-March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-govt-postpones-speakers-election/article38059949.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||COVID numbers rise, Delhi issues ‘yellow alert’||Schools, colleges, training and coaching institutes in the national capital will remain closed as the DDMA has declared a “yellow alert” amid a spike in COVID-19 cases following the emergence of the Omicron variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-numbers-rise-delhi-issues-yellow-alert/article38059951.ece
29 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Bommai will complete term as CM’||The BJP State executive committee, which began its two-day meeting in Hubballi on Tuesday, sought to clear the air on speculation over a possible change of leadership by sending out a clear message that Basavaraj Bommai will complete full term as Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bommai-will-complete-term-as-cm/article38059637.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Haridwar accused not arrested||The three accused named in the first information report (FIR) pertaining to the hate speeches at a religious event in Haridwar between December 17 and 19 may not face imminent arrest owing to several Supreme Court orders and observations that bar the police from arrest where the maximum possible sentence for an offence is seven years or less, a senior Uttarakhand government official said. At the event, calls were made for genocide and violence against Muslims. After the video clips of the event went viral, the Haridwar police on December 23 registered a case under Section 153A (a and b) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), entailing a maximum punishment of five years. Based on a complaint by a local resident initially only one person — former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board, Wasim Rizvi, who became Jitendra Narayan Tyagi — was named in the FIR. But on December 26, the names of Annapurna Maa, alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, ‘Mahamandleshwar’ of Niranjini Akhada and general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha; and Dharamdas Maharaj, a resident of Bihar, were added to the FIR. No arrests have been made in the case so far. The official said the Supreme Court on May 7 ordered that during the COVID-19 pandemic, the authorities need to strictly control and limit arresting the accused persons in line with the guidelines laid down by the court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar (2014). The judgment was to ensure that police officers do not arrest the accused unnecessarily and magistrates do not authorise detention casually and mechanically, particularly in cases where the punishment was seven years or less. The order was issued to check the spread of COVID-19 in prisons. Forensic examination The video clips of the Haridwar incident have been sent for forensic examination to gather more evidence, the official said. The event was organised by controversial Hindutva leader Yati Narsinghanand, who called on the Hindu youth to pick up arms against Muslims. “We are examining Narsinghanand’s speech and getting the content legally examined. Till now he has not been named in the FIR,” the official stated. Narsinghanand has several FIRs registered against him in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi for hate speeches. On August 20, a Supreme Court Bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said, “Merely because an arrest can be made because it is lawful does not mandate that arrest must be made.” As reported earlier, whether the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) could be added to the existing case was being legally examined and the police are also exploring if a case under Section 124 A of the IPC (sedition) can be invoked in the case or not. Though the Uttarakhand police have been treading cautiously on making arrests, there have been several instances when the police have not followed the top court guidelines. In January, comedian Munawar Faruqui was arrested in Indore for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. Though the IPC Sections he was booked under prescribe a jail term of up to only two years, he was arrested and spent over a month in jail before being granted bail by the top court on February 5. In 2008, the Congress-led UPA government made amendments to Section 41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which said that instead of arresting the accused in cases where punishment was less than seven years they may issue a notice of appearance. Letter to CJI On Sunday, 76 Supreme Court lawyers wrote to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana to take suo motu cognisance of the Haridwar event and direct that action be taken against the guilty persons under Sections 120B, 121A, 153A, 153B, 295A and 298 of the IPC. The sections pertain to criminal conspiracy, deliberate intent to hurt religious feelings among others, the maximum punishment being life imprisonment. The letter stated, “It is also pointed out that the recent speeches are a part of a series of similar speeches that we have come across in the past. It may be noted that no effective steps have been taken under the provisions of 153, 153A, 153B, 295A, 504, 506, 120B, 34 of IPC in respect of the earlier hate speeches. Thus, urgent judicial intervention is required to prevent such events that seem to have become the order of the day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haridwar-case-accused-yet-to-be-arrested/article38059397.ece
29 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Pre-2017 ‘perfume of corruption’ exposed in Uttar Pradesh: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday targeted the Samajwadi Party (SP), saying that the “perfume of corruption” sprayed by it across Uttar Pradesh before 2017 had surfaced again in front of everyone. Mr. Modi was referring to the tax searches on the premises of a perfume trader in Kanpur and Kannauj, which led to the recovery of Rs. 194.45 crore in cash and 23 kg of gold and other material worth Rs. 6 crore. “But now they have locks on their mouths… not coming to take credit,” he said taunting SP president Akhilesh Yadav, who, has on several occasions, said that the Yogi Adityanath government was claiming credit for projects and schemes launched during his tenure from 2012 to 2017. Speaking in Kanpur after launching a nine-km stretch of the Kanpur Metro, Mr. Modi linked the Opposition to the accused perfume trader Piyush Jain, whose business and residential premises were searched by officials of the Directorate-General of GST Intelligence. Mr. Jain was arrested on allegations of tax evasion. ‘Mountain of notes’ “The entire country saw the mountain of notes, this is their [SP’s] achievement. This is their reality,” he said. The Prime Minister, hinting at the Opposition parties, said they had been claiming credit for the work done by Mr. Adityanath. However, he wondered, if the Opposition would also jump to take credit for the “boxes full of notes” that were recovered during the raids. Mr. Modi’s use of the phrase “perfume of corruption” could also be seen as an attack on the SP, whose MLC Pushpraj Jain, who lives in the same locality as Mr. Piyush in Kannauj, recently launched a perfume of socialism, made of 22 different fragrances. The BJP, through Mr. Adityanath, had already made the tax search a part of the poll campaign. Through this, the BJP has also attempted to bring back the issue of demonetisation into the political discourse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pre-2017-perfume-of-corruption-exposed-in-uttar-pradesh-modi/article38059404.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Yellow alert’ in Delhi after COVID surge||India reported 6,358 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, of which at least 75 were of the Omicron variant, Union Health Ministry data said on Tuesday. So far, 653 cases of the Omicron variant have been reported. Maharashtra has so far reported the highest number of Omicron cases (167) followed by Delhi (165) and Kerala (57). However, no new case of the Omicron variant was reported in Maharashtra on Tuesday, while 91 of the patients previously infected by the strain have recovered, the State health department said. Gujarat’s COVID-19 cases on Tuesday saw a sharp jump with 394 cases and one death. After more than six months, major cities across the State are reporting a surge. Five more cases of Omicron variant were reported in the State on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 78. So far, 24 Omicron patients have recovered, said the State Health Department. The samples of 11 more persons have tested positive for the Omicron variant in Tamil Nadu, taking the total number of confirmed cases of the new variant to 45 in the State. The 11 persons included international travellers and their contacts. According to the bulletin issued by the T.N. Health Department, the State has a total of 45 confirmed cases of Omicron — 13 international travellers on arrival, 10 international travellers on the eighth day of testing and 19 contacts of international travellers, while three were not linked to international travellers. Seven new Omicron cases and one case from Monday took the tally to 62 in Telangana. The State recorded 228 new COVID cases taking the tally to 6,81,072. One person died of the infection, taking the death toll to 4,024 in the State. Health officials pegged the case fatality rate at 0.59% Karnataka on Tuesday reported 347 new cases of COVID-19. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.5%, the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 0.56 %. An African student of the University of Mysore tested positive for the Omicron variant on Tuesday. This is the second case of Omicron in Mysuru. West Bengal is recording 400 to 500 new cases of COVID-19 infection daily with six cases of the Omicron variant. The State had recorded 439 new infections on December 27 and 10 deaths. Kolkata continues to report the highest number of cases with 204 new infections in the past 24 hours. As many as 2,474 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kerala on Tuesday when 60,597 samples were analysed, taking the active caseload to 20,400. A total of 197 persons were admitted to hospital on Tuesdayand 3,052 persons were discharged after they tested negative. Of the 2,474 fresh cases, 24 had arrived from outside the State and 2,302 were infected through contact. While 1,330 of the new cases were breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated persons, 141 had received the first dose and 723 were unvaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yellow-alert-in-delhi-after-covid-surge/article38059417.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. will fight divisive ideologies, says Sonia||Electoral ups and downs are inevitable, but the Congress will continue to fight “divisive ideologies anchored in hate and prejudice” used to deliberately damage the country’s democratic traditions, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Tuesday in a video address to the party on its 137th Foundation Day. Earlier in the day, Ms. Gandhi unfurled the party flag at the Congress headquarters in the presence of former party president Rahul Gandhi and senior leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, A.K. Antony, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Pawan Bansal, Anand Sharma and K.C. Venugopal. “Divisive ideologies anchored in hate and prejudice and which had no role whatsoever to play in our freedom movement are now causing havoc on the secular fabric of our society. They are rewriting history to give themselves a role they do not deserve,” Ms. Gandhi said. In her three-minute address, she did not directly name either the Modi government or the RSS. “They inflame passions, instil fear and spread animosity. The finest traditions of our parliamentary democracy are being deliberately damaged. The Indian National Congress will fight these destructive forces with all might at its command,” she said. She exhorted the Congress workers not to compromise on their fundamental beliefs. “Electoral ups and downs are inevitable but what is enduring and lasting is our commitment to the service of all people of our diverse society,” she said in a telling comment considering the recent exodus of mid-level leadership to other parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-will-fight-divisive-ideologies-says-sonia/article38059408.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||COVID drug to hit pharmacies soon||Cipla, Sun Pharma and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories were among pharma firms that on Tuesday announced the launch of molnupiravir capsules to treat COVID-19. Their announcement followed the emergency use authorisation for the oral anti-viral drug from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Most of the firms had entered into a non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreement with Merck Sharpe Dohme (MSD) to manufacture and supply molnupiravir in India and to over 100 low and middle-income countries. Torrent Pharma, Hetero, Optimus Pharma and Natco Pharma were the other companies that announced DCGI approval and are gearing up to launch the oral drug. Cipla said it plans to launch molnupiravir under the Cipmolnu brand. Cipmolnu 200 mg capsules will soon be available at leading pharmacies and COVID treatment centres across the country. Industry-wide trials In a first-of-its-kind collaboration in the Indian pharmaceutical industry, a Dr. Reddy’s-led consortium of pharma companies collaborated to jointly sponsor, supervise and monitor the Phase 3 clinical trial in India and presented the findings to the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) that advises the DCGI. Dr. Reddy’s said it would soon launch the capsule under the brand name Molflu. G.V. Prasad, co-chairman and MD, said, “The approval to launch molnupiravir is an important development not only as a treatment option, but also for the collaborative manner in which Indian pharma companies came together.” Sun Pharmaceutical Industries said one of its wholly owned subsidiaries has received EUA from the DCGI to manufacture and market a generic version of MSD and Ridgeback’s molnupiravir under the brand name Molxvir. The recommended dose of the drug is 800 mg twice a day for five days. The duration of treatment of molnupiravir is much shorter than that of other therapies which is a significant advantage as it reduces the pill burden and enhances compliance, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-drug-to-hit-pharmacies-soon/article38059598.ece
29 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||There was no scent of scam, say perfumer’s neighbours||Piyush Jain, the Uttar Pradesh businessman from whose premises in Kanpur and Kannauj tax officials recovered Rs. 194.45 crore in cash, 23 kg of gold with foreign markings and perfumery raw material estimated at Rs. 6 crore, maintained a low-key life and was self-effacing, Kannauj residents said. Traders in Kannauj, where he lives on Jain Street in Chipatti Mohalla, where many members of the Jain community reside, said they had no inkling of the alleged wealth amassed by Mr. Jain. Stunned neighbours “We knew he was doing well in business, but the quantity of notes recovered have left us stunned,” said Suresh Jain (name changed), a neighbour, who is also involved in the perfume industry. Mr. Suresh, who has known Mr. Piyush for four decades, said there was no criminal case against anyone in their locality. Mr. Piyush is a “wonderful human being” who lived a “simple life” and did not even carry any security with him, he said. “I cannot understand how he got trapped in this matter,” he added. People in Kannauj say Mr. Piyush used to dress simply. Besides his bungalow, he owned a scooter, which he used often, a Hyundai Santro and an old Toyota car, Vikas Gupta (name changed), a prominent trader, said. Knowledge of chemicals According to Mr. Gupta, Mr. Piyush’s father worked in a soap manufacturing company in Mumbai. Mr. Piyush and his brother had master’s degrees and their wives bachelor’s degrees in science. Using this knowledge of chemicals, the family started manufacturing compounds for perfumes, Mr. Gupta said. The family mastered the art of making artificial sandalwood oil at a low cost, instead of extracting it from natural sandalwood, and thus started earning huge profits, he said. Over time, the Jains developed their business and also supplied compounds to foreign countries. Among others, Mr. Piyush supplied fragrance to the Shikhar Pan Masala company. Mr. Gupta also said Mr. Piyush “had a lot of faith in his religion” and made contributions of Rs. 60-70 lakh for the building and revamp of two Jain temples, including one in Tirwa. Community members said he had no overt political links and was busy with work or religious activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/there-was-no-scent-of-scam-say-perfumers-neighbours/article38059406.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Let Indian music take flight: Ministry||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has written to Indian airlines and airports in the country asking them to play Indian music following a request from the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) last week. “It is requested to kindly consider playing Indian music in the aircraft being operated in India and at airports following the regulatory requisites,” Usha Padhee, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation wrote in her letter on December 27. Though the Ministry did not define what music would be considered Indian, the letter said, “Indian music encompasses numerous genres in multiple varieties and forms which include classical music, folk, light vocal, instrumental.” Last week, ICCR President and the BJP’s Rajya Sabha members, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, handed over a letter to Minister of Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia in the presence of several artistes and singers. The letter pointed out, “It is extremely unfortunate that most airlines in India, both private and government owned, as well as both domestic and international, seldom, if at all, play Indian music. Our music mirrors our rich heritage and culture and it is one of the many things every Indian has a reason to be truly proud of.” Airlines play music inside an aircraft only at the time of boarding. Some airlines such as Air India and SpiceJet also offer in-flight entertainment or pre-loaded audiovisual content on screens behind the seats or mobile phones. Ajay Awtaney, founder and editor of the aviation website Live From A Lounge , welcomed the advisory, but said it remained to be seen how well it would be received by Indian passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-indian-music-take-flight-govt/article38059419.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Boycott extends to 12th day; doctors meet Mandaviya||Resident doctors, who alleged police brutality during a march in the city on Monday, continued to boycott work for the 12th day on Tuesday in protest against the delay in NEET-PG counselling. About 5,000 to 6,000 resident doctors from multiple city hospitals boycotted all work except COVID-19 duty on Tuesday, according to the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA). In the afternoon, members of FORDA met with Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who urged protesting doctors to join duty so that the public does not suffer. “Today, I met with resident doctors. We are not able to do the counselling because the matter is sub judice before the Supreme Court. There is a hearing on [the matter] on 6th [January] and the government will submit its report to the court before that and I will request to start the counselling soon,” the Minister said after the meeting. After the meeting FORDA president, Dr. Manish, said that the protest was still on and they would take a call on the further course of action after a meeting at 8 p.m. After a meeting with resident doctors’ associations (RDA), FORDA said they were continuing the boycott. “We demand a written apology from the Delhi Police and whatever assurance given by the Minister should be given at least in the form of minutes of the meeting, as protesting doctors are dissatisfied,” Anuj Aggarwal, secretary, FORDA, said. Police action On Monday, the doctors were marching towards the Supreme Court when they were stopped by the police near the ITO area. FORDA said that the doctors were “brutally thrashed, dragged and detained” by the Delhi Police. A senior police officer said that no doctor had been thrashed. Later in the day, a senior police officer said that an FIR on rioting, causing obstruction in duty of police personnel, and damaging public property had been lodged at the IP Estate Police Station against the doctors after a complaint was filed by a police official. Doctors who have completed MBBS have to go through the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) PG to get into post graduate courses. While the NEET-PG examination was held in September, counselling has not been conducted because of cases pending in the Supreme Court over reservations for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS). The agitation began on November 27 with resident doctors boycotting work in the Out Patient Department (OPD); it gradually escalated to “withdrawal from all service”, routine as well as emergency. It was suspended on December 9 after the doctors were given assurances that the counselling schedule would be released in a week, but they resumed the boycott as this did not happen, said FORDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boycott-extends-to-12th-day-doctors-meet-mandaviya/article38059425.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Indianising’ the legal system and SC’s views||At least two Supreme Court judges have in the past few months openly expressed the need to “Indianise” the legal system. In September, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana called for the “Indianisation” of the legal system to provide greater access to justice to the poor as the “need of the hour”. “When I say ‘Indianisation’, I mean the need to adapt to the practical realities of our society and localise our justice delivery systems… For example, parties from a rural place fighting a family dispute are usually made to feel out of place in the court,” the CJI clarified. On December 26, Justice S. Abdul Nazeer went a step further to underscore the need to embrace the “great legal traditions as per Manu, Kautilya, Katyayana, Brihaspati, Narada, Parashara, Yajnavalkya and other legal giants of ancient India”. Justice Nazeer, speaking on the “Decolonisation of the Indian legal system” at the National Council meeting of the Akhil Bharatiya Adhivakta Parishad in Hyderabad,  wondered what the “future model of our legal system ought to be”. He concluded that “there can be no doubt that this colonial legal system is not suitable for the Indian population. The need of the hour is the Indianisation of the legal system… to decolonise the Indian legal system”. “Great lawyers and judges are not born but are made by proper education and great legal traditions as were Manu, Kautilya, Katyayana, Brihaspati, Narada, Parashara, Yajnavalkya and other legal giants of ancient India... continued neglect of their great knowledge and adherence to alien colonial legal system is detrimental to the goals of our Constitution and against our national interests,” Justice Nazeer said. However, Supreme Court judgments themselves show that the Indian legal system had made an early start at consciously getting rid of the “crutches” of colonial influence. The evolution of laws in India has been through legislation and the binding precedents of the Supreme Court under Article 141 of the Constitution. The public interest litigation mechanism is truly Indian. “We cannot allow our judicial thinking to be constricted by reference to the law as it prevails in England or for the matter of that in any other foreign country. We no longer need the crutches of a foreign legal order. We are certainly prepared to receive light from whatever source it comes from, but we have to build up our own jurisprudence,” the Supreme Court, speaking through then Chief Justice of India P.N. Bhagwati, had said with confidence in the M.C. Mehta case way back in 1986. Manu, Kautilya Again, the highest judiciary has far from indulged in a “continued neglect” of the legal greats of ancient India. Several judgments since the 1980s refer to the works of Manu and Kautilya. In the privacy judgment, Justice S.A. Bobde (retired), referred to how “even in the ancient and religious texts of India, a well-developed sense of privacy is evident”. He mentions that Kautilya’s “ Arthashastra prohibits entry into another’s house, without the owner’s consent”. But the court has also differed from the views of these ancient texts. In its Joseph Shine judgment decriminalising adultery, the court refers to how “the Manusmriti , Chapters 4.1346 and 8.3527 prescribes punishment for those who are addicted to intercourse with wives of other men by punishments which cause terror, followed by banishment”. In the Sabarimala case, the court points to the Manusmriti to observe that in these “ancient religious texts and customs, menstruating women have been considered as polluting the surroundings”. It went on to hold that “practices which legitimise menstrual taboos, due to notions of ‘purity and pollution’, limit the ability of menstruating women to attain the freedom of movement, the right to education and the right of entry to places of worship and, eventually, their access to the public sphere”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indianising-the-legal-system-and-scs-views/article38059391.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Biological E to ramp up Corbevax output||Close on the heels of getting emergency use authorisation for its COVID-19 vaccine, Corbevax, from the Drugs Controller General of India, Biological E has announced plans to ramp up production. The vaccine maker said it plans to complete production of the vaccine at a rate of 75 million doses a month and anticipates to touch more than 100 million doses per month from February. “These capacities will enable delivery of 300 million doses as promised to the Government of India,” the Hyderabad-based company said in a release on Tuesday. It, however, did not specify from when the vaccine would become part of the national vaccination programme nor the price of a dose. Biological E said there are also plans to soon deliver more than one billion additional doses globally of the vaccine, it said. India’s first indigenously developed protein sub-unit COVID-19 vaccine, Corbevax, is a “recombinant protein sub-unit” vaccine developed from a component of the spike protein on the virus’s surface, which helps the body build the immune response against the virus. Mahima Datla, managing director of Biological E, said, “Over the years, we have worked to make quality vaccines and pharmaceutical products accessible to families around the world. With this as our backdrop, we resolved to develop an affordable and effective COVID-19 vaccine.” The vaccine will be effective both in scale and affordability, providing sustainable access to low-and middle-income countries, she said. The firm said it had completed two Phase 3 clinical trials involving more than 3,000 subjects in the 18-80 age group at 33 study sites across India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/corbevax-production-to-be-scaled-up-soon/article38059426.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Doctor’s certificate not must for third dose||Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told States and Union territories on Tuesday that only Covaxin was to be administered in the 15-17 population category and additional doses of Covaxin will be sent to them. The Centre would share the supply schedule of Covaxin with them in the next few days. Potential beneficiaries can either register themselves on CoWin from January 1 or opt for walk-in registration when vaccination starts on January 3. The States would have the option to designate some COVID vaccination centres as dedicated centres for the 15-17 age group, which would ensure that there is “no confusion in administering the vaccines”. For CVCs that are intended to serve categories in addition to 15-17 age group, the States were requested to ensure separate queues for the 15-17 age group and separate vaccination teams There have been no studies in India so far on whether mixing vaccines would be better than administering three doses of the same. This May, 18 people in Uttar Pradesh were jabbed accidentally with Covaxin following Covishield. An analysis by the Indian Council of Medical Research on the “mix-up” said all participants were safe and displayed a high degree of antibodies following the inoculation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-certificate-not-must-for-third-dose/article38059389.ece
29 December 2021||Srinagar,||Cong., CPI(M) slam move to open up J&K real estate||The Congress, the CPI(M) and factions of the separatist Hurriyat on Tuesday joined the regional parties in Jammu and Kashmir in opposing the government move to open up local real estate to “outsiders”. The National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had criticised the decision on Monday. At the first-ever ‘J&K Real Estate Summit’ held here on Monday, the Centre and the J&K government announced that any citizen of India could now buy non-agricultural land in the Union Territory. CPI(M) secretary Ghulam Nabi Malik said: “The summit is to encourage corporate companies to buy land and other properties in J&K and it will endanger the livelihood of farmers of the region. We have been saying for a long time that the Centre’s sole motive in revoking the erstwhile State’s special status in an unconstitutional and undemocratic manner was to put J&K on sale and annihilate our identity.” A spokesman of the J&K Congress Committee (JKPCC) said it would resist the bid to undermine the rights and aspirations of J&K residents. Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who heads a faction of the Hurriyat, appealed to the international community “to take cognisance of the systemic demographic change being foisted upon the Muslim-majority J&K by settling outsiders through a new policy of sale of land and natural resources to them”. “The government of India wants to change the demographic character of Muslim-majority J&K and disempower its residents through such diktats and measures, in order to scuttle the final resolution of the long standing international political dispute of Kashmir,” the Mirwaiz, who remains under house detention since August 2019, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-cpim-slam-move-to-open-up-jk-real-estate/article38059392.ece
29 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Forced to name BJP, RSS leaders in Malegaon case’||A witness deposing in the 2008 Malegaon bomb blast trial told the special court on Tuesday that officers of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), the then probe agency of the case, forced him to falsely name Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and four others Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leaders. The witness was being cross-examined by the special public prosecutor, Avinash Rasal, before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on his statement recorded under Section 161 (examination of witnesses by police) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Talking to The Hindu , Mr. Rasal said the witness was being cross-examined for his statement recorded by the ATS. “The witness said he was forced by Param Bir Singh [former ATS chief] and other officers to name Yogi Adityanath, Deodhar, Kakaji and two others. The court declared him hostile,” Mr. Rasal said. Malegaon is a city in Nashik district in Maharashtra where a bomb exploded on September 28, killing six and injuring over 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/forced-to-name-bjp-rss-leaders-in-malegaon-case/article38059395.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Audit irregularities’ led to FCRA denial: official||In 2015, the Ministry amended the FCRA rules that mandated NGOs to file returns quarterly and give an undertaking that the acceptance of foreign funds is not likely to prejudicially affect the “sovereignty and integrity of India or impact friendly relations with a foreign state and does not disrupt communal harmony.” According to the returns filed by the congregation, it had received over Rs. 75 crore as donation from 347 foreign individuals and 59 institutional donors and the total balance stood at Rs. 103.76 crore. The NGO registered in Kolkata has more than 250 bank accounts across the country to utilise the foreign funds. While filing the returns, the NGOs have to fill a column comprising 15 questions on whether it has transferred the donation to any other NGO or if the functionary has been prosecuted or convicted for indulging in activities aimed at religious conversion ans others. The MoC stated that it had inadvertently received a Rs. 3.5 lakh domestic contribution in its FCRA account. It declared that it had sold vehicles and demolished building material — fixed assets borne out of foreign funds in the said financial year. The FCRA, first enacted in 1976, was amended in the year 2010 and again in September 2020. The latest amendment to the Act inserted a new provision that makes it mandatory for all NGOs to receive foreign funds through a single, designated bank account at the State Bank of India’s New Delhi branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/audit-irregularities-led-to-fcra-denial-official/article38059398.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Two more vaccines join fight against COVID-19||The WHO’s general observation is that same or mixed vaccine regimens “improve immunological response” are better protective against disease and death. In June, the Centre said it had “reserved” 30 crore doses of Corbevax. Though early trials had shown the vaccine to be safe and capable of eliciting an immune reaction, no results are yet available on its efficacy. In June, results from a Phase 3 clinical trial of Novavax, enrolling 29,960 adult volunteers in the U.S. and Mexico, showed that the vaccine demonstrated 90.4% efficacy in preventing symptomatic COVID-19. It also showed 100% protection against moderate and severe disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-vaccines-join-fight-against-covid-19/article38059399.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Clean chit to forces in Hyderpora operation||The police were also investigating the slain building owner’s relation with Dr. Gul and his associate. The families of Dr. Gul, Bhat and Magray had accused the security forces of using them as human shields and killing them. The police had to exhume and return the bodies of Dr. Gul and Bhat to their families in the wake of protests by regional political parties. The Gupkar alliance termed the SIT report “concocted” and a “cover-up”. There was a strong public perception that the civilians killed were used as human shields by security forces, its spokesman M.Y. Tarigami said. “The alliance firmly believes that nothing short of a credible judicial probe will clear the doubts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clean-chit-to-forces-in-hyderpora-operation/article38059592.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Thousands of NGOs in limbo over FCRA renewal||“Unlike the simpler renewal process five years ago, this time the government has made it necessary for renewals to follow the same rigorous validation process as that for a fresh registration [under Section 12(4)] and that is going to complicate the process further. This will include many more compliance requirements, including certification that the NGO is not a “threat to public interest” or “national security”,” Sanjay Agarwal, FCRA accounting expert and author of a handbook on the FCRA 2010 law that was amended in 2020, told The Hindu . In particular, the government has used the ambiguous terms on public interest and national security against NGOs that work on human rights, child labour and slavery issues, as well as groups working on climate change issues. The MHA extended the deadline till December 31, from the earlier September 30, for NGOs to apply for renewal. FCRA registration is mandatory for associations and non government organisations to receive foreign funds. The certificates of around 80% of NGOs expired on October 31, and as per norms, they had to apply at least six months before the expiry of registration. There are 22,762 FCRA-registered NGOs. The FCRA division of the Ministry was also facing staff crunch . MHA officials did not respond if the December 31 deadline will be extended. Mr. Agarwal said, “I would say there are two issues an NGO faces- one is non-compliance, and given the number of complex rules, it is quite easy to show that an NGO has broken one rule or another. The second issue comes if there is media glare or the NGO focuses on some kind of activity that the government is unhappy about [like Human rights and economic issues”. In several cases in the past few years, the government has refused to disclose its reasons for putting NGOs on the “prior permission” watch list or suspending or cancelling their FCRA licences. One of those NGOs, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) has challenged the FCRA sus issued by the government in court, but at a hearing on December 7, the additional solicitor general informed the Delhi High Court that the government declined to show its records to court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thousands-of-ngos-in-limbo-over-fcra-renewal/article38059400.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||I-T Dept. unearths over Rs. 500-cr. black income||Searches by the Income-Tax Department, on four groups in different parts of the country, has led to the detection of unaccounted-for income exceeding Rs. 500 crore. In the first case, the searches were conducted on more than 25 premises linked to two groups of Nandurbar and Dhule in Maharashtra on December 22. According to the agency, the group has evaded income to the extent of Rs. 150 crore on account of the malpractices. A substantial part of the second group’s transactions were in unaccounted-for cash. Another round of searches was on two groups leading to seizure of assets worth more than Rs. 27 crore. One group manufactures electrical goods and is in the real estate and hotel business in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand. The second is in the money-lending business in Jaipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-unearths-over-rs-500-cr-black-income/article38059402.ece
29 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Two Congress MLAs from Punjab join BJP||Two Congress MLAs from Punjab, Fateh Singh Bajwa and Balwinder Singh Laddi, on Tuesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the 2022 Assembly election. Mr. Fateh Singh Bajwa is the MLA from the Qadian constituency and Mr. Laddi represents the Hargobindpur Assembly segment. They both joined the BJP in New Delhi. Last week, senior Congress leader and former Punjab Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi, a close aide of former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.), quit the Congress and joined the BJP. Responding to the two MLAs joining the BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said though it was an internal matter of the party it reflected the state of affairs in the Punjab Congress. “It is now clear that Congressmen have realised that their party is doomed and are jumping ship in droves.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-congress-mlas-from-punjab-join-bjp/article38059411.ece
29 December 2021||Mumbai,||MVA govt. postpones Speaker’s election to next session||Days after the Maharashtra government and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari locked horns over the election of the Assembly Speaker, the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government took a step back on the last day of the winter session of the legislature by postponing the Speaker’s election to the budget session, which is likely to be held in February-March 2022. ‘Avoid politics’ “The MVA government’s decision to hold Assembly Speaker’s election was as per the law. If the House has changed rules for the same, then it is well within its rights to change rules. The Governor should respect the constitutional post that he is holding and avoid playing politics,” said Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole. Mr. Patole said that the State government did not disrespect the Governor but instead followed every legal process. “The process could have been completed within a day, but Governor yet again sent a letter on Tuesday morning and therefore the State government decided to avoid conflict and postpone the Speaker’s election,” he added. Mr. Koshyari had reportedly objected to the change made by the legislature’s rules committee to complete the election through open vote instead of a secret ballot, terming it unconstitutional. The BJP too had opposed the move. A section within the State government wanted to go ahead with the election process and not pay heed to the Governor’s “pressure tactics”. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray too had written to Mr. Koshyari advising him not to indulge in politics. The Speaker’s post has been vacant since February after Mr. Patole resigned to become the State Congress president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mva-govt-postpones-speakers-election-to-next-session/article38059401.ece
29 December 2021||Patna,||Drones to monitor illegal distilleries||“Now, drones will be used to monitor illegal liquor manufacturing in Bihar. A trial run has already been done on December 25 in which three companies participated,” State Excise Commissioner B. Kartikey Dhanji told The Hindu . “Soon, the department will finalise a company to use drones on performance basis.”  The Hindu learnt that three companies participated in the trial conducted in the Digha area in Patna, and a night vision drone trial was conducted at Kangan ghat in Patna city. In 2021, the State Excise, Prohibition and Registration Department conducted 3,436 raids, and 11,488 raids against illegal liquor trade, manufacturing and consumption were carried out by the State Home Department. “A total of 2,390 people were arrested under prohibition laws only this year,” Mr. Dhanji said. The stringent Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act was brought into effect on April 5, 2016. Judicial officers The Patna High Court recently announced the appointment of judicial officers as presiding officers in the State’s 74 special courts to hear cases involving the violation of prohibition laws. “The Patna HC has made these appointments on the recommendations of the Excise, Prohibition and Registration Department in accordance with the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act,” said a senior department official. Mr. Dhanji added, “Continuous raids are being conducted in the State to arrest those engaged in the illegal trade of liquor and also to seize illicit liquor. During these raids, altogether 85,425 litres of illegal liquor, both Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor, have been seized this year, along with 316 vehicles. As many as 59 people engaged in the home delivery of liquor were arrested.” The 59 jails in Bihar remain crowded with people arrested under the prohibition law. “More than 68,000 prisoners are currently lodged in all 59 jails of Bihar against their total capacity of 46,669, which means these jails are overpopulated by 21,000 excess prisoners,” said a Home Department official. “Nearly 10,000 people were arrested in last 55 days for violating the prohibition laws and of them, more than 6,800 were sent to jail,” he added. Policemen suspended According to officials of the State Excise, Prohibition and Registration Department, over 3.5 lakh people have been arrested under the prohibition law since April 2016. Hundreds of policemen and other officials too have either been suspended or are facing a departmental inquiry under the prohibition law in the State. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, while delivering a lecture on “Indian Judiciary: Challenges and Future” on December 26 at a law college in Vijaywada, said the prohibition law in Bihar is an example of “lack of foresight” in drafting legislation that “can directly result in clogging of courts.” He added, “For example, the introduction of the Bihar Prohibition Act, 2016, resulted in the High Court being clogged with bail applications and because of this, a simple bail application takes one year to be disposed of.” On the following day, addressing a public meetingat Sasaram, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said, “We will not allow anyone to drink liquor in Bihar. Please do not come to Bihar if you are thinking of drinking liquor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drones-to-monitor-illegal-distilleries/article38059412.ece
29 December 2021||Bhopal,||Baghel asks Kalicharan to surrender||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday asked self-styled godman Kalicharan Maharaj to surrender, a day after the State police lodged an FIR against him in Raipur for allegedly insulting Mahatma Gandhi and praising his assassin Nathuram Godse. “If Kalicharan is such a brave person to abuse Mahatma Gandhi then why again and again he is giving statements. Come and surrender as an FIR has been lodged against you otherwise Chhattisgarh police will arrest you,” Mr. Baghel told media persons at Raipur. During the conclusion of the two-day ‘dharam sansad’ at the Ravan Bhata ground in Raipur on Sunday, the religious leader allegedly insulted Mahatma Gandhi and praised Nathuram Godse.The controversial statement drew flak from religious leaders attending the dharam sansad and Congress leaders.The Chhattisgarh police registered an FIR against him after a complaint was filed by Pramod Dubey of the State Congress Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-asks-kalicharan-to-surrender/article38059396.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests its own official for forgery||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested its own official for allegedly placing a forged note in the file of a case involving Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and others, and using its photograph for an attempt to get favour from Indiabulls. The official, identified as lower division clerk Sumeet Kumar, was posted with the agency’s anti-corruption branch in Mumbai. The alleged forgery was detected on December 21 when senior officials were reviewing the case file with counsel ahead of a court hearing in the matter. They found an additional note sheet: “Shri Sammir Galout and Smt Bindu Rana Kapoor is arrest is put up for kind perusal Pls”. The note was shown to have been signed by the Superintendent of Police concerned, approved by the Deputy Inspector-General and accepted by the Deputy Superintendent of Police. However, when cross-checked with the Crime Assistant, he identified the handwriting on the note to be of Sumeet Kumar. CCTV footage In order to confirm, the officials went through the closed-circuit television camera footage, which established that the accused created the note, took its pictures and that of other note sheets of the same file. During questioning, he disclosed that the photos were sent to Mohit Kumar of Mohit Trading Company, a housing keeping agency working with Indiabulls. “He further disclosed that the images of the note sheets have been sent to Mohit Kumar to impress upon Indiabulls to extend their contract of work of house keeping being undertaken by them, by giving favour in the matter of possible arrest of Sameer Gehlout, the then promoter and managing director of Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited,” said the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-its-own-official-for-forgery/article38059423.ece
29 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana gets two more Ministers||Kamal Gupta, Hisar MLA from the BJP, and Devender Singh Babli, Tohana MLA from the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), were inducted into the Haryana Cabinet on Tuesday. The second expansion in two years took the strength of the State’s Council of Ministers to 14, including the Chief Minister — the maximum permissible in the 90-member Assembly. The new Ministers were administered the oath of office and secrecy by Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at a swearing-in ceremony in Chandigarh. The BJP has given representation to the Bania community — traditional supporters of the saffron party — with the induction of Dr. Gupta, a two-time MLA. The JJP has tried to appease its core vote bank, the Jats, by deciding in favour of Mr. Babli.  After the expansion, the BJP has 10 Ministers and JJP, the junior partner in the coalition, has three, including Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-gets-two-more-ministers/article38059409.ece
29 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab polls: AAP releases another list||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday released another list of candidates for the 2022 Punjab Assembly election, due early next year. The party announced 15 candidates, taking the number of candidates announced by the AAP to 88. The party announced a ‘Peace March’ in Patiala on December 31 to be led by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Punjab AAP president Bhagwant Mann said, “For the past few days, there has been attempts to disturb the otherwise peaceful atmosphere and brotherhood of Punjab, be it sacrilege attempt at Sri Harmandir Sahib or Ludhiana Court blast. People of Punjab, irrespective of their religion or caste, have no tolerance for hatred or undercurrent fear.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-polls-aap-releases-another-list/article38059410.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Man detained in Germany in Ludhiana blast case||Based on intelligence inputs from India, German authorities have detained a person allegedly belonging to Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), an organisation suspected to be behind the recent bomb blast in Ludhiana, officials said on Tuesday. The man, identified as Jaswinder Singh Multani, was detained in a city in Germany after intelligence inputs were shared with the authorities in Berlin highlighting his alleged role in planning terror attacks in India, the officials said. Mr. Multani, against whom two FIRs have been registered in Punjab, was picked up and kept under detention and was being questioned on the inputs provided by Indian agencies to the authorities in Berlin through diplomatic channels. Mr. Multani’s detention comes five days after a bomb blast occurred at the Ludhiana court complex, killing Gangandeep, a dismissed policeman who was allegedly planting the bomb, and injuring two others. Mr. Multani’s name came up earlier this year as well in connection with a plan to kill prominent farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal during the farmers’ stir on the outskirts of the national capital. According to the officials, during the bomb blast probe, the police recovered evidence to show that the bomber was in touch with pro-Khalistani leaders in Pakistan and Gulf countries. Deciphering the evidence, the agencies were surprised to find out that Gangandeep was in constant touch with Mr. Multani and that the latter was instrumental in arranging for the explosive material for the blast. They said the chats on social media also indicated that more blasts were being planned by the group in Punjab and the rest of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-detained-in-germany-in-ludhiana-blast-case/article38059594.ece
29 December 2021||Chennai,||GI tag sought for Apatani textile product||An application seeking Geographical Indication (GI) tag for the Arunachal Pradesh Apatani textile product has been filed by a firm, Zeet Zeero Producer Company Ltd. The Apatani weave comes from the Apatani tribe living at Ziro, the headquarters of Lower Subansiri district. The woven fabric of this tribe is known for its geometric and zigzag patterns and for its angular designs. According to the application filed with the Geographical Indications registry in Chennai, the Apatani community weaves its own textiles for various occasions, including rituals and cultural festivals. The tribe predominantly weaves shawls known as jig-jiro , and jilan or jackets called supuntarii . The people use leaves and plant resources for organic dyeing of the cotton yarns in their traditional ways. And only women folk are engaged in weaving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gi-tag-sought-for-apatani-textile-product/article38059596.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath unveils border roads, bridges||The adversary in the northern sector was faced with “grit and determination” and it could not have been possible without proper infrastructural development, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday, referring to the stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh. “Strong infrastructure in border areas is essential in today’s uncertain times as it strengthens the strategic capabilities. As we move forward in the direction of strengthening our border infrastructure, we have to bolster our surveillance systems as well. Problems of infiltration, skirmishes, illegal trade and smuggling, etc often persist in border areas. In view of this, the government has started a comprehensive integrated border management system sometime back,” Mr. Singh said after virtually inaugurating 24 bridges and three roads built by the Border Roads Organisation. Of the 24 bridges, nine are in Jammu and Kashmir, five each in Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh, three in Uttarakhand and one each in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Two of the roads are in Ladakh and one is in West Bengal, the Defence Ministry said in a statement. The highlight of the event was the inauguration of India’s first indigenous class 70 140-feet double-lane modular bridge, built at the height of 11,000 feet at Flag Hill Dokala, Sikkim, and Chisumle-Demchok road at Umling La Pass at over 19,000 feet in Ladakh that also held the Guinness World Record of world’s highest motorable road, the statement said. “Roads in border areas ensure equal participation of remote areas in the development of the nation,” Mr. Singh noted.To boost tourism and facilitate the military personnel in border areas, Mr. Singh announced the setting up of ‘BRO Cafes’ at 75 places, as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations. These cafes would showcase the local traditions and have facilities such as food, parking, sitting area, souvenir shops and medical inspection.  Technology transfer In a separate event, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) handed over technology for indigenous extreme cold weather clothing system (ECWCS) to five Indian companies. The ECWCS is required by the Army for operations in glacier and Himalayan peaks. The Army, till recently, has been importing extreme cold weather clothing and several special clothing and mountaineering equipment (SCME) items. A DRDO statement pointed out that the DRDO-designed ECWCS was an ergonomically designed modular technical clothing with improved thermal insulation and physiological comfort based on the insulation required at various ambient climatic conditions in the Himalayan regions during different levels of physical activity. “The three layered ECWCS is designed to suitably provide thermal insulation over a temperature range of +15 to -50 degrees Celsius with different combinations of the layers and intensity of physical work,”the DRDO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-unveils-border-roads-bridges/article38059394.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Personnel to be deployed for poll duty entitled for precaution COVID-19 vaccine dose: Health Ministry to States||Polling staff to be deployed in the five election-bound States will be included in the category of frontline workers and would be entitled to the precaution dose of COVID-19 vaccine, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/personnel-to-be-deployed-for-poll-duty-entitled-for-precaution-covid-19-vaccine-dose-health-ministry-to-states/article38059591.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 15 crore register on unorganised sector workers’ portal||The Centre’s portal for registering unorganised sector workers that eventually aims at forming a database crossed the 15-crore mark on Tuesday. The e-Shram portal, launched on August 25, had issued over 15.53-crore e-Shram cards by Tuesday evening, the website showed. Uttar Pradesh sees the highest number of enrolments at 31.6 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-15-crore-register-on-unorganised-sector-workers-portal/article38059413.ece
29 December 2021||Jammu,||Apollo Hospitals to set up its first multi-specialty hospital in J&K soon||Renowned healthcare company Apollo Hospitals will set up its first 250-bed multi-specialty hospital in J&K's Jammu region soon. An official spokesman said the J&K government on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the company for the establishment of a multi-specialty hospital in Jammu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/apollo-hospitals-to-set-up-its-first-multi-specialty-hospital-in-jk-soon/article38059420.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI takes over probe into Assam recruitment scam||The CBI has taken over the probe into an alleged recruitment scam in the Assam Rifles involving its personnel, including doctors and one middleman.The case was earlier registered at the Jorhat police station in Assam in November 2019 based on a complaint lodged by the then Deputy Commandant (Vigilance).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-takes-over-probe-into-assam-recruitment-scam/article38059422.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trial run for toll collection on Chennai ORR under way||The trial run is on for toll collection and Fastag operations on the 62-km-long Chennai Outer Ring Road from Vandalur to Minjur. Four plazas have come up on the road at Varadarajapuram, Kolappanchery near Nazrethpet, Palavedu near Nemilicheri, and Periyamullavoyal. Official sources said that the toll rates had been sent to the State government for approval and that would be based on the formula used by the National Highways Authority of India. “Once approval is obtained, toll collection would begin. The notification for tolling was issued in 2018,” the source said. All three lanes on either side would have Fastag facility and one cash lane at the end. Local residents would be able to use the service lanes for travelling to nearby areas. However, if they are to use the main carriageway, they would have to pay toll. Around 35,000 vehicles use the road every day, of which 15,000 are trucks. The first phase of the road was opened in 2012 and the second phase five years ago. The maximum number of vehicles take the Vandalur to Poonamallee stretch, followed by Poonamallee to Nemilicheri and the least numbers are witnessed on the Nemilicheri to Minjur stretch. Work on three trucklay bays have been completed. Similarly, of the four way-side amenities, work on one has been completed. The way-side amenities would have a restaurant, petrol bunk, workshop and play area. T. Sadagopan, president, Tamil Nadu Progressive Consumer Center, Pattabiram, said that there were many villages and industrial estates along the road, which underlined the need for local residents pass for those using the road. “Those having small industries would have to use it frequently. Similarly, those who have farmlands near the road would have to transport agricultural produce to markets. They should either be exempted from paying toll or given local residents pass,” he said. A former Highways engineer said that the road would provide savings in terms of fuel, travel time and operating costs to vehicle owners and all these translate to advantage to the environment. “People should not think twice about paying toll,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trial-run-for-toll-collection-on-chennai-orr-under-way/article38059672.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DA hiked for govt. staff, teachers, pensioners||Ahead of the Pongal festival, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday increased the dearness allowance for State government employees, teachers and pensioners from 17% to 31% with effect from January 1. The announcement means an additional expenditure of Rs. 8,724 crore a year. The government also announced Rs. 3,000 in Pongal gift for the employees of the C and D categories and Rs. 500 for pensioners. Those on the special scale of pay will get Rs. 1,000 and those who were on the special scale of pay and have been receiving a special pension after retirement, including former Village Administrative Officers, will get Rs. 500. The measure will cost the exchequer Rs. 169.56 crore. An official release said that despite the financial burden, the government took the decision for the welfare of the employees. In a suo motu statement in the Assembly on September 7, Mr. Stalin said the dearness allowance for government employees, teachers and pensioners and others would be increased from January 1, 2022. Teachers’ associations have thanked the Chief Minister for increasing the dearness allowance. The Professors Forum of Madras University called the decision “a welcome gesture towards all government staff members who battled COVID-19 and worked through the pandemic”. Anna University Teachers Association rued there was no announcement on the surrender of earned leave. P. Patrick Raymond, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation, recalled the meetings government employees and associations had held to ensure they received their dues. The decision was welcomed by 16 lakh teachers, government employees and pensioners, he said.  This is a welcome gesture towards all government staff members who battled COVID-19 and worked through the pandemicThe Professors Forum of Madras University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/da-hiked-for-govt-staff-teachers-pensioners/article38059698.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11 more confirmed Omicron cases in Tamil Nadu||The samples of 11 more persons have tested positive for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Tamil Nadu, taking the total to 45. The 11 persons included international travellers and their contacts. According to a bulletin issued by the Health Department on Tuesday, the State had 45 confirmed cases of the Omicron variant — 13 international travellers on arrival, 10 international travellers on the eighth day of testing and 19 contacts of international travellers, while three were not linked to international travellers. As on date, 24 patients were discharged and 21 were at hospital. While two cases were cross-notified to Kerala and Puducherry, there were nine active cases in Chennai, four in Madurai, two in Tiruvannamalai and one each in Chengalpattu, Kanniyakumari, Salem and Tiruvarur. Steady rise in Chennai The State’s daily COVID-19 case count increased marginally from 605 on Monday to 619 on Tuesday. Chennai continued to record a steady rise as 194 persons tested positive against 172 cases the previous day. There were 84 cases in Coimbatore, while 59 persons tested positive in Chengalpattu and 40 in Erode. There were 33 cases in Tiruppur, 29 in Salem and 22 in Tiruvallur. Five districts — Kallakurichi, Mayiladuthurai, Pudukottai, Theni and Villupuram — had no fresh case. In fact, 22 districts logged fewer than 10 fresh cases each. Among those who tested positive were four international travellers — two from Qatar and one each from the UAE and Ukraine — and three persons from other States — two from West Bengal and one from Delhi. The State’s overall case tally rose to 27,45,261. Another six persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,750. Chengalpattu, Chennai, Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Erode and Sivaganga recorded one death each. While 638 persons were discharged after treatment, 6,537 persons were under treatment. Chennai had the highest number of active cases at 1,519. A total of 1,02,826 samples were tested. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 5,71,30,470. The inoculation of 1,80,806 persons on Tuesday took the overall coverage at government centres to 8,06,74,976. They included 1,05,394 persons aged 18-44; 49,112 persons aged 45-59; and 26,105 senior citizens.  The State’s overall case tally rose to 27,45,261. Another six persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,750||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-more-confirmed-omicron-cases-in-tamil-nadu/article38059694.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS criticises installation of meters for new farm connections||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday criticised the DMK Government for allowing the installation of meters for new electricity connections being given to farmers. Expressing shock over the move, Mr. Panneerselvam, in a statement, recalled that the DMK had criticised a similar move when the AIADMK was in power during 2001-06. While participating in a debate in April 2002 on the Budget for 2002-03, E.V. Velu, then a legislator and now Minister for Public Works and Highways, questioned the need for installing the meters when agriculturists were enjoying the Free Power Supply Scheme. Responding to him, then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa made it clear that the scheme will continue. However, the installation of the meters was to ascertain electricity consumption by the farm sector. Yet, the DMK and other Opposition parties had organised agitations to settle political scores, he said. When the Central Government released the draft of the Electricity Act in 2020, then Leader of the Opposition (LOP) [now Chief Minister M.K. Stalin] had described it as a move to scrap the scheme providing free power supply of 100 units bi-monthly to domestic connections, and came down heavily on the previous AIADMK regime. “With the then LOP being the Chief Minister now, the DMK is implementing everything it had opposed while in Opposition,” the AIADMK leader said. At the time of the launch of the One Lakh Connection Scheme for agriculturists in September, Mr. Stalin had sought to portray it as a huge achievement, as if there was no such scheme elsewhere in the country. But he did not make any observation about the installation of meters for new connections, he said. “It is said that the work of installing meters is being done following the Central Government’s direction that new electricity connections should not be given without meters, and all unmetered connections should also be provided with meters. There is an apprehension among the farmers that the installation of meters is being carried out to collect consumption charges in the future,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. He called upon the Chief Minister to have the meter installation revoked and take steps to get the Central Government’s directions rescinded. Tangedco’s response However, officials of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation clarified that the installation of meters for fresh farm connections is not new, and has been in practice for the last five years. As many as 2.66 lakh meters were installed during 2017-2021 (up to March 31). After the DMK regime took charge in early May, around 18,000 connections were given with meters. The present plan is to provide one lakh connections during the current year at a cost of Rs. 3,025 crore, the officials pointed out, adding that free power supply will continue, and the installation of meters was limited to new connections only.  It is said that the work of installing meters is being done following the Central Government’s direction that new electricity connections should not be given without meters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-criticises-installation-of-meters-for-new-farm-connections/article38059726.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Real estate guideline value to be revised||The Tamil Nadu government will begin the process of revision of the real estate guideline value. It will likely issue an order soon to constitute a high-level committee and a steering committee for the rationalisation of the market value guideline to start the process for the 18th time. According to an official, the major difference between the earlier revisions and the latest is that a dedicated team and a separate committee of experts have been proposed to carry out analytics. The government is also planning to take several initiatives for the benefit of the real estate sector after the committee submits its report. The guideline value is based on local enquiries with persons having knowledge of the subject, the sales details of property in each category recorded in the past two years and field inspections. The first revision of the real estate guideline value was done on September 1, 1981. The Tamil Nadu Stamp (Constitution of Valuation Committee for Estimation Publication and Revision of Market Value Guidelines of Properties) Rules, 2010, came into force. The guideline value was revised for the 16th time in April 2012. Uniform reduction However, the government decided in June to effect a uniform reduction of 33% in the market value guideline in all 50 registration districts, paving the way for the 17th revision. Officials said that for preparation of the market value guideline for property, a committee would be constituted, as prescribed in Section 47 AA of the Indian Stamp Act, to frame broad rules for revision of the guideline value by the district-level valuation sub-committees headed by the Collectors. As part of the revision, a market value guideline register is likely to be prepared for each revenue village or ward or block. The entries in respect of the survey number or the sub-division will be in the same order as maintained in the revenue records. In the case of streets or roads and residential colonies, the entry will be in an alphabetical order. In urban areas, the entries will be arranged ward-wise, an official said. CREDAI Tamil Nadu president Suresh Krishn said the value was low at many places. “We want the government to reduce the stamp duty and registration charges. It can increase the value based on the location.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/real-estate-guideline-value-to-be-revised/article38059696.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Building collapse: Debris removal stopped||The removal of debris from the site of the collapsed Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) building in Tiruvottiyur and the demolition of the conjoined structure were stopped on Tuesday, as the exercise was reportedly having an impact on nearby buildings. One wing of the ‘D’ block of the tenements on Village Street in Tiruvottiyur collapsed on Monday. The residents of the adjacent ‘C’ and ‘E’ blocks said they felt that their buildings were mildly shaky on Tuesday morning, when the earthmoving equipment were at work to remove the debris. P. Omana, a resident of the ‘E’ block, said plastering from the ceilings flaked and fell off. “We felt there were new cracks in the building,” she said, adding that a portion of a sun shade from the ‘F’ block also fell off. D. Seema, a resident of the ‘C’ block, said they also felt some impact, and almost everyone from the building rushed out. T.M. Thaniyarasu, a local DMK functionary, who helped evacuate everyone before the building collapsed, said the debris removal work was immediately stopped after the residents reported the impact. “The plan was to remove the debris gradually and help the residents of the collapsed 28 units salvage their belongings to the extent possible. However, the work was stopped after it posed a risk to adjacent buildings,” he said. A senior official from TNUHDB said the work will resume after the technical committee, formed to evaluate the quality of the remaining buildings at the site, submits its report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/debris-removal-stopped-after-other-buildings-feel-impact/article38059683.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Out of fear, many residents vacate their tenements in Tiruvottiyur||The Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) tenements on Village Street in Tiruvottiyur wore a chaotic look on Tuesday morning as many of the residents vacated their buildings out of fear following the collapse of one of the buildings on Monday. While the Board officials claimed that they did not ask the people to move out except for those in the E block, which is located adjacent to the collapsed building, the residents on the other hand cited lack of clear communication from the officials and the fear created by the collapse as reasons for them to evacuate. Many of them, who moved out their belongings from the buildings, had nowhere to go and stayed with their belongings in the vacant area at the site. “We spent Monday night in the open as we were scared to sleep in our building. Today (Tuesday) morning, we felt some impact when they tried to remove the debris. When we asked the officials, they said we can vacate if we were afraid. Hence, we moved out all our belongings,” said S. Santha, an elderly person from E Block. However, Ms. Santha, who lived with her daughter and two grandsons, said she did not know where to go. “My daughter is the sole breadwinner of the family. One of my grandsons is studying and the other one has just started going to work. We cannot afford rent elsewhere,” she said. Though the Board asked the people of E block to move without their belongings to the community hall, the residents said that they could not leave with their belongings in the open. M. Esther, a resident of F block, said she was moving her family to a relative’s house as an interim measure. “But how long can we stay in our relative’s house? The government has to decide soon on our accommodation,” she said. Common demand A section of the residents said they had found rental accommodation nearby and were moving there temporarily. The demands of all the residents appeared to be demolition and reconstruction of all the buildings at the site with interim accommodation provided at another TNUHDB site nearby. M. Govinda Rao, Managing Director, TNUHDB, said all the affected 48 families have been provided accommodation in community halls. Since E block was found to have some problems, the residents were asked to move as a precaution to community halls without taking out all their belongings. Residents from the remaining buildings were not asked to leave. “However, some people are vacating on their own despite clear communication from officials. It is difficult to insist they stay in their buildings as they are afraid after the collapse,” he said. The Board had identified 25 housing units in its All India Radio site in Tiruvottiyur. “If 25 families from the collapsed units are willing to move there, we will help them move immediately,” he said. Alternative accommodation for the remaining 23 families in the collapsed building was being worked out on priority with some options already suggested to them. Further course of action for the remaining buildings will be taken after evaluation of their quality by the technical committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/out-of-fear-many-residents-vacate-their-tenements-in-tiruvottiyur/article38059685.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Libraries inside temples being refurbished: Minister||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K.Sekarbabu on Tuesday said that libraries situated inside temples in the State were being refurbished. A sum of Rs. 10 crore had been allocated for this purpose and work was on in 114 libraries. These facilities were getting furniture, fresh coat of paint and books, wherever needed. Briefing reporters during a review meeting at the department’s head office in Nungambakkam, he said four libraries with books related to Hinduism were coming up in Chennai in areas, including Triplicane and Mylapore, where temples witnessed large crowds.  Fire audits were being conducted in all temples and associated buildings to ensure the safety of lives and properties. Lightning conductors atop temple gopurams were being checked and those needing replacement were getting new ones installed, he said. Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, who chaired the review of the 24 schools being managed by various temples along with Mr. Sekarbabu, said that the safety and status of school buildings all over the State were being checked. Steps were on to fill up vacancies of teaching and non-teaching staff in these schools, he added. HR and CE Secretary B. Chandra Mohan, HR and CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran and School Education Commissioner K. Nandakumar were among the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/libraries-inside-temples-being-refurbished-minister/article38059729.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Minister appeals to luxury hotels to avoid New Year celebrations||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday appealed to luxury hotels to avoid holding New Year celebrations because of the steady rise in fresh COVID-19 cases in Chennai. Talking to reporters here, he said that in a letter to all the States, the Union Home Ministry had stressed the need to take measures to control the transmission of the contagion. “It has been advised that New Year celebrations should be avoided... There are many star hotels in Chennai. Many persons could take part in New Year celebrations, if organised. As of now, there are no advertisements or announcements. Hotels will understand that they have a social responsibility. We are appealing to these hotels not to conduct such celebrations. We hope they will treat our appeal as an order. However, the police and the local bodies will watch out for such events,” he added. As on date, Tamil Nadu had 34 confirmed cases of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19, Mr. Subramanian said. “Of them, 22 persons had been discharged earlier. On Monday evening, seven persons were discharged. Only five persons are under treatment at hospital, and they are doing well.” ‘Patients doing well’ He said 118 persons, whose samples showed the S-gene dropout (an indication of the Omicron variant), were also doing well at hospital, and the results of the genome sequencing of their samples were awaited. Mr. Subramanian said COVID-19 cases were gradually increasing in Chennai. “While the number has come down in many other districts, it remains above 100 in Chennai. I request all people to ensure 100% mask usage. It is a cause for worry that only 32% to 33% of those in slums wore masks and 57% to 58% of those who visited commercial complexes used masks. People should ensure that they wear masks once they step out of their homes. Residents of Chennai should set an example for others,” he said. Earlier, he flagged off multi-purpose mobile ophthalmology vehicles at the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology and Government Ophthalmic Hospital. The launch of district-wise multi-purpose mobile ophthalmology vehicles was announced in the Assembly. “Five vehicles were announced, and three were launched. The remaining two will be put to use soon. A total of Rs. 90 lakh was spent on the three mobile units that will cover Salem, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli,” he said. These units would help in identifying persons requiring treatment for eye disorders. “At the national level, the prevalence of visual impairment among persons aged above 50 is 1.19%. The rate is 1.18% in Tamil Nadu. There are cases of cataract and diabetic retinopathy in rural areas,” he said. These units would camp in villages and screen people. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-minister-appeals-to-luxury-hotels-to-avoid-new-year-celebrations/article38059692.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in price of packaged water will not affect consumers||The increase in the cost of packaged drinking water from January 1 will be only for dealers and not on the maximum retail price. It will not affect the consumers, said packaged drinking manufacturers. The Greater Tamil Nadu Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers’ Association had announced that price of water packaged in various capacities from 300 ml to five litres would be increased by 10% from January 1. Members said the decision was taken as the price of packaging materials had gone up by 40%. Association’s founder A. Shakespeare said the cost of various raw material like bottles, wrappers and carton boxes had gone up. “The increase in price for stock sold to dealers would be nominal. For instance, the rise in dealers’ price would work out to 30 paise for every 300 ml bottle. Similarly, it would be Rs. 1 for two-litre bottle,” he said. The 10% increase in price would be applied per box of packaged drinking water. For example, one box would have 30 numbers of 300-ml bottles. Similarly, there would be nine bottles of 2-litre capacity in a box. The refilling rate for 20-litre bubble top containers has been increased by Rs. 2 for dealers. But, there would not be any change in prices for consumers, Mr. Shakespeare said. As this was not the peak season, the consumption of packaged drinking water remains at 1.7 crore to 2 crore litres daily. In Tamil Nadu, the daily consumption of packaged drinking water was five crore litres. The consumption was expected to go up in summer. At present, there were nearly 1,750 packaged drinking water manufacturing units approved by Bureau of Indian Standards across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-price-of-packaged-water-will-not-affect-consumers/article38059718.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Livelihood parks to come up over the next three years||The Tamil Nadu Government is set to establish a total of 25 ‘Mahakavi Bharathiyar Livelihood Parks’ over three years that will serve as common infrastructure centres for self-help groups (SHGs) to pursue their activities collectively. The parks, to be spread over 25,000 to 40,000 sqft, are aimed at providing better working ambience for rural artisans and producers of farm-based and value added products. To be located on government lands in the vicinity of intersections of major roads or areas with high congregation of people on a daily basis, each will comprise of four to six production units for varied products. The parks will also have food courts, a children’s play area, open spaces, gazebos, a parking area, among others for the benefit of the artisans and visitors. The funds required for the construction and basic infrastructure will be in convergence with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and other rural development schemes, relevant to the creation of infrastructure. The approximate cost is Rs. 1.25 crore. According to a Government Order (G.O.), the funds required to meet recurring costs for the parks’ functioning will be met with the share amount collected from SHGs for availing the facilities.To meet the initial running cost during the incubation period, the funds of the District Supply and Marketing Society will be used. The livelihood parks will act as both a point of collectivism for SHG-run enterprise for production process and a marketing area for buyers. The parks will ensure year-round availability of a particular product at a single point for the buyer, in addition to being a learning hub for visitors. Occupants will pay the electricity charges based on their production unit’s consumption. The common consumption charges will be paid with the collected rent and entry fee collected from visitors. Sites for the parks are being shortlisted.  The parks, to be spread over 25,000 to 40,000 sqft, are aimed at providing better working ambience for rural artisans and producers of farm-based and value added products||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/livelihood-parks-to-come-up-over-the-next-three-years/article38059719.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Egmore Museum plans to build new archaeology wing and science centre||A massive new archaeology wing to display various reserve collections along with a Science Centre is being planned to be built by the Government Museum at Egmore. The archaeology wing would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 24.89 crore and the Science Centre at a cost of Rs. 22.40 crore. An official at the museum told The Hindu a proposal for these projects was being sent to the Centre for funding. While the archaeology wing would be constructed with 100% Government of India funding, the Science Centre would come up with equal funding from the State government and the Union government, the official said. The Science Centre is likely to be modelled on the lines of the Birla Planetarium in Kotturpuram. The new wing will span 3,000 sq.m over two floors and will aim to display most of the artefacts that are lying in the museum’s reserves. At present, only about 25% of the artefacts are on display in the existing space. The museum is also planning conservation work in the Amaravathi Gallery and is in the final stages of awarding the tender for the work. The roof, ceiling, floor and display would be part of the conservation work, a source said. Work on the National Art Gallery had been completed, the source said, adding that the space was being kept ready for displaying more art works that were expected to arrive at the museum soon. The works undertaken under the Asian Development Bank funding had also been completed. The front garden with the gazebos would be taken care of by Indian Bank as part of its CSR initiatives. This was one of the spaces that was offered by the museum to corporates for adoption and maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/egmore-museum-plans-to-build-new-archaeology-wing-and-science-centre/article38059732.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A century-old ivory nagaswaram||Over a hundred years old, it probably is one of the oldest nagaswarams. It is still in good condition, and Chitrai Nayakar, a nagaswaram player and owner of the instrument, is said to have played it at the wedding of national poet Subramania Bharathi. “Chitrai Nayakar was my grandfather, and the instrument was gifted to me by my mother Meenakshi in 1962 when I got married. My grandfather had told my mother that he played at the wedding of Bharathiyar,” said advocate Ramani Natarajan, who now preserves the instrument. It is a small timiri- type nagaswaram, capable of producing high pitch music. The lower part — anusu — and upper part of the instrument are made of ivory, and such instruments were normally possessed by musicians of great talent and fame. Chitrai Nayakar died in 1925. According to A.N. Sattanathan, the first chairman of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Commission, the instrument was gifted to Chitrai Nayakar by the Maharaja of Mysore, probably by Krishnaraja Wodeyar IV. The late Sattanathan was the father of Ms. Natarajan; his father Arumuga Nayakar was also a nagaswaram player. Sattanathan has written in detail about his father and father-in-law Chitrai Nayakar in his autobiography, Plain Speaking: A Sudra’s Story . The book offers rare insights into the world of exponents of the nagaswaram other than the Isai Vellalas of the composite Thanjavur district. Both Chitrai Nayakar and Arumuga Nayakar belong to the Padayachi community in Tirunelveli district. In his book, Sattanathan records that Chitrai Nayakar, a native of Sundarapandi- apuram in Tirunelveli, was the most successful among those practising music as a profession in the district. “He rose, in his day, to considerable fame as a nagaswaram virtuoso. He performed by invitation in places as far afield as the durbar of the Maharaja of Mysore and the Murugan temple at Kathirgamam in Sri Lanka,” Sattanathan wrote. Uttara Natarajan, Reader in English at Goldsmiths College, University of London, and daughter of Ms. Natarajan, said she had a photograph of Chitrai Nayakar in London.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-century-old-ivory-nagaswaram/article38059689.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister hands over enhanced subsidy to 490 temples||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday handed over cheques for Rs. 6 crore and Rs. 3 crore towards enhanced subsidy for 490 temples in Kanniyakumari district and 225 temples under the Pudukottai Samasthanam, respectively. He handed over the enhanced subsidy to the executive officers of two temples at a function held at the Secretariat here. HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, who was present on the occasion, said many of these temples did not even have ghee for lighting lamps, and the staff were getting a very dismal amount as salary due to a lack of income. This was despite smaller temples getting a share of the income of larger temples, the Minister added. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, HR&CE Secretary B. Chandra Mohan and Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-hands-over-enhanced-subsidy-to-two-temples/article38059806.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pilot study to check recovery of patients with S-gene dropout||The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has taken up a pilot study among COVID-19 positive patients, in whom S-gene dropout was identified, by repeating the RT-PCR test every alternate day to check how early they turned negative for the infection. Last week, a cluster of COVID-19 cases surfaced at RGGGH after a patient with diabetes turned out to be positive for the infection. Following this, 3,965 persons were tested from December 17 to 27 of which 94 were found to be COVID-19 positive. Of this, S-gene dropout, a marker for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, was identified in the samples of 64 persons till Tuesday. All of them were asymptomatic, according to hospital authorities. E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, said till Monday 51 patients (28 healthcare workers and 23 patients) had S-gene dropout, while it was identified in 13 more persons on Tuesday. Six of them were cases of re-infection. “We launched the pilot study a few days ago. We have been lifting swabs from the 51 patients with S-gene dropout every alternate day to know how early they became negative for the infection. The pathophysiology of the new variant is different from Delta variant. This seems to stay in the bronchus and trachea. All 51 patients are having oxygen saturation level of 99% that shows that the infection does not involve the lungs, he said. He pointed out that unlike in Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 in which the median incubation period was five days, Omicron variant’s median incubation was 2.5 days. “We have readied a proforma for patients in whom S-gene drop was identified and results of whole genome sequencing are being awaited. It is a challenge to keep all patients for 10 to 14 days in hospital. So, we are looking at their recovery period. If we study and understand this, we can plan for further isolation and discharge. Earlier, patients were positive for COVID-19 for even 30 days and we want to see if the new variant is of a short duration,” he said. This documentary evidence would help doctors in decision-making.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pilot-study-on-to-check-recovery-of-patients-with-s-gene-dropout/article38059690.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor for academic chairs named after Bharathiar, V.O.C., Kattabomman||Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi on Tuesday held a virtual meeting with the Vice-Chancellors of State and Central Universities and reviewed the activities relating to Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, an initiative by the Centre to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence. “The Vice-Chancellors briefed the Governor on various activities and initiatives undertaken by the universities and also discussed their future plan of action,” an official communication from the Raj Bhavan said. The Governor, who is the Chancellor of State universities, appreciated the initiatives taken by them and urged them to celebrate the event in such a manner that instils a sense of pride among the younger generations about all those who gave their lives for the country’s independence. “He also urged them to set up chairs in the names of freedom fighters and leaders of our nation like Subramaniya Bharathiyar, V.O. Chidambaram Pillai, Veerapandiya Kattabomman to fulfil their vision of building a great India,” it said. The Governor also advised the Vice-Chancellors to constitute teams of scholars to deliberate and produce documents outlining the contours of India in 2047. He drew their attention to the fact that the post-Corona world order is likely to be different from the one that emerged after the second World War when India was still a colony. He urged them to work on strategy papers for India to have its due place in the new order.Mr. Ravi also shared with them some reports in the British archives that showed how prosperous India was at the beginning of the colonisation and urged them to commission researches on India’s economic status in the 17th and 18th centuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-for-academic-chairs-named-after-bharathiar-voc-kattabomman/article38059717.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government reconstitutes tourism advisory panel||The Government has issued orders to re-constitute the Tamil Nadu Tourism Advisory Committee and rename it as Tamil Nadu Tourism Promotion and Development Committee. Its purpose is to advise the government on the development of tourist destinations, encourage various segments in tourism, improving the inter-departmental co-ordination, encouraging participation of private sector and for creating tourism awareness. The term of office of the members shall be for a period of two years. Office-bearers of the Travel Agents Association of India; Indian Association of Tour Operators; Tamil Nadu Travel Mart; South Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association; Tamil Nadu Tour, Travel and Hospitality Association; South India MICE Association, Tourist Bus Operator Association, Approved Tour Guides Association and Air Passengers Association of India, would be its non-official members, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-reconstitutes-tourism-advisory-panel/article38059673.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arappor Iyakkam makes tender documents accessible to public||Arappor Iyakkam, the Chennai-based non-governmental organisation, has uploaded all the tender documents for road repair works to be carried out by Greater Chennai Corporation on its website for the public to access easily. GCC recently floated tenders worth Rs. 147 crore for road relaying and repair works to be carried out in 1,010 roads in the city. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Arappor Iyakkam convener Jayaram Venkatesan said that the common issue faced by the public in matters related to infrastructure was that they were unable to raise questions as they did not know the details on how the work should have been done. Pointing out that these details are available in the tender documents, he said that all government departments, however, removed the details from the government website soon after the tenders were closed. He said that Arappor Iyakkam uploaded the tenders to its website and can be accessed atwww.arappor.org/tender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arappor-iyakkam-makes-tender-documents-accessible-to-public/article38059674.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||K.S. Alagiri calls BJP government ‘farcical’||The BJP government at the Centre is a farcical government and people will see more farcical schemes in the coming days, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said on Tuesday. He said the schemes introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not benefit anyone. “Who benefited from demonetisation? Did the country benefit? The farm laws — the farmers fought in the Gandhian way for one year and he had to take them back. You didn’t even discuss the withdrawal in Parliament. Parliament is there for discussion, which is what the Opposition parties wanted. But you didn’t allow any discussion. This is a farcical government,” he said. Interacting with journalists after hoisting the party flag at Satyamurthy Bhavan on the occasion of the 137th foundation day, he accused Mr. Modi of belittling former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Thanks to Nehru’s efforts, India had advanced so much, he said. TNCC vice-president and spokesperson A. Gopanna said he would go to court against a Chennai school if its correspondent did not explain how a book release event was allowed to be held on its premises, in which BJP leader H. Raja reportedly spoke against Nehru and an RSS member got the first copy of the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ks-alagiri-calls-bjp-government-farcical/article38059713.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM felicitates man who helped save lives||Former councillor of the erstwhile Tiruvottiyur Municipality, T.M. Thaniyarasu, whose timely intervention helped residents flee a Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board building before it collapsed, was felicitated by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Tuesday. News reports News publications, including The Hindu, reported that many residents had fled the building largely due to the intervention of Mr. Thaniyarasu. While visiting the building on Monday, he noticed that the cracks on the walls were widening, and alerted the Board Assistant Engineer, who suggested the evacuation of the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-felicitates-man-who-helped-save-lives/article38059677.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Permanent pathway on beach soon: Stalin||Days after a temporary pathway was set up on the sands of the Marina to help persons with disabilities access the beach, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said in a social media post that a permanent pathway would be set up soon. Mr. Stalin said it was a small task, but also the beginning of a major change .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permanent-pathway-on-beach-soon-stalin/article38059734.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t gather on beaches on New Year’s Eve: police||The city police have appealed to people not to congregate on the beaches on New Year’s Eve. “Members of the public are requested not to congregate on any stretch of the beaches in the Greater Chennai Police limits, including the Marina/Elliot’s and the East Coast Road. Vehicles will not be allowed, from Gandhi Statue to War Memorial, on Kamarajar Salai, and on stretches along Elliot’s Beach at Besant Nagar from 9 p.m on December 31. The roads such as Kamarajar Salai, R.K. Salai, Rajaji Salai, Anna Salai, and GST Road should not be used for parking,” Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal said in an advisory on Tuesday. There should be no gathering of revellers at beach resorts, farmhouses, convention halls and clubs. The gated communities and residents’ welfare associations should refrain from conducting celebrations that would lead to crowding. Hotels and restaurants are allowed to do business till 11 p.m. in compliance with public health measures. Disk jockey performance and the use of dance floor that bring people in close contact are not permitted. Hospitality units should ensure that their workers have been vaccinated with two doses. Officials managing the places of worship should check the temperature of devotees, who should wear masks and maintain physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-gather-on-beaches-on-new-years-eve-police/article38059724.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme for gana singers||Greater Chennai Police have launched a drive to prevent gana singers from using the names of banned tobacco products and narcotics in songs. Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal has directed police officers to conduct awareness programmes among gana singers and YouTube professionals on the impact of using such names. Students were getting to know about the banned substances from popular gana songs. An event was organised in Madhavaram by the police to prevent gana singers from using the names of banned substances. The singers removed content from YouTube as part of the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-for-gana-singers/article38059727.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ED attaches assets of ‘MGM’ Maran||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has seized assets worth Rs. 293.91 crore of Nesamanimaran Muthu alias MGM Maran under the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999. The seized assets are in the form of shareholdings in four Indian companies — Southern Agrifurane Industries Private Limited; Anand Transport Private Limited; MGM Entertainment Private Limited and MGM Diamond Beach Resorts Private Limited. According to the ED, Mr. Muthu had incorporated two companies in Singapore during the financial year 2005-06 and 2006-07 and invested Singapore Dollar (SGD) 5,29,86,250 equivalent to Rs. 293.91 crore. This investment was made without taking approval from the RBI. Further, the source of such a huge investment abroad was not disclosed to the Indian regulators. Since the amount of foreign investment was SGD 5,29,86,250, the assets of equivalent value thereof of Rs. 293.91 crore have been seized. The provisions of section 37A(1) empowers the ED to seize Indian assets of a person who has acquired assets in a foreign country or made investment outside India without the approval of RBI while he was a resident in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ed-attaches-assets-of-mgm-maran/article38059733.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revision exams for Classes X, XII||Students of Classes X and XII of State Board schools will appear for two revision exams this academic year. The Directorate of Government Examinations announced the timetable for the exams on Tuesday. The first revision exam for Class X students will be held from January 19 to 27. The exam will be held from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The second revision exam will be held from March 21 to 26. The first revision exam for Class XII students will commence on January 19 and end on January 28. The exam will be held from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. The second revision exam will be held from March 21 to 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revision-exams-for-students-of-classes-x-xii/article38059686.ece
29 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Customer upset as form to open locker is in Hindi||Officials of the State Bank of India in Chennai reached out to a customer on Tuesday, hours after her daughter flagged that a bank form was in Hindi, a language not widely understood in Tamil Nadu. Vasanthakumari said the application form she picked up to open the locker at the R.A. Puram branch was mostly in Hindi. “Only three details — the locker number, the signature of the hirer and the signature of the checking officer — were asked for in English. The rest were in Hindi,” she told The Hindu . “When I asked them why is it in Hindi and not in a regional language [and English], the response was that this is a new piece of stationery,” she said. Her daughter, Suchitra Vijayan, flagged it on Twitter. “Amma is at a @TheOfficialSBI branch in Madras. The forms are now in Hindi. She asks how am I supposed to fill up this when I don’t know what it says. They are saying it’s part of new stationery.” Bank’s response Ms. Vasanthakumari said the bank officials reached out to her later. “I told them the branch is in Tamil Nadu and the form should have been in English and Tamil,” she said. The branch manager, too, spoke to her. A bank official in Chennai, when contacted, said the head office was authorised to deal with the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customer-upset-as-form-to-open-locker-is-in-hindi/article38059697.ece
29 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel face action for graft||The Coimbatore District Police initiated action against three police personnel after they were found to have taken a mat from a tailor allegedly as bribe without paying for it at the police check-post in Mangarai in the district on Monday. According to the police, a tailor was transporting a few dozen mats in his two-wheeler from Thadagam on Monday afternoon. The mats made of banana fibre were produced by women from tribal settlements at a private company in Anaikatti. At around 4 p.m., the tailor was stopped at the Mangarai check-post by three police personnel, who demanded to see the voucher for the mats. As the tailor did not possess a voucher, one of the police personnel took a mat worth Rs. 1,500 from the vehicle and asked the tailor to leave. Director of the private company R. Soundararajan, who came to know about this incident, sent a text message via WhatsApp to Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district S. Selvanagarathinam narrating the sequence of events. Following directions from the SP and Deputy Superintendent of Police (Periyanaickenpalayam) Rajapandian, the Thadagam police checked the CCTV footage available at the Mangarai check-post and confirmed the wrongful conduct by the personnel, the police said. Subsequently, Muthusamy, the head constable attached to Thudiyalur police station who was in-charge of the police check-post, was shifted to the District Armed Reserve as a disciplinary action. The two other personnel were from 4th Battalion of Tamil Nadu Special Police and they were shifted to the headquarters in Kovaipudur late on Monday. Sub-Inspector from Thadagam police station Arumuga Nayinar visited the residence of Mr. Soundararajan at Anaikatti at around 10 p.m. and returned the mat that was taken by force at the check-post. “I was impressed by the speed of the action [by Coimbatore District Police],” Mr. Soundararajan told The Hindu on Tuesday. He said that the cost of the banana fibre mat was “one week's salary” for the women working in his company. Around 10 tribal women are working under him and they manufacture eco-friendly products, Mr. Soundararajan noted. A senior police officer said that the police check-post at Mangarai will have new police personnel from Tuesday. While six CCTV cameras are available at the spot, two more cameras will be installed, he said. The personnel manning the check-post will not be allowed to continue for more than 15 days and police from Thadagam and Thudiyalur police stations will inspect the check-post every day, he said. The Periyanaickenpalayam DSP has sent a report to Mr. Selvanagarathinam and to the Tamil Nadu Special Police on the incident and departmental action will be initiated against the erring policemen, according to the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-face-action-for-graft/article38059749.ece
29 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NCLP to reopen special centres for rescued child workers in two districts||After almost two years, children in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts who were at the risk of getting into employment or were working for livelihood, will now get an opportunity to join schools. The National Child Labour Project is all set to reopen its special centres in the two districts to help rescued child workers join mainstream schools. D.V. Vijayakumaar, project director of NCLP, told The Hindu that a survey was conducted in the two districts. Though it is yet to be completed in Coimbatore city, 10 to 14 special centres will be reopened in the beginning of next month to rehabilitate almost 250 children. Preparatory works are on to reopen the centres. The special centres were closed during the lockdown last year. Now, the Central government has revised the norms and has introduced new mandates. A special centre should operate only for six months to two years and the children in it should be enrolled in regular schools during this period. A child who attends the special centre for at least 18 days in a month will get Rs. 400 a month as stipend. The amount will be credited in their bank accounts by the government directly. Further, attendance at the centres is online and it will close by 11 a.m. every day. In Coimbatore, almost all the children identified are from other States and their parents are working at industries or commercial establishments here. Among the places where the special centres are planned are Thondamuthur, Negamam and Pollachi, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nclp-to-reopen-special-centres-for-rescued-child-workers-in-two-districts/article38059746.ece
29 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Safeguard livelihood of multi-purpose health workers’||The Tamil Nadu Health Department Employees Association has appealed to the State government to safeguard the livelihood of multi-purpose health workers (MPHW) who were employed at Amma Mini Clinics in Coimbatore district amid rumours of the clinics being shutdown. Association State vice-president M. Mohandas said on Tuesday that they recently petitioned State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan regarding this issue. Around 27 MPHWs were employed at Amma Mini Clinics in the district and most of them were from the Scheduled Castes, he said. The MPHWs who were recruited in February had worked under difficult circumstances through the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and the State government must not terminate their services Mr. Mohandas said. “They could be brought under the fold of other healthcare schemes such as Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam,” he suggested. Sources in the Health Department said that the MPHWs were given a month-long extension as their services were initially planned to be terminated in December. However, no official announcement has been made regarding any further extension, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safeguard-livelihood-of-multi-purpose-health-workers/article38059758.ece
29 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth who clashed at temple festival asked to write Thirukkural||Ten youth, who were involved in a clash during a temple festival in Madukkarai on the outskirts of the city, were handed a novel punishment by a Sub-Inspector of Police. They were asked to write couplets from Thirukkural . Two groups of youth, numbering 10 and aged around 20, clashed over a dance for a folk music at a festival at the Ayyappan Temple in Madukkarai on Monday. On reaching the spot after receiving information about the clash, Sub-Inspector E. Kaviyarasu took them to the police station. Following an appeal not to take action against them, considering their future, Mr. Kaviyarasu decided to hand them a novel punishment. All the youth were asked to read the Thirukkural and write 100 couplets each. But, the students could write only a maximum of 10 or 12 each. The parents of the youth were summoned to the station. In their presence, the youth, who included students, were warned of action if they repeated the offence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-who-clashed-at-temple-festival-asked-to-write-thirukkural/article38059753.ece
29 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special camps for correction in title deed||The district administration will hold special camps on December 29 and 31 at 17 villages to carry out corrections in title deed (patta), a release said. As per a government order of the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, to enable members of the public submit petitions seeking correction in title deed, the administration would hold the camp at Mooduthurai village (Mettupalayam), Kuppanur (Annur), Vilankurichi (Coimbatore North), Kammalapatti, Jallipatti and Chenjeri (Sulur), Ettimadai (Madukkarai), Alandurai (Perur), Kampalapatti (Anamalai), Zamin Uthukuli (Pollachi) and Varadhanur and Krishnarayapuram (Kinathukadavu) on December 29, and Chinna Kallipatti (Mettupalayam), Vadakkalur (Annur), Saravanampatti (Coimbatore North), Kadampadi and Kangeyampalayam (Sulur), Thenkarai (Perur), Kottur(Anamalai), Gomangalam, S. Malayandipattinam (Pollachi) and Devarayapuram (Kinathukadavu) on December 31. At the camp, members of the public could submit petition seeking changes in land survey and sub-division number, land extent, title deed holder name and kin’s name, relationship and difference in extent between the title deed holder and neighbouring land holder, the release also said and asked the petitioners to be present with all the relevant documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-for-correction-in-title-deed/article38059745.ece
29 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Work hard to make Rahul Gandhi PM, Cong. workers told||Congress Legislature Party leader in the Assembly K. Selvaperunthagai on Tuesday urged party workers to work hard in the 2024 Lok Sabha election to make Rahul Gandhi Prime Minister. Addressing the workers after hoisting the party flag at the Congress office in Coimbatore on the 137th foundation day, he said the objective in the 2024 election should be to unseat BJP from power and make Mr. Gandhi the Prime Minister. This was a resolve that all workers must make on the foundation day. He distributed sweets to the workers present there and also spoke about the party’s contribution in nation-building, said sources. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president Mayura S. Jayakumar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-hard-to-make-rahul-gandhi-pm-cong-workers-told/article38059756.ece
29 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forum formed for rural communities||Seyal, a forum to voice the grievances of rural communities and farmers of western districts, was launched here on Tuesday. This forum is mainly to address issues related to land acquisition for various projects. However, it will take up issues related to environment, agriculture, etc., said a press release. Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan, Pollachi MP K. Shanmughasundaram, and DMK environment wing State secretary Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, spoke at the function held to launch the forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-formed-for-rural-communities/article38059757.ece
29 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievance meeting on December 30||The district administration will hold the monthly farmers’ grievance meet on December 30 at the Collectorate, says a release. The administration will hold the meeting at 10.30 a.m. at the meeting hall on second floor. While appealing to the farmers to participate in the meeting to air their grievances, the release urged to them to follow COVID-19 safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievance-meeting-on-december-30/article38059761.ece
29 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Brief report||Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) that are into development of e-governance software solutions and applications for government departments or citizen centric issues can apply for the Tamil Nadu Government’s e-governance awards for micro and small enterprises. A press release from District Collector G.S. Sameeran said the nominations will be in the following categories: the best e-Governance application in different sectors, the best e-Governance application for mobile / citizen centric services or e-Governance award for best technology innovation. The last date for submission of applications is December 31. For details, log on to:www.itnanban.tn.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-report/article38059747.ece
29 December 2021||Coimbatore/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||7-yr RI for three in cheating case||A special court on Tuesday sentenced three persons to seven years of rigorous imprisonment for cheating depositors of over Rs. 12 lakh through a finance company in 2015. A statement from the Economic Offences Wing, Coimbatore said that S.T. Saminathan, S.P. Muthuvel and K. Manivel started a firm named Kubera Auto Finance in Kangeyam in Tiruppur district and advertised various schemes for investment, through which 20 depositors invested Rs. 12.66 lakh. As the firm cheated by not repaying the principal amount with interest within the specified date, one of the depositors lodged a complaint at the EOW, Coimbatore. On Tuesday, Judge A.S. Ravi sentenced the three accused to seven years of rigorous imprisonment and levied a fine of Rs. 16 lakh in total. The court acquitted three other accused in the case due to lack of evidence, according to the statement. Life imprisonment The Mahila Court, Tiruppur on Monday awarded life imprisonment to a 50-year-old man on charges of raping a 13-year-old girl. The Tiruppur police said the accused was booked for aggravated penetrative sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, by the All Women Police – Tiruppur North and was remanded in judicial custody. A fine of Rs. 5,000 was also imposed on the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-yr-ri-for-three-in-cheating-case/article38059760.ece
29 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Tomato price shoots up again||At a time when the consumers were feeling a bit relieved after the prices of essential goods declined a few days ago, the sudden rise in the price of tomato had come as a rude shock here on Tuesday. According to market sources, the tomato price per kg revolved around Rs. 82 per kg from Rs. 46 per kg. Though there were no specific reasons for the price jacking up, horticulture department officials said that poor arrivals from the farms to the market had led to the hike. Moreover, the weather conditions were not friendly as transportation was not possible during night and early mornings due to heavy mist. The merchants said that the price of tomato box weighing 14 kg was Rs. 650, while the same box was sold at Rs. 1,150 on Tuesday. While the Oddanchatram market wore a deserted look in the morning as retailers and consumers hesitated to purchase tomatoes, merchants, however, said that the prices may not fall immediately. It may settle down at Rs. 50 per kg only when the arrivals were normal and steady. Today, the demand may appear low, but the cost incurred in transporting the goods from the farms to the markets had gone up manifold. The transport agents attributed to high price of diesel and there were no labourers to get the commodities moved from the fields to the vehicles. Under such circumstances, the retail stores were likely to sell the tomatoes around Rs. 100 per kg. However, the agriculture department officials hoped that the government may intervene and procure it and deliver through cooperative stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tomato-price-shoots-up-again/article38059808.ece
29 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand drainage facility||With no proper outlet to discharge sewage, the residents of Nagaratchi Nagar at Lakkapuram Panchayat in Modakkurichi Taluk are forced to release waste water into vacant plots or pits dug outside their houses. About 450 families reside in the area, which is located along the Muthur Main Road and Karur Bypass Road, outside the Corporation limits. Due to urbanisation, the area has rapidly developed in the past years, but without any basic amenities. Absence of sewage facility is a major concern for the residents in most of the streets in the area. A few residents have constructed soak pits by encroaching the roads and their demand for drainage facility remains unfulfilled by the panchayat in all these years. A resident who lives in an apartment in the area said they had dug a pit outside the apartment to discharge sewage. Many residents discharge sewage into vacant plots adjacent to their houses or on the streets causing inconvenience to pedestrians and motorists. Though their act leads to ground water pollution and outbreak of diseases, the residents said that they had no other option. “We cannot store sewage in our house as it is the responsibility of the local body to provide basic amenities,” said a resident. Officials said that drainage facility could not be created in the locality due to shortage of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-demand-drainage-facility/article38059833.ece
29 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Staff Reporter||With Goods and Services Tax (GST) on textile products to be increased from 5% to 12% from January 1, 2022, traders at the textile markets in Erode city fear that it would adversely impact their business. There are over 3,000 textile shops at Ashokapuram, near Central Theatre, E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market and at Panneerselvam Park in the city. These shops deal with both wholesale and retail sales. They receive orders from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and other States and dispatch the goods in lorries. Traders from other districts arrive every Tuesday to the weekly market and purchase in bulk quantities. Retail sales will be brisk before Pongal, Deepavali, Christmas and New Year. On Tuesday, the retail sale was about 30% in Gani Market and the wholesale was less than 10%. “Sales volume for New Year and Pongal was very low today,” said K. Selvaraj, president of Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Traders’ Association. He said that hike in GST on textile products would affect wholesalers, retailers and the consumers would have to pay 7% additional tax. “When the purchasing power of consumers drops, there is no business for us”, the traders said. They wanted the hike in GST on textile products deferred .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-reporter/article38059828.ece
29 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to Pollan on his birth anniversary||The 253rd birth anniversary of Pollan, who was the commander of Theeran Chinnamalai’s army from 1755 to 1805, was celebrated as a government function in Erode on Tuesday. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy and Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan garlanded the picture of Pollan at Selamba Coundampalayam in Modakkurichi Town Panchayat in the presence of Rajya Sabha MP Anthiyur P. Selvaraj, MLA A.G. Venkatachalam, District Collector H. Krishnanunni, and chairman of Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation Kurinji N. Sivakumar. Mr. Muthusamy told media persons that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced construction of a memorial for Pollan at Rs. 1.83 crore and work was on to identify land. Recalling the contributions of Pollan, the Minister said that he fought against the British and won three battles for Theeran Chinnamalai. Mr. Mathivendan said that Mr. Stalin had announced various projects for developing tourism in the State. Approvals were given for developing 10 tourism spots and funds have been allotted. Chairman of District Panchayat Committee Navamani Kandasamy, Erode Revenue Divisional Officer P. Premalatha, Modakkurichi Tahsildar Shanmugasundaram and other officials took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-pollan-on-his-birth-anniversary/article38059837.ece
29 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||11 booked on cheating charges in Erode||Eleven persons, including five office-bearers of Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market Association, have been booked by the District Crime Branch (DCB) police on charges of cheating association members to the tune of Rs. 2 crore. In his complaint to the Superintendent of Police, K. Ayyadurai (62) of Manalmedu said that the association was formed with 800 members in the year 2000 and was registered with the Erode Sub-Registrar office. The office-bearers were P.P.K. Palanisamy (president), Murugasekar alias Muruganandam (secretary), Vairavel (treasurer), R.G. Gunasekaran (vice president) and P.M.A. Amurugam (deputy secretary). The five also hold various positions in the AIADMK at the local level. The complainant said that the five office-bearers held a meeting in 2015 during which they assured the members to provide 800 sq.ft land for Rs. 70,000. They collected Rs. 2 crore from 350 members. In 2016, the office-bearers allegedly purchased 20.5 acre land at Nasiyanur and registered it in the name of their family members. They allegedly refused to return the money to the association members. An inquiry was held and the DCB police registered a case against 11 persons, who are absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-booked-on-cheating-charges-in-erode/article38059824.ece
29 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Youth gets 20 years jail for sexual assault on minor girl||A 19-year-old youth was on Tuesday sentenced to 20 years of imprisonment for marrying a minor girl and sexually assaulting her. V. Sankar Narayanan of Kavundapadi, a daily wager, befriended the 16-year-old girl at Arachalur. He abducted and married her on September 11, 2020 and sexually assaulted her. The girl’s parents lodged a complaint at the All Women Police Station in Arachalur, who registered a case against the youth and arrested him. The girl was rescued and sent with her parents. On Tuesday, Mahila Court judge R. Malathi sentenced the accused to 20 years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000. The judge also recommended the State government to provide a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-gets-20-years-jail-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article38059829.ece
29 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 40 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 40 fresh cases of COVID-19, which took the overall tally to 1,07,676. While 52 persons were discharged after treatment, a total of 470 persons were under treatment. One person died of COVID-19, raising the district’s toll to 711. Salem district reported 29 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,02,421. While 47 persons were discharged, 349 persons were under treatment on Tuesday. Namakkal district reported 16 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 54,510.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-40-new-covid-19-cases/article38059825.ece
29 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) stages demo over civic woes||Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadre staged a demonstration at Munichalai here on Tuesday, urging the government to take necessary steps to set right various issues that were plaguing the city. They demanded that Rs. 500 crore had to be allocated for the purpose. The party members complained about the bad state of the roads in the city, contamination of drinking water and the poorly lit streets. They also demanded that adequate sanitary workers should be deployed to maintain sanitation in the city. Party’s district secretary M. Ganesan said that even the arterial roads in the city were in a bad state. Potholes and dust on the road posed a threat to vehicle users. Immediate steps should be taken to repair the roads. Though several representations were made to the authorities in this regard, they had not initiated any action, he said. Mr. Ganesan said he had received complaints from the people about sewage getting mixed with drinking water in places like Sellur and Jaihindpuram. The authorities had to ensure that people got clean drinking water, he stressed. CPI (M) State executive committee member R. Vijayarajan said that apart from the bad state of roads and the drinking water issues, poorly lit streets were another major issue. Many streets had poor illumination as faulty street lights were not replaced for long, raising safety concerns. The authorities had to immediately take necessary steps to address these issues, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-stages-demo-over-civic-woes/article38059991.ece
29 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents complain of sewage stagnation on road||Complaining of drainage stagnating on the main road in Vanamamalai Nagar leading to Duraisamy Nagar here, the residents of the area said that though they submitted several petitions to the authorities, the demand to find a solution to the problem had elicited no response. Vehicle users and pedestrians found it difficult to cross the stretch due to the sewage and the stench emanating from the overflowing drainage. The sewage never got drained, said residents. They said that this had led to mosquito breeding and they were facing health issues as a result. A resident, S. Bharathi, complained that even the authorities found it difficult to drain the sewage. They were yet to find a solution, he said. A shopkeeper on the stretch said that there were also commercial establishments and a hospital located in the area. It was difficult to do business in the locality. During the rains, the situation was even worse, she said and urged the authorities to find a solution to the problem expeditiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-complain-of-sewage-stagnation-on-road/article38059994.ece
29 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Moving gesture by kin of deceased constable||In a moving gesture, the family members of a deceased constable, Kandeeban, donated Rs. 2 lakh from the Rs. 23 lakh given to them by Khaki Uthavum Karangal of the 2011-batch constables to a batchmate, Syed Abudahir. Kandeeban from Poondi near Appanthirupathi here joined the police force in 2011 and was posted as Traffic Constable in Chennai. He died of heart attack in May 2021. The group of constables who are running Khaki Uthavum Karangal to help their batchmates and their families mobilised Rs. 23.33 lakh for his family. The fund was handed over to Kandeepban’s wife Indumathi and his parents by Madurai Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran on Tuesday. Kidney ailment The family members came to know about one of Kandeeban’s batchmates, Syed Abudahir, posted in Armed Reserve Police of Madurai Rural District, suffering from kidney ailment. They volunteered to donate Rs. 2 lakh from the fund raised by the batchmates towards Mr. Abudahir’s kidney transplant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-of-deceased-constable-donate-rs-2-lakh-for-batchmate/article38059816.ece
29 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC recommends compensation to boy||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has recommended that the State government directs the Director of School Education to instruct the Chief Educational Officers to monitor school managements to ensure that they do not engage children in cleaning classrooms and toilets. SHRC member D. Jayachandran also recommended payment of a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to the complainant, P. Adhisivan of Madurai district, who had filed the complaint in 2015 alleging that a class teacher had asked his son to clean the classroom. Adhisivan said that his son was studying in Class VIII in PKN Boys’ Higher Secondary School, a government-aided school in Madurai district. He sustained an injury after a desk fell on his leg when he was cleaning the classroom. He was taken to Tirumangalam GH. The school authorities did not call the ambulance and his son was not taken to Government Rajaji Hospital. He lost a toe in his left foot, he said. He complained that the teacher asking his son to clean the classroom was a violation of human rights. The counsel for the complainant, R.M. Arun Swaminathan, said the boy had aspired to join the armed forces, but now he could not go for selection due to the loss of a toe. Mr. Jayachandran observed that the Commission was receiving a number of complaints from the public alleging that several schools were making the students clean classrooms and toilets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-recommends-compensation-to-boy/article38059743.ece
29 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Female infanticide suspected||In a suspected case of female infanticide, Madurai District Police are on the lookout for a couple whose newborn baby died two days back and was buried near Sedapatti. The police said that M. Kausalya, wife of O. Muthupandi, delivered a girl baby at the primary health centre at Sedapatti on December 21. However, the baby is said to have died on Sunday and was buried near their house. On a complaint lodged by Periyakattalai Village Administrative Officer Muniyandi, Sedapatti police have registered a case under Section 318 of the Indian Penal Code for secretly buying the body of the infant. The couple, along with their two children, are absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/female-infanticide-suspected-near-sedapatti/article38059989.ece
29 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Unreserved special train to halt at Rajagambiram||Madurai-Rameswaram- Madurai unreserved express special trains will halt at Rajagambiram with effect from December 30. Madurai - Rameswaram unreserved special train (06655) and Rameswaram - Madurai unreserved special train (06656) will leave Rajagambiram at 7 p.m. and 8.14 a.m. respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unreserved-special-train-to-halt-at-rajagambiram/article38059811.ece
29 December 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns pig-rearers in Nagapattinam district||The district administration has issued a warning to pig rearers of stringent action if they continue to let the animals to stray and cause damage to paddy fields. In the wake of complaints from farmers, Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said action would be taken to rein in the rearers under the Panchyayat Act 1994. Complaints Farmers in Sellur, Palayur, Puthur, Pappakovil in Nagapattinam block and those in Panangudi, Uttamacholapuram and Konerirajapuram villages in Thirumarugal block were the most affected by the pig menace. The district administration had advised them to register complaint with the Agriculture Department over phone (7397671300). Directing pig rearers to keep the animals closer to their dwellings, the Collector warned that those failing to fall in line faced the risk of legal consequences. An FIR would be registered and the erring pig-rearers would face the ignominy of being jailed, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-pig-rearers-in-nagapattinam-district/article38059794.ece
29 December 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Over 450 tribal residents of Kolli Hills screened for ailments at special camp||A total of 475 tribal people participated in a special medical camp organised by the district administration at Valvil Ori auditorium at Semmedu in Kolli Hills here on Tuesday. The camp, Nalam Kappom Kolli Malai , was inaugurated by District Collector Shreya P. Singh in the presence of Senthamangalam MLA K. Ponnusamy and other officials. A total of 182 men and 293 women, including 24 children, took part in the camp. While echocardiogram was taken for 42 persons, 237 were screened for eye defects, 74 persons for defects in ear, nose and throat. A total of 44 pregnant women underwent scanning during the camp. People from 10 hamlets participated in the camp. Medical insurance cards were distributed among the beneficiaries. The Collector gave sanitisers and face masks to 200 persons. Career guidance was also given to youths for taking part in competitive examinations. Details of 16 differently abled persons were collected during the camp, for providing identity cards. The Collector said that a similar camp would be held at the Panchayat Union Middle School at Thottikadu on December 30 to benefit the residents of 12 villages in Kolli Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-450-tribal-residents-of-kolli-hills-screened-for-ailments-at-special-camp/article38059831.ece
29 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports first Omicron cases||Just days ahead of the New Year celebrations, the first Omicron cases were confirmed in the Union Territory of Puducherry on Tuesday, after the new variant was detected in samples of two COVID-19-recovered residents of the city during a genomic sequencing undertaken at the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), Bengaluru. The patients, a 20-year-old woman, who was in home isolation, and an 80-year-old man, who was admitted to the Tuberculosis and Chest Diseases Hospital, had tested positive for COVID-19 on December 7, but were now almost fully recovered and stable. The Health Department said the sample for genomic sequencing had been sent to INSACOG on December 8, a day after the patients were diagnosed with COVID-19. The samples returned positive for Omicron and the results were provided on Tuesday. G. Sriramalu, Health Director, said the Department was now in the process of tracing the contacts of the two persons to try and determine the source of the infection and break the transmission chain. The samples of those who test positive are now being sent for genomic sequencing to determine whether anyone has the Omicron variant, he added. “We have already instructed the primary health centres in the neighbourhoods of the patients to do targeted contact tracing and sample collection,” said L. Ravi Varman, who heads the Integrated and Disease Surveillance Programme under the National Centre for Disease Control. The samples were collected from these patients as part of random surveillance testing,and before the Health Department acquired the special RT-PCR kits for targeted testing of the S-gene dropout, a marker for Omicron. The Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme has designated two sentinel surveillance sites in the Union Territory — Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research (Jipmer) in Puducherry and the General Hospital in Karaikal. Apart from priority sampling of COVID-19 cases with a history of travel to countries notified as ‘at-risk’ for Omicron, the Health Department is also taking random samples among the local population. “We will know over the next few weeks the extent of the circulation of the Omicron variant, which is reported to be even more transmissible than previous strains,” a health official said. The Omicron red flag could not have come at a dicier moment for the Government as it has lined up a series of festive events, from the multi-venue New Year eve concerts expected to attract visitors from neighbouring States, where restrictions are in place, to a World Yoga Festival from January 4 to 7 and the 25th National Youth Festival scheduled from January 12 to 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-first-omicron-cases/article38059723.ece
29 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Whale shark trapped in fishing net dies near Veerampattinam||A 15-foot whale shark (the largest non-mammalian vertebrate in the world) that died after getting trapped in a fishing net off the Puducherry coast was brought to the Thengaithittu fishing harbour on Tuesday. Forest Department officials said a group of fishermen, led by Saravanan, of Veerampattinam coastal hamlet, had anchored their boats off the coast near Veerampattinam on Monday when they felt a pull on their nets. They tried cutting the nets to free the whale shark, but their efforts were in vain. The fishermen, helped by other boats, towed the giant animal to the Thengaithittu fishing harbour. However, by the time veterinarians arrived, it died. The whale shark, an endangered species, listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, weighed nearly a tonne. The animal is a filter feeder and mainly feeds on planktons and small fish. According to Vanjulavalli Sridhar, Deputy Conservator of Forests, a team of veterinarians examined the carcass and took measurements of all required parameters. The carcass was buried on the harbour premises.  The fishermen tried cutting the nets to free the whale shark, but their efforts were in vain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whale-shark-trapped-in-fishing-net-dies/article38059721.ece
29 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions in place on Beach Road ahead of New Year events||Vehicles will not be allowed to enter the Boulevard area from 2 p.m. on December 31 to 3 p.m. on January 1 to provide hassle-free New Year celebrations on Beach Road. All roads towards east from Ambour Salai will be closed temporarily. “The residents of Beach Road will be issued with vehicle passes. Residents in the White Town area should use the junctions of S.V. Patel Salai and Francois Mortine Street, Rue Dupuy Street and Gingee Salai, J. N Street and Ginjee Salai, Bussy Street and Gingee Salai, Suffren Street and Subbaiah Salai,” Senior Superintendent of Police, Traffic, Rahul Alwal, said in a release. Residents and tourists will have to park their vehicles at temporary parking lots made available at the New Port, Indira Gandhi Sports Complex, Petit Seminaire Higher Secondary School (Primary Section), Old Jail Complex and Bharathidasan Government College for Women. Twenty buses, each escorted by a police constable, will take people from the parking lots to Beach Road. Two-wheelers can be parked on the northern side of all roads between Ambour Salai and Mission Street, the release said. Elderly people who want to visit churches near Beach Road will be provided with special vehicle pass. Passes will be made available for residents and hoteliers in the White Town area. Heavy vehicles will be banned in the Boulevard area from 2 p.m. on December 31 to 3 p.m. on January 1, Mr. Alwal said. “We want to make White Town a pedestrians’ paradise so that everyone can celebrate the New Year peacefully. We appeal to the people to follow all protocols,” he added. Senior Superintendent of Police, Law and Order, Lokeshwaran, said the entire Beach Road would be barricaded, and people would be allowed access only through 10 points after screening. Random checks would be done to ascertain whether people have received both the jabs, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrictions-in-place-on-beach-road-ahead-of-new-year-events/article38060064.ece
29 December 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Strictly enforce COVID-19 guidelines at New Year events, says L-G||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said the detection of the Variant of Concern, Omicron, in two samples from Puducherry poses a new challenge, especially as the Government has permitted New Year events in multiple venues. She directed the administration to take all measures for strict enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to prevent a possible surge in cases during celebrations, in strict compliance with the guidelines/advisory of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Home Affairs. Balancing act The Government of Puducherry should be seized of the imperative to control the spread of the Omicron variant while at the same time, balance the economic interest and livelihood of the people dependant on the tourism industry, a press note from the Raj Nivas said. The departments concerned shall enforce all precautionary measures at the designated places, so that social distancing is maintained. Announcements on safety norms should be made through the public address system at crowded places by the respective departments, it said. Ms. Soundararajan asked special teams to conduct inspections to make sure people comply with safety protocols at crowded places. Participant limit They should also ensure that each venue hosts only the permitted number of participants, taking into consideration the necessity to maintain social distancing.  The teams will ensure that everyone has their masks on at all times and provide hand sanitisers and thermal scanners at venues’ entry points. The Lt. Governor asked the Health Department to ramp up random testing at all such places and not allow symptomatic persons to participate in the celebrations. They should be isolated from the gathering and be provided immediate medical assistance, she added.  The Lt. Governor asked the Health Department to ramp up random testing at all such places and not allow symptomatic persons to participate in the celebrations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strictly-enforce-covid-19-guidelines-at-new-year-events-says-l-g/article38060062.ece
29 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Get Statehood or sever ties with BJP: Congress||Congress leader V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday urged Chief Minister N. Rangasamy to cut ties with the BJP in the Union Territory if he was not able to deliver on his promise of getting Statehood for the Union Territory. Addressing Congress workers on the occasion of the party’s Foundation Day at the Pradesh Congress Committee office, the former Chief Minister said, “There was no point in lamenting after being in alliance in a ruling coalition.” Mr. Rangasamy should explain who is preventing him from getting Statehood for Puducherry. “He should tell the people whether it is the Prime Minister or the Home Minister preventing the Union Territory from getting Statehood.” Recalling the Congress party’s role in the country’s Independence movement, the senior leader said, “There will be ups and downs for the party. The Congress will not remain out of power always, and the BJP will not remain in power always.” Mr. Narayanasamy also expressed confidence in the Congress coming back to power in Puducherry. The leader also asked party workers to fight the local body polls in alliance or without alliance. Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam and PCC chief A.V. Subramanian participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/get-statehood-or-sever-ties-with-bjp/article38059720.ece
29 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry sees 9 new COVID cases||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as nine new cases were detected on Tuesday. Puducherry recorded two of the new cases while Karaikal saw 4 and Mahe 3. No new case was reported in Yanam. With 16 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 119. This comprised of 38 patients in hospitals and 81 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.40%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,880 — Puducherry (1,468), Karaikal (251), Yanam (109) and Mahe (52). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,29,434 cases and 1,27,435 recoveries. Meanwhile, 5,771 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered a cumulative total of 13,81,069 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9-cases-in-ut/article38059798.ece
29 December 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Rajapalayam girl wins prize at State-level competition||A Class XI student of Rajapalayam, E. Saranya, was surprised when Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy gifted her a shield and a mobile phone as a mark of appreciation after she won the first prize in ‘Indigenous toys and games’ category at State-level Cultural Festival held at Salem. The girl from N.A. Annapparaja Memorial Higher Secondary School participated in the competition on her own interest and chose to make toys for ‘thol pavai koothu’, a traditional puppetry show. “My drawing teacher Vijayanandhi asked me to make toys for ‘thol pavai koothu’ and that won me the first prize at the State level,” Saranya said. She made the toys with cardboard. Having been selected for the national event, the girl who was tasked to make the toys in goat hide was given all assistance by the district administration and Department of School Education. The department has roped in two experts in this form of puppetry to give her her hands-on training Saranya was taken to an expert in ‘thol paavai koothu’ Muthuchandran, of Kanniyakumari. The Kalaimamani awardee explained to her the making of toys. Later, another expert on this subject, Vallinayagam of Tirunelveli, also trained her. "Both the experts have been giving her online coaching on making of the toys and using them for the puppet show," an official from the Department of Education, said. Daughter of a carpenter-tailor couple, Saranya got all encouragement from her parents, especially her mother, Muthulakshmi. "I have now started making the toys using goat hide," she said with all pride. The girl has to make the toys with goat hide at the national event to be held in January first week. "I will have to cut the hide, make toys and give them beautiful colouring. I have also been preparing to perform ‘Ramayana’ for a brief while with five toys, if asked to perform by the judges," she said. Chief Educational Officer, A. Gnanagowri, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajapalayam-girl-wins-prize-at-state-level-competition/article38059813.ece
29 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Tiruvadanai farmers worst hit by northeast monsoon rain’||Out of the 684.88 hectares of crop loss in the recent northeast monsoon rain in Ramanathapuram district, Tiruvadanai block appeared to have suffered the most as crops on 639.37 hectares had been damaged, according to a survey conducted by the officials of Agriculture and Revenue Departments. Disclosing the information at a farmers’ grievance meeting held here on Tuesday, the officials also said that the crop damage in Kadaladi covered an area of 37.92 ha, R.S. Mangalam 3.41 ha and Ramanathapuram 4.18 ha. Presiding over the meeting, Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat said that the district had 261.40 mm rainfall excess than the normal annual rainfall which was 1088.40 mm. With the district having copious water in hand, he appealed to the farmers to make use of the best from it during the ensuing seasons by judiciously drawing the water for irrigation. When some of the farmers pointed out the non-release of crop insurance claims, the officials said that 5,206 farmers who had registered their names and remitted the premiums for 2020-21, had got Rs. 2.42 crore as compensation so far. In the last five years, the insurance company had released Rs. 1,434.57 crore to the farmers in the district. Steps would be taken to check with the insurance firm about the non-release of the claims. The officials also clarified that the settlement sums were directly credited to the beneficiary bank accounts. The PWD engineers said that out of the 1,763 tanks in the district, 447 among them had full storage level of water, 294 tanks had 25-50%, 989 tanks had 50-90% and only 33 tanks had less than 25% of the storage level. The Agriculture Engineering Department officials responded that they gave gadgets on nominal rent to the farmers during the pre and post-harvest. The meeting was attended by DRO A.M. Kamatchi Ganesan, Joint Director (Agriculture) Tom P Cylus, PA to Collector (Agriculture) Dhanuskodi, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvadanai-farmers-worst-hit-by-northeast-monsoon-rain/article38059820.ece
29 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CBI registers cheating case against five directors of a private company||The Central Bureau of Investigation (Economic Offences Wing), Chennai, on Monday registered a case against the managing director and four directors of a private company and unknown public servants for obtaining loan from Indian Overseas Bank, Fairlands Branch, through fraudulent means. Term loans In her complaint, N. Vijaya, Chief Regional Manager, IOB, Regional Office, Coimbatore, said that S. Durairaj, managing director, Subashri Bio Energies Private Limited, along with directors D. Malliga, Salaisivaprakasam, Nalla Govindasamy and G. Saraswathy, had conspired with unknown public servants and fraudulently availed term loans and cash credit limits for establishing poultry litter based power generation project sponsored by the Ministry of Non-Conventional Energy Sources. They also misappropriated the loan funds and diverted the funds causing loss to the tune of Rs. 62.20 crore to the bank. The account was declared as a non-performing asset due to non-service of interest and non-payment of term loan instalments. The account was declared as fraud and was reported to the Reserve Bank of India in 2019. Based on inquiries, a case under Sections 120-B r/w 420 and 409 of IPC and Section 13(2) r/w 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-registers-cheating-case-against-five-directors-of-a-private-company/article38059835.ece
29 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||High speed trial run held on Virudhachalam – Salem section||The Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bangalore, Abhai Kumar Rai, conducted statutory inspection of the railway electrification works between Salem and Virudhachalam Junction railway stations and conducted a high speed trial run from Virudhachalam to Salem on Tuesday. Inspection Accompanied by R.K. Mehta, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer, Southern Railway, A. Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, and officials from Railway Electrification and Salem Division, the Commissioner began his inspection from Salem on Monday morning and proceeded towards Virudhachalam. He inspected various electrical, engineering and signalling works and railway stations, bridges, level crossing gates in the section. On Tuesday, a high speed trial run with a special train formation was held from Virudhachalam Junction to Salem Junction railway station. The special train was hauled by an electric locomotive. Mr. Gautam Srinivas in a release said that with the electrification of the section, all the sections in Salem Division have been electrified. After receiving authorisation from the Commissioner of Railway Safety, train services would be operated using electric locomotives, he added. And, trains can run through Salem – Virudhachalam section without having to change locomotives from electric to diesel and vice versa. This would facilitate seamless traffic and also save time, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-speed-trial-run-held-on-virudhachalam-salem-section/article38059838.ece
29 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Owners of two medical shops booked||Cases were registered against the owners of two medical shops here on Tuesday for dispensing drugs without prescription from doctors. Sleuths from the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) and Drug Inspectors inspected medical shops in the city and found the two shops violating the law. Cases were registered against the owners of the two shops under Section 18 (c) of Drug and Cosmetic Act, 1940, (person who violates it and sells drugs without a valid licence). Officials asked all the medical shops to sell drugs only based on the prescription and warned of action against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owners-of-two-medical-shops-booked/article38059834.ece
29 December 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Boy drowns in temple tank||A 12-year-old boy, S. Selva Vignesh, of Chekkadi Street here drowned in the Tirumukkulam on Monday afternoon. The police said that the deceased had gone to the temple tank along with his friend Siva and played there in the afternoon. When the boy drowned in the tank, which has got good storage following the recent heavy rain, Siva raised an alarm. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Srivilliputtur fire station searched for two hours and fished out the body. Srivilliputtur Town police registered a case. Girl drowns In another incident reported under the Chekkanoorani police station limits on Sunday, a 12-year-old girl M. Jamuna of Tirumangalam in the district drowned in Meenachipattiulam when she went to bathe. She was rushed to the hospital at Madurai Kamaraj University where she was declared brought dead. Chekkanoorani police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-drowns-in-temple-tank/article38059817.ece
29 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Full vaccination certificate must for bull tamers’||Double dose vaccination certificate has been made mandatory for tamers aspiring to participate in jallikattu (bull taming) held during Pongal in the district. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said that in view of COVID-19 pandemic, only 300 tamers would be allowed to participate in jallikattu , manjuvirattu and vadamadu and participants should produce the fully vaccinated certificate. They should also undergo COVID-19 test at a government-recognised testing centre and produce a negative certificate. Vaccination was a must for viewers, bull owners and their assistants, and all of them should undergo thermal scanning and adhere to standard operating procedures such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing at the venue. The Collector said organisers of the events had been directed to comply with the instructions without fail:  Affidavit In villages declared to conduct the event, the organisers should produce sanction letters issued by authorities last year along with an undertaking that the event would be organised as per instructions from the State government, a sworn affidavit declaring to take up responsibility of any untoward incident during the event and certificate of insurance for conducting the event and a sketch of the area where it would be held. In case the event was slated to be held in a village hitherto not declared, organisers should produce documents such as news clippings, photographs of the event, pamphlet, village panchayat resolution and epigraphic evidence to substantiate their claim that j allikattu had been held there in the past. The applications would be forwarded to the government for verification and issuance of a government order. ‘Await GO’ Pointing out that the organisers should take up preparatory works only after the issuance of the GO, the Collector said that in addition to these conditions, the list of bull owners, their assistants and details about the cattle should be submitted to the district administration seven days prior to the conduct of the event. Only those to whom identification cards had been issued by the district administration would be allowed to enter the venue, Legal proceedings would be initiated against those who attempted or organised bull taming events without permission from the government, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/full-vaccination-certificate-must-for-bull-tamers/article38059795.ece
29 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||NCB searches pharmacies||Pharmaceutical outlets in Thanjavur have come under the scanner of the Narcotics Control Bureau. According to sources, NCB received information that contraband products were being sold to school and college students in the form of chocolates through pharmacies. An NCB team headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police, NCB, Thanjavur Zone, Bharath, and Health Inspector, Vimal Raj inspected 10 pharmacies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncb-searches-pharmacies/article38059793.ece
29 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Man reunited with family||A man in his thirties, who was found loitering here and rescued and treated for mental illness, has been reunited with his family. According to sources, the man was found moving along Tiruchi-Thanjavur Road near the Regional Transport Office three months ago. He was rescued by staff of the District Mental Health Programme and Anbagam, an NGO engaged in providing care and treatment to the mentally ill. He was brought to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital where he was given psychiatric treatment along with treatment for injuries on his legs. Responding positively to the treatment, he disclosed his name and details about his family. Subsequently, the help of the district police was sought in tracing his family residing at a village in Vellore district. His parents, who had filed a man missing complaint with the Vellore district police, were brought to TMC Hospital and he was handed over to them by Dean G. Ravikumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-reunited-with-family/article38059799.ece
29 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CSG to train wards of fishermen in coastal areas||The Coastal Security Group will organise training classes in January next year for the wards of fishermen to help them join the Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and other security forces. The applications for enrolling in the 90-day training class can be collected free of cost by aspirants residing in coastal districts from offices of the Fisheries Department; Inspector, CSG; cooperative societies in fishing hamlets; and fair price shops. The application can be downloaded fromhttps://drive.google.com/dri ve/folders/1utSH7zRBjUqWSWgmf KYCO1hJwy82MRnV?usp=sh aring, a release said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/csg-to-provide-training-to-fishermens-wards/article38059800.ece
29 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Greater flamingoes attract visitors||Thousands of greater flamingoes camping in the salt pans closer to the seashore of the district are attracting the visitors from various parts of the district. The flamingos that are attracted by the brackish waterbodies and the salt pans feast on the crab, shrimp, insects, worms, tubers etc., all seen abundantly in the briny environment. As the brackish water bodies of the district provide conducive environment for these migratory birds, they have camped in thousands in the district at various places, all closer to the seashore. In Thoothukudi district, these beautiful winged visitors have camped at Pazhayakaayal, Punnaikaayal, Vembar, Veppalodai, Kulaththur, Panaiyoor, saltpans and the estuaries, where 100 to 1,000 flamingoes can be seen preying on the organisms living in brackish water. Since the stretch between South Beach Road and Harbour Road have good number of salt pans closer to the seashore, these places have attracted a few hundred flamingoes now. “Though greater flamingoes visit Thoothukudi every year, the population is quite high this time. We are seeing for the first time the flamingoes camping in the salt pans near Roache Park,” said Forest Ranger Raghuvaran of Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve Trust. The Department of Forest has deployed anti-poaching watchers to protect these birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/greater-flamingoes-attract-visitors/article38060114.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Accident survivor gets compensation||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has sanctioned a compensation package that ensures housing, financial aid and higher education to Shalini, a young girl who was recently disabled in a road accident on the national highway near Kakka Thoppu in Dindigul district. Details of the solatium were announced and handed over to Ms. Shalini by Karur Collector T. Prabhushankar on Tuesday at a press conference. Hailing from Eluthupparai village in Karur district, 17-year-old Ms. Shalini’s father Govindaraj is a painter and her mother Dhanalakshmi is a daily wage earner. Ms. Shalini studied up to Class 10 in a nearby government school, and later shifted to her grandmother’s home in Kasipalayam in Dindigul district to complete her studies. On September 19, Ms. Shalini’s legs were severed when she got caught between a two-wheeler and a car when they collided. She was trying to cross the national highway near Kakka Thoppu, Dindigul when the accident occured. Crippled for life, Ms. Shalini had appealed to V. Senthilbalaji, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise, for assistance through the office of the Karur Collector. On the recommendation of Mr. Senthilbalaji, the young woman’s family will be housed in Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board colony in Senapiratti village, with the State government paying the Rs. 1.88 lakh deposit for the facility. In addition to monthly assistance of Rs. 1,000 for her family, Ms. Shalini will be separately eligible for Rs. 1,000 aid as a differently abled person. Ms. Shalini will pursue a Bachelor’s degree of her choice in Government Arts College, Thanthonimalai, Karur. Her family has been offered a government authorised loan in case they wish to start a small business. Ms. Shalini was emotionally overwhelmed by the generous compensation offer, and thanked the government officials for their help. District Revenue Officer M. Liaqat, District Rural Development Agency Planning Director Manthirachalam, and other officials took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accident-survivor-gets-compensation/article38059802.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU extends deadline for submission of M.Phil thesis||In deference to pleas by students and teacher organisations, Bharathidasan University has issued an order extending the duration for submission of thesis by M.Phil students by six months, beyond December 31, 2021. In its notice issued at the start of this month, the University Grants Commission had provided time extension till June 2022 for submission of M.Phil/Ph.D. theses, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Universities were instructed by the University Grants Commission that extension of six months had to be granted for submission of evidence of publication and presentation in two conferences. Bharathidasan University had around mid-December issued a circular stating that the six months extension specified by the University Grants Commission would be granted for terminal Ph.D. students. Subsequently, the Association of University Teachers (AUT) made a representation to Bharathidasan University stating that the extension must also cover M.Phil students going by the UGC directive. In a communication to college principals on Monday, Registrar In-Charge L. Ganesan said the University Grants Commission’s six month extension for submission of thesis applied to M.Phil students also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-extends-deadline-for-submission-of-mphil-thesis/article38059807.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme on digital marketing on Dec. 30||Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute (EDII), Chennai, will, in association with Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA), organise an awareness programme on digital marketing for entrepreneurs, who availed themselves of the utility of Central and State government schemes, on December 30. Existing beneficiaries of Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme, Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme, and New Entrepreneur cum Enterprise Development Scheme could scale up their operations through digital marketing of their products by attending the online programme from 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. Thirty candidates will be allowed to register on first-come first-serve basis, a press release issued by TIDITSSIA Secretary S. Gopalakrishnan said. Registration Aspiring participants are required to register their names at the TIDITSSIA Office in Ariyamangalam over phone (0431 - 2440114/ 2440119 or 9659558111) or through email: tiditssiatry@gmail.com, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-on-digital-marketing-on-dec-30/article38060107.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Management course to begin for second batch in March next year||The Indian Institute of Management-Tiruchi has announced commencement of the Post-Graduate Certificate Programme in Strategic Management (PGCSM) programme for the second batch from March 2022. The Institute had conducted the course for the first batch in virtual mode during weekends. Director Pawan Kumar Singh said the year-long programme was designed with the right blend of academic and practitioner inputs to help participants hone specialised competencies in the area. A successful strategic management student had to develop unique approaches to look at situations in a holistic, integrative, analytical and creative manner. The first batch of 79 students hailed from diverse backgrounds, coming from 13 States in India, the UAE, Oman, U.S. and Ireland. They had an average work experience of nine years across 32 different industries. Diversity of the batch helped in enriching the learning experience of the class, according to Prashant Gupta, Chairperson, Executive Education, and Counselling. Mukundhan, Professor and Programme Director, added that curriculum and pedagogy was designed to nurture both creative and analytical aspects of strategy formulation and execution. Nagendra V. Chowdary, Head of Academic Relations and Learner’s Success, Times TSW, which assisted in delivery of the course, also addressed the graduands. Anjan Banerjee, Radhika Awasthi and Bhaskar Sarat Turaga, who secured the first, second and third rank were honoured with awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/management-course-to-begin-for-second-batch-in-march-next-year/article38060108.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||48 people test positive in central region||Forty-eight persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Tuesday. No death was reported in the region as per a bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Barring Tiruchi, where 16 people tested positive, all other eight districts in the region reported fresh cases in single digits. Karur and Tiruvarur reported nine cases each and Thanjavur eight. Three persons tested positive in Perambalur, two in Nagapattinam and one in Ariyalur. There was no fresh case in Mayiladuthurai and Pudukottai districts. Tiruchi had the most number of active cases in the region with 128 patients under treatment including those under home treatment. Karur had 127 active cases, Thanjavur 125, Tiruvarur 45, Pudukottai and Perambalur 18 each, Nagapatinam 17, Ariyalur nine and Mayiladuthurai eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/48-people-test-positive-in-central-region/article38059797.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||GH gets one more oxygen generator||The district has achieved self-sufficiency in generating medical-grade oxygen as one more oxygen generator, capable of producing 1,000 litre per minute, was commissioned here on Tuesday. In the presence of Minister for Industries, Archaeology and Tamil Development Thangam Thennarasu and Collector V. Vishnu, Speaker M. Appavu inaugurated the medical-grade oxygen generator, installed at the cost of Rs. 1.25 crore in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, which has already got a medical-grade oxygen generator with the capacity of producing 600 litres per minute. “With this new facility, Tirunelveli district, now having two commercial medical-grade generators and another one at Koodankulam Government Hospital, has achieved self-sufficiency in generating medical-grade oxygen,” said Mr. Thangam Thennarasu. After witnessing an acute shortage of medical-grade oxygen during the second wave of COVID-19 that kept the official machinery on tenterhooks even as a few hundred badly affected patients were gasping for the life-saving gas in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, steps were taken to ensure generation of oxygen for medical purposes in Tirunelveli district itself. While two private firms were extended support to generate medical-grade oxygen, two generators were installed in TVMCH and also at Koodankulam GH. Now, the fifth oxygen generator has become functional to accord ‘self-sufficiency status’ to Tirunelveli district. Mr. Thennarasu said the detailed project report for the proposed ‘Porunai Museum’ to come-up on Palayamkottai outskirts on an outlay of Rs. 15 crore was ready and informed that archaeological excavation at Thulukkarpatti on the banks of Nambiyaru in the district and the sea-based excavations would be commenced after getting the mandatory nod from Archaeological Survey of India. “Since the State Government was keen on protecting and highlighting the ancientness of Tamil and Tamils, excavations will be done wherever it is needed,” the minister said adding that the granite pillar mandapams along the Tamirabharani watercourse, would also be preserved as the structures were adding more colour to the perennial river. He also made it clear that no mining activities would be allowed near the archaeological sites. On the industrial development in the southern districts, Mr. Thennarasu said the ‘Furniture Park’ coming up in Thoothukudi would a major investment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gh-gets-one-more-oxygen-generator/article38060110.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||8th Century structure to get a new lease of life||Work on renovating ‘Medai police station’, an 8th Century structure built during the Pandya dynasty and used later by the British government as their armoury, was started on Tuesday without defacing its ancientness and glory. Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu inaugurated the work, to be executed under ‘Smart City Project’ on an outlay of Rs. 3.06 crore, in the presence of Speaker M. Appavu. Thanks to the efforts taken by Collector V. Vishnu, it was decided to give a new lease of life to the neglected structure behind the Corporation’s Palayamkottai Zone Office. According to writers and Tamil scholars of Tirunelveli, this structure was the western entrance of a sprawling fort built by the Pandya Kings in the 8th century for stationing a minimum of 1,000 soldiers. Since the Pandya Kings were ruling the areas up to composite Tirunelveli district, they had to station 1,000 soldiers here. After the Pandya Kingdom lost its control over the southern region, this fort fell in the hands of the ‘Palayakkarars’, and the fort started crumbling due to poor maintenance. Then the badly maintained fort came under the control of the British. “The fort’s eastern entrance is the structure that now houses the government museum near the District Police Office. It was in this structure that Kattabomman’s younger brother Oomaithurai was imprisoned. And, the western entrance was used later by the British as their armoury. After independence, it was converted into a police station. Since the police station was sitting atop the 30-foot-wide western entrance compound wall, it was christened as ‘Medai police station’ near Mela Vasal Subramaniya Swamy Temple,” says writer Narumpoonathan. Mr. Vishnu discussed with Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran its renovation under the ‘Smart City’ project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8th-century-structure-to-get-a-new-lease-of-life/article38059988.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Scholarship given to 30,812 students: Minister||Minister for Backward Class Welfare S.S. Sivashankar has said 30,812 backward class students from the district have been given Rs. 6.86 crore as scholarship during this fiscal. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday after reviewing the performance of his department, Mr. Shivashankar said 28,337 backward class students from Class 1 to 10 had been given the scholarship to the tune of Rs. 4.57 crore while Rs. 91 lakh was given as scholarship to 1,925 students of Class 11 and 12. A total of 550 students doing their professional courses had been given the assistance of Rs. 1.38 crore, he said. In all, 30,812 students had received Rs. 6.86 crore as scholarship, he said. Speaker M. Appavu said steps would be taken to increase the number of students getting admitted in the backward class hostels in the district. “Students getting admitted in these hostels and receiving the scholarships should work hard to occupy top positions in the government departments and also in the private sector companies,” Mr. Appavu said. The Minister handed over welfare assistances to 15 beneficiaries. Director, Department of Backward Class Welfare C. Kamaraj, Collector V. Vishnu, MLAs M. Abdul Wahab of Palayamkottai and Ruby R. Manoharan of Nanguneri participated in the review meeting. A similar review meeting was conducted in Nagercoil in the presence of Collector M. Aravind and Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scholarship-given-to-30812-students-minister/article38060112.ece
29 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 136.70 feet (maximum level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 370.14 cusecs and a discharge of 1,104.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 116.75 ft (118 ft.) with an inflow of 65 cusecs and a discharge of 235 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38060111.ece
29 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing held on delimitation of wards||A total of three petitions pertaining to the delimitation of wards in Dhali town panchayat were received during the public hearing held by the Tamil Nadu Delimitation Commission at the District Collectorate on Tuesday. According to a release, member of the Delimitation Commission and Commissioner of Town Panchayats R. Selvaraj chaired the meeting. Representatives of political parties and the general public submitted the petitions to Mr. Selvaraj during the meeting. He instructed the district administration to consider the petitions and take appropriate action by Wednesday. The State government has increased the number of wards in Dhali town panchayat in Tiruppur district from the existing 15 to 17 wards recently, regarding which the participants expressed their opinions during the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-hearing-held-on-delimitation-of-wards/article38059759.ece
29 December 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 12 new COVID cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,470, with 12 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 49,217 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 112. The death toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, four persons tested positive for the infection, and the total stood at 43,675. In Tirupattur district, one case was reported, taking the total to 29,467. Tiruvannamalai district reported five fresh cases, taking the total number of cases to 55,348. Of them, 54,625 patients have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-12-new-covid-cases/article38060066.ece
29 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar district ranked 9th among 112 ‘Aspirational Districts’||Virudhunagar district has been sanctioned a special fund of Rs. 1 crore for its 9th delta ranking for the month of October 2021 among the 112 ‘Aspirational Districts’ in the country. Nodal Officer for Virudhunagar ‘Aspirational District’ and Niti Ayog had identified 112 backward districts across the country in 2018 and gave a focussed attention on development in select areas like Health and Nutrition, Education, Agriculture and Water Resources, Financial Inclusion and Skill Development and Basic Infrastructure. As per the October 2021 ranking, Virudhunagar district stood overall 9th spot among the 112 districts. Meanwhile, Nodal Officer and Additional Secretary, Ministry of Scheduled Tribes Welfare, Jaya, had made field inspections of the Aspirational District-linked developmental works since Monday. She discussed 49 factors in various departments and asked the officials to address the shortcomings in those areas. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that Niti Ayog had sanctioned Rs. 1 crore special fund for Virudhunagar district for its achievement. The district got Rs. 3 crore for implementation of the programme in the area of infrastructure development in March 2019 and another Rs. 3 crore for executing the works in health and nutrition in July 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-district-ranked-9th-among-112-aspirational-districts/article38059815.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NEET exemption Bill under consideration, says Raj Bhavan||It forwarded the application to the Health Department, which in turn sent it to the Law Department. On September 13, the Assembly passed the Bill seeking to “dispense” with the requirement for candidates to qualify in NEET for admission to undergraduate medical courses. The Bill was sent to the Raj Bhavan, when Banwarilal Purohit was the Governor, for being forwarded to the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Incidentally, on November 27, the State government released a photograph of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin meeting the Governor and said Mr. Stalin had pressed the Governor for forwarding the Bill to the President immediately. But the Raj Bhavan had released a photograph of the meeting the same day and said the “steps taken by the government to handle the incessant rain and the COVID-19 pandemic” were discussed. It made no mention of any discussion on the Bill. The State Platform for Common School System proposes to begin a hunger strike on January 30, urging the Governor to forward the Bill to the President. The Governor should have examined the Bill and given it priority because it concerned medical aspirants aged below 18. The delay was hurting the aspirations of students, and their families remained in a state of uncertainty, it said.  The State Platform for Common School System proposes to begin a hunger strike on January 30, urging the Governor to forward the Bill to the President||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raj-bhavan-considering-neet-exemption-bill/article38059699.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 84 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 84 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll increased to 2,509. As many as 107 persons recovered on Tuesday and the district had 988 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 33 new cases. The district had 445 active cases and 45 persons recovered. The Health Department did not report new deaths and the toll remained at 1,024. In the Nilgiris, four persons tested positive for COVID-19. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 54,510.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-84-new-covid-19-cases/article38059750.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple:  Thirukarthigai and Markazhi Mahotsavam, chanting of Thiruppavai, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m. onwards.    Sigaram Foundation and Peedampalli village panchayat: Pasumai Vanam, planting of saplings drive, Peedampalli junction, 10 a.m.  PSG College of Arts and Science: Alert Golden Army chapter installation, PSG CAS Auditorium, 10 a.m.  Quality Circle Forum of India: Valedictory session of 35th National Convention on Quality concepts, 10 a.m.  CMS Academy of Management and Technology: Inauguration of Blaze, MBA students association, 10 a.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology:  Webinar on Industry Expert interaction with students, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Workshop on Python for Data Sciences, 10 a.m.  KPR College of Arts, Science and Research: MoU signing ceremony with Witty Wise, 10.30 a.m.  The Coimbatore Productivity Council:  Two-day training programme on first aid, Vyshnav building, Race Course, opp to KG Cinemas, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38059751.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Kongu Arts and Science College: Department of MBA, two-day national seminar on ‘Transmuting Rural Economy through Precision Farming Digital Technologies’, 10 a.m.  Nehru Yuva Kendra and Dr. R.A.N.M. Arts and Science College: Sports competition, Modakkurichi Block, prize distribution, 3 p.m.  Nandha College of Physiotherapy: 29th Annual Day, Physiogala’21, V. Shanmugan, Chairman, Sri Nandha Educational Trust, presides, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article38059826.ece
29 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers oppose private farm produce market||Some farmers leaders have opposed the plan of the State Government to push for a private farmers market yard coming up in Belagavi despite the Union Government withdrawing the new farm laws that facilitated such markets. Bharatiya Krishik Samaj (BKS) has complained to the Chief Minister asking him to intervene and stop the attempts of some officers who, it said, are trying to give approval to a wholesale market promoted by Jai Kisan Wholesale Vegetable Merchants Association. “We have raised several objections in our letter to the government,’’ BKS state president Sidagouda Modagi told The Hindu . First of all, this is against the spirit of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s move to withdraw the new farm laws. The State has not only not repealed certain amendments to the laws concerned but it is also trying to promote private farmers markets, as per the APMC Act, that allows private markets. “Secondly, officials have flouted several norms and violated revenue laws and regulations in converting around 10 acres of farmland into non-agriculture land for setting up the market near Belagavi. The most glaring among them is that they have given approval to an application for land conversion in the name of a person who is long dead,” he said. “Officers have cleared the application by Bavi Basalingappa Siddanayakappa who died 10 years ago. We have requested the government to order a high-level inquiry into this. Secretary, Department of Urban Development, Ajay Nagabhushan has assured us of withholding the application till further inquiry,’’ Mr. Modagi said. “And, the applicants have violated the provisions of section 87 (B) of the APMC Act. The section says that the State Government will give approval to any private market only after the promoters have created all necessary infrastructure. But in this case, the officers have waived these conditions, saying that the approval could be granted pending the creation of infrastructure facilities. Such violations should not be tolerated,’’ Mr. Modagi said in his letter to the government. “There are several other irregularities in this transaction. We have, therefore, demanded a comprehensive inquiry into the issue,’’ Mr. Modagi said. He has demanded that the Government declare that it will not allow private whole farm produce markets to come up in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-oppose-private-farm-produce-market/article38059852.ece
29 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BLDE convocation tomorrow at B.M. Patil Medical College||The ninth convocation of BLDE Deemed to be University will be held at the B.M. Patil Medical College Library Hall in Vijayapura on Thursday. Pratima Murthy, director, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), will deliver the convocation address. Chancellor M.B. Patil, Vice-Chancellor R.S. Mudhol, Registrar (Evaluation) S.S. Devarmani and other officials will be present. The deemed to be university will confer honourary doctorate on Sanjay Samuel, clinical professor in the Department of Accounting in the Pennsylvania State University, U.S. A total of 230 students will get graduation degrees, 57 students will get post-graduate degrees, two will get MCH, six will get doctorates and five will get post-graduate diplomas. They will include 142 MBBS, 14 B.Sc (MIT) and four OTT students. The deemed to be university will give away 16 gold medals to students. Daneshwari Kottalmath will get six gold medals, Sourabh Patil four and Sharadhi Pethkar and Sohan Rao will get two each. Strict COVID-19 protocol will be followed during the event. Those who cannot attend, may watch the ceremony on BLDES social media channels on Facebook and YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blde-convocation-tomorrow-at-bm-patil-medical-college/article38059851.ece
29 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||PWD plans to cut down 95 trees||The Department of Public Works has issued a notice for cutting down 95 trees on the Belagavi-Jamboti highway for road widening, according to a press release. The 219-km highway from Rabakavi to Jamboti village has 95 trees that need to be cut down to widen the road. Members of the public who have any objections to this proposal should file them with the appropriate authority in the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pwd-plans-to-cut-down-95-trees/article38059843.ece
29 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police begin enforcing night curfew in Belagavi||Police officers began strictly enforcing on Tuesday night curfew across Belagavi district for 10 days. Various restrictions will be in place on social activities from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. Commissioner of Police K. Thiyagarajan has promulgated prohibitory orders under Cr.PC Section 144. As per a release issued by Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe, New Year celebrations at pubs, restaurants and hotels are banned. Eateries, hotels, pubs, clubs and restaurants have been asked to operate with 50% of their seating capacity from December 30 to January 2. All staff in such places must follow COVID-19 norms. Violators will be booked under National Disaster Management Act. Public transportation, ambulance services and pharmacies will operate round the clock. Checking of those coming to the city from Maharashtra will be tightened at check-posts on the border. Production of a fresh RT-PCR negative certificate is mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-begin-enforcing-night-curfew-in-belagavi/article38059853.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High schools and PU colleges to hold vaccination camps||All high schools and pre-university colleges will start vaccinating students aged 15 to 17 years from January 3. The students will be administered Covaxin and will have to take their second dose after a span of 28 days. While the Department of Public Instruction will ensure that the camps are held in all government and aided schools, private schools will be asked to get in touch with the Department of Health and Family Welfare to conduct camps on their premises. Private schools will also be allowed to tie up with private hospitals to conduct camps. A meeting to discuss the logistics was chaired by Vandita Sharma, Additional Chief Secretary to the Government. R. Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction, who was part of the meeting on Tuesday to discuss the modalities of how the vaccinations will be rolled out, said schools have been asked to conduct a meeting with the parent-teacher association and ensure that they spread awareness about the vaccination programme and get their consent before jabbing the students. School managements have also been asked to coordinate with parents and ensure that they hold camps for students who do not attend offline classes. The State Government has decided that students will have to produce their Aadhaar card or school identity card before getting vaccinated. The State Government has also said that teachers and PU lecturers should encourage students who have dropped out of school or PU colleges to come to the educational institutions to get jabbed. R. Snehal, Director, Department of Public Instruction, said that the programme will be rolled out in all districts under the leadership of the Deputy Commissioners: “Our Deputy Directors of Pre-University Education will collaborate with the district administration and the health department officials and ensure that the camps are held in all PU colleges.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-schools-and-pu-colleges-to-hold-vaccination-camps/article38059653.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro pillar foundation exposed near Halasuru station due to drain repair||The foundation of the Namma Metro pillar near the Halasuru station was exposed when the BBMP started repair work on the storm water drain adjacent to it. Stating that there was no damage to the pillar or the structure, Anjum Parvez, managing director of BMRCL, told The Hindu that he had undertaken a spot inspection on Tuesday. “When the pier work was initially taken up itself, a lot of precautions had been taken during construction, given the location of the pillar next to the drain. We are coordinating with the BBMP and have instructed civic officials to take all safety precautions,” he said. While the Namma Metro services have not been affected, Mr. Parvez said that as a precaution, the speed of the train had been reduced on that particular stretch. “Usually, the metro train travels at 40-60 kmph speed. At this particular stretch, to avoid vibrations, the speed has been reduced to 5 kmph,” he said. The retaining wall of the drain, which was weak, was affected. This is after an earthmover was used to clear silt from the drain. The wall was also cleared so that it could be strengthened, civic officials reportedly informed their BMRCL counterparts. Admitting that BBMP had initially not informed BMRCL of the repair work being taken up, Mr. Parvez said that metro officials had suggested slight modification in the drain repair work that required further strengthening of the retaining wall. “Metro officials will supervise the work and coordinate with the civic officials to ensure that the top soil does not further erode,” he said. BBMP's chief engineer (storm water drains) Suguna admitted that the civic officials had erred in not informing the Metro officials about the work being taken up. “The culvert near the pillar is being extended and shifting of utilities had been taken up. The water in the drain has also been diverted. The foundation, though not damaged, was exposed during the earth work. The foundation has now been jacketted and reinforced under the supervision of Metro officials,” she said. She also said that the jurisdictional executive engineer had been directed to submit a report on the incident, apart from issuing a notice to assistant executive engineer and contractor for not intimating Metro officials about the work being taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-pillar-foundation-exposed-near-halasuru-station-due-to-drain-repair/article38059642.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Night curfew begins, hospitality industry seeks one hour extension||The police started doing rounds announcing the 10 p.m. deadline on public address systems and asked establishments to close down as the night curfew kicked in from Tuesday night. As it was the first day, the police did not book violators and convinced them to close down. “We only created awareness on Tuesday night. We will enforce the night curfew strictly from Wednesday and book violators. We will also barricade all flyovers and major junctions from Wednesday night to prevent any traffic movement,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner (Traffic), Bengaluru. Traffic police have also launched a strict drunken driving testing campaign from Tuesday. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said all violators will be booked with cases under National Disaster Management Act from Wednesday night. “Anybody travelling on the road beyond the deadline will have to furnish suitable documents to justify their presence on the road,” he said. Extension sought There has been opposition to the night curfew deadline, especially from the hospitality industry, which has been demanding the extension of the deadline to 11 p.m. The Bengaluru Chapter of National Restaurants Association of India has made a representation to the government. “There is already a restriction of 50% occupancy, which essentially kills the Christmas-New Year season. On top of that, a deadline of 10 p.m. means we will have to start winding up by 9 p.m.This will wipe out the dinner scene, which is when we hope to do some good business,” said Ajay Nagarajan, CEO, Windmills, a restaurant and pub. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, President, Karnataka Regional Hotels’ and Restaurants’ Federation, said the night curfew was “unscientific” and failed to produce any results in the past two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/night-curfew-begins-hospitality-industry-seeks-one-hour-extension/article38059644.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cluster in Rajajinagar apartment||A major cluster has been detected in an apartment in Rajajinagar after 23 residents tested positive for COVID-19. The BBMP health officials have now collected samples from these persons and sent them for genome sequencing. According to BBMP’s chief health officer (public health) Balasundar, the cases have been detected in multiple floors of the two towers in the apartment complex. The civic body has now closed all common spaces, including gyms and swimming pool, and extended the micro containment measures to include one floor above and below the flat where the infected persons reside, he said. He also said that the source of infection has been traced to a badminton event that was held at the apartment complex on December 18. It is said that around 77 residents participated/ attended the event. “Two to three days after the event, some residents reported some mild symptoms. They voluntarily got tested,” he said. He also said that though some residents had travel history, none of them had travelled to and returned from any of the high risk countries. Meanwhile, according to the BBMP COVID-19 war room report on December 27, there are 93 containment zones, with the highest (30) reported in Bommanahalli zone, followed by South (19), Mahadevapura (14), East (13). West and Yelahanka zones have six each, while there are five in Rajarajeshwarinagar zone. There is none in Dasarahalli zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-cluster-in-rajajinagar-apartment/article38059646.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. hospitals barred from open vial policy||The State Government on Tuesday told private hospitals that they cannot follow the open vial policy and will have to use a vial four hours after they open it. Bharat Biotech’s had recently announced that open vials of its vaccine against COVID-19 can be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius for up to 28 days and need not be discarded at the end of the day. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association had said they would go by the manufacturers instructions as they had purchased the vaccines from them. However, with Tuesday’s order, all private hospitals have to use the vials in four hours, failing which they had to be discarded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-hospitals-barred-from-open-vial-policy/article38059648.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka legislature committees formed||A total of nine joint legislature committees of the State legislature and six committees of the Legislative Assembly have been constituted to look into various issues. While the Legislative Assembly nominated its members to the joint legislature committees, the Council members are yet to be nominated. Among the prominent committees, the Committee on Public Accounts is headed by Congress member K.R. Ramesh Kumar while the Committee on Public Undertakings is headed by G.H. Thippareddy of the BJP. Committee heads Other committees and its heads are: Committee on SC/ST Welfare (Chairman-M.P. Kumaraswamy), Committee on Backward Classes and Minorities (Chairman-S. Kumar Bangarappa), Committee on sub-ordinate Legislation (Chairman-L.A. Ravi Subramanya), Committee on Papers Laid before Legislature (Sa.Ra. Mahesh), Committee on Women and Child Welfare (K. Poornima), Committee on Library (Legislative Council Chairman), and Committee on Local Bodies and Panchayat Raj (G. Somashekara Reddy), according to a notification issued by Assembly Secretary M.K. Vishalakshi. Assembly committees The Assembly has constituted six committees and nominated its members. The committees are: Committee on Estimates (Chairman-Abhay Patil), Committee on Government Assurances (K. Raghupati Bhat), Committee on Privileges (Basanagouda Patil Yatnal), Committee on Private Members’ Bills and Resolutions (Assembly Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani), Committee on Petitions of the Legislative Assembly (Mr. Mamani), and Committee on House (Mr. Mamani).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-legislature-committees-formed/article38059659.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai waits at airport||A chartered flight Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was scheduled to take from HAL Airport to Hubballi to attend the BJP State Executive Meeting, on Tuesday morning, developed a technical snag. The flight was cancelled. Waiting at the airport for an alternative flight, the Chief Minister joined an event of the Infosys Foundation online. He was supposed to join the event online from Hubballi, but did so from HAL Airport. Later, a flight was organised and he flew to Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-waits-at-airport/article38059661.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. initiates e-RUPI disbursement for education scholarship||The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), State Bank of India (SBI), and Department of e-Governance, Government of Karnataka, have partnered to enable and implement e-RUPI, a cashless and contactless payment solution to students, under its scholarship programme. E-RUPI will be used to ensure leak-proof delivery of education fees of eligible students by paying digitally to the college/institute by the State Government. The government would get e-vouchers delivered to the mobiles of eligible students, according to a release. The voucher code can be received on the feature phone also. The students will be able to redeem e-RUPI at the identified colleges/institutes for the intended purpose of fees payment. For redeeming e-RUPI, the institutes will scan the QR code or SMS string displayed by the students using an application or POS machine. This process will remove the requirement of any physical token delivery for students to avail the scholarship. 176 schemes The State Government has around 176 schemes of 35. Other major schemes which have been on-boarded are minimum price support schemes, PM-Kisan State Scheme, CM-Relief Fund, housing schemes, and milk incentive scheme. Rajiv Chawla, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) (e-governance), of the State Government said: “e-RUPI is indeed a very powerful tool for governments to use as it allows direct transfer of the benefits to the targeted beneficiary, with safety and security. The instrument ensures that the beneficiary gets the benefit as per the guidelines of the scheme. Under this initiative, each transaction is mapped with the beneficiary and the institution ensuring that the e-voucher can be redeemed by the college where the student has enrolled.” Challa Sreenivasulu Setty, Managing Director, Retail & Digital Banking, SBI, said, the e-RUPI (UPI Prepaid Voucher) was launched on August 2, 2021, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for COVID-19 vaccination as the first use case. “Owing to its hassle-free usage coupled with its secured and cashless features, the government has envisaged to extend the use of e-RUPI to other use cases like DBT, scholarships, kerosene oil distribution, subsidised distribution of food grains, donations, grocery,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-initiates-e-rupi-disbursement-for-education-scholarship/article38059662.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||42-year-old woman hacked to death in front of minor son||A 42-year-old woman was hacked to death in front of her minor son and a driver while she was returning home in her SUV on Hosa Road in Electronics City on Monday night. The deceased has been identified as V. Archana Reddy, a realtor who was living with her two children in Bellandur after separating from her second husband. According to the police, the couple was having frequent fights over money matters, and had approached the Jigani police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/42-year-old-woman-hacked-to-death-in-front-of-minor-son/article38059638.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination preparations||With the vaccination of those aged between 15 years and 18 years set to begin from Monday, Civic Chief Gaurav Gupta reviewed the preparations, on Tuesday. From January 20, booster doses will also be given to health care workers, frontline workers and those aged above 60 years. He chaired a virtual meeting along with Special Commissioner (Health) K.V. Thrilokchandra and directed health officials to prepare a list of schools and colleges in the zones, identify students in the eligible age bracket for vaccination. To ensure coverage of those outside the system, officials were directed to coordinate with non-governmental organisations for the same. Health officials have also been directed to coordinate with residents’ welfare associations to take precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-preparations/article38059645.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dhaba employee hurt in fire accident dies||A 29-year-old dhaba employee, who sustained burn injuries after a group of men set fire to the dhaba, succumbed to injuries on Tuesday. The deceased, Manoj, was having dinner around 12.40 a.m. after cleaning the dhaba, while his colleagues were sleeping. He came out of the dhaba after hearing a blast followed by a flash of light. Thinking that it was a transformer blast, Manoj came out, only to be confronted by an unidentified man, who splashed a chemical on him. Soon, Manoj was engulfed in fire and ran inside the dhaba to get help from his colleague Tejas. The other staff members doused the fire and ran out to safety before the dhaba caught fire, the police said. The Soladevanahalli police, based on the statement of Manoj, have taken up a case against the unknown persons charging them under section 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house) and section 307 (attempt to murder). However, after the death of Manoj, the police added a murder case against the accused and stepped up investigations to track them down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dhaba-employee-hurt-in-fire-accident-dies/article38059647.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Curbs not applicable to hotel rooms||The State on Tuesday clarified that 50% occupancy restrictions on hotels, restaurants, pubs, and clubs from December 30 to January 2 are not applicable to room occupancy in hotels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-not-applicable-to-hotel-rooms/article38059649.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 347 new cases, two deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 347 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30.05 lakh. Of these, 269 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With two deaths, the toll rose to 38,318. Besides this, there were 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 347 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 29.59 lakh. The State now has 7456 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.5 %, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.56 %. As many as 69,993 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 47,698 lakh RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-reports-347-new-cases/article38059651.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug peddler arrested||The Govindapura police on Tuesday arrested a 28-year-old man from Kerala and recovered 575 gm of charas worth Rs. 5.8 lakh. Basil George from Ernakulam was allegedly caught red-handed while moving suspiciously near a forest office in HRBR layout. George had sourced the drugs from his contact in Himachal Pradesh and had a list of clients in the city, including well-known names and students, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-peddler-arrested/article38059658.ece
29 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||60.74% voter turnout||Chikkamagaluru registered 60.74% of voters’ turnout in the elections to the city municipal council held on Monday. Of the total 1,00,183 voters, 60,855 cast their votes. The votes polled will be counted at IDSG College in the city on December 30. Deputy Commissioner K.N.Ramesh has clamped prohibitory orders around 200m around the college during the counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6074-voter-turnout/article38060027.ece
29 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Inform students about scholarship schemes’||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has instructed officers to inform students of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to apply for scholarships provided by the State Government. He gave this instruction at a district-level monitoring committee meeting held on Tuesday. As he noticed that the number of applicants seeking scholarships had been low, the DC said that lack of awareness among the students could be the reason. He instructed the officers of the Social Welfare Department and Education Department to spread awareness of the scholarship schemes. Regarding the graveyards for SCs and STs, the DC instructed Revenue Department officials to take necessary steps on application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inform-students-about-scholarship-schemes/article38060026.ece
29 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bommai will complete term as CM, says BJP State executive||The BJP State executive committee, which began its two-day meeting in Hubballi on Tuesday, sought to clear the air on speculation over a possible change of leadership by sending out a clear message that Basavaraj Bommai will complete full term as Chief Minister. The committee also barred its leaders and members from discussing the issue in public. Seeking to shift the focus from speculations on leadership change to preparations for the next Assembly polls, the meeting issued specific directions to begin formal preparations for polls. Briefing presspersons after the first day’s deliberations, BJP State spokesperson and MLA P. Rajiv described the speculation over leadership change as baseless and useless. Absence of leaders Mr. Rajiv sought to downplay the absence of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, his sons, and former Ministers Ramesh Jarkiholi and Balachandra Jarkiholi, by saying that out of the 300 delegates, 281 had participated. “The remaining members, including Mr. Yediyurappa and the Jarkiholi brothers, took permission from the party State president to skip the meeting,” he said. On the allegations against the Jarkiholi brothers that they did not back the party candidate in the recent Council polls in Belagavi, Mr. Rajiv clarified that the issue did not come up for discussion during the meeting, but it had been handed over to the fact-finding committee by the State president. “The BJP is a disciplined party and there is no question of tolerating any sort of indiscipline,” he said. Resolution Mr. Rajiv said Health Minister K. Sudhakar presented the resolution on thanking the State Government for its pro-people policies and programmes. The resolution had been endorsed by Laxman Savadi, MLC. He said the meeting thanked the government for providing 1.4 lakh electricity connections to the poor under ‘Belaku’ scheme; for deciding to give Rs. 3,500 per month to COVID-19 orphans; for renaming Bombay-Karnataka as ‘Kittur Karnataka’; for giving additional compensation under NDRF; for winning 11 seats in the recent Council polls, and for passing the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, against forced religious conversions. Mr. Bommai was thanked for equating his post to the level of ‘common man’ by being a common man, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-will-complete-term-as-cm-says-bjp-state-executive/article38059660.ece
29 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protestors dump garbage on corpn. premises||Claiming that Hubballi-Dharwad has become a garbage city and not smart city under the BJP rule, members of the Congress staged a protest in Hubballi on Tuesday by dumping garbage on the municipal corporation premises. The members of Hubballi Dharwad Mahanagar Zilla Congress unit said that the officials are working like BJP agents under the BJP rule. “Only the surroundings of the venue where BJP’s State Executive committee meeting is being held have been cleaned. In other areas, garbage is lying uncleared. Instead of addressing public issues, Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) officials are behaving like BJP agents,” they said. When the protestors came to HDMC premises with two tractors loaded with garbage, they were stopped at the entrance by the police. After an altercation with the police, they were allowed to enter the corporation premises. They staged their protest raising slogans against the BJP and HDMC officials. Without heeding to the request by the police, the protestors dumped the garbage from the tractors on the HDMC premises. They kept a cut-out of Prime Minister Narendra Modi amid the garbage and also staged a skit on Mann Ki Baat to mock the Swacch Bharat campaign with Congress leader Shakir Sanadi seeking answers from the Prime Minister on cleanliness of the twin cities and not to be silent about it. Addressing the protestors, president of the district unit Altaf Halwoor said that pourakarmikas (civic workers) are clearing garbage only in wards represented by BJP councillors while those represented by Congress councillors are being neglected completely. Although four months had passed after the HDMC elections, council members have not been sworn in yet, he said. Mr. Halwoor said that the BJP workers have put up BJP flags across the city without taking permission from the corporation and disfigured the city’s public spaces. Seeking what action has been taken against the BJP leaders, he sought to know are the rules different for the BJP and the Congress. Congress leader Rajat Ullagaddimath said that if other wards of the twin cities are not cleaned immediately, garbage will be dumped in front of the Commissioner’s residence. Assurance Deputy Commissioner of HDMC Ajiz Desai told the protestors that because of delimitation, the number of wards has increased and based on population, more civic workers are required to be deployed. He assured that more workers will be deployed in consultation with councillors. HDMC councillors Niranjan Hiremath, Arif Bhadrapur, Suvarna Kallakuntla, Sandilkumar, Mustaq Mudgal and others took part in the agitation.  Deputy Commissioner of HDMC Ajiz Desai says that because of delimitation, the number of wards has increased and based on population, more civic workers are required to be deployed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protestors-dump-garbage-on-corpn-premises/article38059850.ece
29 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Those discussing leadership change will be thrown out’||Former Union Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Tuesday said the BJP had sent a clear message that there would be no leadership change and that those speaking about it would be thrown out of the party. Speaking to presspersons on the sidelines of the State executive committee meeting, he made a veiled attack on a leader ‘attempting’ to become Chief Minister. “Some had tried to become CM by offering something, but unfortunately it did not materialise,” he quipped. On the absence of leader B.S. Yediyurappa, he said the former Chief Minister had gone abroad and the Jarkiholi brothers probably had other work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-discussing-leadership-change-will-be-thrown-out/article38059663.ece
29 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gulbarga varsity receives 9,559 applications for 45 courses||Gulbarga University has received 9,559 applications against a total intake of 6,375 seats for 45 post-graduate and post-graduate diploma courses at 37 study centres for the 2021-22 academic year. As many as 5,667 applications were received against a total intake of 2,133 seats for Gulbarga University main campus and the Post-Graduate Centre and 4,892 applications for 4,242 seats in government and private colleges affiliated to the university. Vice-Chancellor of Gulbarga University Dayanand Agsar, addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, gave details of the calendar of events for the admission process. He said that the university completed scrutiny of applications on December 24 and the provisional merit list of candidates was announced on the university website on December 27, while December 28 was the last date for objections. The university will announce the final merit list on December 29 and the first list of provisionally selected candidates will be announced on December 30 and 31. Dr. Agsar said that vacant seats will be announced on the university website on January 1, he said. Counselling for vacant seats, special category seats and transfer of admissions will be held on the main campus on January 3. Counselling of admissions for government and private colleges will be held on January 4 and January 5, respectively, and admissions under the self-supporting scheme (SSS) will be held on the main campus on January 6. Classes for post-graduate first semester will commence on January 7, he added. Replying to a question, Dr. Agsar said that there are 270 guest lecturers in Gulbarga University. “As the government is not providing funds to pay guest lecturers, the university is spending around Rs. 35 lakh to Rs. 40 lakh every month through its financial resources to pay their salaries,” he added. Convocation Dr. Agsar said that the university has decided to organise the 39th and 40th convocation simultaneously in February 2022, tentatively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gulbarga-varsity-receives-9559-applications-for-45-courses/article38059845.ece
29 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘State Govt. has adopted step-motherly attitude towards Kalyana Karnataka’||Accusing the BJP-led State Government of adopting a step-motherly attitude towards the Kalyana Karnataka region, Member of Legislative Assembly Priyank Kharge has said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has failed to keep the promise he made to the people of the region during his visit to participate in the Kalyana Karnataka Utsav in Kalaburagi. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Kharge said that Mr. Bommai has failed to allocate adequate funds for the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board and also to take up works on Phase III of the Upper Krishna Project. The chief Minister has also gone back on his promise to organise an investment meet in Kalaburagi. Mr. Kharge slammed the Centre for withdrawal of the proposed mega textile park on 1,000 acres of land sanctioned for Kalaburagi district. Providing details of the funds released to KKRDB, Mr. Kharge said that the State Government had approved only Rs. 1,125 crore against an allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore for the board during 2019-20. And, 77% of the total 4,049 works have been completed. In 2020-21, the government released only Rs. 1,000 crore against approved Rs. 1,131 crore and only 16% of the total 2,234 works had been completed. In 2021-22, the Government sanctioned Rs. 1,492 crore of which only Rs. 415 crore was released. In the past three financial years, the Government released Rs. 2,572.02 crore against sanctioned funds of Rs. 4,124.83 crore, Mr. Kharge said and urged the State Government to release the balance funds of Rs. 1,921.81 crore (including Rs. 369 crore) to complete all the pending works taken up under KKRDB. Meanwhile, continuing his tirade against Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav, Mr. Kharge threatened that he will file a criminal case against Mr. Jadhav if he fails to reveal the truth behind the alleged forged signature of Ramrao Maharaj on the memorandum submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the Centre include the Banjara community under the Scheduled Castes list. Mr. Kharge questioned the silence of Mr. Jadhav in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-has-adopted-step-motherly-attitude-towards-kalyana-karnataka/article38059665.ece
29 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘MP’s demand is against Lambani community’||Taking exception to the demand by Umesh Jadhav, Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi, for including Lambani (Banjara) community under Scheduled Tribes (STs), Baburao Chauhan, national president of Banjara Seva Sangh and former Minister, has said that Mr. Jadhav has betrayed the community because his demand will go against the interests of the community in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mps-demand-is-against-lambani-community/article38059848.ece
29 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Judiciary needs adequate infrastructure, says judge||Supreme Court Judge S.A. Abdul Nazeer on Tuesday said that litigation that affect peace and order can be smoothly resolved when courts have adequate infrastructure and the role of State governments becomes crucial in providing proper infrastructure to the judiciary. Speaking after inaugurating the new building of the Bar Association and laying the foundation stone for the second phase of court building construction in Puttur, Mr. Nazeer complimented the State Government for responding to the needs of the judiciary, including infrastructure. “There might be delays here and there but the Government has not turned down any proposal for court infrastructure development,” he said. He said that litigation, more so those with civil nature, disturb peace of litigant public as they go right up to the Supreme Court. “Litigant public needs to understand the serious impact of litigation and this can only be done with improved infrastructure,” he said and reiterated the statement of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana about the need for setting up a judicial infrastructure development corporation. High Court of Karnataka Judge K. Somashekar, who is the administrative judge for Dakshina Kannada, said that timely justice can be given to litigant public when vacant posts of judicial officers in the lower courts and district courts are filled in an expeditious manner. This can ensure speedy and inexpensive justice, he said. Chief Justice of High Court of Karnataka Ritu Raj Awasti addressed the gathering in the virtual mode. High Court judges Mohammad Nawaz and Savanur Vishwajith Shetty, Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor and MLC S.N. Boje Gowda also spoke. Later, Mr. Nazeer laid the foundation stone for the construction of a new court building in Sullia to be taken up at a cost of Rs. 16 crore. High Court of Registrar General T.G. Shivashankare Gowda and Dakshina Kannada Principal District and Sessions Judge B. Muralidhara Pai attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/judiciary-needs-adequate-infrastructure-says-judge/article38060006.ece
29 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MESCOM plans to charge power cables||Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (MESCOM) has said that it has made preparations to charge the underground power cable connecting the 33/11 kV GIS substation at Bolaragudde Udyavara on or after December 30 on an experimental basis. The line, starting from the 110/11 kV Nittur substation passes on the right-hand side of National Highway 66 till Udyavara Balaipade, Guddeyangadi, Sampigenagar and Bolaragudde. As such, people should not indulge in digging of earth or any other underground works on the stretch, MESCOM has said. Similarly, the underground power cable connecting the newly built 33/11 kV GIS substation at Chitrapadi in Saligrama Town Panchayat from 110/11 kV Madhuvana substation will be charged on or after December 30 on an experimental basis. The line starting from Madhuvana, passes through Kota-Saibrakatte Road via Vaddarse, Upladi, Kota Moorkai and National Highway Junction to reach Chitrapadi. Also, underground cable is laid from Kota substation to Karkada and Gundmi via Saligrama. MESCOM has urged people not to undertake any underground work on these stretches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mescom-plans-to-charge-power-cables/article38060011.ece
29 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Selection for sports schools and hostels||The Youth Empowerment and Sports Department will conduct a selection process to choose sportspersons (boys and girls) for sports schools and sports hostels for the academic year 2022-23 from January 4 at 10 a.m. The locations and dates in Dakshina Kannada district are — Government Pre University College, Sullia; Taluk Stadium, Kombettu, Puttur, January 5; Vittla Government High School, Vitla, Bantwal taluk, January 6; Government High School, Punjalakatte, Belthangady taluk, January 7; Swaraj Maidan, Moodbidri, January 10; Bethany PU College, Noojibalthila, Kadaba taluk, January 12 and Mangala Stadium, Mangaluru, January 14. Call Ph: 0824-2451264 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selection-for-sports-schools-and-hostels/article38060010.ece
29 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Training for bank exams in Udupi||The Competitive Examination Training Centre of Karnataka State Open University in Udupi will offer 45-day training for candidates appearing for IBPS Nationalised Banks Selection Exams. Interested candidates may call Ph: 0821-2515344 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. before January 5 to register their names, according to a notification by University Registrar R. Rajanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-for-bank-exams-in-udupi/article38060004.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||It’s now Swachh Technology Challenge for people of Mysuru||Here’s an opportunity for the people of Mysuru, companies, institutions, NGOs and others to suggest innovative ideas/solutions under Swachh Technology Challenge as a part of the Swachh Survekshan-2022. Swachha Technology Challenge, which was launched recently under Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 (SBM-U 2.0) by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), is looking for solutions in four categories - social inclusion, zero dump (solid waste management), plastic waste management, and transparency through digital enablement. According to MoHUA, the initiative aims at attracting innovations in waste management and establishing an environment that fulfills the vision of SBM-U 2.0. The Ministry has been encouraging innovations and best practices through Swachh Survekshan, the annual cleanliness survey, which has attracted a large number of innovations and best practices since the last four years. The Mysuru City Corporation, which will participate in the Survekshan in January 2022, has invited solutions/ideas. Mysuru city has been participating in the Survekshan since its inception under SBM. It bagged the cleanest city tag and is rated among the model cities. A recent note from the Ministry released by the PIB said the active participation of cities in the Challenge will help them in improving their performance in the ‘Citizen Engagement’ component of Swachh Survekshan 2022 and also their overall ranking in the survey. Also, the top three State-level solutions will be rewarded with a cash prize by respective State governments. Locally, the MCC is awarding cash prizes to the top three best solutions besides consolation prizes. Also, the winning solutions from start-ups under Swachha Technology Challenge will get an opportunity to participate in the Swachhata Start-Up Challenge, which is also slated in January 2022, the note said. The ideas have to reach the MCC by December 31. Interested persons can use the link https://forms.gle/F6bJLFvshPqwLTd9 for uploading their ideas. The first prize carries a cash reward of Rs. 25,000, second prize Rs. 20,000 and third prize Rs. 15,000. The consolation prize carries Rs. 10,000, a release from the MCC said here. The MCC has listed the criteria for the solutions. Key features of the solutions – should have the potential to reduce, recycle and reuse; enable the process enhancement; any other USP in line with the identified solution areas/solution types. Key features of the technologies should comprise uniqueness, low cost and low maintenance ideas, time and effort saving concepts, and should be contextualised and user friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-now-swachh-technology-challenge-for-people-of-mysuru/article38060025.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stir against Rangayana director continues||The protest seeking the dismissal of Rangayana director Addanda C. Cariappa has continued with the activists taking out a padayatra from Kukkarahalli Lake to the Rangayana on Tuesday. With the police asking the protesters not to hold demonstrations any more in front of Rangayana, the protesters, instead of holding their regular sit-in, resolved to a march, raising slogans against the director. The protesters were joined by former MLA M.K. Somashekar. Urging the Government to immediately dismiss the director, the protesters accused him of sowing the seeds of “communal agenda” in the repertory. After the padayatra, the protesters handed over a memorandum drafted by the Rangayana Ulisi Horata Samiti to the members of Kodava Samaj, Mysuru, which, along with some other organizations, staged a demonstration in support of Mr. Cariappa. “Our protest is only against Mr. Cariappa and the Save Rangayana campaign seeking his removal should not be misunderstood,” they said. Rangayana is a well-known theater repertory. All these years it was confined to theater, art, and cultural activities. However, Mr. Cariappa has brought politics into the repertory and must be removed, Mr. Somashekar demanded, while condemning the move to overwhelm the campaign using the police. The activists representing various associations under the banner of ‘Rangayana Ulisi Horata Samiti’ launched the indefinite agitation in Rangayana premises here demanding Mr. Cariappa’s sacking over inviting Chakravarty Sulibele, a Hindutva ideologue, to the now-postponed Bahuroopi theater festival. Mr. Cariappa had drawn the ire of theatre activists over his statements, following their opposition to the guest list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stir-against-rangayana-director-continues/article38060018.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Demonstration held in support of Rangayana director||Even as the ‘Save Rangayana’ campaign, demanding the dismissal of the repertory’s director entered the ninth day on Tuesday, members of various organizations, including Mysuru Kodava Samaj, held a demonstration outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in support of Addanda C. Cariappa. Members of Mysuru Rakshana Vedike, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike Swabhimani Balaga, the Hotel Owners’ Association, and others, who took part in the demonstration, expressed their support to the director. In a memorandum addressed to the deputy commissioner, the Mysuru Kodava Samaj maintained that Mr. Cariappa, who belonged to Kodagu, was trying to uphold the dignity of the repertory as its director. Announcing that the samaj was fully behind Mr. Cariappa, the samaj said it condemned the protests against Mr. Cariappa, during its meeting on December 25. Some vested interests resorted to make baseless allegations against Mr. Cariappa in the name of ideology, and disrupted the activities of Rangayana. “We urge the Government to immediately intervene and act against those who were staging protests at the Rangayana against the director,” said Malacheera Ponnappa, Secretary, Mysuru Kodava Samaj, in the memorandum. The Samaj urged Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and MLA L. Nagendra to intervene and ensure that the activities of Rangayana were unaffected in view of the ongoing protests. It warned of intensifying protests if attempts to disturb Rangayana and its director continues. Members of other organisations, who supported Mr. Cariappa, claimed that he was working to bring in new initiatives in Rangayana and improve its functioning. They demanded that the Government should ignore the allegations made against him in the name of “Rangayana Ulisi” campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demonstration-held-in-support-of-rangayana-director/article38060020.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘University of Mysore gets Centre of Advanced Study tag’||Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar on Tuesday said the University of Mysore has achieved the status of ‘Centre of Advanced Study’ because of the outstanding research contributions in the area of reproductive biology and genetics. “It is a matter of great pride for us since only a few universities in the country have achieved this distinction,” he added. Speaking after inaugurating the national conference on reproduction and endocrinology at the 38th meeting of the Society for Reproductive Biology and Comparative Endocrinology (SRBCE) at the DoS in Genetics and Endocrinology in the university here, he said the SRBCE is said to have been existing since last 40 years and conducting meetings all over the country. The SRBCE meeting is being held at University of Mysore for the second time after a gap of 10 years. The UoM is one of the centres of excellence in research in the area of comparative endocrinology and reproductive biology as well as genetics which was earlier in the Department of Zoology which also gave birth to the Department of Genetics and Genomics which is hosting the conference, the V-C said. Prof. Kumar told the conference that the research in this area was started in the university in 1930s at the Central College which was then part of the University of Mysore and a center of scientific research and therefore a pioneer in this field in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-of-mysore-gets-centre-of-advanced-study-tag/article38060024.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||13 check posts to enforce night curfew||The Mysuru district police has set up 13 check posts in the areas falling under its jurisdiction to enforce the night curfew announced by the State Government for the next 10 days. The curfew comes amid fresh concerns over COVID-19. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Tuesday, Superintendent of Mysuru district police R. Chethan said the rules for night curfew will be strictly implement and movement of individuals will not be allowed except for essential activities and medical reasons as outlined in the Government guidelines. With regard to New Year celebrations, Mr. Chethan said the police officials in each police station limits have already informed the hotels and other establishments in their jurisdiction about the restrictions on gathering. Meetings had also been held with owners of resorts, who had been told to ensure that the Government guidelines on night curfew had to be followed. Meanwhile, surveillance has been stepped at the Karnataka-Kerala border checkpost at Bavali in H.D. Kote taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-check-posts-to-enforce-night-curfew/article38060022.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru zoo gets two gorillas||There is another attraction at the Mysuru zoo as two gorillas from Germany were put on display on Tuesday. The enclosure for the primates, built at a cost of Rs. 2.7 crore with funding from the Infosys Foundation, was inaugurated by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai virtually from Bengaluru. Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murty, Minister in charge of Mysuru S.T. Somashekar, Minister for Tourism Anand Singh, and others were present. With this, the zoo’s wait for displaying gorillas after the death in 2014 of Polo, the Western Lowland gorilla, ended. The European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA)-Gorilla European Endangered Species Programme (EEP) spared the gorillas after the zoo’s correspondence. The 14-year-old Thabo and 8-year-old Demba arrived on August 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-zoo-gets-two-gorillas/article38059639.ece
29 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Meeting to discuss bad roads||The pathetic condition of roads in Narasimharaja Assembly segment in Mysuru is expected to come up for discussion during a meeting convened by former Minister and area MLA Tanveer Sait with officials of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) on Wednesday. Mr. Sait attributed the condition to the heavy rains in October and November this year. He said he had discussed the matter with MCC Commissioner Lakshmikant Reddy and other officials. A meeting convened to discuss various development issues on Wednesday will also take up the condition of roads in the constituency. Mr. Sait said he had raised the issue during the recent session of the State Legislature. The State Government had promised to conceive a special scheme for the repair of roads and release funds, Mr. Sait said he had already discussed the issue with MCC Commissioner and other officials, adding that the development funds from the Government will flow directly to the local bodies. Many people have taken to Twitter to highlight the condition with hastags such as #repairmysururoads and #wakeupMCC, by tagging not only the MLAs, but also MP Pratap Simha. Mayor Sunanda Palanetra recently assured people that repair works will be taken up soon after the rains stop. Road users in N.R. Mohalla too have complained that most of the roads in the locality are in a deplorable condition and feared for the safety of the motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-to-discuss-bad-roads/article38060021.ece
29 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Minister lays foundation stone for drinking water project in Shorapur||Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj (Byrati) on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for a drinking water project to provide potable water from the Krishna to Shorapur city and three villages en route . The project will be taken up jointly by the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board and the City Municipal Council at a cost of Rs. 158.80 crore. It is aimed to cater to the drinking water needs of people, as per population growth, till the year 2055. The Minister said that the project is expected to be completed by the end of 2022 and people of Shorapur city and the three villages, Khanapur (SH), Kavadimatti and Devapur, will benefit. “This is a dream project of MLA Narasimha Nayak. The problem of drinking water that has existed for over five decades will soon end. I am happy to lay the foundation stone for this landmark project on the day of his [MLA] birthday. I am announcing an additional grant of Rs. 100 crore for other development works which can be taken up in Shorapur taluk,” he added. Thanking the Minister for providing the required grants, Mr. Narasimha Nayak said that each house in the identified localities of the CMC limits and also the three villages will now get drinking water round the clock. “Now, I am satisfied with my work as people will not suffer from drinking water shortage once the project is completed. I had promised the people to solve the problem permanently and brought the project. I will try to get the project inaugurated by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai,” he added, evoking a huge applause from the gathering. Member of Parliament Raja Amareshwar Nayak also spoke. Vice-president of CMC Sujatha Venugopal, Yadgir CMC chairman Vilas Patil, CADA chairman Sharanappa Talawar, SUDA chairman Prakash Sajjan, Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board director K.P Mohan Raj, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy and Commissioner of CMC Jeevan Kattimani and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-lays-foundation-stone-for-drinking-water-project-in-shorapur/article38059855.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||An early start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/an-early-start/article38060009.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For children of the future||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-children-of-the-future/article38059847.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Auspicious start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auspicious-start/article38059857.ece
29 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||BJP worker’s murder: two SDPI men held||The police on Tuesday arrested two assailants in the murder of BJP OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas. The police have not yet revealed the names of the arrested but identified them as Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists from Alappuzha. Officials said the arrested were directly involved in the murder. They were nabbed from a neighbouring State. “The identity of the arrested will be revealed after the test identification parade,” said an official. Ranjith was hacked to death in his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha municipality, on December 19 morning. Ten assailants are still at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-workers-murder-two-sdpi-men-held/article38059962.ece
29 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Two anganwadis in Mankulam go smart||Children in Mankulam, a remote village in the district, can now watch Disney World or Jungle Book, thanks to the setting up of two smart anganwadis in the district. Decorated chairs, Internet and smart TV are part of the smart anganwadi at the Chikkanamkudi tribal settlement. The other smart anganwadi is at Anakkulam where children of settler farmers also study. The Jungle Book is painted on the walls of Anakkulam anganwadi. The authorities believe that the smart anganwadis will help familiarise the children from remote areas with the characters of children’s classics. Tribespeople comprise nearly 40% of the population in Mankulam panchayat. At Rs. 5 lakh Smart anganwadis were set up with the aim of improving the quality of pre-school education of tribal children, said an official of the Mankulam block panchayat which allocated Rs. 5 lakh for setting up the facilities at the anganwadis. “All study materials in these anganwadis were changed based on their theme. The children will get a feeling of Jungle Book and Disney World. In addition to Internet, Smart TV and play equipment, child-friendly tables and chairs, trolley, loud speaker and playing ground with grass turf were also set-up,” said the official. The smart anganwadi scheme was implemented as a pilot project in Mankulam and four more smart ones will come up in the district in the coming year. If the project was successful, smart anganwadis would be set up in all nine panchayats under the Devikulam block panchayat, said the official. The smart anganwadis will be inaugurated on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-anganwadis-in-mankulam-go-smart/article38059964.ece
29 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Man hacked to death: 2 minor girls surrender||Two minor girls surrendered before the police after hacking a man to death with an axe in the district on Tuesday evening. The police identified the deceased as Muhammad, 68, of Ayiramkolly, near Ambalavayal, in the district. The girls along with their mother were living in a makeshift shed, the police said.  When Muhammad tried to sexually harass the woman in front of the children on Tuesday morning, they attacked him with an axe, the police added. They kept the body in a gunny bag and left it in a pit near their house and the chopped right leg of the deceased was left in a dumping pit, nearly 3 km from their house. They surrendered to the police late in the evening. The mother is under police custody and the children would be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-hacked-to-death-2-minor-girls-surrender/article38059982.ece
29 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Honour for KVASU||The All India Co-ordinated Research Project (AICRP) on poultry breeding, Mannuthy, under the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Science University (KVASU), bagged the national breed conservation award for 2021. The centre received the award from ICAR - The National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) for the conservation and research activities on the Tellicherry breed, the only registered native chicken breed from the State. The research team behind the success includes P. Anitha, Binoj Chacko, Beena C Joseph, Sankaralingam and S. Harikrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honour-for-kvasu/article38059912.ece
29 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Forest dept. to halt search for elusive tiger||The Forest department is preparing to stop combing for the elusive tiger that triggered panic among the public under the four divisions of the Mananthavady Municipality in Wayanad district. The big cat is believed to have killed 17 domestic animals and attacked two animals in the Kurukkanmoola area under the North Wayanad Forest Division in a couple of weeks. The Forest department had launched the comprehensive combing operation with the support of 200 frontline Forest staff, two trained elephants, three drones and a team of veterinarians for the predator on December 10, but the animal is yet to be spotted. “There were no reports on domestic animal lifting from the area for the past 11 days, hence, the senior Forest officials of the district were directed to stop the combing after discussing it with a committee constituted for the purpose as per the direction of the National Tiger Conservation Authority”, D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forests, Northern Circle, Kannur, told The Hindu . As many as five cages were also set up in the area to trap the animal and they would be removed. However, the 70 camera traps installed in the forest area would continue to monitor the movements of wildlife, including the elusive tiger. A team of Forest officials was constituted for patrolling in the area and they would act at once in an emergency, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-to-halt-search-for-elusive-tiger/article38059913.ece
29 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Solar fences to be set up||The first phase of work to set up solar hanging fences in areas in Payyavoor panchayat, which is adjoining the Karnataka forest fringes, will begin on Wednesday. The decision to set up the solar fences was taken in the wake of increasing incidents of man-animal conflict, especially elephant attacks, in the region, which is causing damage to crops and threatening life. For the project, Rs. 55 lakh has been sanctioned by the district panchayat, Rs. 25 lakh by the Payyavoor panchayat and Rs. 5 lakh by the block panchayat. Local committees have begun preparation for the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-fences-to-be-set-up/article38059915.ece
29 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Industries look forward to a better year||Industrial units in the State, which have been through harsh times during 2020 and 2021, look forward to a brighter 2022 as the Industries department has introduced many new measures to turn the State into a more investment-friendly destination. Minister P. Rajeeve told The Hindu that 5,000 new micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) had been launched during 2021, a considerable achievement. The launch of these units had taken place against the background of the COVID-19 restrictions. The department had also been able to bring about changes in regulations to provide speedy sanction to new units. Mr. Rajeeve said a grievances settlement system with legal powers and licence for units with up to Rs. 50 crore investment in seven days were the other steps taken by the government. President of the Kerala State Small Industries Association (KSSIA) M. Khalid said there was a drag on industries during 2021. One of the key reasons was the steep rise in the price of raw material. The impact of the COVID-19 lockdown and associate restrictions on production during the past two years had taken a toll on industrial units, he added. Steps welcomed Industrialist K.A. Joseph, general secretary of KSSIA, welcomed the steps taken by the department to turn Kerala into an investment-friendly destination. He said the government had amended several rules and regulations governing licencing of industrial units. While these steps were welcome ones, the association requested the government to consider the problems being faced by enterprises in operation now.  Land allotment policy In a recent representation to the Minister, the association appealed for implementation of a land allotment policy announced in 1969. According to an order issued in April 1969, any industrialist who had paid up the money for the land under the hire-purchase agreement should be allotted the land and get the ownership of the plot, it said. It also appealed to the government that the KSSI should have a representative in the statutory complaint redressal system being introduced by the government. The public sector Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore too has done well during the year. Company sources said FACT could considerably improve its over-all performance with a sales turnover of Rs. 3,258 crore and an operational profit of Rs. 352 crore during 2020-21. The company has also seen a net profit of Rs. 76.2 crore in 2021-22 first half-year. The restarting of caprolactam production operations after nine years is a milestone for FACT, company sources said. The year also saw public sector companies such as Traco Cable and Travancore Cochin Chemicals putting up strong performances. Travancore Cochin Chemicals commissioned three new facilities, including a 75-tonne caustic soda plant, a floating jetty, and shifted to regassified natural gas early in December. These new facilities, commissioned at around Rs. 40 crore, will increase the profitability, company sources said. Traco Cable Company Limited recorded profit of Rs. 1.5 crore during November even as the government raised the financial guarantee for the company from Rs. 51 crore to Rs. 100 crore on the basis of its performance. Company sources said Traco Cable expected a turnover of Rs. 190 crore during the current financial year and all the three units were in operating profit now.  Minister P. Rajeeve says the launch of 5,000 MSMEs during 2021 has been a considerable feat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industries-positive-about-2022/article38059914.ece
29 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Six-laning of Edappally-Kozhikode national highway set to begin soon||The work to develop the Edappally-Kozhikode NH 66 corridor as a six-lane access-controlled stretch is set to begin shortly in Ernakulam district, where 25% of the compensation amount to people who surrendered their land has been disbursed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Similarly, compensation has been disbursed to 90% of the landowners in Malappuram and 80% in Thrissur. The six-lane corridor will be flanked by two-lane service roads on either side, each having seven metre-tarred carriageway. This will lessen commuting time from Kochi to Kozhikode from over five hours to less than three hours, official sources said. A total of about Rs. 4,000 crore has been disbursed so far as compensation through deputy collectors who were entrusted with land acquisition. Contractors have been finalised to execute the widening work in different reaches of the national highway. The Edappally-Kozhikode stretch is expected to be widened as a six-lane highway in about three years, with the NHAI fixing a 30-month deadline once the widening work begins. In addition, five to six months would be necessary to complete demolition of buildings on the acquired land, cutting of trees and to shift underground and overhead utilities. This process has begun in Malappuram, it is learnt. On the demand from residents of some localities to shift the alignment, sources said this would be tough since the alignment must have minimum curves, to cater to fast-moving vehicles on what has been envisaged as an access-controlled corridor. Else, a km-long alignment on either side would have to be changed, they added. The land acquisition process was tough in the Edappally-Moothakunnam stretch, since a bulk of people who had surrendered their land over 20 years ago to widen the stretch to 30 metres, had opposed a second round of land acquisition to develop the corridor as a 45-m wide national highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-kozhikode-nh-six-laning-work-set-to-begin-soon/article38059922.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Five more sewage treatment plants proposed in city||Five sewage treatment plants (STP) have been proposed at the catchment areas of major canals running through the city even as four projects announced earlier are yet to take off. The new plants, with a total installed capacity of 31 million litres per day (MLD), have been proposed at the catchment areas of Perandoor, Chilavannoor, Thevara Market and Edappally canals as part of the Integrated Water Transport System. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is implementing the projects. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had earlier asked local bodies to set up treatment facilities to prevent coastal pollution. The tribunal had also warned of penal action against civic bodies that failed to set up such plants and those found releasing untreated sewage into the sea and other waterbodies. Though the Kochi Corporation had claimed that bids for a 6.5-MLD plant for the four wards in the Fort Kochi area and three others in three divisions of Eda Kochi had been floated, the projects are yet to be implemented. A petition moved against the selection of the site for the Fort Kochi plant is pending before the Kerala High Court, said T.K. Ashraf, chairman of the town planning standing committee of the Kochi Corporation. As regards proposals for the Eda Kochi area, Mr. Ashraf said public protests had forced the authorities to trim the project and implement it in one division instead of three. The next meeting of the Kochi Corporation Council will take a decision in this regard, he added. Meanwhile, data released by the Corporation indicated that it was in the dark about the disposal of 20.09% of sewage generated in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-more-sewage-treatment-plants-proposed-in-city/article38059936.ece
29 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tree felling issue takes a political turn||A day after the Thrikkakara Municipal Secretary lodged a police complaint about unauthorised felling of trees, the councillor of the division from which the trees were found missing has dubbed the complaint as politically motivated. Municipal Secretary N.K. Krishnakumar had petitioned the police about the unauthorised felling of trees in division 35 of the municipality. Sajeena Akbar, the division councillor of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), a constituent of the ruling United Democratic Front (UDF), claimed that she had already written to the tree committee for cutting a few trees after local residents complained that they posed danger to life and property. “But there wasn’t timely action and instead I was asked to fell the trees at my expense and then to produce the bill to get it reimbursed. Subsequently, a few trees were felled during May-June when there was heavy rain and wind,” she said. Ms. Akbar alleged that the incident was now being raised after so many months after she raised some uncomfortable questions in the last council meeting, which was a stormy affair. Though the questions were posed at the secretary, it put the governing committee on the back foot, which she cited as the reason for raising allegations of tree felling. Mr. Krishnakumar wasn’t available for comments despite repeated efforts. Municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan was non-committal when asked about the incident. The five councillors of the IUML have somewhat a fractured relationship with the Congress in the municipality where the UDF governing committee had swung from one crisis to another, including the Onam gift row.  After all, responsibility should be fixed if trees have gone missing Ajitha Thankappan Municipal Chairperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tree-felling-issue-takes-a-political-turn/article38059933.ece
29 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||City remembers M.K.K. Nair||The city remembered the first chairman and managing director of Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) M.K.K. Nair with a function at Kalamassery on Tuesday where Industries Minister P. Rajeeve gave away the FACT-MKK Nair annual productivity awards to industrial units in the State. Chairman and managing director of FACT Kishor Rungta said his illustrious predecessor is remembered and revered for his contributions to FACT and the State. As the first chairman and managing director of FACT, he led the company for a decade in its time of growth. Known also as a lover and patron of fine arts, he came to Kerala at a time when industrialisation was the national motto. He oversaw the development of FACT into one of the major industrial units in Kerala. More initiatives It was during his tenure that a new ammonium sulphate plant, FACT Engineering and Design Organisation (FEDO) and FACT Engineering Works (FEW) were set up and work on the establishment of a higher capacity second fertiliser production unit started at Ambalamedu. M.K.K. Nair, also the founder-president of FACT Lalita Kalakendra, was an eminent personality whose presence was widely established in the management and cultural fields of Kerala. He was a doyen among management experts and a visionary, said Mr. Rungta. He said FACT had celebrated the birth centenary of M.K.K. Nair last year with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurating the event. Secretary general of FACT Workers’ Organisation and a FACT veteran Geroge Thomas recalled M.K.K. Nair as a model for all heading industrial institutions. CICC Jayachandran, a book publisher in Kochi, recalled M.K.K. Nair as a great management guru. His autobiography, Aarodum Paribhavam Illathe, should be read by all civil service aspirants, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-remembers-mkk-nair/article38059935.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Third phase of LIFE Mission to be inaugurated today||The State-level inauguration of the “Manassodithiri Mannu” campaign, aimed at helping 2.5 lakh homeless, landless families reach closer to their dream of owning a home, will be done by Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan here on Wednesday. The plan of this third phase of LIFE Mission project is to make available land or the price of it to these many beneficiaries over the next three years. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve will preside over the event in which actor Vinayakan will be the chief guest. At the inaugural, the first memorandums of agreement for contribution to the campaign will be received from businessman Kochouseph Chittalappilly and NRI, P.B. Sameer. A press release in this connection said that the Chittilappilly Foundation had agreed to donate Rs. 25 crore for 1,000 beneficiaries at the rate of Rs. 2.5 lakh per beneficiary. Mr. Sameer will hand over 50 cents of land. Agreements regarding these will be accepted at the inaugural. Mayor M. Anil Kumar and legislators T.J. Vinod and Antony John will take part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/third-phase-of-life-mission-to-be-inaugurated-today/article38059942.ece
29 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC directive to corpn. on street vendors||The Kerala High Court has directed the Kochi Corporation to comply with the court’s directive to publish the final list of vendors found eligible by the Town Vending Committee by January 4, and also the persons to whom certificates of vending had already been issued. The court made it clear that in the event of failure by the Corporation to report compliance with its directives, the Secretary of the Corporation shall be personally present before the court. The Corporation had last time informed the court that ‘Jagratha Samithis’ for street vending had been constituted in the divisions of the civic body. It was the responsibility of the Jagratha Samithi to conduct periodical surveillance of the area to ensure that only those street vendors who had been issued a certificate of vending by the Corporation carried out street vending operations in the respective area. The Corporation had sought more time to consider the list of fresh applications received between November 23 and December 5. The court had issued the directives when a writ petition filed by Jamal K.K. seeking to allow him to continue his street vending on the sides of Avenue Road at Panampilly Nagar came up for hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-corpn-on-street-vendors/article38059938.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Aqua Tourism Centre gets water cycle||A water cycle was inaugurated at the Aqua Tourism Centre at Njarakkal by K.N. Unnikrishnan, MLA, on Tuesday. K.C. Rajeev, Matsyafed Board member, chaired the meeting held at the Njarakkal fish farm. The legislator also felicitated the water cycle manufacturer Antony and CIFT principal scientist and naval architect Biju, who provided necessary technical inputs for making it. Made of fibreglass, the water cycle can carry up to 150 kg and the purpose of deploying it is to provide fun and fitness, according to P. Nisha, manager of Matsyafed Fish Farms and Aquatourism Centres. Matsyafed will launch another water cycle at its farm at Palakkari in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aqua-tourism-centre-gets-water-cycle/article38059929.ece
29 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Musical stairs at Kochi metro’s MG Road station||Kochi metro’s MG Road station is set to host the State’s first musical stairs (piano stairs) which will be inaugurated on Wednesday by singer Arya Dayal, says a release. Such staircases are seen in some European countries where people dance on those stairs to produce music. One can even compose new music on the staircase which are painted in such a manner that all the notes/keys are seen. And if you know how to play a piano or a keyboard, you can use your leg and feet than the fingers in creating music. The musical staircase was readied by using various computer programmes by a group of young engineers comprising Jishnu, Akhil, Smruthi, Anand and Hena from Triaxia Infotech Pvt Ltd. Sumi Nadarajan, Senior Deputy General Manager of Kochi Metro Rail Limited, coordinated the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/musical-stairs-at-kochi-metros-mg-road-station/article38059927.ece
29 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||SIT launches probe into Kizhakkambalam clash||Having only completed the remand of all the 164 accused arrested in connection with the clash between the police and migrant workers at Kizhakkambalam late on Sunday night, the Special Investigation Team has launched a full-fledged probe into the incident. The 19-member SIT is led by Perumbavoor Assistant Superintendent of Police Anuj Paliwal and comprises two inspectors and seven sub-inspectors. “We are in the preliminary stage of the investigation having only completed the remand procedures. Right now, our priority is to collect evidence and recreate the entire sequence of events. Whether to make more arrests or not will depend on the facts of the case to emerge from the probe,” a senior official associated with the probe said. The investigation team is also set to move for the custodial interrogation of the accused, if not all of them but the ones identified as the key accused. The investigators have started looking into CCTV footage besides the video captured by local residents. They were, however, non-committal when asked about the possibility of carrying out raids in the labour intense areas in the wake of complaints about the rampant use of drugs among them. Meanwhile, the Labour department hasn’t ruled out an inspection at the camps. The Kunnathunadu police had registered two First Information Reports, one each for the assault of inspector V.T. Shajan and for the arson and damage of public properties worth around Rs. 12.05 lakh, arraigning in a total of 300 identifiable persons. So far, 51 persons have been arrested in connection with the first case and 113 in the second case. The accused were from 11 different States and were sent to different jails in Kakkanad, Muvattupuzha, and Thrissur. Among the charges invoked against the accused were attempt to murder, voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty, unlawful assembly, rioting, and wrongful confinement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sit-launches-probe-into-kizhakkambalam-clash/article38059944.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, Muraleedharan calls Mayor ‘ignoramus’||Congress leader K. Muraleedharan on Tuesday made disparaging remarks about Thiruvananthapuram Mayor Arya Rajendran. Referring to the alleged protocol violation on the part of the Mayor during the recent visit of President Ram Nath Kovind to Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Muraleedharan said the Mayor was an ‘ignoramus’. “When you honk the horn of your vehicle and try to force your way into the motorcade of the President or Prime Minister, generally, it is responded with gunshots. Isn’t there anyone in the CPI(M) to advise her on these things,” Mr. Muraleedharan asked while inaugurating the founding day of the Congress here on Tuesday. Mr. Muraleedharan was booked early this year on charges of making misogynistic remarks about Ms. Rajendran. He laughed at the State government’s attempts to implement the SilverLine railway project, asking how would the government, which was unable to supply water in the washroom for the President, would carry out such a project. He said only the Congress would be able to lead a group of parties believing in democracy against the BJP and that the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the BJP worked towards the common goal of making India Congress-free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-muraleedharan-calls-mayor-ignoramus/article38059945.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LJD to hold leadership meets||The two-day State leadership and committee meeting of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) held here decided to hold district and constituency-level leadership meetings in January. The party, which was rocked by schism recently, will hold secularism protection meetings at the panchayat level on January 30. Party constituency presidents’ meet will take place in Kannur on February 5 and 6 and an agitation declaration convention against the “anti-people policies of the Union Government” will be held in Kozhikode on February 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ljd-to-hold-leadership-meets/article38059930.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ED grills actor in Monson case||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday interrogated actor Sruthi Lakshmi in connection with the cheating cases against the alleged fraudster Monson Mavunkal. The actor was summoned to the ED office in the city following her alleged financial dealings with Monson. Her pictures of attending a function at Monson’s house had found its way to the social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-grills-actor-in-monson-case/article38059931.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Traffic curbs on Harbour bridge||Traffic along the old Mattancherry bridge (harbour bridge) at Thoppumpady will be prohibited from 8 p.m. on Wednesday till Thursday night owing to resurfacing works on the structure. Vehicles along this route should use the BOT bridge during this period, according to a communication from the assistant executive engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-curbs-on-harbour-bridge/article38059940.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man’s attempt to get away with woman’s SUV foiled||An attempt to steal a vehicle was foiled and it was recovered in less than an hour, thanks to the timely intervention of the Palarivattom police on Tuesday morning. A lady was about to take out her compact SUV from her flat at Mamangalam around 10 a.m. when a man drew her attention to the lack of pressure in the tyre. As she was busy checking it, the man got into the vehicle and sped away. The lady promptly alerted the Palarivattom police. Though the lady had the GPS tracker for the vehicle activated on her mobile phone, it wasn’t of any help since the bag containing her wallet and phone was inside the vehicle. “So, we approached the manufacturers of the missing car who traced it for us. Though we intercepted the vehicle, he took a detour and the vehicle was later found abandoned in Panangad. It was locked with the valuables of the woman inside,” said the police. However, the woman declined to lodge a complaint probably out of fear that it may delay the release of the vehicle. “It emerged that there was an ongoing dispute over the vehicle. Though it was possessed by the woman, the registration certificate was in the name of another person who used to be a driver and aide to the woman's mother. Reportedly, the vehicle was bought in his name owing to issues with the woman's CIBIL score rating. The assumption is that the man had tried to usurp the vehicle with the help of an accomplice,” the police said. In the absence of a complaint, the police were about to release the vehicle to the woman as she used to possess it. Meanwhile, the police are looking into the CCTV footage in the area to identify the man who had gotten away with the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mans-attempt-to-get-away-with-womans-suv-foiled/article38059941.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police shielding Sangh leaders, says PFI||The Popular Front of India (PFI) on Tuesday accused the Kerala Police of trying to shield leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who were ‘‘consistently making hate-filled communal speeches’’. At a press conference here on Tuesday, C.P. Muhammad Basheer, State president, and C.A. Rauf, State secretary, said the fact that the police registered cases against people who exposed on social media the communal campaign of the RSS demonstrated the control of the RSS over the State police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-shielding-sangh-leaders-says-pfi/article38059975.ece
29 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Aid for fishers’ kin in 6 months||The State government will ensure that financial assistance for the family of fishers who die in accidents at sea is disbursed within six months, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has said. He was inaugurating a group accident insurance scheme adalat and compensation disbursal programme organised by the Fisheries department in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. “Fisheries officers will be responsible for the timely disbursement of benefits, including financial assistance. Nodal officers will be appointed in the Fisheries department and the Kerala Fishermen Welfare Fund Board (KFWFB) for the purpose,” said Mr. Cherian. The Minister said insurance cover would be made mandatory for all fishers venturing into the sea and the complete details of crew members should be reported to the relevant authorities. “This is essential in coordinating rescue operations and the fishers should not be negligent about it,” he said. Avoid delays Mr. Cherian also instructed the Fisheries officials to understand the limitations of the fishing community and act accordingly. “We have noticed a delay in disbursal of benefits and this will not be allowed. If a family did not receive the assistance within six months, the officer concerned will have to give an explanation. This will be followed by an intervention at the ministerial level,” he added. Observing that the family of fishers who go missing in the sea are eligible for the aid only after seven years according to Central norms, he said the government would consider providing insurance coverage within six months. “The period of seven years is fixed by the Centre, and very often it causes great inconvenience to the kin. We will reach an agreement with the insurance companies about it.” Those who died at sea Under the scheme, the government will be providing financial assistance to 52 beneficiaries, which include 50 fishers who lost their lives at sea and two others who were permanently disabled. Fishers belonging to Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Kottayam districts received aid at the event. The Minister examined the applications of fishers from these districts who are yet to receive the benefits at the adalat. Transport Minister Antony Raju presided over the function. Issues resolved Mr. Raju said the State government had resolved several issues faced by the fishing community in the past six months. No one would be allowed to delay the disbursal of benefits by raising unnecessary objections, he said. Fisheries Secretary Tinku Biswal, Director R. Girija and KFWFB chairman C.P. Kunhiraman were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-fishers-kin-in-6-months/article38059965.ece
29 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Four persons killed as van hits minibus at Chavara||Four persons were killed on the spot and two others were injured seriously when a van hit the minibus they were travelling in around 1 a.m. on Tuesday. The minibus was transporting fishers from Thiruvananthapuram and Tamil Nadu to Beypore in Kozhikode. The deceased persons have been identified as Pulluvila residents Karunambaram (56) and Berkumans (45), Vizhinjam resident Justin (56) and Tamil Nadu resident Biju (35). The accident between the two vehicles took place on the National Highway near Chavara when a van that was carrying fish to Thiruvananthapuram hit the minibus. More than 30 passengers Reportedly, the minibus had more than 30 passengers. Sixteen of the passengers sustained injuries and are currently undergoing treatment at the Karungappally taluk hospital. Two critically injured persons, Marthandam resident Roy and Vizhinjam resident Varghese, have been shifted to Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. Treatment aid Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal visited the injured fishers at the Karunagappally taluk hospital. He said that steps had been taken to ensure treatment and the required aid for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-killed-as-van-hits-minibus-at-chavara/article38059967.ece
29 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Excise arrests youth with narcotic drugs||The Kollam Excise Enforcement and Anti-Narcotics Special Squad on Monday arrested Muhammed Marjahan, a 28-year-old Kozhikode resident and the kingpin of an inter-State drug mafia after recovering MDMA (.38 gm), charas (23.64 gm) and hashish oil (20.60 gm) from him. The arrest was made by a team led by Excise Inspector S. Shaji. According to the officials, the drugs were brought for New Year celebrations. Mohammad Marjahan was nabbed during a search conducted at a tourist home in Ochira based on a tip-off received by Circle Inspector G. Krishna Kumar. Held earlier too The accused was earlier arrested by the officials of Parappanangadi Excise Range office with 1.5 kg of charas and was later released on bail. The accused reportedly revealed that hashish oil and charas were sourced from Andhra Pradesh and MDMA from Bengaluru. During interrogation, he said the clients also included schoolchildren. The Excise team included preventive officer V. Manu and Civil Excise Officers Srinath, Nithin, Vishnu and Julian Cruz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-arrests-youth-with-narcotic-drugs/article38059969.ece
29 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Omicron alert in Kollam||The District Medical Office has issued an alert after an Omicron case was confirmed in the district and three of his primary contacts tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The 44-year-old Ayathil resident had travelled from Namibia to Kochi airport and was in isolation since December 20. “Those who tested positive for COVID-19 are his family members and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. Contact tracing is progressing,” District Medical Officer Bindu Mohan said. The Health department has instructed all persons travelling from countries where Omicron has been reported to strictly adhere to the protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/omicron-alert-in-kollam/article38059961.ece
29 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU to partner with Cambridge varsity press||Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam, is joining hands with the Cambridge University Press (CUP) in the United Kingdom to facilitate the publication of research papers in various international journals. The project, Read and Public programme, will be launched by Higher Education Minister R. Bindu at a function to be held online on Wednesday. MGU Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas will preside over the function, to be organised by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of the university. This is the first time that any university in the State is partnering with the CUP, which enables the researchers at the MGU to publish their papers internationally for free and to use such publications for academic purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-to-partner-with-cambridge-varsity-press/article38059970.ece
29 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corpn. to launch comprehensive job scheme||The Kozhikode Corporation Council on Tuesday approved the final project draft for a comprehensive employment scheme that aims at providing jobs to 5,000 people in five years. The project has been readied to meet the post-COVID financial crisis in the city and is expected to benefit mostly those aged 18 to 40 years. The welfare standing committee of the civic body drew up the project based on the findings of a recent workshop involving various departments such as agriculture, industries, animal welfare and fisheries, and Kudumbashree Mission. The project cites 91 vocations that could provide profitable livelihood opportunities. The Corporation is seeking technical help of the Indian Institute of Management as a consultancy for the smooth functioning of the project. The Calicut Management Association has also extended support to the project. Help desk  The Corporation is yet to fine-tune the project, provide training to selected candidates and source the required fund for its implementation. A special help desk will be formed under the National Urban Livelihoods Mission for the purpose and the project will be named soon.  However, Opposition leaders in the council demanded that the project also include those above 40 years as many have been rendered jobless during the pandemic. Congress councillor Shobhita asked if the project would be open to men as well, since the Corporation was planning to implement it through the Kudumbashree’s newly formed auxiliary groups. Some councillors pointed out the need to include students in the project as it would give them a means to earn while they learned. IUML councillor Moideen Koya, while pointing out several failed projects under the Kudumbashree Mission in the city such as Mahila Mall, dress bank, blood bank and drug bank, requested the council to approach the project with caution. Welfare standing committee chairman C. Diwakaran said the drawbacks of the project as well as the issues involved in handing it over to the Kudumbashree Mission would be discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-to-launch-comprehensive-job-scheme/article38059917.ece
29 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sailing regatta enthrals audience||On the third day of the Beypore Water Fest, the scene of action shifted from the river and the beach to the sea. The competitive events held on Tuesday included sea kayaking, sailing regatta-topper class, sailing regatta-optimist class and kite board surfing. The regatta event was held in north Kerala for the first time. The flying board demo, which attracted a large crowd on Monday, was repeated on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the National Kite Festival on the beach saw intense competition among kite flyers from all over the country who bested each other with their designs and height. The Coast Guard Ship INS Aryaman was thrown open to the public on Tuesday. Special arrangements were made for differently abled people to visit the ship. More than 3,000 people visited INS Kabra, the water jet fast attack craft of the Indian Navy that was anchored at the Beypore Port. The Navy had played an active role in making the water fest more interesting. Its involvement was also intended to raise awareness about coastal security and instil patriotism among the local people. Another ship, INS Sharda, an offshore patrol vessel was also part of the festival on Sunday. The ships were deployed as part of the ongoing 75 years of Independence celebrations under the aegis of the Southern Naval Command, a Navy press release said. Interactions with the port authority and local people were also held during this visit. Both the ships were illuminated off the Beypore at anchorage at night. On Sunday evening, the Navy's ALH aircraft performed a search and rescue demonstration off the beach. The naval band from Naval Academy in Ezhimala also turned out to be a great attraction of the festival on the inaugural day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sailing-regatta-enthrals-audience/article38059908.ece
29 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fire at footwear unit, goods worth crores destroyed||Material worth crores was reported to have been destroyed in an early morning fire at a footwear manufacturing unit at Kolathara near Meenchanda in Kozhikode city on Tuesday. The incident happened at Rahman Bazar area, which has some other similar units as well. The building housing the factory as well as the godown of the footwear unit has been completely destroyed. Residents in the locality were shifted to safer locations and there were no casualties. Fire and Rescue Service officials said they would approach the police seeking examination by electrical inspectors. Though the building has closed-circuit TV cameras, even the back-up server is learnt to have been destroyed. Mayor Beena Philip and Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed visited the spot. Ms. Philip said the Kozhikode Corporation would begin an inquiry to find out if there were any building rule violations there. It was the migrant workers in the unit who first noticed the fire in the godown of the footwear unit and informed the Fire Service personnel. Chemicals and other materials and footwear were stored there. The workers heard a big sound by around 2 a.m. and ran out of the building. They informed nearby residents about the incident. As many as 160 of the labourers were shifted. The roof of the building collapsed in the fire. Sources said the fire spread mainly because of the presence of chemicals and raw materials. A major tragedy could be averted as it did not engulf adjoining buildings. Initially, personnel from the Meenchanda fire station and others in the city were called in to douse the fire. They were later joined by their counterparts from fire stations in Malappuram district. It took around four hours to extinguish the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-at-footwear-unit-goods-worth-crores-destroyed/article38059919.ece
29 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Conversion to co-ed school: Ganapath PTA’s wait continues||General Education Minister V. Sivankutty recently said that parent-teacher associations (PTA) could take a call on converting girls-only and boys-only schools into co-education institutions. The PTA at the century-old Government Ganapath High Secondary School for Boys in Kozhikode city, however, says that some officials are blocking their attempts to do so. The school, set up by Ganapath Rao in 1886, is one of the oldest in the city. It boasts of illustrious alumni such as former Union Minister V.K. Krishna Menon, freedom fighter-editor K.P. Kesava Menon and writer S.K. Pottekkatt. It has been around five years that the teachers and the PTA are trying hard to get government permission to admit girls into the school. PTA functionaries claim that the future of 33 girl students is at stake owing to the contradictory stands taken by successive deputy directors of education in Kozhikode. In 2016  The PTA general council had decided in 2016 to allow admission to girl students in the school. Based on the verbal permission from the then DDE, 33 girl students got admission from next year. However, the official permission was elusive owing to some other technical reasons. The official’s successor was not keen on any permission as the Right to Information Act gives students the choice to join the school in their neighbourhood. The girl students’ numbers were considered while fixing that year’s teachers’ posts. Various facilities for girls were arranged on the school premises too. The incumbent DDE, however, took a stand against admitting girls. Seven girl students who got admitted this academic year had to be given transfer certificates. There are Class 10 as well as Class 9 students among the 33 students. If the government does not give its nod, it is not sure if they will be able to write the SSLC exams. Meanwhile, the Director General of Education (DGE) has sought an explanation from the District Educational Officer (DEO) as well as the school headmaster why girl students were admitted without government approval. Sources in the Education Department said the school authorities had just sent an application to make it a co-ed institution. PTA president K.G. Sabu said that another government school in Madappally had sought similar approval from the government during the same period. They were given permission recently, he said. Mr. Sabu said they were awaiting details of the report of the DEO to the DGE. “If the officials reject our demand, we will seek legal recourse,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conversion-to-co-ed-school-ganapath-ptas-wait-continues/article38059920.ece
29 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand grows for setting up of airport||The Malabar Development Council has demanded that another airport be set up in Kozhikode district as the runway development of the Calicut International Airport seems to be a distant dream. Council president C.E. Chakkunny told reporters here on Tuesday that the State government had been unable to acquire more land for the Calicut airport despite repeated attempts and hence the development of the airport had come to a standstill. Wide-bodied aircraft had stopped operating from the airport after the plane crash in August last year. “Saudi Airlines is closing down its office, ground handling and other facilities in Karipur and is moving to Kochi by the end of the month. Emirates, another service provider for bigger aircraft, had closed down its terminal office in 2015 and its regional office in Kozhikode in March 2021. Hence, the people in Malabar are forced to depend on other airports for their basic needs,” said Mr. Chakkunni. The Council has suggested that the new airport be built at Thiruvambady as the nearby grama panchayats have approved the proposal and agreed to provide land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-grows-for-setting-up-of-airport/article38059916.ece
29 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand to restore fare concession||The Kozhikode district committee of the Kerala Senior Citizens’ Forum is planning a dharna at Koyilandy Railway Station on December 31 demanding that the Indian Railways reinstate the concession in railway ticket fares that were taken away in March 2020. K. Balakrishnan, president of the forum, told reporters here on Tuesday that K.Muraleedharan, MP, would open the protest. The forum also wanted the ticket rates for express trains slashed to what was before March 2020 and to have general compartments attached to every train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-restore-fare-concession/article38059909.ece
29 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Samastha chief Jifri Thangal alleges telephone threat to life||Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama (SKJU) president Syed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal has said that he had received telephonic threats to his life from anonymous callers in the wake of his stand against using mosques for anti-government protests in connection with the dispute over leaving Waqaf Board appointments to the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC). Mr. Thangal had been in the news a few weeks ago when he shot down the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML)’s plans to use mosques on Fridays to campaign against the State Government move to leave Waqaf Board appointments to the KPSC. During a function at a Quran learning institution near Manjeri the other day, Mr. Thangal said that he had had various threats from unidentified people. But he said that he was not afraid, and did not want to register any complaint. Mr. Thangal said that he was threatened that he too would meet with the same fate as that of CM (C.M. Abdulla Musliar) had 11 years ago. C.M. Abdulla Musliar, former kazi of Chembarika-Mangalapuram and a senior scholar of the SKJU, the largest Muslim organisation in the State, was found dead in the sea in 2010. His death was suspected to have been a case of murder. Mr. Thangal said he would not take the threat calls seriously as “social workers and leaders who stand for genuine causes would have to face many difficulties, including threats.” The IUML, the political party to which the SKJU has the closest relation, described the threat to Mr. Thangal as a failure of the law and order in the State. According to IUML State general secretary P.M.A. Salam, the threat to a senior religious scholar like Jifri Thangal indicated the failure of the Home Department and the collapse of the State’s law and order. The government, meanwhile, assured support to Mr. Thangal and said that it would take any threat to him seriously. Minister for Waqaf V. Abdurahiman called the Samastha leader and reassured him of the government’s support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samastha-supremo-alleges-threat-to-life/article38059923.ece
29 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||188 kg of ganja seized from car in Palakkad||An Excise team seized 188 kg of ganja valued at Rs. 1 crore from a car at the Velanthavalam border check-post in Palakkad on Tuesday. The seizure was made during a special drive called ‘Operation 2022’ by the Excise department. Two persons were arrested in connection with the seizure. They were identified as Najeeb, son of Beeran Koya from Kallayi, Kozhikode, and Ramdas, son of Raman from Chombala, Vadakara. Transported in bags Excise officers said the duo was carrying the contraband in bags from Tirupur for distribution in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. The ganja was smuggled under the garb of ‘ration rice.’ When the Excise team stopped the car, the duo said they were carrying ‘ration rice’ and they appeared to be in a hurry to leave. Maharashtra registration However, on closer examination, it was found that the car bearing a Maharashtra registration had several bagfuls of ganja stacked in the boot and the passenger cabin. The car also bore a lawyer’s sticker. Excise officers said the ganja was found to be of higher quality named Kakinada ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/188-kg-of-ganja-seized-from-car-in-palakkad/article38060056.ece
29 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Railways install sound beacons at Walayar to scare away elephants||Railways have installed a sound-emitting system to scare away elephants at Walayar. Elephant deaths on the railway tracks have increased recently, raising concerns from various sections of people. Railway officials commissioned the new alarm beacons on Tuesday. Sound of bees, tiger The new system will function on solar energy. The system will make the buzzing sound of honey bees and the roaring sound of tigers. The sound emitted from the beacons can be heard up to 500 metres. Officials said the device, during trials, was found to have been successful in preventing elephants from approaching the rail track. The trigger unit of the system will function at the Walayar railway station. The sound generator unit functions at a field near the track at the mouth of a cutting. The trigger unit and the sound generator unit communicate through a GSM modem. An SMS is sent for every control command from the trigger unit, and the sound generator unit acts accordingly and sends feedback commands through SMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-install-sound-beacons-at-walayar-to-scare-away-elephants/article38059974.ece
29 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pilgrims reaching Nilackal will be allowed darshan||As the second leg of the annual pilgrimage season in Sabarimala begins on December 31, the Ayyappa temple is slated to witness a further surge in footfall with the authorities set to permit all devotees reaching Nilackal to ascend the hillock. The move follows a directive of the High Court to the police to permit spot booking at Nilackal for all available slots in a particular day to ensure full utilisation of the daily quota. The directive takes a cue from a report by Sabarimala Special Commissioner M. Manoj that “the total number of devotees at the Sannidhanam is much lower than the upper limit of 60,000 fixed in the government order.” “In addition to 10,000 slots already available, spot booking can be permitted in all the remaining vacant on a particular day,” the court said. These bookings, however, will have to be limited within the permissible daily quota of 60,000. Official sources said a meeting attended by Additional Director General of Police S. Sreejith and officials of the Travancore Devaswom Board had decided to implement the step when the temple reopened for the Makaravilakku festival. “This effectively means no person reaching the hill camp will be barred from ascending the hillock,” the official said. The highest daily footfall recorded during the just concluded Mandalam season was around 43,000 pilgrims. In his report, the Special Commissioner anticipated that more pilgrims would turn up at Nilackal for spot booking. “If spot booking slots are limited to 10,000 a day, there is a likelihood of pilgrims being stranded and it may give rise to law and order issues,” it noted. Police discretion According him, it would be better to provide the police a discretion to permit incremental increase in slots in case of arrival of pilgrims over the permitted quota and issue coupons on the same day itself. “Even now, the entire pilgrims who have availed themselves of the virtual queue slots are not turning up. Even if incremental increase in spot booking slots is given, there would not be huge excess in daily quota,” the report added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pilgrims-reaching-nilackal-will-be-allowed-darshan/article38059972.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Multiple strategies to tackle Omicron||As the State braces for a potential spread of the Omicron virus variant, multiple plans and strategies are being planned so that health system saturation does not happen and that non-COVID-19 care does not take a hit as it did during the peak of the Delta wave. “It’s a different set of challenges that we might be up against this time... While there is no need for a knee-jerk reaction, there are huge uncertainties whether we should anticipate that the situation involving Omicron may turn out to be as bad as Delta was,” says a senior public health expert.  Unique situation Public health experts point out that Kerala, where the previous Delta wave never went down to the baseline, would be facing a unique situation of having both Delta and Omicron in circulation. Either of these two or in combination can become a problem if the test positivity rate goes over 10%. “Rather than case numbers, the key metric that we should be monitoring is how fast hospital beds, ICU beds and oxygen requirements are moving. Once community transmission starts, it will run through everyone (the doubling time is just two days). One major concern would be that if health-care workers are affected in large numbers, all patient care will break down,” says R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, Government Medical College, here. Omicron scenario Even if Omicron might bring a less severe disease, it is possible that a large number of patients might turn up in hospitals. The challenge would be to ensure that mild cases are managed by peripheral institutions so that tertiary-care institutions are free to handle serious cases of both COVID and non-COVID diseases. “There is a category of people -- those above 60 years, multiple comorbidities, the immunocompromised – for whom Omicron need not necessarily be mild. Another main challenge is the high immune escape potential of Omicron, which can evade both monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and antibodies generated by vaccines or previous infection. This means that none of the mAbs currently used as life-saving drugs to prevent serious infection (Delta) in the vulnerable will work for Omicron infections,” points out Dr. Aravind . The picture emerging from both the U.K. and Denmark shows that the initial surge in hospitalisations are beginning to stabilise and that the projected worst case scenario has not played out anywhere yet. Public health experts point out that Denmark’s Omicron experience -- 1% of the Omicron-affected required hospitalisation and 0.1%, needed ICU care -- is something that should be taken note of by Kerala. Denmark, with 77% background vaccination rate and a high level of previous natural infection – a situation akin to Kerala – was one of the first nations in Europe to experience the Omicron surge. The Health department’s focus should be in ensuring that COVID care does not follow the pattern it did during the previous Delta wave and that non-COVID care does not suffer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/multiple-strategies-to-tackle-omicron/article38059985.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State gearing up to vaccinate children||The State government is making arrangements to administer COVID-19 vaccine to about 15 lakh children in the 15-17 age group from January 3. Health Minister Veena George said here on Tuesday that special facilities for children would be arranged at vaccination centres to prevent crowding. The Minister said the vaccination drive in the State would shift focus to children after January 2. All precautions All necessary precautions would be taken while administering the vaccine for children. Their health status would be monitored before and after vaccination. Parents have been advised to ensure that their wards get the vaccine in view of the threat posed by the Omicron variant. Preparations are also under way to provide precaution dose for health-care and front-line workers and senior citizens with comorbidities. The precaution dose is to be administered nine months after the second dose has been taken. The Minister said that 98% of the eligible population in the State had received the first dose of the vaccine and 78% were fully vaccinated. The State currently has a stock of 25 lakh doses. Curbs on film shows Meanwhile, the government has instructed cinema halls in the State not to screen films after 10 p.m. from December 30 to January 2. This follows the night-time restrictions on New Year festivities to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant.  15 lakh children in 15-17 age group to be inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-gearing-up-to-vaccinate-children/article38059911.ece
29 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Call to settle govt., Governor stand-off||Academics have called for mending of ties between Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and the State government to prevent a stalemate in the higher education sector. The unprecedented rift triggered by some disputed decisions has threatened to push universities into a long-drawn impasse. Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal feels the issue is not irresolvable “since the grievance is normative rather than juridical”. He also holds the view that complaints about governmental interference in university affairs and with the Chancellor’s adjudicative privileges are value judgemental. “This could be because the Chancellor views as ideological the basis of the government’s advisory actions that are meant for institutional quality assurance and vice-versa.” External interference Dismissing the allegations of external interference, he points out that the government’s considered advice remains an “influential presence” behind the promulgation of the Governor’s critical sanctions, be it related to government or university orders. “How can then the government’s advisory functions that are discharged through the (Higher Education) Minister or bureaucrats be considered as interventions,” he asks. Prof. Gurukkal adds such conflicts between the Chancellor and the government would not lead to an administrative impasse in universities, although they run the risk of delay in actions for which the former’s mandate is essential. Nevertheless, the delay can be inordinate and thereby consequential if the disagreement results in the Chancellor’s non-cooperation and necessitates a legislative solution. Unprecedented dissent Noted educationist R.V.G. Menon, however, feels an openly expressed dissent by the Chancellor is unprecedented in the State. “It is conceivable that many Governors and even Vice Chancellors would have been quite unhappy about political interference in academic affairs. Such open dissents will lead to more caution and self-restraint on the part of political authorities,” he says. At a time when the influence of the Governor on the higher education sector coming under intense scrutiny, he says the role in the form of Chancellorship is very important in bringing prestige and independence to the universities. “But he or she should not become a source of influence from the Union government,” he cautions. According to him, many academic appointments, not just in universities but in private colleges too, often appear strange or inexplicable. Such instances have taken place in the past too. “The motivation (of such decisions) might be political, communal or even financial. This certainly leads to a decline in academic standards and demoralisation of the academic community,” Prof. Menon laments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-settle-govt-governor-stand-off/article38059978.ece
29 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District panels to look after power schemes||District electricity committees (DEC) will now exercise oversight over all Government of India-supported power sector schemes at the district level. The State government has issued orders constituting DECs in connection with the proposed roll-out of the revamped distribution sector scheme (RDSS), a Centrally assisted, ‘reforms-based and results-linked’ programme for fine-tuning electricity distribution, in Kerala. On a broader canvas, the committees, which will be headed by the senior Member of Parliament in a district, will exercise oversight over all Central schemes and their “'impact on the provision of services to the people”, says the government. The panels have been constituted in response to a notification issued by the Power Ministry to all States in September. They will meet every three months to assess all Government of India-supported electricity schemes, quality and reliability of the work, and aspects related to the standards of performance and consumer services. The other MPs will act as co-chairs while the District Collector is the member secretary of the panel. MLAs, local body chairpersons, senior representatives of power sector CPSUs, and the chief engineer of the Kerala State Electricity Board are the members. The Rs. 3-lakh-crore RDSS was cleared by the Union Cabinet in June for improving the efficiency of State-run distribution companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-panels-to-oversee-central-power-schemes/article38060101.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Satheesan seeks detente in Tharoor issue||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Tuesday sought to put to rest the intra-party wrangling over Shashi Tharoor’s perceived endorsement of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s flagship K-Rail (SilverLine) semi-high-speed rail project. Mr. Satheesan said Mr. Tharoor’s stance on K-Rail was in accord with the United Democratic Front (UDF). The MP had sought time to study the issue. He had not endorsed K-Rail. The UDF had conducted a detailed evaluation of the project and found it wanting. SilverLine was not economically or environmentally feasible. Mr. Satheesan said he had sent a copy of the UDF subcommittee study report on K-Rail to Mr. Tharoor. “Nobody need doubt Mr. Tharoor’s position on SilverLine. He shared the UDF’s concerns about the project,” he said. Matters appeared to have come to a head last week when Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran seemed to issue an ultimatum to Mr. Tharoor that he would find himself outside the Congress fold if he did not toe the party line. However, former KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and K. Muraleedharan, MP, seemed reluctant to relegate the matter on the back burner. Mr. Ramachandran demanded that the high command discipline Mr. Tharoor for a second time. “Congress workers had strived day and night for his electoral victories. He should not forget the party when making broad statements,” he said. Murali sarcastic Mr. Muraleedharan appeared more sarcastic. “The Congress currently does not have the strength to bear a global citizen. It is not the lot of Congress workers to endorse Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan repeatedly,” he said. All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal told reporters in New Delhi that the KPCC had not lodged any complaint against Mr. Tharoor. New tweet The criticism from his party colleagues notwithstanding, Mr. Tharoor publicly acknowledged Kerala’s “robust health practices, good governance and inclusive politics” once more on Monday. In a tweet tagged to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Mr. Tharoor said: “If the likes of @myogiadityanath would learn not just health practices but good governance & inclusive politics from Kerala, the country would benefit. Instead, they keep trying to drag the country down to their level”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-seeks-detente-in-tharoor-issue/article38059976.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Prabha Varma forays into Carnatic music||Prabha Varma, Kendra Sahitya Akademi award winner, poet, novelist and media adviser to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has forayed into Carnatic music. Mr. Varma has penned a series of kritis. Famed Carnatic singer K.R. Shyama will render the kritis at a concert at Vyloppilly Samskrithi Bhavan in the capital on December 30. She has also set the lyrics to tune. A reviewer said Mr. Varma’s kritis transcend the religious sphere. He has adopted a radically different approach, though generally confining his creations to the tradition of Swati Thirunal and Irayimman Thampi. Dr. Shyama will render eight kritis penned by Mr. Varma. Mr. Varma has earned distinction as a film song writer as well. Recently, he published an English novel, After The Aftermath . The concert will commence at 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prabha-varma-forays-into-carnatic-music/article38059977.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Samagra workshop concludes||A two-day regional-level workshop organised by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, for officials implementing its projects and programmes concluded here on Tuesday. Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, Project Director A.P. Kuttykrishnan inaugurated the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagra-workshop-concludes/article38060089.ece
29 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||238 history-sheeters nabbed in crackdown||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have placed 238 habitual offenders under preventive arrest during the special anti-goonda drive that got under way last week. According to City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, as many as 310 raids were conducted during the special drive launched on December 17 as part of the Statewide Operation Kaval to tackle criminal activities and drug proliferation. Besides, 12 history-sheeters have been placed under preventive detention under provisions of the Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) on the basis of instructions issued by the District Collector. Ten people, who were declared absconding by courts, have also been apprehended from various parts of the city. A total of 157 others, who had warrants issued against them, have also been caught. Supervised by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Vaibhav Saxena, the special team is coordinated by Assistant Commissioner (Narcotic Cell) Sheen Tharayil. Inspections are being undertaken in each police station limits under the City police jurisdiction to nab habitual offenders whose lists were prepared prior to the drive. Info collected The police have collected information on as many as 774 people who have either been booked under KAAPA or have been included in at least two criminal cases. The present activities of 323 others, who used to indulge in goonda activities in the past but had no pending cases against them currently, were also ascertained. The Commissioner said the ongoing drive would be intensified in the days to come to rein in anti-social activities that disrupted maintenance of law and order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/238-history-sheeters-nabbed-in-crackdown/article38060096.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree to set up gender clubs in schools||The Kudumbashree mission will set up gender clubs in schools and colleges for a more equitable society. The clubs are being formed to nurture a generation that does not discriminate on the basis of gender. Reaching out to children is recognised as the best way to achieve gender equality and gender justice in society. The clubs can have any number of members, but a four-member committee will have the responsibility of implementing various activities. In schools, students, parents, and teachers will be included in the gender training so as to achieve gender equity, and thereby equality. Male, female, and transgender students will get opportunities to participate in activities, be it academics, sports, arts, literary or recreational activities, as equals. Learning where gender justice is given stress and gender violence shunned will be promoted. Parents too will be provided gender training so that discrimination of any kind in the family is prevented, especially in the case of transgender students. Individual change to achieve social change will be the focus. No single teacher will be given the club responsibility; instead they will take turns to ensure full participation of the teachers. Sensitisation At the college level, the focus will not be on sensitisation alone. Male students will be roped in as resource persons for providing peer-group education on gender equality. Various activities will be held to try and get as many youth as possible involved such as those in the National Service Scheme and college department clubs. They will organise activities that will help utilise equal opportunities in all sectors and provide a platform for sharing and discussing students’ problems and finding solutions to them. The club meetings will be held every month to finalise the future activities. The clubs will function under the umbrella of the Snehitha gender helps desks in the districts.  The clubs are being formed to nurture a generation that does not discriminate on the basis of gender||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-colleges-to-get-gender-clubs/article38060088.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree rally against dowry in Feb.||A scriptwriting workshop for cultural processions ( kalajatha ) to be organised as part of ‘Sthreepaksha Navakeralam’, Kudumbasree’s State-level awareness campaign against dowry and atrocities against women, got under way on Tuesday. The workshop is on at the Vellar Arts and Crafts Village here till December 31. Karivellur Murali, Rafeeq Mangalassery, Sreeja Arangottukara, Vinod Vysakhi, and V.S. Bindu, are helming the workshop. The first phase of ‘Sthreepaksha Navakeralam’ will go on till March 8. The month-long procession will be held in February. The first day of the workshop saw a discussion being held on the theme of the procession. It was chaired by former gender advisor to the State government T.K. Anandi. A State-level training camp will be held after the script for the procession is fully readied. One team each will be readied in each district for the procession. District-level training camps will be organised for this. The cultural procession will be taken out in each district through routes decided by the Kudumbashree district missions. The Sthreepaksha Navakeralam is aimed at sensitising the public against dowry, ostentatious weddings, and atrocities against women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-rally-against-dowry-in-feb/article38060093.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,474 more test positive, 3,052 recover||As many as 2,474 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection were reported in the State on Tuesday when 60,597 samples were analysed, taking the active caseload to 20,400. Ernakulam with 419 case registered the highest number of infection followed by Thiruvananthapuram, 405, and Kozhikode, 273. Toll rises to 47,066 The death toll due to COVID rose to 47,066 with the addition of 38 deaths and another 206 accounted for as per the Supreme Court directive. The authorities have clamped down strict regulations in six local body wards with Weekly Infection Population ratio above 10. Of the 1,16,378 persons under surveillance in various districts, 1,12,641 are in home/institutional quarantine and 3,737 in hospitals. A total of 197 persons were admitted to hospital on Tuesday for COVID treatment and 3,052 recovered. Of the 2,474 fresh cases, 24 had arrived from outside the State and 2,302 were infected through contact. While 1,330 of the new cases were breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated persons, 141 had received the first dose and 723 were unvaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2474-more-test-positive-3052-recover/article38059980.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7 new Omicron cases in State||The State on Tuesday reported seven more cases of Omicron, taking the tally to 64. Four cases were confirmed in Pathanamthitta district, two in Alappuzha and one in Thiruvananthapuram. While six of the new cases were confirmed in travellers from the UAE, Ireland, Italy, Qatar and Tanzania, one had contracted the infection through contact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-new-omicron-cases-in-state/article38059981.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Youngster from capital bags PM YUVA award||Mithun Murali has won the Prime Minister’s YUVA Award for young authors, for his proposal to write a historical fantasy novel on the Kunjali Marakkars and their campaign against the Portuguese Empire. Mr. Murali, from Thiruvananthapuram, will be awarded Rs. 3 lakh and the book will be published by the National Book Trust after a six-month mentorship period. He will also be invited to book fairs, and will get to interact with famous authors. The award was instituted as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ organised in connection with the 75th anniversary of Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youngster-from-capital-bags-pm-yuva-award/article38060100.ece
29 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||405 fresh cases reported in capital||The district recorded 405 COVID-19 cases and 567 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 3,414 on Tuesday. The test positivity rate stood at 4.9%. The Thiruvananthapuram district administration has declared Kizhakkumkara in Kallayam of Karakulam grama panchayat as a micro-containment zone in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the region. No more containment Meanwhile, various places including Sree Chitra Home in Sreekanteswaram ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Kalathukal ward of Aruvikkara grama panchayat, and G. Karthikeyan Memorial Residential School in Thannimoodu in Nandiyode grama panchayat, have been excluded from the list of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/405-fresh-cases-reported-in-capital/article38060095.ece
29 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Parking on road from Chakka to Kazhakuttam prohibited||The City police have prohibited parking along the sides of the National Highway 66 bypass stretch from Chakka to Kazhakuttam. The move comes amid chock-a-block traffic on the bypass that has witnessed frequent snarls in recent times. Vehicle parking on undesignated spots has worsened the situation, prompting the police officers to adopt stringent steps against such wrong practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parking-on-road-from-chakka-to-kazhakuttam-prohibited/article38060097.ece
29 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Curtain goes up on HOPE FEST today||The curtain goes up on the three-day HOPE FEST, an year-end cultural festival, from Wednesday on the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi campus in Thrissur. “The festival is organised on a small-scale but with a vision. It envisages rekindling the spirit of live performances for artistes and art enthusiasts that had come to a standstill due to the pandemic. The festival is a combination of live theatre performances, digital theatre and music performance,” said akademi secretary Prabhakaran Pazhassi. The festival will showcase performances created during the pandemic. “It’s an attempt to honour resilient artistes who have kept the art in the confines of available spaces, by shifting across mediums and considering alternative performance spaces,” he said. HOPE FEST is not a theatre-centric festival. It is rather a hybrid fest that gives equal importance to music and other forms of expressions. Varied expressions Percussions, musicals, solos, clown shows, short plays, conversations, digital theatre videos and photo exhibitions will find space in the festival. “It tries to provide space for various groups that try different vocabulary. Students who finish theatre studies seldom get platforms to perform in the State. This festival provides a space for them,” said V. Sasikumar, festival coordinator. The event has been envisaged with a South Indian focus. Apart from Malayalam short plays and solos, there are performances from Tamil Nadu. A retrospective photo exhibition, based on 12 years of International Theatre Festival of Kerala (ITFoK), has been organised on the Akademi campus in connection with the festival. Opening act A percussion ensemble led by maestro Peruvanam Kuttan Marar will kick-start the event on Wednesday. A short play staged by Invisible Lighting Solutions Theatre company will be the opening act. Takkunnu Oru Kathai by Erode Naadaga Kottakai Trust and Ungala Neenga Yeppadi Paakka Virumbareenga? , a solo by Perch Chennai, are the two performances from Tamil Nadu. Urban Folk Project led by Shilpa Mudbi will transport the audience to the world of Yellamma through songs and stories. Kabir Project by Mooralala Marwada, a known Sufi folk singer from Kutch, Gujarat, will conclude the festival on December 31. Students’ participation The festival also provides participation of students from the School of Drama and Fine Arts, Thrissur. A compilation of films from the Belfast International Art Festival will be broadcast on December 30. Due to the COVID-19 protocol, entry is through pass, which can be obtained for free from the ticket counter at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curtain-goes-up-on-hope-fest-today/article38060061.ece
29 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Plant workshop for students on||A three-day workshop on ‘Plant identification and the road to conservation’ for botany students has started at the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) at Peechi in Thrissur. Dr. Syam Viswanath, director, KFRI, inaugurated the workshop, jointly organised by Aranyakam Nature Foundation (ANF) and the Peechi Wildlife Division. As many as 25 students pursuing graduate and postgraduate courses in Botany in various colleges are participating in the workshop, which includes lectures, field demonstrations and a visit to the KFRI Gardens, led by experts in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plant-workshop-for-students-on/article38060057.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Foundation day pledge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foundation-day-pledge/article38059984.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fiery protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fiery-protest/article38060092.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Moving demands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moving-demands/article38060103.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A thing of beauty...||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-thing-of-beauty/article38060105.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dissent against taxes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dissent-against-taxes/article38060059.ece
29 December 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||CI suspended||Eluru Range DIG of Police K.V. Mohan Rao suspended a Circle Inspector of Eluru Town for allegedly sexually harassing a woman. Following allegations of sexually harassment of a woman by the inspector a couple of months ago, the officer was placed under suspension on Tuesday, and a detailed enquiry is on, the DIG said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ci-suspended/article38060118.ece
29 December 2021||HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka CM says he is in good health||“I have the capacity to work for 365 days relentlessly. And I have resolved to work at least 15 hours a day,” Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday, seeking to dispel the notion that his knee pain is coming in the way of discharging his responsibilities as Chief Minister. Replying to a query by mediapersons on BJP MLA M.P. Kumaraswamy asking the Chief Minister to take rest for 20 days and then come back with renewed energy to work for the State, Mr. Bommai said the MLA had made such a suggestion out of love for him. “But I have resolved to work for 15 hours a day. My target is to bring back BJP to power in 2023. I will begin such preparations from 2022”, he said. On the BJP’s Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh’s statement that the party would go to the polls under his (Bommai) leadership, Mr. Bommai said he was thankful to the party high command for reposing faith in him. “Bharatiya Janata Party always works as a team under collective leadership. We discuss and execute as a team. As I am the Chief Minister, he (Mr. Singh) has said like that. Also, there is a good coordination between the party and the government. We will further strengthen coordination in our work,” he noted. Stern message The BJP State Executive Committee, which began its two-day meeting in Hubballi on Tuesday, sought to clear the air on speculation over a possible change of leadership in the State by sending out a clear message that Mr. Bommai will complete the full term as Chief Minister. The State Executive Committee also sent out a stern message to those raising the issue in public by barring its leaders and members from discussing the issue in public. Seeking to shift the focus from speculation on leadership change to preparations for the next Assembly polls, the meeting issued specific directions to begin formal preparations for polls. Briefing presspersons after the first day’s deliberations at the State Executive Committee, BJP State Spokesperson and MLA P. Rajiv described the speculation over leadership change as baseless and useless. Mr. Rajiv sought to downplay the episode of absence of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, his sons, former Ministers Ramesh Jarkiholi and Balchandra Jarkiholi, by saying that out of the 300 delegates, 281 had participated. “And the other 19 members have taken permission from the party State president to skip the meeting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-cm-says-he-is-in-the-pink/article38059431.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||100% take first dose in Telangana||The State government has successfully administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to the targeted 2.77 crore population, Health Minister T. Harish Rao said on Tuesday. As far as the second dose is concerned, the coverage stands at 66%. The State was ahead of the national average of 90% in first dose and 63% in second dose, the Minister said, adding that it was the first among larger states to complete 100% administration of the first dose. The State was progressing in a planned manner in terms of vaccine administration with effective coordination between the Health, Municipal Administration, Panchayat Raj and other departments. Accredited Social Health Activists as well as Auxiliary Nurse Midwives were ensuring wider reach of the vaccine by personally visiting the eligible beneficiaries in remote areas. Special drive for vaccination had been launched and 7,970 teams had been constituted to ensure vaccine for all eligible people.As many as 3,500 government centres and 264 in private sector were in operation while 35,000 personnel were deployed for conducting vaccination drive. Of the total people vaccinated, 87% chose government-run centres and 13% private centres, and there was no shortage of vaccine in the State, which had 30 lakh doses available with it. The government was planning to start vaccination of youth aged between 15 and 18 years, constituting around 22.78 lakh, from January 3 and for those aged above 60 years from January 10. People residing in the municipal areas should register themselves on the CoWin portal while those in other places could directly visit the vaccination centres to get their dose. Omicron tally Mr Harish Rao said seven new Omicron cases had been reported in the State, taking the total to 62. Of those, 46 were from other countries, four contacts and three without any travel history. All the patients were safe and it was observed that 46 of those who tested positive for the new variant were unvaccinated, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/100-take-first-dose-in-telangana/article38059433.ece
29 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven more Omicron cases in Telangana||Seven new Omicron cases, one case from Monday, took the tally of the virulent mutant SARS-CoV2 cases to 62 in Telangana, according to the health bulletin released by the Medical department on Tuesday evening. The State recorded 228 new cases of COVID-19 taking the total to 6,81,072. One person succumbed to the disease taking the toll to 4,024 in the State. Health officials pegged the case fatality rate at .59% The number of people in isolation or under treatment is pegged at 3,459. The number of tests has gone up over the past few days with 41,678 tests being conducted on Tuesday. Reports of 4,828 samples are awaited. Out of the 165 air passengers flying in from at-risk countries, four tested positive for the virus and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. Four cases were discovered in the course of random testing on air passengers flying in from not-at-risk countries. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area recorded 110 cases which is a new high after the second wave waned. Medchal recorded 20 cases, Rangareddy 19 cases, and Suryapet recorded 11 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-more-omicron-cases-detected-in-ts/article38059869.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Autonomous vehicle at IIT-H in 6 months||By mid-2022, the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) will have an autonomous vehicle on its campus. Yes, it is one that runs without a driver. Suzuki Corporation of Japan has decided to establish its innovation centre on the premises of IIT-H. This will be the first such centre outside Japan. Disclosing the details at a press conference held at the institute on Tuesday, IIT-H director B.S. Murty said several industries are showing interest to set up their research centres on their campus, and such developments could benefit both the industry as well as the students. He said the institute will be coming up with a policy in a month that aims to support innovations. The institute is focusing on improving the industry-academia relationship with a stress on preparing industry-ready graduates and post graduates. A research park and innovations park coming up on about 1.5 lakh square feet each will a boost for startups and innovations, he added. It will also make arrangements to train the rural youth from select villages in skill development. The IITH is also considering taking diploma students and offering them courses with a duration of one/ two and three years and they will be offered certificate, advanced certificate and under graduation respectively. The institute director said they have adopted engineering colleges, and agreements were signed with BVRIT, GITAM and Malla Reddy Engineering College. Stress on Sanskrit Mr. Murty said Sanskrit language is being taught to interested students so that they can extract science from the Sanskrit slokas and recalled how they were able to develop some nano-material based on Sanskrit scriptures with the help of a language expert. About 100 students are learning the language. Answering a question, he said that they have already been implementing the suggestions made in the National Education Policy and as part of that, inter-disciplinary Ph.Ds are being offered. Referring to the second phase of construction at IIT-H, Mr. Murty said it would be completed by 2023 and by then, the student strength will be about 5,000 while that of faculty will be around 500. The institute is also making efforts to attract bright foreign students by offering them a monthly scholarship of Rs. 60,000 per month in addition to offering an amount of Rs. 1 lakh to procure material for research. IIT-H dean C. Krishna Mohan (Public and Corporate Relations) was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/driverless-vehicle-at-iit-h-in-six-months/article38059877.ece
29 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viveka’s aide accuses kin, CBI official of harassment||In a new twist in the ongoing investigation into the murder of former Kadapa MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, his personal assistant M. Krishna Reddy, who is also a witness in the case, filed a petition in the Pulivendula court accusing CBI Additional Superintendent of Police Ram Singh, and Vivekananda Reddy’s daughter Narreddy Sunitha and son-in-law Narredy Rajasekhara Reddy of harassing him. Mr. Krishna Reddy, who works as an assistant librarian at Kadapa Arts College on deputation, had served Vivekananda Reddy as his personal aide for three decades. In the petition, he narrated the sequence of events prior to and post the sensational murder of Vivekananda Reddy at his ancestral house. He alleged in his petition that the CBI official and Vivekananda Reddy’s family members had been continuously exerting pressure to disclose the names of certain persons in an apparent bid to frame them. Mr. Krishna Reddy had met the Kadapa SP last week and complained that the victim’s family was harassing him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vivekas-aide-accuses-kin-cbi-official-of-harassment/article38060050.ece
29 December 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice Admiral Puneet K. Bahl takes charge as Commandant of INA, Ezhimala||Vice Admiral Puneet K. Bahl has taken over as Commandant of the Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala, Kannur district. An alumnus of NDA, Khadakwasla, the Flag Officer was commissioned into the Indian Navy on July 1, 1984. He passed Staff Course at DSSC, Wellington, and Naval Higher Command Course from the College of Naval Warfare, Mumbai. An experienced maritime reconnaissance pilot, he has flown six different types of aircraft. His operational experience includes active participation in Operation Tasha and Operation Vijay. He is also a qualified ship’s diver. He has held an array of operational, staff and training assignments. He has had tenures at INS Garuda , INS Rajali , AFS Yelahanka and CGAS 700 while on flying duties and ship tenures onboard INS Vikrant and at Betwa, Godavari, Sujata and Porbandar. His training and staff assignments include tenures as directing staff at DSSC, Wellington, and JDNAS (aviation plans) at the Naval Headquarters where he successfully steered cases for aircraft inductions and drafted the Naval Aviation Perspective and Infrastructure plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-admiral-puneet-k-bahl-takes-charge-as-commandant-of-ina-ezhimala/article38059436.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sweet returns for pineapple growers||Pineapple farmers are looking forward to a revival of fortunes this winter with demand from fruit processors in States such as Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh on the rise. Fruit processors have not been active in the market over the past two years because of the COVID-19 lockdown and restrictions reducing the demand for pulp and juice in the market. However, the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions has led to a shortage of processed fruit in the market, said Baby John, veteran pineapple farmer and president of the Pineapple Growers’ Association Keralam. He also said there was a shortage in the supply of “A grade pineapple” in the market and advised farmers to sell the fruits to dealers known to them to avoid losses even as the price in the open market appeared to be capable of supporting cultivation of the fruit. Pineapple farmer Jose Joseph said the price of ripe fruit had risen to about Rs. 30 a kg. The price level was better than last year’s and the shortage in the supply of the fruit was likely to keep the price up for the short-term. While raw fruits fetch between Rs. 23 and Rs. 24 per kg, the demand for ripe fruit has been rising despite the winter season in north Indian States. Mr. John said around 3,000 tonnes of pineapple had now been sold from the Vazhakkulam main market to fruit processors. The demand was due to the shortage of pulp and juice in the market, he said. If new restrictions did not come into effect on account of a third wave of COVID-19, the demand for fruit could go up further even as farmers fear about 20% fall in production due to various reasons. It is estimated that there are around 5,000 pineapple farmers in the Kerala, who have brought around 18,000 hectares under pineapple cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sweet-return-for-pineapple-farmers/article38059569.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor case: HC admits plea against trial court verdict||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday admitted a petition filed by the prosecution challenging the orders of the Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Court rejecting its applications seeking to recall some of the witnesses and summon additional witnesses for examination in the sexual assault case of a woman actor involving actor Dileep. Justice Viju Abraham passed the order when the petition came up for hearing. According to the petition, the prosecution plea for issuing summons under Section 311 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to 16 witnesses for further evidence was rejected. Of the 16 witnesses, nine witnesses were additional witnesses and seven witnesses already examined. In fact, some of the witnesses were required to be recalled to identify the accused persons. The trial court ought to have permitted the prosecution for further examination of Vasudevan who had stated about the presence of ‘Pulsar’ Suni at the shooting location in Thrissur, but he could not identify the prime accused while in the dock. Anto Joseph, who was one among the first few persons to visit the victim in this case, could not be examined. Yet another witness, Sathyamoorthy, nodal officer of BSNL, could not be examined before the trial court as he was laid up at the time of taking his evidence. The petition said the orders passed by the lower court were illegal and sought to set aside them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-case-hc-admits-plea-against-trial-court-verdict/article38059434.ece
29 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||in Kurnool||Kurnool Mayor B.Y. Ramaiah formally inaugurated the Azadi Ka Amrit Utsav and Swacch Andhra Pradesh celebrations at the Outdoor Stadium here on Tuesday. As part of the celebrations, the Mayor also launched a three-day sports meet for sanitation workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-kurnool/article38059618.ece
29 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Government will ensure houses for all’||G.V.Prasad, Special Officer for Housing appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Government, on Tuesday said construction of houses for the poor would be speeded up in the coming weeks. Reviewing the ongoing housing programme, Mr. Prasad, Special Officer for Nellore and Chittoor districts, said the State government was keen on realising the dream of each and every poor family to have a roof of their own over their heads. Temporary godowns were being created in every layout to store cement, blue metal, sand and other construction material at one place. He said construction of 44,530 houses was in different stages. SPSR Nellore Joint Collector (Housing) Videh Khare said there was no sand shortage in the district. A sand depot had been set up at Sullurpeta to ensure sand for house construction without any hitch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-will-ensure-houses-for-all/article38059621.ece
29 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP stages protest against excise policy||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) women’s wing staged a demonstration in front of the statue of NTR near the Addanki bus stand centre here on Tuesday in protest against the excise policy of the YSRCP government in the State. The activists came in a big procession from the NTR Bhavan shouting slogans against the State government for allegedly not keeping its promise to introduce prohibition in phases in the State. The protestors staged a protest in front of a wine shop and smashed liquor bottles on the road alleging that the government viewed liquor as a money spinner. They demanded that the State government come out with a ‘White paper’ on the revenue earned through sale of liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-stages-protest-against-excise-policy/article38059619.ece
29 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest path from Erumely ready for Sabarimala pilgrims||With pilgrims to be permitted to ascend the Sabarimala hills through the forest path from Erumely from December 31, a joint team of officials led by Arjun Pandian, Additional District Magistrate (ADM) of Sabarimala, will inspect the 35-km route on December 30. According to Mr. Pandian, about 25 km of the path goes through thick forest and of this, the 18-km path from Azhuthakkadavu to Pampa passes through the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR). Taking this into consideration, steps are being made to ensure the safety of pilgrims. “The devotees, who take spot booking at Erumely, will be permitted to enter the path from Koyikkalkadavu between 5.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m., while admission to Azhuthakadavu and Mukuzhi will be from 7 a.m. to 12 noon. The examination of required documents will be held at these locations,” the ADM said. Stopover points The Forest department has already cleared the route while arrangements at the eight stopover points (Idathavalam) to be run by the eco development committees are in the final stages. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) will ensure the availability of drinking water, while the provision for power supply from Valiyanavattam to Pampa too is being set up. In view of the COVID-19 situation, hospitals will be arranged at Mukkuzhy and Karimala while emergency medical care centres will be established at four locations, including Mambadi and Kallidamkunnu. Shops and refreshment centres will be opened along the route, while devotees will be permitted to lay viri (overnight stay) at Valiyanavattam, Karimala and Kallidamkunnu, besides Mukkuzhy and Azhuthakadavau, the points where the PTR begins. Fencing will be erected at different locations to prevent wildlife attacks. Elephant squads and forest officials will be deployed to ensure the safety of devotees. The devotees will be permitted to travel only in batches and no person will be allowed to hit the route after 5 p.m. The Akhila Bharatha Ayyappa Seva Sangham will run food distribution centres at Karimala and Valiyanavattom.  Devotees will be permitted to travel only in batches and no person will be allowed to hit the route after 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-path-from-erumely-ready-for-sabarimala-pilgrims/article38059562.ece
29 December 2021||Rajamahendravaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajahmundry will be developed with Rs. 125 crore package: TTD chief||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Tuesday announced that the State government sanctioned Rs. 125 crore package for beautification and other infrastructure facilities in Rajamahendravaram city. The package includes Rs. 20 crore to be spent for walking track and food courts on Havelock Bridge across the Godavari. Mr. Subba Reddy, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu and B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Tuesday inaugurated various developmental works worth Rs. 20 crore in the city. “The Rs. 125 crore package will primarily be spent on beautification, sanitation and health infrastructure in the city,” said Mr. Subba Reddy during the visit to the city. The development works inaugurated on Tuesday include roads at Arts College Junction and other places and Devi Chowk garbage transfer centre. Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat has explained to the Ministers the need for a beautification drive to develop the city on par with Visakhapatnam and Tirupati cities. In another programme conducted by Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation (RMC), Mr. Subba Reddy flagged off the 45 garbage collection vehicles granted under the Clean AP programme. East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran and the Ministers have discussed future projects for the development of the city. The proposed works would be taken up within three months with the package, said Mr. Hari Kiran. RMC Commissioner Abhishikth Kishore and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rajahmundry-will-be-developed-with-rs-125-crore-package-ttd-chief/article38060070.ece
29 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Police to initiate steps for migrant workers’ welfare||The Kerala Police are reportedly concerned that the recent violence in the Kitex factory at Kizhakambalam in Ernakulam has fuelled a perception that migrant workers posed a threat to public peace. They fear that the biased view could spark law and order issues, at least in specific neighbourhoods. Social media networks are replete with posts demonising migrant labourers as troublemakers. A vast majority of the workers are poor and live in crowded dormitories on construction sites. An official said migrant workers often live on the margins of society and below the authorities’ radar. Many survive on low wages. They have limited access to public health care and are vulnerable to exploitation. Migrant labourers are also easy prey for local gangs. A top-level police meeting chaired by State Police Chief Anil Kant has reportedly taken a serious view of the situation. It has prompted Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Vijay Sakhare, to order District Police Chiefs to prevent a recurrence of the kind of violence that flared up between two groups of migrant labourers on the Kitex premises. Role of SHOs Mr. Sakhare has tasked Station House Officers (SHO) with visiting migrant camps and introducing elements of community policing. SHOs should encourage workers to elect a representative from among their midst to regularly liaison with the local station. The police should share helpline numbers and mobile phones of SHOs with migrant workers. Law enforcers should not let issues in labour camps fester and erupt into violence. Mr. Sakhare has also sought an action taken report from SHOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-police-to-initiate-steps-for-migrant-workers-welfare/article38059564.ece
29 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD making elaborate plans for Vaikunta Ekadasi||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy has said that elaborate arrangements are being made for the grand conduct of the 10-day Vaikunta Dwara Darshanam from January 13 to 22. Attaching more priority to common pilgrims, TTD had already released online darshan tickets under various formats and dispensed with the system of referral letters in the darshan of Lord Venkateswara during the period. COVID health protocols would be strictly observed at Vaikuntam Queue Complex, Kalyanakatta, free meals complex, reception counters and other vital areas where the congregation of pilgrims was expected to be large. The ghat road leading to the temple town which was badly damaged during the recent rains would be ready by January 10, and only light vehicles will be allowed to ply initially. Srivari Sevaks would be deployed in adequate number to assist TTD personnel in catering to the needs of the visiting devout, while the security personnel in coordination with the local police would regulate the vehicular traffic. Laddu demand To meet the laddu demand, a buffer stock of five lakh laddus would be maintained every day during the 10-day period. Laddus also would be made available at TTD Information Centers at Chennai, Vellore, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Vontimitta in sufficient quantity along with big laddus and vadas. While the prelude Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam would be observed on January 11, the procession of golden chariot would be organised on Vaikunta Ekadasi between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. on January 13, and Chakrasnanam on the following day of Dwadasi between 5 a.m. and 6 a.m. Mr. Reddy appealed to the devotees to strictly adhere to COVID norms during their stay at Tirumala and observe social distancing, sport masks, periodically use sanitisers as was mandatory, and invariably bring vaccination certificates/RTPCR test reports along with them without fail. For the benefit of denizens, about 50,000 Vaikunta Dwara Darshan tickets at 5,000 tickets a day would be made available at specially set-up counters at both Tirumala and Tirupati, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-making-elaborate-plans-for-vaikunta-ekadasi/article38059702.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exhibition match today as prelude to Kabaddi tourney||An exhibition match will be conducted at Indira Maidanam on Wednesday as a prelude to the National Kabaddi Tournament slated to be held in Tirupati from January 5 to 9. The event is conducted under the joint aegis of Municipal Corporation of Tirupati and Tirupati Smart City Corporation Limited and several promotional steps like release of balloon, 2K Run, affixing of stickers on autorickshaws and cultural evening with denizens were conducted to spread the message. City Mayor R. Sireesha announced here on Tuesday that the exhibition match would be inaugurated by Collector M. Hari Narayanan. Ahead of the main event, matches would be played by teams comprising corporators, municipal corporation employees, Tirupati Cooperative Bank, SV University, SPMVV, TTD, media and so on to keep up the tempo, announced Deputy Mayor B. Abhinay Reddy, while another Deputy Mayor Mudra Narayana appealed to the public to support the country’s first-ever sporting event conducted by a civic body. In view of the pandemic, the sportspersons will have to submit a COVID-19 negative certificate ahead of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exhibition-match-today-as-prelude-to-kabaddi-tourney/article38059615.ece
29 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||DSIR mulls more partners for PRISM||The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) is contemplating an increase in the number of partner institutes across the country to promote innovation under its flagship Promoting innovations in Individuals, Startups and MSMEs (PRISM) scheme. At present, PRISM’s TePP Outreach Cluster Innovation Centre (TOCIC) is available with eleven organisations, including State-run universities and prestigious research organisations. “We are planning to hike the number of partners to 30,” says Ramanuj Banerjee, member secretary – PRISM, Union Ministry of Science and Technology. In a conversation with The Hindu on the sidelines of the PRISM advisory committee meeting held recently at SPMVV, Dr. Banerjee said the number of partner institutions was brought down from 36 to eleven a couple of years ago, owing to an embargo on private institutions and social organisations. However, with the COVID-induced financial crunch impacting spending, the development is expected to take a little more time to gain shape.  Pat for SPMVV The top scientist appreciated SPMVV for being number one for two consecutive years in promoting innovation. “The top-notch research institutes among the partners’ list are impressive on paper and in the design-level, but SPMVV is aggressive on taking the product to the final stage,” he lauded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dsir-mulls-more-partners-for-prism/article38060049.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. deposits Rs. 703 crore into accounts of beneficiaries||The State government has credited Rs. 703 crore into the bank accounts of 9,30,809 beneficiaries who, for various reasons, were earlier not considered eligible for receiving the benefits of welfare schemes. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that earlier, people used to wait and run from pillar to post to avail welfare schemes. Now the situation has changed, and the benefits of the schemes are being delivered right at the doorstep of the beneficiaries. As part of this initiative, the State government will re-verify those who are eligible and have not availed the benefits and provide the welfare schemes in June and December every year. The intention is to extend the welfare schemes to every eligible person in the State, he said. Comparing his government to the previous TDP regime, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy alleged that the previous government had tried to minimise the number of beneficiaries by providing welfare schemes only to a select few people through ‘Janmabhoomi Committees’. “The implementation was poor and the TDP government did its best to exclude as many people as possible. However, we started taking only eligibility as the criteria and are extending the benefits in a transparent way irrespective of the caste, religion, or political affiliation of the beneficiary,” the Chief Minister said. “During the TDP rule, only 39 lakh people received pensions of Rs. 1,000 per month, incurring a monthly bill of Rs. 400 crore. The present government increased the pension amount to Rs. 2,250 and is providing pensions right at the doorstep of over 61 lakh beneficiaries every month at an expenditure of Rs. 1,450 crore. Apart from these, house pattas are being given to 1,10,986 people, pension cards to 1,51,562 people, rice cards to 3,07,599 people and Aarogyasri cards to 1,14,129 people,” he said. “The number of beneficiaries and the amount being spent on them has increased significantly. The government’s top priority is to implement the welfare schemes despite a fall in revenues due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botsa Satyanarayana, Chief Commissioner of Land Administration Neerab Kumar Prasad, Agriculture Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Municipal and Urban Development Special Secretary Anantaramu, Housing Special CS Ajay Jain, R&B Principal Secretary M.T. Krishnababu, Social Welfare Principal Secretary K. Sunita, Village and Ward Secretariats Commissioner Shan Mohan, Minority Welfare Special Secretary Gandham Chandradu, MEPMA MD Vijayalakshmi, and Srinidhi MD Nancharaya were presen at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-deposits-rs-703-crore-into-accounts-of-beneficiaries/article38060052.ece
29 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP, TDP failed to deliver good governance, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has, apparently, trained its guns on ruling YSR Congress Party in the State, setting its eyes on Assembly elections scheduled in 2024. Stressing on the need for change in the leadership in the State, the BJP asserted that it would come to power in the next elections. The BJP Andhra Pradesh unit organised a ‘Janaagraha sabha’ in the city on Tuesday. Addressing the gathering, former Union Minister and BJP senior leader Prakash Javadekar alleged that both YSRCP and the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) had failed to deliver good governance in the State. The BJP was the only alternative to these parties in Andhra Pradesh, he said. In an oblique reference to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the former Union Minister said: “Many leaders in Andhra Pradesh are out on bail. They all will go to jail soon.” A destructive rule was going on in the State. The people were promised total prohibition, but the government was totally dependent on revenues generated through sale of liquor. Mr. Jagan has failed to keep the promises made to the public in the run up to Assembly elections, he said. Alleging that the Chief Minister was “labelling his sticker” on Central schemes, Mr. Javadekar said the government was making tall claims on Jagananna colonies. They were in fact Modi colonies. The permissions for Polavaram were accorded seven years ago, but hardly there was any progress, he pointed out. Making intriguing comments on the Pushpa movie, he said, “I saw a poster of the Pushpa movie on the way to the meeting grounds. Soon I will watch that movie.” Going further, he said, “The State government abolished the Special Investigation Team on red sanders smuggling. There is a need for leadership that develops the State. The BJP is only the option,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-tdp-failed-to-deliver-good-governance-says-bjp/article38060127.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist numbers have dwindled in State, says Sawang||The strength of the Maoists has fallen drastically in the State — indicating that the welfare programmes being launched by the State government for the development of Agency areas are yielding good results, Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said. “The Maoists are redundant as the government is taking measures to organise job fairs, provide employment and develop tribal areas. In all, 882 tribal youth were given training in various skill development programmes,” the DGP said while addressing reporters at a yearender press conference at the A.P. Police Headquarters on Tuesday. “There is a steep decline among the Maoist cadres, and the strength of the underground (UG) cadres has declined in the State,” Mr. Sawang said. “The number of area committees in Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) region has reduced from six to four. Out of two Central Committee Members (CCMs) and five State Committee Members (SCMs) in the beginning of 2021, only one CCM and two SCMs are active in AOB now,” the DGP said. Six Maoists, including two Divisional Committee Members, one Area Committee Member and two party members, were killed in exchanges of fire. Police seized eight weapons, including an AK-47, he said. Police arrested four UG cadre Maoists, including one ACM, three party members and 43 militia members. Thirteen cadres surrendered, including five militia members in 2021, Mr. Sawang said. Speaking on the crime scenario, Mr. Sawang said that 1,27,127 FIRs have been registered in the State, of which 40,404 complaints were received through Spandana programmes. About 90.2% of the cases were chargesheeted, and the investigation compliance rate was 92.27% (the national average was 40%) while the conviction rate stood at 75.09%. In all, 318 ‘Zero FIRs’ were registered, 1,551 cyber bullying sheets were opened and 34, 037 children rescued under ‘Operation Muskaan’, he said. As many as 2.77 lakh sexual offenders were mapped. The department will train 20,000 police personnel by 2022 to deal with cybercrimes, the DGP explained. Rise in crimes against women There was a rise in cognisable crime in urban areas including Tirupati Urban district (58%), West Godavari (42%), Visakhapatnam Police Commissionerate (36%), Vijayawada Police Commissionerate (3%)0 and Guntur Urban district (24%). The DGP said that crimes against women accounted for 21% of the total cases registered this year, which was 13% in 2020. Property offences accounted for 15% of the total cases (up from 6% last year), and bodily offences accounted for 6% (7% in 2020). There was a decline in cybercrime cases at 18% of the total cases registered; this number stood at 27% last year. Due to evidence-based investigation submitted in court, 25 life convictions were awarded to the accused and a couple of death penalties were given in grave cases. Mr. Sawang said 192 police personnel succumbed to the COVID-19 pandemic while 15 personnel were killed in accidents. The police department has disbursed Rs. 36.33 crore and Rs. 19.50 crore to the bereaved families as compensation respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-numbers-have-dwindled-in-andhra-pradesh-says-dgp-sawang/article38059700.ece
29 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||25 crore mandays under MGNREGS||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, who conducted a review meeting on Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) on Tuesday, said that the State government has chalked out plans to create 25 crore mandays under MGNREGS this year. Officials concerned are working in that direction, the Minister said, adding that two-and-a-half lakh families would benefit from it. Plans were afoot to construct at least five buildings in each village. So far, the works taken up were being uploaded on software developed by the State government. Hereafter, it would be uploaded on the Central government’s software as per its directions, he said. “Steps are being taken to ensure that payments are done in time. In the past, there were delays in payments. MGNREGS Council members should personally inspect the works taken up under material components. There should not be any scope for lethargy. They should motivate the contractors and bring the problems if any to the notice of the officials,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-crore-mandays-under-mgnregs/article38060120.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. may impose restrictions on New Year celebrations||Following the spread of Omicron, which is creating panic across the globe, and the guidelines of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the government is likely to impose restrictions on New Year celebrations in the State. “The police are working on some restrictions to prevent the spread of Omicron in the State,” Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said on Tuesday. “Due to increasing number of cases, some States have imposed curbs on the New Year celebrations. The Andhra Pradesh Police will take a decision on the New Year programmes,” he said. Responding to a question on the comments made by former MLA Vangaveeti Radha, that miscreants conducted ‘recce’ on his movements, the DGP said that police were inquiring into the statement. “We provided security to Mr. Radha and instructions have been given to the police officers to inquire into the comments of the leader,” the DGP said. Meanwhile, it was learnt that Mr. Radha refused gunmen to him. “I am a people’s man and I don’t want any security,” the former MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-may-impose-restrictions-on-new-year-celebrations/article38060121.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Good news soon for Energy Dept. staff’||Minister for Energy, Forest and Environment and Science and Technology Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has said that Energy Department employees will soon hear good news about the Dearness Allowance in the salaries. Mr. Reddy asked employees not to worry about the salary revision, as the pay revision committee (PRC) is working on it and any decision will be made by it. He asked employees not to believe the rumours being spreading on social media, and said any issues can by raised with the chairpersons and managing directors of the distribution companies. Mr. Reddy along with Energy Secretary N. Srikant launched the department’s diary and calendar for 2022 during the second-anniversary celebrations of the Central Power Distribution Company Limited in the city on Tuesday. He said the regulations being made would apply only to the new employees. Mr. Reddy congratulated all the employees on successfully handling the pandemic, cyclones, floods and other challenges during the past year. Mr. Srikant said the State government had been supporting the DISCOMs and Rs. 28,166 crore was released to the Energy Department during the year 2020-21 and Rs. 5,330 crore was released in 2021-2022 so far. He said transmission losses came down to 2.6% in 2021 from 2.91% in 2020. He said APEPDCL has developed the Real-time Feeder Monitoring System which ensured uninterrupted power supply to the consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-news-soon-for-energy-dept-staff/article38060124.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Check NDPL smuggling, Minister directs officials||Deputy Chief Minister and Excise Minister K. Narayana Swamy directed officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau and Excise Department to check smuggling of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL). Reviewing the performance of Excise, SEB and AP State Beverages Corporation Limited at the Secretariat on Tuesday, the Minister told officials to strengthen check-posts located on the inter-State borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/check-ndpl-smuggling-minister-directs-officials/article38060117.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA cardio excellence award for Dr. Ramesh||Ramesh Hospitals managing director P. Ramesh Babu has been honoured with the “IMA Dr. K. Sharan Cardiology Excellence Award for Research” by the Indian Medical Association for this contribution to research in cardiology. The award was presented to Dr. Ramesh at the 96th Annual National Conference of Indian Medical Association held on December 27 and 28 in Patna. Dr. Ramesh stressed the need for research on Indians to address problems specific to Indians. “In India, we depend on research done by Western countries. Indians have thrifty genes, Indian patients have different metabolic syndrome, obesity diabetes and the drugs react differently,” he said to highlight the need for India-specific researches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-cardio-excellence-award-for-dr-ramesh/article38060119.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Renovated park, indoor stadium inaugurated||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana along with Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivasa Rao inaugurated the renovated Raghavaiah Park and DRR Indoor Stadium in the city on Tuesday. The Raghavaiah Park was renovated at Rs. 1 crore and the DRR Indoor Stadium was renovated at Rs. 2.43 crore. Walking tracks, pathways, food courts, plazas, children play equipment and greenery was developed in Raghavaiah Park. In the DRR Indoor Stadium, all the existing facilities including gymnasium, flooring and others, were renovated and refurbished. Mr. Satyanarayan said that the development of the city would be done in a phased manner and funds were being provided by the State government accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/renovated-park-indoor-stadium-inaugurated/article38060122.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports two more COVID deaths||The State reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 141 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The One death each was reported in Visakhapatnam and West Godavari districts. The number of active cases came down to 1,073 as 165 patients recovered in the past day. West Godavari reported 27 infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (26), Guntur (24), Krishna (16), Srikakulam (13), Anantapur (10), Nellore (7), Visakhapatnam (7), East Godavari (5), Kadapa (3), Kurnool (1), Prakasam (1) and Vizianagaram (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-two-more-covid-deaths/article38060125.ece
29 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Actors’ comments on ticket pricing illogical’||Information and Public Relations (I&PR) and Cinematography Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) has reacted bitterly to cine actors Nani and Siddharth comments on fixing of ticket prices in the State. Mr. Venkataramaiah said that none knew where hero Nani lived. His statements were illogical and it was not clear which theatre and grocery shop he was referring to, the Minister said. To Siddharth’s comments, the Minister said, “Probably he might have commented against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Stalin. I don’t know how he is related to Andhra Pradesh theatres and tickets as he lives in Chennai.” It may be recalled that actor Nani commented that: “It’s not logical as well if a counter of a grocery store looks bigger than the counter of a person who is providing employment to 10 people and running a huge theatre.” The Minister said that the State government had constituted a committee to look into cinema ticket issues and suggest a way out. Some theatres in the State were running without necessary permissions. Action was taken against the management of 130 theatres, the Minister said. They haven’t applied either for renewal or for NOCs. But, a false propaganda was going on that the State government was acting vindictively. The GO 35 was issued in April 2021. “How far is it justified to close down the theatres now in protest against it? I leave it to their prudence,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actors-comments-on-ticket-pricing-illogical/article38060128.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP demands free housing registration||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) State president K. Atchannaidu urged the State government to extend free registrations to housing beneficiaries, alleging that there was a rising tide of public resentment against the ‘forcible collections’ of One-Time Settlement (OTS) amounts. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Atchannaidu asserted that the TDP protests held all over the State against the OTS had evoked a good response from the poor. “The ruling YSRCP leaders and the police tried to create obstacles but the anti-OTS demonstrations turned out to be a big success in all the districts. It is high time for the State government to realise its mistake and make corrections before it is too late,” he said. Mr. Atchannaidu alleged that the ruling YSRCP was using dishonest methods to betray poor beneficiaries of the housing schemes. “The government is saying that the OTS payments are not mandatory and only optional. However, undue pressure is being put on the poor to pay the amounts. It is atrocious on the part of the government to forcibly collect OTS amounts. The poor families are being threatened that their welfare benefits would be stopped if they do not pay the OTS charges,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-demands-free-housing-registration/article38060053.ece
29 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) passes three resolutions at State meet||The Communist Party of India- Marxist (CPI-M) has adopted three resolutions, including one on the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant privatisation issue, at its 26th Andhra Pradesh State Conference. A resolution was adopted on the implementation of Pay Revision Commission (PRC) report, and on the farmers’ issues in the State. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narsing Rao said that the Centre has not allocated any captive mine to Visakhapatnam Steel Plant on a par with captive mines allocated to other steel plants. “Why did the government not allot captive mines to the plant in these 30 years? The government wants to hand the plant and its prime properties to corporate firms, said Mr. Narsing Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-passes-3-resolutions-at-ap-meet/article38059565.ece
29 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sun Pharma keen to set up unit in State||Pharmaceutical giant Sun Pharma has come forward to establish its integrated end-to-end manufacturing plant in Andhra Pradesh. Sun Pharma managing director Dilip Shangvi called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Tuesday to discuss setting up a new plant in the State. The Chief Minister explained to the Sun Pharma team the government’s policies for industrial progress and invited them to make use of opportunities to invest in the State. He told them that transparent policies had been made available for the establishment of industries and steps were being taken to provide quality human resources through skill development. In this regard, Mr. Shangvi said he was happy to interact with the Chief Minister and was impressed with his vision in creating new jobs using industries, especially towards the development of the pharma industry. He said that they were seriously considering setting up a manufacturing facility in the State to enhance their manufacturing capacity. Company representatives Vijay Parekh, Saurabh Bora and Vidyasagar were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sun-pharma-keen-to-set-up-unit-in-state/article38059611.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Despite COVID, Waltair Division puts up good performance||Despite the pandemic situation, Waltair Division had transported 2.89 million passengers and generated passenger revenue of Rs. 112.67 crore between April and August this year (2021-22 fiscal), registering good growth, as compared to the first five months of the previous financial year. The Division had achieved the best-ever freight loading during April to August this year. The originating goods loading of 26.71 million tonnes during the first five months of the 2021-22 fiscal, compared to 19.89 MT during the same period last year, registered an increase of 34.29%. Goods revenue increased to Rs. 3,090 crore, from Rs. 2,316.70 crore during the same period last year. Waltair Division recorded a total revenue of Rs. 3,244.55 crore in the first five months of this year, as against Rs. 2,380.86 crore the same period last year, registering an increase of 36.27%. The Division operated 30 Kisan rakes, transporting 10,179 tons of mangoes, earning Rs. 4.6 crore revenue in the first three months of the present fiscal. Waltair Division, headquartered in Visakhapatnam, is spread over 1,106 km, extending over Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts in Andhra Pradesh, apart from parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh States. It has a total staff strength of 17,677, including 126 gazetted officers. Things seem to be moving in the right direction for Waltair Division, ever since Anup Satpathy took over as Divisional Railway Manager, earlier this year. The initiatives taken by him include provision of two new Vistadome (glass) coaches for the Visakhapatnam – Kirandul passenger, popularly known as Araku passenger, introduction of LHB coaches for many important trains and augmentation of coaches to high-demand originating trains from Visakhapatnam, during the festival season. The LHB coaches, based on German technology, offer better riding comfort, are lighter in weight, have higher speed potential and have a higher carrying capacity. Rail users have taken to Twitter to hail the new DRM for his proactive measures. Pending proposals Construction of a third line from Visakhapatnam to Gopalapatnam, for which a survey was completed long ago, building additional platforms on the Gnanpuram side of the Visakhapatnam railway station, introduction of new originating trains to Bengaluru, Varanasi and Kolkata and rerouting of long-distance trains, which are presently diverted through Duvvada, via Visakhapatnam junction, are some of the major pending issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/despite-covid-waltair-division-puts-up-good-performance/article38060132.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adivasis stage protests in district||Tribal people owing allegiance to AP Adivasi JAC and Girijan Sangham apart from those owing allegiance to the Left parties staged protests in different mandals in the Agency area of the district on Tuesday, demanding inclusion of non-scheduled tribal villages in the 5th Schedule. At a protest held at Tummavanipalem village of Ouruwada panchyat of V. Madugula mandal, under the aegis of the AP Girijan Sangham 5th Schedule Sadhana Committee, I. Narasimha Murthy, Girijan Sangham Non-Scheduled Area district general secretary, and Agriculture Workers Union leader K. Bhavani said that the people of non-scheduled tribal villages of Anantagiri, Devarapalli, Cheedikada, V. Madugula, Ravikamatham, Rolugunta, Kotauratla, Nathavaram and Golugonda mandals have not been brought under the purview of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), resulting in their neglect, even 75 years after Independence. They demanded that the ITDA general body meeting to be held on December 29 include their villages in the 5th Schedule apart from excluding them from the proposal to include them under the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adivasis-stage-protests-in-district/article38060137.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACA felicitates several players||The 68th Annual General Meeting(AGM) of the Andhra Cricket Association(ACA) was held here on Tuesday. Members of the ACA discussed over the developmental activities pertaining to domestic cricket of ACA, infrastructure and other financial matters during the last one year. Several decisions were taken during the AGM with unanimous acceptance. The ACA members also felicitated and awarded prize money to several players, who excelled during the current season. Cricketer K.S Bharat was awarded Rs. 5 lakh. Ch. Jhansi Lakshmi and B. Anusha, who played in Senior Women Challenger Trophy matches at Vijayawada, was awarded Rs. 1 lakh each. Members of ACA participated in a friendly T20 cricket match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aca-felicitates-several-players/article38060135.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting home for pregnant women set up at Munchingputtu||To prevent death of pregnant women and newborn babies in the tribal areas of Visakhapatnam district, the district administration has set up a waiting home for pregnant women at Munchingputtu in the district on Tuesday. The waiting home, which was constructed at a cost of about Rs. 30 lakh with the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) funds near the Community Health Centre (CHC), was inaugurated by Araku MLA Chetti Phalguna, Zilla Parishad Chairperson J. Subhadra and Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna. Pregnant women from interior tribal hamlets, which do not have proper road facilities, especially those who are being shifted by ‘doli’ can be brought and admitted to the waiting home two weeks before the expected date of delivery. The pregnant women would be provided food, water, medication and other facilities to ensure safe delivery. This would avoid unfortunate incidents, the officials said. Mr. Gopala Krishna said that such centres would be inaugurated at Araku and Dumbriguda in January. He also promised to construct a birth waiting home, houses for medical staff and a mobile tower at Rudakota village of Pedabayulu mandal. Mr. Phalguna said the birth waiting home at Munchingput was the first in the State. Giving top priority to medical and health services, the State government has been appointing adequate number of specialist doctors in the Agency hospitals, he said. Additional DMHO K. Leela Prasad was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiting-home-for-pregnant-women-set-up-at-munchingputtu/article38060134.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag Bird Festival to be held on January 22, 23||In a first of its kind initiative, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park(IGZP), in collaboration with Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Tirupati, will organise a Vizag Bird Festival on the IGZP premises here on January 22 and 23. Additional Director General (Project Tiger) and Member-Secretary, Central Zoo Authority (CZA), S. P. Yadav, released a poster and teaser on the festival during his visit to the zoo on Tuesday, in the presence of Conservator of Forests P. Ram Mohan Rao. According to zoo Curator Nandani Salaria, the festival was aimed at creating awareness among the public on the avian diversity of Andhra Pradesh. The festival would also help in bringing the bird watchers of Andhra Pradesh together and fill the gap between local science and research community, she said. Various events like Guided Bird Walk, Train the Trainers, Nature Journaling, Bird Call Recording and Beyond Bird Watching would be conducted for different age groups. Interested persons can visit www.vizagzoo.com or contact 9441130894 for registration and more details about the event, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-bird-festival-to-be-held-on-january-22-23/article38060079.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha app being misused to trap women, says Telugu Mahila chief||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Mahila Wing State president V. Anitha has said that that Disha app, which was launched by the State government to protect women, is being misused by some police personnel and Ward/Village Volunteers. She alleged that a 19-year-old girl was raped by a police Inspector in Eluru in West Godavari district. Though the incident came to light recently, the Police Department has not taken any action, she said. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Ms. Anitha alleged that some policemen and Ward/Gram Volunteers were harassing girls after collecting their contact numbers in the name of Disha app awareness programmes. As per our information, a Circle Inspector (Traffic) came into contact with the girl through this process, lured her on the pretext of providing Mahila Police job and had sexually exploited her for three months, she alleged. “The Police Department failed to arrest or book the accused under any Section of IPC but simply placed him under suspension,” she said wondering as to why Home Minister M. Sucharitha and women members of the A.P. Police Officers Association were silent on the issue and have not reacted to it so far. Coming down heavily on the Home Minister, Ms. Anitha described her as ‘a puppet’, who reads the script given by YSRCP leader Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. The Home Minister responds to issues not connected to her own department but fails to react on important matters concerning her own department, Ms. Anitha alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-app-being-misused-to-trap-women-telugu-mahila-chief/article38060081.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC launches package tours to Gujarat, Goa||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has launched two special packages, ‘Vibrant Gujarat’ and ‘Gracious Goa with Hampi’, from Visakhapatnam. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, IRCTC Area Officer B. Chandra Mohan said that ‘Vibrant Gujarat’ tour will be from January 21 to 31 (10 nights/11 days). The tour would cover places like Somnath, Dwaraka, Nageshwar, Bet Dwaraka, Ahmedabad, Akshardham temple, Sabarmati Ashram and Statue of Unity. Palasa, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Tuni apart from Visakhapatnam, are boarding and deboarding places. The cost was about Rs. 10,400 per head for Sleeper Class and Rs. 17,330 for third AC. ‘Gracious Goa with Hampi’ tour, which would commence from February 12 to 18 (six nights/seven days), would cover Miramar Beach, Calangute, Vagataor Beach, Fort Aguada, Basilica of Bom Jesus, Se Cathedral, Mangesh temple, Colva Beach and a few other places. He said that Visakhapatnam, Duvvada, Anakapalle and Tuni are boarding and deboarding stations for this tour. The cost for this tour was Rs. 6,620 per head for Sleeper Class and Rs. 8,090 for third AC. Interested persons can contact on the mobile nos. 8287932318, 8287932281 or at IRCTC Office, near Gate no.1 at the Visakhapatnam Railway Station for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-starts-package-tours-to-gujarat-goa/article38059567.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vizag tops State in Vahana Mitra’||Visakhapatnam district has bagged the first place in the State in the implementation of the YSR Vahana Mitra scheme for the owners of autorickshaws, taxis and maxi cab. In the first phase, a financial assistance of Rs. 34.77 crore was extended to 34,778 beneficiairies during June and July, this year, for 2021-22 fiscal. In the second phase, Rs. 63.50 lakh was given to 635 new beneficiaries, on Tuesday. This takes the total financial assistance extended under the scheme, for the present financial year, to Rs. 35.41 crore, placing the district on top in implementation of the scheme, according to Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-leads-in-vahana-mitra-implementation/article38060080.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make Vizag cleanest city in country: Lakshmisha||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha took part in a Swachh Survekshan rally along with officials at Ward no. 65, here on Tuesday to create awareness about the forthcoming survey. Seeking cooperation of the citizens, NGOs and resident welfare associations (RWAs), the Municipal Commissioner appealed them to support the corporation to make Visakhapatnam, the cleanest city in the country, and help it achieve the top rank in the survey. He inspected Wards 65 and 66 and instructed the Town Planning officers to remove unauthorised constructions. He also instructed the engineering officials to repair the roads, which were dug up for underground drainage works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-vizag-cleanest-city-in-country-lakshmisha/article38060139.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special weekly trains to Secunderabad from January 4||Special trains will be operated by East Coast Railway (E Co R) between Visakhapatnam and Secunderabad to clear the extra rush of passengers during the Pongal season. Train no. 08579 Visakhapatnam- Secunderabad weekly special train will leave Visakhapatnam on Wednesdays from January 5 to February 23 at 7 p.m. to reach Secunderabad on the next day at 7 a.m. In the return direction, 08580 Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam weekly special will leave Secunderabad on Thursdays from January 6 to February 24 at 7.40 p.m. to reach Visakhapatnam on the next day at 6.40 a.m., according to a statement issued by the Senior Divisional Commercial Manage A.K, Tripathi on Tuesday. These trains will have stoppages at Duvvada, Anakapalle, Annavaram, Samalkot, Rajahmundry, Tadepalligudem, Vijayawada, Guntur, Miryalaguda and Sattenapalle Train no. 08585 Visakhapatnam- Secunderabad weekly special train will leave Visakhapatnam on Tuesdays from January 4 to Feb 22 at 5.35 p.m. to reach Secunderabad on the next day at 7.10 a.m. In the return direction, 08586 Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam weekly Special train, will leave Secunderabad on Wednesdays from January 5 to February 23 at 9.05 p.m. to reach Visakhapatnam on the next day at 9.50 a.m. These trains will have stoppages at Duvvada, Samalkot, Rajahmundry, Eluru, Vijayawada, Guntur, Miryalaguda and Nalgonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-weekly-trains-to-secunderabad-from-jan-4/article38060084.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death, 7 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded seven new COVID-19 cases and 14 discharges in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,347. The number of recoveries has also increased to 1,58,126. The death toll rose to 1,108 after one more death was reported from the district in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stands at 113.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-one-death-7-new-cases/article38060138.ece
29 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag Port handles highest volume of cargo in a single day||Visakhapatnam Port has handled the highest volume of cargo in a single day on December 26. The port handled 3,70,029 MT of cargo combinedly at Inner Harbour and Outer Harbour, including SPM, through 21 vessels at the port. This is the highest tonnage handled by the port since its inception, duly surpassing the previous best of 3,47,722 MT, by handling the cargo, which arrived in 19 vessels at the port on December 2, 2019. Visakhapatnam Port Trust Chairman K. Ramamohana Rao appreciated the Traffic Department on this achievement. He also advised the Traffic Department to work hard for further growth of the port. In an official departmental meeting, the Chairman appreciated the Traffic Manager for his efforts in achieving the record in one day. In this meeting, Deputy Chairman Durgesh Kumar Dubey and Port Secretary T. Venugopal were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-port-handles-highest-volume-of-cargo-in-a-single-day/article38060133.ece
29 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI urges govt. to look into grievances of realty sector||Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI) State general secretary K. Subhash Chandra Bose has urged the State government to hold a meeting with representatives of builders’ association and stakeholders to listen to the grievances of the real estate sector which has been facing unprecedented challenges for the last two years with steep hike in prices of almost all materials, including steel, cement and others. He said that many top builders had shelved their projects and struggled to complete the existing projects. The government’s helping hand would help at least 20 lakh people dependent on the realty sector, he said. “A cement bag which used to cost around Rs. 230 is now priced at Rs. 370. Steel which was available at Rs. 46,000 per tonne now costs Rs. 70,000. Cost of tiles, bricks, electrical and plumbing material has gone up by nearly 30%,” said Mr. Bose. “After agriculture, realty sector spurs economic activity and provides livelihood for many persons including labourers, electricians, painters, plumbers and others. They are the real victims with the slump in the sector. That is why, we have asked the government to look into our grievances by appointing a high-level committee with officials and experts,” Mr. Bose said. He urged the government to ensure speedy approvals of plans which were not being given with the delay in fixing up of revised property taxes and vacant land tax issues. He urged the government to withdraw its decision to take 5% land or equivalent worth of amount from developers for newly developed layouts. He said the developers might not show any interest in developing new layouts with this stringent rule. Mr. Bose feared that the the government’s rule would lead to further escalation of prices of properties, leading to heavy financial burden indirectly on the customers who wanted to have pieces of land to make a good property for future generations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/credai-urges-govt-to-look-into-grievances-of-realty-sector/article38060071.ece
29 December 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD orders will benefit tribal farmers: Sobha||Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) chairperson Sobha Swati Rani said that the decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to buy turmeric and honey from the corporation would benefit hundreds of tribal farmers in the North Andhra region. Speaking to The Hindu in Vizianagaram, she said that 2,000 kg of fine quality turmeric was despatched to Tirumala recently and another consignment would be sent within three months. She said that tribal farmers would be encouraged to cultivate turmeric in a big way since more orders were likely to be received from other major temples located across the country. “We will take the support of the Agriculture and the Horticulture Departments in Vizinaagaram, Srikakulam and other districts to make farmers to opt for cultivation of turmeric and spices. Honey production is also given top priority since GCC honey has a huge demand in the market,” said Ms. Swati Rani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-orders-will-benefit-tribal-farmers-sobha/article38060074.ece
29 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Screening camp conducted for diabetics||The Non Communicable Diseases wing of the Vizianagaram District Medical Hospital on Tuesday conducted free screening for diabetics Hospital Superintendent Sitaramaa Raju and doctor Ramalakshmi said special counselling and screening would be conducted on the fourth Tuesday of every month. The patients could visit the NCD wing till 4 p.m. on the day to get the treatment, guidance for diet and exercises from the experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/screening-camp-conducted-for-diabetics/article38060077.ece
29 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Digital classroom inaugurated at ZP school||Visakhapatnam Sarada Petham seer Swatmanandendra Saraswati on Tuesday said children of remote areas should have access to internet and technology since online classes were conducted in the backdrop of COVID-19 and its variants. He said that access to technology would help students acquire more knowledge within no time. Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust and IFCI Social Foundation jointly established digital classroom in the Zilla Parishad High School at Gummalakshmipuram the district. The seer lauded the trust for taking up service activities in remote areas of the district. At another function, the seer distributed blankets to tribal people on behalf of SSR Charitable Trust. Trust founder Sura Srinivasa Rao said the blankets were being distributed as there was significant drop in temperature in the winter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/digital-classroom-inaugurated-at-zp-school/article38060072.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP is turning a blind eye to financial lapses, says Keshav||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), instead of urging the Centre to initiate action against the State government for diverting funds from 15 Centrally-sponsored schemes, is turning a blind eye to financial irregularities in the State and attacks being committed on cadres of opposition parties, Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman and TDP leader Payyavula Keshav alleged. At a press conference on Tuesday, Mr. Keshav asked BJP leader Prakash Javadekar, who is attending a ‘Praja Agraha Sabha’, to ask his party members to oppose the criminal cases reportedly being filed against Opposition leaders and to question the YSRCP government over the ‘re-branding of Central schemes. “While Rs. 1.50 lakh is given to a beneficiary under the PM Awas Yojana, Rs. 30,000 comes from the MGNREGS but it is being implemented as ‘Jagananna Housing Scheme’ without even a single rupee being invested by the State government. But the State BJP chooses to remain silent,” Mr. Keshav alleged. “It is surprising that the State BJP chose to support the protests for Amaravati capital only after Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke about it in Tirupati. They are not questioning the State police and the government’s stand on the Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder case or the attack on Narasapuram MP K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju,” he alleged. The TDP leader said it was too early for them to comment on whether they would forge an alliance with another political party for the 2024 elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-is-turning-a-blind-eye-to-financial-lapses-says-keshav/article38060048.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caution! work in progress||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caution-work-in-progress/article38060130.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welcome relief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welcome-relief/article38060055.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welcome change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welcome-change/article38059571.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Learning the ropes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/learning-the-ropes/article38060076.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Multiple challenges keep police on their toes||Successful in suppressing Left Wing Extremism (LWE), but struggling to strike in similar fashion in other areas of policing. That puts in perspective the performance of Telangana police this year, which is drawing to an end. By neutralising six Maoists in a joint operation with Chhattisgarh police the previous day, they proved their upper hand once again in the battle against LWE. The success is not at same level when it comes to smuggling, sale and spread of ganja in the State, dance of death on roads and ever increasing cyber crimes. Instances of seizures of ganja in huge quantities in different parts of the State are staring at Telangana police. Authorities were victorious in making the State free of ‘Gudumba’. While illicitly distilled liquor-manufacturing came down drastically, sale and smuggle of ganja witnessed a swift rise. Use of the contraband and its availability had increased multi-fold across the State. In remote parts of the districts too, instances of teenagers sniffing ganja are being reported in large numbers. All of it being sold in the State is not cultivated here surely. Investigations indicated organised gangs are collecting the contraband from interior parts of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. It is said ganja is being cultivated in deep forest areas and the authorities are unable to penetrate into such locations to check them. Fatal mishaps Another cause of concern is the loss of lives in road accidents. During year-end reviews, heads of police units boast of reducing road accident deaths by presenting statistics. The data, however, clearly shows the so-called reduction is too marginal to be happy about. The fact remains that hundreds of lives are lost every month in road accidents on national, state highways as well as internal and interior roads. Notwithstanding their often tom-tommed ‘friendly policing’, a Dalit woman died allegedly after she was subjected to third degree methods during interrogation of a theft case in June. The custodial death of Mariamma in Addagudur police station of Rachakonda police commissionerate resulted in the eventual dismissal of three policemen from service. Questions remain over initiating criminal action against them. Online fraud With internet usage on the rise, naturally online offences are going up, and Telangana State is no exception. Yet, instances of individuals ending their lives due to ‘harassment’ and ‘humiliation’ by online loan app companies emerged as a fresh challenge to law-enforcing agencies. Preliminary probes indicated some Chinese companies were luring people with the bait of online loans and fleecing them when the latter failed to return money. Money collected from the country is reportedly being transferred to China through ‘hawala’ and other modes. This can be checked only with the coordination and cooperation of national investigating authorities.  In remote parts of Telangana’s districts too, instances of teenagers sniffing ganja are being reported in large numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/multiple-challenges-keep-police-on-their-toes/article38059873.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Abundant water aside, uncertainty looms large over Rabi in Telangana||The issue revolving around paddy procurement has completely overshadowed an otherwise promising agriculture year (2021-22) that has a good first half — kharif season — in terms of area covered and production in spite of excess rains having adverse impact on some of the major crops, mainly cotton and pulses. As the major political parties kept blaming each other on the State government’s decision advising farmers not to cultivate paddy this rabi season unless they have any tie-up with rice millers, traders and seed companies or for own consumption, the farming community is left in the lurch with the uncertainty reigning supreme over taking up other crops, particularly from the point of view of their marketing. The Opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been accusing the State government of sleeping over the issue of parboiled rice produced in rabi season although the Centre has made its mind clear about not procuring parboiled rice, only which is produced mostly in Telangana in rabi, in August itself. The State government on its part has started reacting on it only from the November first week seriously. As there was no clarity on cultivating paddy in rabi till December second week, the farming community was in dilemma till the last moment on taking up alternative crops such as oilseeds in addition to pulses. Non-availability of seed of certain oilseed crops such as safflower and sunflower and lack of assurance on their marketing (procurement) have also added to the farmers’ inability to make up mind. “Farmers in the State are in a strange situation of having abundant water in projects this season but not in a position to raise paddy on a large scale. It would have easily crossed 60-lakh acre mark this rabi against about 53 lakh acres covered in the last rabi,” a senior official said preferring not to be quoted. Uncertainty looms large also over the procurement of entire paddy produce of the kharif season as the Centre/Food Corporation of India (FCI) has agreed to procure an additional 10 lakh tonnes of paddy over 60 lakh tonnes agreed upon initially. However, a delegation of Telangana ministers and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MPs that met Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal has requested him to increase the procurement limit at least to 80 lakh tonnes. Against the production of paddy estimated by the Ministry of Agriculture at about 75.4 lakh tonnes from 59.35 lakh acres cultivated, the State government has put the production at around 1.4 crore tonnes from 61.95 lakh acres. Chairman of the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC) M. Srinivas Reddy alleged Centre’s discrimination against Telangana stating that Kharif paddy procured from Punjab was nearly 1.87 crore tonnes till December 27. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, who suggested farmers, through an open letter, to go for alternative crops earlier this month, said the State government would be better prepared for promoting alternative crops from next year including making quality seed for such crops available.  How the 2021-22 farm year unfolded Kharif crops cultivated in Telangana this year – 1.3 crore acres Paddy was taken up in 61.95 lakh acres, cotton in 46.43 lakh acres Paddy procurement centre proposed for Kharif – 6,950 Opened so far – 6,863; Closed so far – 3,767 Paddy procured as on December 27 – 60.78 lakh tonnes Value of paddy purchased - Rs. 11,898 crore Amount paid to farmers - Rs. 9,129 crore Rabi crops cultivated as on December 24 – 10.79 lakh acres Rabi crops covered last year – 68.14 lakh acres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/abundant-water-aside-uncertainty-looms-large-over-rabi-in-telangana/article38059888.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS govt. incompetent, miller-friendly: Uttam||Nalgonda MP and former TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has claimed that the ‘incompetence’ of TRS government has led to the present paddy crisis and it also reflects how Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has lost control over the administration. No official has any clue about what’s happening in their departments as the entire administration is being run by a few persons and this has led to collapse of the system and farmers are now paying the price, he said at a press conference here. Terming the TRS government as miller-friendly and not farmer-friendly, he alleged that the millers have defaulted on payments for one lakh tonnes of rice in the last two years, but the government has no courage to question them. Or is it that they both have colluded, he asked. Mr. Reddy said the TRS government has played with the lives of thousands of farmers by accepting to procure only 40 lakh metric tonnes at a meeting called by the Central government on August 17, 2020. Why did the government agree for so little when the CM was repeatedly claiming of increased production. “In the same meeting smaller States like Chattisgarh and Punjab promised 113 lakh MT and 45 lakh MT. It means the government was clueless of what was happening at the ground level,” he said. The Nalgonda MP asked the farmers to sow paddy for the Yasangi season as they can’t pay the price for the government’s inefficiency. The farmers have not even been educated on alternate crops and asking them not to sow paddy was sheer incompetence. “Farmers need to be prepared for crop changes in advance with government incentives as well,” he said. Buying votes TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi alleged that KCR was busy buying votes in Huzurabad when he had to concentrate on paddy procurement. It is clear that both the BJP and TRS have colluded to cheat the farmers, he said, adding what moral right KCR has got to ask farmers not to sow paddy when he himself has sown paddy in 150 acres in his farmhouse. Kisan Congress national vice-president M. Kodanda Reddy was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-govt-incompetent-miller-friendly-uttam/article38059896.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ten acres in capital biz hub changes hands for Rs. 235 cr.||Ten acres of prime land in Kukatpally, belonging to one of the largest corporate houses in the country, has been purchased by real estate developer Ashoka Builders India (ASBL) for Rs. 235 crore. Real estate consultancy firm JLL, appointed exclusive transaction partner by the seller, said this is one of the largest single land deals of 2021 in the country and a major boost to the real estate market in the city. It, however, did not mention details of the land owner. The land is in Kukatpally, a busy business hub in the north western part of the city and known for a thriving residential community and excellent connectivity to many other parts of the city, JLL said in a release. The deal, closed in record time, proves Hyderabad’s favourable market in terms of strong demand for both commercial and residential developments, said Sandip Patnaik, MD-Telangana and Andhra Pradesh of JLL. Renewed buyer confidence has been instrumental in supporting the Hyderabad real estate market recovery in Q3 2021, which recorded a healthy quantum of sales and launches as compared to the same period last year. These numbers are inching towards those during pre-COVID, he said. Ashoka Builders CEO Ajitesh Korupolu said, “We intend to build a mixed-use development, combining premium residential development and Grade A commercial space by June 2025. We plan to further invest around Rs. 250 crore to develop this mixed-use community, taking the valuation of the project, after completion, to be roughly Rs. 600 crore.” From a company standpoint, the project would diversify its presence on all sides of Hyderabad. “We are already present in south-west and east, making Kukatpally ASBL’s expansion into the north-west of Hyderabad. Secondly, this would be our first venture into commercial real estate. The great connectivity Kukatpally enjoys due to the recently inaugurated flyovers, metro rail and all other forms of commute, make this land a lucrative investment opportunity,” he said. A new-age real estate firm, it is executing 5 million sq ft of residential built-up space across Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ten-acre-land-in-kukatpally-changes-hands-for-rs-235-cr/article38059875.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MLA’s visit fails to convince oustees||The efforts made by Husnabad MLA V. Satish Kumar to pacify the agitating oustees of Gudatipally, the submerging village under Gouravelli reservoir, were not successful. He had a bitter experience with oustees raising slogans against him. Mr. Satish Kumar visited the protest camp of the oustees at Gudatipally on Tuesday and interacted with them. He urged them to withdraw the agitation and cooperate with the government for the construction of the Gouravelli reservoir. He promised to fulfil all the promises made to them. However, he did not have an answer when the oustees asked him for a time frame for the assurances to be addressed. The visiting MLA told the oustees that he had to talk with the government on the assurances and added that it was not possible to immediately implement all the promises made to them. The oustees pointed out that when the project works are under progress for the last one-and-a-half decade or so where was the urgency to complete it without paying the right compensation to the the project displaced. They also questioned him about the delay in issuance of GO pertaining to compensation to the youth aged above 18 years and the promise of double bedroom houses. “It appears that the MLA came here as leaders of all other political parties are visiting the protest camp. We did not find him showing any interest in addressing our problems as he was repeatedly saying that only the government has to take a decision. Why we are being discriminated against when similar benefits were extended to oustees of other irrigation projects in the district?” asked an oustee on condition of anonymity stating that the MLA was at the protest camp for hardly 15 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mlas-visit-fails-to-convince-oustees/article38059890.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Basti dawakhanas for other municipalities too||The State government has decided to extend the concept of basti dawakhanas to municipalities across the State following the successful results achieved since they were made operational in the GHMC limits for taking health care to the doorsteps of the common man. The government has accordingly decided to open 288 basti dawakhanas in the municipalities in two phases in the coming days for taking quality medicare to the people. Ministers T. Harish Rao and K.T. Rama Rao, who reviewed the functioning of the Health department with senior officials, directed them to take steps to open basti dawakhanas in municipalities in two phases and the process should be completed before the State Formation Day, June 2. Mr. Harish Rao said that basti dawakhanas, which were started following instructions from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, brought down healthcare costs for the common man besides providing quality medical services. It was therefore decided to open 288 basti dawakhanas in 141 municipalities across the State in the next six months. With 256 dawakhanas already operational in the GHMC limits, the total number of basti dawakhanas would reach 544 in the next six months. Officials concerned were accordingly directed to work out modalities required for setting up basti dawakhanas taking into consideration population, availability of medical services and other factors. The Municipal Administration department would ensure basic amenities at these dawakhanas while the Health department would take care of the equipment/medicine requirements. Officials should ensure effective coordination for involving T-Diagnostics for testing samples collected from patients visiting basti dawakhanas so that they need not spend amounts in this regard. Mr. Rama Rao complimented the Health department for its efforts that placed the State in the third place in the health index released by the NITI Aayog. It was appreciable that the State had improved its ranking from fourth to third in one year and efforts should be made to put the State in the first place in the health index in the coming days. The Minister said the IT department would provide its cooperation in effectively operating basti dawakhanas,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/basti-dawakhanas-for-other-municipalities-too/article38059892.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Khammam girl gets a new lease of life||A 29-year-old girl from Khammam district got a new lease of life after receiving critical care treatment and sphenoidal endoscopic method surgery for growth hormone secreting tumour in pituitary region of the brain. No diabetes history A team of doctors at Care Hospitals performed complex surgery on the patient Dargani Jyothi, who was suffering with diabetic ketoacidosis and sepsis, with no prior history of diabetes, that caused fever for several days. Care Hospitals consultant general medicine K.S. Moinuddin said Ms. Jyothi was admitted on October 19 and was treated for about two months, of which she was on ventilator support for about 45 days. Various investigations were done and she was finally diagnosed as having growth hormone secreting tumour in pituitary region of brain. The tumour was resected on December 11 by trans sphenoidal endoscopic method and post-operation, she improved well. Ms. Jyothi was not on any drug for diabetes and her blood sugar levels were normal. She was discharged on Monday. Rare case Critical care medicine consultant Srilatha said pituitary tumours were abnormal growths that develop in the pituitary gland. Some pituitary tumours result in increased hormones that regulate important functions of the body. Overall incidence of growth hormone-secreting tumours was 3 to 10 per one lakh cases, the doctor said.  Tha patient was treated for about two months, of which she was on ventilator support for about 45 days. K.S. Moinuddin, Care Hospitals consultant general medicine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/khammam-girl-gets-a-new-lease-of-life/article38059878.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flyover opened in Hyderabad||A flyover near the Owaisi Hospital junction, part of a series of structures planned to facilitate hassle-free travel from the international airport to the eastern part of the city, was inaugurated on Tuesday. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao, along with his Cabinet colleagues Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Sabitha Indra Reddy, and MP Asaduddin Owaisi, launched the flyover and named it the APJ Abdul Kalam Flyover, in memory of the former president of India, who had worked in DRDO located in close vicinity. The 1.36-km flyover, built under the Strategic Road Development Plan, cost Rs. 80 crore, of which Rs. 63 crore was the construction cost and the remaining spent on property acquisition, a note from GHMC informed. The flyover was built using pre-cast parts, except for the foundation, owing to the heavy traffic flow on the road, it said. Seven structures have been planned between Aramghar and L.B.Nagar, including the flyover between Nalgonda Crossroads and Owaisi junction, extension of Chandrayangutta flyover, another flyover between Aramghar and Zoo park, ROB at Falaknuma and RUB at Uppuguda. The remaining structures will also be completed by March 2022 and brought into use, the statement informed, citing chief engineer Devanand. Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi, Deputy Mayor M.Srilatha Shobhan Reddy, MLAs Akbaruddin Owaisi, D.Sudheer Reddy, MLCs Syed Aminul Hasan Jafri, Mirza Riyaz Ul Effendi, Yegge Mallesham and Boggarapu Dayanand attended the event apart from GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar, and engineer in chief R. Sreedhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flyover-opened-in-the-city/article38059881.ece
29 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. must ensure playground, library in every school, says CJI||State governments should ensure that every school and college has a library and playground which would help in the development of students, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said here on Tuesday. Delivering the valedictory address at the Hyderabad Book Fair, Justice Ramana said book-reading is a good habit as it leaves an imprint in minds while playing sports increases sporting spirit among children. “I don’t think there are libraries in schools and colleges anymore. For any school or college to be set up, library is a must. This rule, nobody is following. Same is the case with playground. This is a serious issue. Governments should solve this issue,” he said. State governments should restore libraries in villages and provide grants for them, he added. He said literature and writers played key role in several struggles across the world, including the Indian freedom struggle. Many Indian freedom fighters used to read a lot and write when they were languishing in prisons. No book reviews   Justice Ramana said he read Maxim Gorky’s Mother several times and it has influenced him deeply. He further said that in this digital age except movie reviews, one cannot find any good review on books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-must-ensure-playground-library-in-every-school-says-cji/article38059884.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Why is paddy grown in CM’s farm, asks Congress||Congress leaders lashed out at Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy and asked him what forced the government to stop Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy’s Rachabanda programme at ‘Erravalli’. At separate press conferences AICC secretary Sampath Kumar and TPCC senior vice-president Mallu Ravi asked the TRS Ministers to accept their failure instead of ‘shamelessly’ blaming the Congress for the present paddy crisis. The government was afraid that KCR’s farmhouse practices would be exposed if the Congress was allowed to chat with the farmers. Mr. Sampath said the Minister seems to have lost his senses in criticising the Congress rather than replying as to why Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has sown paddy in his farmhouse while discouraging the same. “We are committed to our statement of KCR sowing paddy in 150 acres in his farmhouse and let the government prove it was wrong,” he said. Mr. Mallu Ravi said the Congress will never collude with the ‘communal BJP’ unlike the TRS that has been supporting the saffron party on all platforms. With their nexus exposed they are now putting up a fake fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-is-paddy-grown-in-cms-farm-asks-congress/article38060087.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man found dead in suspicious circumstances||An unidentified man, suspected to be in the age group of 25-30 years, was found dead in suspicious circumstances at Bahadurpally in Dundigal police station limits on Tuesday. A sanitation worker from the local municipality had alerted the police when a body was found near Sainath Society at around 12.30 p.m. According to the police, the deceased man wore a sweater and his right hand showed tattoos – Sandhya, Ramesh (in English) and Amma (in Telugu). Police said the body of the victim did not show any visible and external injuries. An investigation was opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-found-dead-in-suspicious-circumstances/article38059885.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP is a stumbling block to growth: Kadiam||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has become a stumbling block in the development of Telangana as on one hand it is creating hurdles in the implementation of development and welfare scheme and on the other it is not fulfilling the bifurcation promises and discriminating against the State in sanction of schemes and release of funds. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, MLC and former Deputy Chief Minister Kadiyam Srihari along with legislators M. Anand, P. Srinivas Reddy and others said the BJP leaders of Telangana had miserably failed in getting national project status to Kaleshwaram project, get funds released as recommended by NITI Aayog to Mission Bhagiratha and Mission Kakatiya programmes and not getting sanctions for steel plant at Bayyaram, railway wagon factory at Kazipet and tribal university. Instead of speaking on policy matters of the State government, right or wrong, the BJP leaders were resorting to personal attacks, Mr. Srihari said. Stating that the Centre’s policies were helping increase in disparities in society, he said the unemployment was being pushed up by selling off public sector undertakings. Mr. Srihari said anti-BJP political forces would join hands in the coming days and Chief Minister and TRS president K. Chandrasekhar Rao would take a decision as to in what way the party could work with such forces. Speaking separately, Armoor MLA and Public Undertakings Committee Chairman A. Jeevan Reddy alleged that both the BJP and Congress leaders in the State were working together as “Nampally Brothers” by making senseless allegations against the government even on denial of permission to their protests on Monday. They must be aware that COVID-19 restrictions were imposed in the State following High Court directions till January 2, he said. On State BJP president Bandi Sanjay’s remarks against ‘deeksha’ taken up by KCR in 2009 demanding statehood to Telangana, he said both BJP and Congress would not have Telangana branches of the party, if there was no deeksha of KCR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-is-a-stumbling-block-to-growth-kadiam/article38059886.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Read history to know Cong. contribution’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP A. Revanth Reddy said the BJP, TRS and other parties questioning the contribution of the Congress party in nation building were completely ignorant about India’s history. “If they want to learn what the Congress party did for the country, they should read the history of India for the last 137 years,” he said, adding that the Congress’ vision has transformed India into a global leader on various fronts and an economic superpower. Addressing the 137th Foundation Day celebrations of Congress at Gandhi Bhavan on Tuesday after hoisting the party flag, he exhorted the youth to support and join the Congress party to restore democracy in the country and revive the process of development. Former PCC presidents V. Hanumantha Rao, Ponnala Lakshmaiah and MP Uttam Kumar Reddy, and senior leaders including Bose Raju, T. Jagga Reddy and Madhu Yashki Goud, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/read-history-to-know-cong-contribution/article38059897.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AP man gets 5 years in jail for kidnap, sexual harassment||The Assistant Sessions Judge at Bhongir on Tuesday convicted a man hailing from Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh of kidnap, sexual harassment and impersonation. Aithem Ravi Shekar, 48, was involved in as many as 38 cases of cheating, mostly posing as a government official, to extort, lure job aspirants and commit thefts. His history also includes three convictions, and an escape from a police station in Visakhapatnam. According to the police, the conviction was for a 2014 case in Bhongir mandal, where the accused, posing as a vigilance officer, threatened a fair price shop dealer of action for irregularities and subsequent reporting to the District Collector. He had taken Rs. 20,000 from the female dealer. On the pretext of taking her to the Collector, he had also sexually harassed her. Ravi Shekar was convicted of the three charges and awarded five-year rigorous imprisonment. Fine of Rs. 1,000 was also imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-man-gets-5-years-in-jail-for-kidnap-sexual-harassment/article38059871.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth with rheumatic heart disease treated at OGH||A team of doctors at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) successfully treated a patient suffering from chronic rheumatic heart disease. The patient Upender (23), a resident of Pipalpahad of Choutuppal mandal in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, was admitted to the hospital on December 11 with severe mitral regurgitation and moderate aortic regurgitation. He was diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis and subsequently, valve replacement was taken up on December 15. He was operated with mitral value replacement surgery by the team of cardiothoracic and anaesthesia specialists of the hospital and was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday after his recovery was found satisfactory. OGH superintendent B. Nagender congratulated the team of doctors and expressed satisfaction over the outcome of the patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-with-rheumatic-heart-disease-treated-at-ogh/article38059879.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre should encourage TS: Minister||Telangana Minister for Agriculture S.Niranjan Reddy on Tuesday underscored the need for the Centre to encourage Telangana for the strides it made on the agricultural front. “We need appreciation of government of India,” the Minister told the business summit for southern States on the National Mission on Edible Oil – Oil Palm, in which Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar participated. His statement assumes significance amid a growing discord between Telangana and the Centre on issue of paddy procurement.  Stating that the Telangana was able to reap a bountiful harvest and do well in agriculture on the back of the leadership of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and policies, he assured that the State, which surpassed Punjab in paddy production, would also cross the target for oil palm set by the Centre. As against the target of 4.36 lakh hectares, Telangana intends to cover 12 lakh hectares under oil palm by 2026 with a outlay of Rs. 30,968 crore on a mission mode, he said. He said besides seeking approval for the action plan, to cover 12 lakh hectares, drawn up Telangana, the State wanted the Centre to give Rs. 7,170 crore as its share, provide higher price to farmers for the FFBs (Fresh Fruit Bunches) of oil palm, and enhance assistance for drip irrigation as well as on inputs and inter-crops to the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-should-encourage-ts/article38059900.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railway engineers meet Bandi||South Central Railway Engineers Association (SCREA) has sought the help of Member of Parliament and Telangana unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Bandi Sanjay Kumar to take up the with Railway Minister the issue of gazetted status, on par with other Central government engineers, and also in resolving other pending demands. A delegation led by president D. Padmanabham of the South Central Railway Engineers Association met Mr. Sanjay Kumar and presented him their set of demands. The association calender too was released on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/railway-engineers-meet-bandi/article38059891.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bars to be open till 1 a.m. on New Year day||In a circular issued on Tuesday, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the licence holders of 2B (bars), C1 licensees (in-house), EP1 (event permit) and TD1 (in-house) licensees of Tourism Development Corporation would be permitted to serve liquor up to 1 a.m. on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1. The A4 licences (retail shops) would be open till 12 midnight of January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bars-to-be-open-till-1-am-on-new-year-day/article38059893.ece
29 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress will oppose power tariff hike, says MLA||TPCC working president and Sangareddy legislator T. Jagga Reddy said the proposal to hike power charges in Telangana would be opposed and demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao revert the decision that would burden people with Rs. 7,000 crore. At a press conference here, he said the Chief Minister repeatedly claims of providing free power to the farmers and he should have also informed the people that they would be burdened for continuing the free power scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-will-oppose-power-tariff-hike-says-mla/article38059899.ece
29 December 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Be ready for COVID-19 third wave, says Odisha CM||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik directed officials to make preparations on a war-footing to deal with a possible third wave of COVID-19 with at least eight Omicron cases detected in the State. He took stock of the State’s preparedness to deal with the pandemic at a meeting with officials here. Mr. Patnaik issued a series of directives to the government departments, calling for the same level of readiness as was there during the first and second waves. Mr. Patnaik said though only eight Omicron cases have so far been detected in the State, there could be a surge in the coming days. He directed the officials to ensure that all eligible persons are provided with the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) smart health cards within a week. He also told the District Collectors and the Superintendents of Police to ensure its success, and especially monitor private hospitals to make sure they treat the beneficiaries of BSKY. Mr. Patnaik directed the Health Department and district authorities to step up the vaccination drive and reopen COVID-19 facilities that were closed after the number of cases dropped. Hospitals should have adequate oxygen supplies, he said. He also instructed the Health Department to ensure adequate facilities to treat children. “More hospitalisation is needed among the children. Therefore, the Department should implement adequate care for paediatric patients across the State.” Speaking at the meeting, Chief Secretary S.C. Mohapatra said all necessary instructions have been forwarded to the district and health authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/be-ready-for-covid-19-third-wave-says-odisha-cm/article38059955.ece
29 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||We have put an end to the ‘ABCD’ of SP, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday that the Bharatiya Janata Paty government had put an end to the vocabulary of crime, nepotism, and corruption that existed during the reign of the Samajwadi Party. “We have put an end to their ‘ABCD’,” said Mr. Shah, referring to apradh (crime), bhai bhatijawad (nepotism), corruption and dange (riots). Without taking names, Mr. Shah connected the piles of cash found at Kanpur businessman Piyush Jain’s house to the SP. He indirectly likened the recovery to a full toss delivered to a good batsman. “It is bound to fetch a boundary,” he said. Citing the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya and removing Article 370 as major achievements of the BJP government, Mr. Shah described the BJP as a party “that delivers what it promises.” ‘People’s money’ Taking a dig at SP president Akhilesh Yadav who isolated himself after his wife Dimple Yadav tested positive for COVID-19, Mr. Shah said when raids were being conducted at a businessman’s place who was making ‘Samajwadi itr ’ (perfume), somebody got indisposed. “Whose 250 crores (rupees) are these,” asked Mr. Shah. He added, “it is the money of the people of U.P.” He said the BJP was committed to the development and put an end to black money and corruption. Addressing a huge rally in the Hardoi district of central U.P., Mr. Shah said the massive turnout showed that the BJP would cross 300 seats in the upcoming Assembly election. “We have won the last three elections (Lok Sabha and Assembly elections) and a victory in the upcoming polls will finish the SP and the Bahujan Samajwadi Party. In their 15 years of rule, these parties focused only on the development of particular communities. It was only when Modi and Yogi came to power that sabka saath, sabkar vikas became a reality,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/we-have-put-an-end-to-the-abcd-of-sp/article38059791.ece
29 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Here to change tasveer and taqdeer of U.P.’||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Tuesday charged the Samajwadi Party with dropping charges against 15 terror accused during its rule. “It was the judicial intervention that prevented the then government’s plan. Five of these were subsequently awarded death penalty,” he said at a rally in Garh Mukeshwar town of Hapur district in western Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Nadda said it was only the BJP worker who had the courage to reach out to the voters with a report card of the government. “We are not here to stick to power. We have an ideology. We are in to change the tasveer (face) of the State and taqdeer (future) of the people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/here-to-change-tasveer-and-taqdeer-of-up/article38059789.ece
29 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. to waive all farm loans||Facing backlash for not granting full waiver on farmers’ loans after coming to power, the Congress government in Rajasthan has asked nationalised banks to waive the loans through a one-time scheme. The State government has offered to bear the farmers’ share in the waiver scheme. The Congress has pointed out that the Central government, while it was reluctant to provide relief to farmers, had written off industrialists’ loans worth Rs. 7.95 lakh crore in its first tenure. Shortly after being elected to power, the State government had rolled out a loan waiver of Rs. 14,000 crore, including Rs. 6,000 crore announced by the previous BJP regime, through which over 20.56 lakh farmers had benefitted. The waiver was enforced for the loans obtained by cultivators from the cooperative banks functioning under the State government.   Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has sent a proposal to the nationalised banks to bring a one-time loan waiver scheme for the State’s farmers on the lines of a scheme introduced recently by the State Bank of India, which waives agricultural loans, classified as non-performing assets (NPA). During 2018 State Assembly election, Rahul Gandhi had announced that all loans of farmers would be waived within 10 days of assuming power. Though the farmers’ loans from nationalised banks were declared as NPAs on November 20, 2018, they are yet to be waived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajasthan-govt-to-waive-all-farm-loans/article38059792.ece
29 December 2021||Kultali (W.B.),||After nearly a week-long chase, tiger captured near Bengal village||A royal Bengal tiger, which had strayed into a locality in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district, was captured on Tuesday after a week-long chase, the officials said. The Forest personnel chased the tiger for six days, they said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-nearly-a-week-long-chase-tiger-captured-near-bengal-village/article38059953.ece
29 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra plans code of conduct for MLAs||The Maharashtra Assembly will be distributing a booklet on how to maintain decorum and follow the code of conduct when inside the legislative premises to all the elected representatives following instances of insulting other party leaders which led to an uproar inside the House. On Tuesday morning, a meeting of all group leaders and senior Ministers along with the Deputy Speaker, the Deputy Chief Minister and the Leader of the Opposition was held to discuss the conduct of MLAs and ways to avoid conflict. “A booklet on how to conduct oneself as an MLA and especially when inside the legislative building will be sent to all MLAs. It is expected that everyone reads that and follows in totality,” said Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said he has been observing absolute disregard to rules and tradition by many newcomers and it should be called out at that very moment. “We represent a few lakh citizens. Certain decorum must be maintained when inside the House,” he said. Mr. Pawar also appealed to the Chair asking him to set an example by punishing unruly MLAs on the spot. “Make them sit outside the Assembly for four hours or for a day. Unless you do it, things won’t improve,” he said. Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis too voiced the need for MLAs to follow rules and regulations in the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-plans-code-of-conduct-for-mlas/article38059958.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||A long road to healing||Two months after Arunima Bhattacharjee’s father passed away in May due to COVID-19, she landed in the job her father always dreamt for her — as a law researcher with a Delhi High Court judge. But the 28-year-old lives with the regret that her father got the infection from her.   “We never lived an extravagant life. My father retired from a government job but ensured that all our needs were fulfilled. I wonder how he made it seem like a cakewalk when it’s actually a herculean task, “ said Arunima. “I pay one bill and lose track of the rest. I wonder how he did it”. Arunima and her mother, Rama, are grappling with the irreplaceable loss. “Our support is gone. I was fully dependent on him [Abhoy] for fulfilling my social obligations. Now all kinds of worries plague me,” said Ms. Rama. Arunima recalled how her father unfailingly stood by her and comforted her when things turned bleak. “When I was laid off, he consoled me and asked me to be positive and hang in there. He stonewalled peoples’ over-arching concern about my marriage and always told me to take it easy and not get flustered. The house feels so empty now without him and the family photo will never be complete,” she said, unable to hold back her tears. Breezer, their dog, sat on his couch. Occasionally clinging to Arunima and her mother Rama. He has also mellowed down after Abhoy’s demise. “My father and Breezer were inseparable. After his death, the latter has become mellow and very anxious if me or Maa are not around,” Arunima said. Another family in Pitampura is gradually picking up the pieces of life. Satyabir Bhatotia, a retired Deputy Director (Finance) in Haryana government, succumbed to COVID-19 in June after spending two months in Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. His wife Kamlesh, a government school teacher, daughter Yasha, 30, who teaches in a Delhi University College and her siblings Saumya, 27 and Kartikeya, 24, are trying to deal with the grief. “The memories are heavy to carry,” said Ms. Kamlesh. “I got married at 20 and he enabled me to complete my education and find a job. Every day, he would drop me and pick me up from work; two hours were set aside for our evening walk together. Now I do not feel like going out,” she said with moist eyes. Six months after the second wave, when sympathy and visits of relatives and friends have reduced, the families are beginning to feel the impact of their personal loss. Yasha said she feels hurt when people ask them to be brave and remind them that they are all well settled in life. “I find it very insensitive. He was our father; I miss simple things such as the warmth of his hug when I returned from work, “ she said, her eyes welling up. Few people have the patience to hear you. Not many realise that talking about one’s grief can be therapeutic, Yasha said. The world is the same only her father is missing and every big and small memory hits her hard, she added. Her brother, however, deals with the loss differently. He does not talk or think about it. “My way of coping is not to account for it,” he said. Trying to come to terms Families that suffered during the COVID waves in the last two years are still trying to come to terms with what hit them. Every memory made with their loved ones is treasured and often strike in a flash like a flood. “From staring at the empty corner occupied by them or the chair they sat on, their smiles and embraces and each gesture of theirs has been snatched away from us,” said Yasha. Time heals, they say, but healing is not easy either. It takes long to gather yourself and make ends meet again. Apart from the emotional trauma, the struggles of the bereaved family members are compounded by the delay in receiving the promised compensation from the Delhi government. It’s eight months since 33-year-old Babli Kumari, lost her husband. He died as a COVID-19 suspect outside a Delhi hospital waiting for treatment. Left without savings or any monetary assistance, it is a hardship for her to take care of their 11-year-old daughter. “I am stressed out but do not talk about it with anyone, other than crying in solitude,” she said. “My daughter cries that if her father was alive, he would do so many things for her. I put up a brave front for her and explain that I am both, her father and mother now,” said Ms. Kumari, who has applied for one-time compensation of Rs. 50,000 and monthly assistance of Rs. 2,500. The sanction has not come through yet. She needs to submit the positive RT-PCR report of her husband. But since he died following clinical suspicion of infection as the CT scan of his chest indicated, she has no report of his RT-PCR status. “He had a score of 8/25 and we were told he has COVID but no test was done,” Ms. Kumari said. Incidentally, on April 26 we were witness to Ms. Kumari’s 47-year-old husband, Ved Prakash’s, plight outside a private hospital. He was breathless and denied admission as there was a protocol to be followed. He breathed his last at the fourth treatment facility centre where his family had rushed him to for help on that day. Ms. Kumari continues to visit the Sub-Divisional Office in hope. “My daughter’s monthly tuition fee is Rs. 1,500. My brother earns Rs. 10,000 a month and gives me Rs. 2,000 from his earnings. How long will this work? He too has a family to look after. Besides, it is tough to survive on such meagre sum,” she said. For 30-year-old Ruchi Sharma, May 21 is one of the darkest days when her husband died shortly after admission to a hospital. As a single mother she is struggling to raise her son who studies in Class VI. She too has applied for the Delhi government’s compensation. “I submitted all documents but the staff got my account number wrong. I have been making multiple visits to the SDM office to get it corrected but to no avail,” she rued. Most of the affected family members find their lives shattered and feel demotivated. “ Zindagi bikhar si gayi hai,” they say. But then, everybody lives on hope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-long-road-to-healing/article38059786.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi issues ‘yellow alert’ due to rising number of cases||A yellow alert has been sounded in Delhi and restrictions imposed under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) due to rising COVID-19 cases in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. Later in the day, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) ordered closure of schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms with immediate effect and put various restrictions on the functioning of shops and public transport. The restrictions include extension of night curfew (from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m.), closure of schools and colleges, opening of non-essential shops based on an odd-even basis, and 50% seating capacity in Metro trains and buses. Marriages and funerals will be allowed attendance of 20 people while all other types of gathering related to social, political, cultural, religious and festival events will be prohibited. ‘Do not panic’ While announcing the restrictions, Mr. Kejriwal appealed to the people to not panic. Government sources told The Hindu , that there would be mandatory quarantine at hotels in the vicinity of the IGI Airport for all international passengers to nip the possibility of the community spread of the Omicron variant in the Capital. A senior government official said the Health Department brainstormed over the measures during the day as it sought to rationalise and reconcile the footfall of passengers with the number of hotel facilities where they would undergo quarantine after landing in the city. Mr. Kejriwal made the announcement following a detailed review of the situation in the city where it was decided to impose part of level 1 or Code Yellow of GRAP. Level 1 restrictions were announced as the COVID positivity rate in the city had remained beyond 0.50% for two consecutive days. The positivity rate had breached the 0.50% ceiling on December 26 from where it continued to climb steadily and was recorded at 0.68% on December 27 and at 0.89% on Tuesday. 496 new cases The tally of both new and active COVID cases recorded an upward swing over the three days with 290 new cases on December 26 bringing the total active cases in the city to 1,103. At least 331 cases pushed the active cases to 1,289 the following day and 496 new cases brought the tally of active cases to 1,612 on Tuesday. “Delhi is witnessing a sudden and speedy rise in COVID cases. The positive part this time is that there is absolutely no reason to be worried or scared, as the new cases that are coming up are majorly mild or asymptomatic in nature,” he said at a virtual press briefing. “In most cases, patients are not needing oxygen support, nor hospitalisation, ventilators or ICU facilities. So people should not stress,” about the rising number of cases. In addition to this variant of COVID being mild, another reason for people to not worry is that the Delhi government is fully prepared to tackle these rising numbers this time,” he added. “I want the public to note that these restrictions are for their own safety. While I understand that people are frustrated with having dealt with Covid restrictions time and again for over two years now. But we have no choice,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Meanwhile, the DDMA will hold a crucial meeting under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal at 4 p.m. on Wednesday to review the Omicron threat and discuss the COVID-19 pandemic situation in the national capital, according to an official notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/curbs-back-as-covid-19-cases-rise-delhi-issues-yellow-alert/article38059788.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||DDA flats losing demand as many buyers opt for return||Once highly sought-after, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) flats have seemingly lost their demand, as a lot of allottees are returning them. Speaking to The Hindu , various former allottees who had applied for flats in different categories said the high pricing, remote location, insufficient connectivity and quality of the DDA flats in Narela and Dwarka were among the reasons why they have returned them Pritha Marik, a city-based architect, said that she had applied for a 2 BHK DDA flat under the middle-income group category (MIG) a few years ago. To her dismay, the flat allotted to her was located in Narela. “Getting a flat in Narela is not profitable given that it is located far away and we also paid a visit to the sample flats in Vasant Kunj. The design and layout of the sample flat was not feasible, there was more space in common areas but the rooms were so small that one cannot move around much if a bed was placed in the room. Narela was my last preference,” she said, adding that she expected something on the lines of the older DDA flats located in the city’s Siddhartha Extension. Pradeep Kumar, an army jawan, said that he had applied for a 1 BHK lower-income group (LIG) flat in Rohini but ended up being allotted a flat in Narela, a preference he had never mentioned while applying. Unaffordable price He added: “The flat was allotted to me in 2009, and there were many applicants like me who never mentioned Narela in their preference but that is where most of their allotments were located. There is no connectivity in Narela, no markets or facilities in the area. I’m glad that I did not go ahead with the decision to purchase that flat because the prices of the LIG flats in areas with better connectivity and facilities, including those under the latest scheme, are not affordable.” Several other former allottees stated that while they were not in favour of acquiring a DDA flat in Narela, a similar response was observed for the 2 BHK MIG flats located in Dwarka’s Sector-16 B and Sector-19 B, with most stating that the price was not affordable. According to the DDA’s latest special housing scheme, which has 18,335 flats for sale, the price of a 2 BHK MIG flat in Dwarka’s Sector-19 B, ranging between a plinth area of 119.66 square metre and 129.98 square metre, stands at Rs. 1.14 crore to Rs. 1.24 crore. For the flats in Sector-16 B, ranging between a plinth area of 121.35 square metre and 132.77 square metre, the price stands between Rs. 1.16 crore to Rs. 1.27 crore. Of the 18,335 flats for sale, 11,452 one bedroom flats fall under the LIG category, while 5,702 fall in the economically weaker section (EWS) and Janta flats category. A majority of the LIG and EWS flats up for sale are located in Narela. While 6,546 of the LIG flats in Narela’s Sector G-7, with an area of 49.90 square metre, are priced at Rs. 22.80 lakh, 5,033 of EWS flats in Narela’s Sector A1 to A4 – ranging between a plinth area of 46.71 square metre and 54.08 square metre – are priced at Rs. 10.75 lakh to Rs. 12.42 lakh. Development projects Responding to these observations, a senior DDA official agreed that there were connectivity issues with respect to the DDA flats in Narela. However, he emphasised on the recent projects that were announced to address these issues, including a Rs. 825 crore development scheme that was announced for Narela’s Sector G-2 and Sector G-6. Development projects for Narela includes building of an Urban Extension Road –II (UER-II) and a phase four metro line for the Rithala-Bawana-Narela corridor among other projects. He added: “The connectivity problems do not apply to the DDA flats in Dwarka, Jasola and Vasant Kunj. A six-lane rail overbridge was also inaugurated in Narela this year. Within the next three to four years, the upcoming projects will help solve the present day issues. Dwarka faced similar issues at one point and now it is not the same. We are also allotting a parcel of land for the construction of a police station to help address the security issues, and one flat in Narela has been allotted to the Delhi police to operate out of, until then.” However, the senior official disagreed that the prices of the DDA’s LIG flats were “not affordable” and said that the prices of the flats in the higher price range category “were inclusive of car parking”. “As to the quality of the flats, there were problems in some of the LIG flats but we have reduced the construction cost from 10% to 40% and we are also offering some of the flats between Rs. 8 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh. All of the 18,335 flats under the special housing scheme for 2021 are flats which were returned by allottees with most of them located in Narela and this pattern of returning flats has started only after 2014,” the senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dda-flats-losing-demand-as-many-buyers-opt-for-return/article38059775.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||After Singhu, protesters unite for sewa in Fatehgarh Sahib||Over 10 days after protesting farmers left the Singhu border, those who became the face of the protest haven’t stayed at home. They remained united and served in the recent Shaheed Sabha in Fatehgarh Sahib. Avtar Singh, resident of Dera Bassi, who used to run a makeshift hospital at the Singhu border in the name of Life Care Foundation and his close associate Amarjeet Singh, a resident of Jalandhar, Zia-Ur-Rahman and Jasveer Singh, who used to run Janghi Kitab Ghar, Santok Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran, and 87-year-old Nachhatar Singh from Ludhiana reunited in Fatehgarh Sahib and served those coming for the Shaheedi Sabha. Mr. Avtar said that they’ve all gone home once where they received a grand welcome in each of their villages – with garlands and crowds cheering for them. Modest home “When we went to Baba Santok Singh’s house, we found it to be a modest home with huge cracks in the wall. The man was still with us the whole year and continued to protest,” he said. Mr. Nachhatar had left the Singhu border on December 15 and had decided to walk back home. It took him nearly 10 days but he reached Ropar on December 24 and then Fatehgarh Sahib the next — along with his close associate Ajeet Pal who was also a known face at the protest site because he and his group were running shoe cleaning langar . “It was the almighty’s wish that I come back on foot and I did. After serving here, I am finally going home,” he said over the phone. At Fatehgarh Sahib, the hospital was set up for three days and helped those in need. Other protesters who had reached helped in the langar sewa. “There were three local nursing staff at Singhu. When they got to know that we are setting up again, they came to Fatehgarh Sahib,” Mr. Avtar said. Not for politics Farmers also shared their opinion on the recent formation of the Samyukta Samaj Party by 22 leaders, who were a part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. While Mr. Avtar was disappointed, Sukhwinder Singh Barwa, who used to run Sanjhi Satth at the protest site, said this is what the public wanted. “If you form a political party, you can’t freely hold a protest. The farmer leaders seem to have taken advantage of the protest,” Mr. Avtar said. Mr. Barwa said, “People want the leaders to form a party to take the cause further than this win”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-singhu-protesters-unite-for-sewa-in-fatehgarh-sahib/article38059782.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘After multiple delays, Shahdara lake project nearing completion’||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday said that the 14-acre lake complex in Shahdara is nearing completion after the project faced multiple delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The facilities under the project, which will largely see a rejuvenated lake, include eateries, an open-air theatre, boating and other provisions as the EDMC aims to make it a tourist hub. A senior EDMC official said that the original cost of the project, which is being executed under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (scheme, was close to Rs. 20 crore and that the amount allocated was close to Rs. 15 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-multiple-delays-shahdara-lake-project-nearing-completion/article38059772.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC: ensure encroachers at Kalkaji temple are removed||The Delhi High Court has directed the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, the Delhi Development Authority and the police to ensure that its order to remove all illegal encroachers from the Kalkaji temple premises is implemented in accordance with the deadline fixed by it. The court said the dharamshalas on the temple premises are expected to be catering to the devotees coming from outside Delhi and they are not meant to be permanently occupied by shopkeepers or their families. “This position, in the opinion of this court, is completely apposite to the interest and rights of the devotees who visit the mandir premises. A careful balance needs to be struck between the rights of the encroachers residing within the mandir premises and using the spaces for commercial interests, like the petitioners, on the one hand and the rights of the lakhs of devotees who visit the mandir,” Justice Prathiba M. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-ensure-encroachers-at-kalkaji-temple-are-removed/article38059779.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 400 FIRs lodged for COVID norm violation||The Delhi police on Tuesday said that 411 FIRs were registered and 754 challans were issued for violations of several COVID-appropriate behaviour on the first night after curfew was imposed across the national capital in the wake of rising virus cases. The police said that FIRs were registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 754 challans were issued, especially during night curfew from 11 p.m. on Monday to 5 a.m. on Tuesday. In the last two days, the Delhi government is said to have taken action against 8,547 people for various violations, registered 53 FIRs and imposed fine of Rs. 1.70 crore. According to official figures of December 27 shared by the government, 4,122 violations were reported. Of them, 4,001 were related to face mask violations at public or work place, 87 violations were for not maintaining social distancing protocol and 34 were for spitting in public places, it said. Of the 4,001 mask violations, maximum were reported from north district, followed by east and south-west, the data showed. On December 27, 15 FIRs were registered while a fine of Rs. 81.51 lakh was imposed on violators, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-400-firs-lodged-for-covid-norm-violation/article38059776.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality ‘very poor’||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated to the “very poor” category on Tuesday due to low wind speed while the city’s maximum temperature settled at 18 degrees Celsius, three notches below the season’s average. The 24-hour air quality index of Delhi read 305 at 4 p.m., according to Central Pollution Control Board data. However, the AQIs of neighbouring cities were recorded in the ‘poor’ category. “Light rain is likely on Wednesday due to western disturbance that may improve AQI further to upper end of ‘moderate’ or lower end of ‘poor’,” the SAFAR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-air-quality-very-poor/article38059778.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Scheme on septic tank just a poll plank’||The BJP on Tuesday accused the Delhi government of unleashing chaos in the name of a scheme related to the cleaning of septic tanks in the Capital. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a scheme for free cleaning of septic tanks in 2019 and banned private contractors from providing the service. The Chief Minister’s announcement was not implemented and people are now unable to get the requisite cleaning done by private contractors, posing ‘a serious threat’ to the health of about 50 lakh people in the Capital, Mr. Bidhuri said. “After the announcement, cleaning from private contractors was banned. But surprisingly, this announcement proved to be only an election promise. This scheme was started for sometime after the announcement to take advantage of the elections, but after that everything came to a standstill,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “Septic tanks have not been cleaned for months now. Due to this, the life of people — especially in unauthorised colonies and villages — is becoming hellish. People are upset due to not being able to clean the septic tanks for several months. The Jal Board is not listening to the complaints of the people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/scheme-on-septic-tank-just-a-poll-plank/article38059773.ece
29 December 2021||Pune,||Two more held in Maharashtra exam paper leak case||Continuing its action against the alleged irregularities in various recruitment exams, the police in Maharashtra’s Pune district have arrested two people and registered a fresh case in connection with the paper leak in the Group C recruitment examination of the Health Department, an officer said on Tuesday. The cyber police station in Pune had earlier registered an offence over the alleged paper leak in the Group D recruitment examination of the Health Department. At least 18 accused including Mahesh Botle, Joint Director (non-technical) National Health Mission; Prashant Badgire, Chief Administrative Officer in the Health Department posted at Latur; and Dr. Sandip Jogdand, a medical officer at the mental hospital in Ambejogai in Beed district were arrested in that case. Mr. Botle, Mr. Badgire and Dr. Jogdand are involved in the present case as well, Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta said. “During the probe, it was found that one of the accused, Nishit Gaikwad, had allegedly leaked the paper of the Group C recruitment examination, which was held on October 24, and circulated the same through an agent in exchange for money,” Mr. Gupta said. “We have arrested Mr. Gaikwad and one Rahul Linghot in the present case,” he said. According to the police, this is the fifth offence registered in connection with paper leaks and malpractices in results of various exams, including the recruitment exams of Group C and D of the Health Department, MHADA recruitment exam, Teachers’ Eligibility Test of 2020 and 2018. As many as 28 accused have been arrested in connection in the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-more-held-in-maharashtra-exam-paper-leak-case/article38059952.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Girl power||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/girl-power/article38059957.ece
29 December 2021||Berlin,||‘Omicron can disrupt health systems’||The WHO warned on Tuesday that the Omicron coronavirus variant could lead to overwhelmed healthcare systems even though early studies suggest it leads to milder disease, as China and Germany brought back tough restrictions to stamp out new infection surges. China put hundreds of thousands more people under lockdown, while infections hit new highs in multiple U.S. states and European countries. COVID-19 surges have wreaked havoc around the world, with many nations trying to strike a balance between economically punishing restrictions and controlling the spread of the virus. The United States has halved the isolation period for asymptomatic cases to try and blunt the disruption, while France has ordered firms to have employees work from home at least three days a week. Contact restrictions were in place in Germany for the second year in a row heading into the New Year, as Europe’s biggest economy shuttered nightclubs and forced sports competitions behind closed doors due to COVID. Despite facing a much smaller outbreak compared with global virus hotspots, China has not relaxed its “zero COVID” strategy, imposing stay-at-home orders in many parts of the city of Yan’an. The hundreds of thousands of affected residents there joined the 13 million people in the city of Xi’an, who entered a sixth day of home confinement as China battled its highest daily case numbers in 21 months. Highly transmissible The surges in many countries have been propelled by the highly transmissible Omicron variant. The WHO warned against complacency even though preliminary findings suggest that Omicron could lead to milder disease. “A rapid growth of Omicron... even if combined with a slightly milder disease, will still result in large numbers of hospitalisations, and cause widespread disruption to health systems and other critical services,” warned WHO Europe’s Covid Incident Manager Catherine Smallwood. To hold back the tide, European nations brought back curbs with painful economic and social consequences. Sweden and Finland required negative tests for incoming non-resident travellers from Tuesday. In Germany, private gatherings are now limited to 10 vaccinated people and nightclubs have been closed. But not all accepted the measures. Thousands of protesters went on the march across Germany late on Monday against the curbs, with some hurling fireworks or bottles at police and leaving at least 12 officers injured. President Joe Biden said on Monday that some U.S. hospitals could be “overrun” but that the country was generally well prepared. He stressed that Omicron would not have the same impact as the initial COVID outbreak or the Delta variant surge this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/omicron-can-disrupt-health-systems/article38059385.ece
29 December 2021||Beirut,||Syrian port set ablaze in ‘Israel strike’||An Israeli air strike hit Syria’s Latakia port before dawn on Tuesday, sparking a fire that lit up the Mediterranean seafront in the second such attack on the key cargo hub this month, Syrian state media reported. Since the outbreak of Syria’s civil war in 2011, Israel has routinely carried out air strikes on its strife-torn neighbour, mostly targeting Syrian government troops as well as allied Iran-backed forces and Hezbollah fighters. But it is only the second time it has hit the port of Latakia, in the heartland of President Bashar al-Assad’s minority Alawite community. “At around 3.21 a.m., the Israeli enemy carried out an aerial aggression with several missiles from the direction of the Mediterranean... targeting the container yard in Latakia port,” Syrian state news agency SANA cited a military source as saying. The strike caused “significant material damage”, it added. Asked about the strike, an Israeli Army spokesman said: “We don’t comment on reports in foreign media”. Pictures released by SANA showed firefighters training hoses on stacks of blazing containers that lit up the night sky. The news agency said the containers were carrying “engine oil and spare parts for cars and other vehicles”. But Britain-based war monitor, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said the cargo was “arms and munitions,” which had detonated in “powerful explosions that were felt across the city of Latakia and its suburbs”. It said it was unclear whether the arms were from Iran or some other supplier. Latakia governor Ismail Hilal said firefighters had brought the blaze under control by midday and were dousing the embers, SANA reported. It is the second time this month that Israel has directed attacks towards the container yard at Latakia port. The Syrian government’s other major ally, Russia, operates a naval base in the port of Tartus, 85 kilometres to the south. Shadow war So far this year, Israel has targeted Syria nearly 30 times, killing 130 people including five civilians and 125 loyalist fighters, according to Observatory figures. On December 7, it carried out a strike targeting an Iranian arms shipment in Latakia, its first on the port since the start of the civil war. While Israel rarely comments on individual strikes it carries out on its northern neighbour, it has acknowledged mounting hundreds since 2011. According to a report by the Israeli army, it hit around 50 targets in Syria in 2020. In a shadow war, Israel has targeted suspected Iranian military facilities in Syria and mounted a sabotage campaign against Iran’s nuclear programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/syrian-port-set-ablaze-in-israel-strike/article38059381.ece
29 December 2021||Moscow,||Russian court orders shutdown of rights group||Russia’s Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that one of the country’s oldest and most prominent human rights organisations should be shut down, a move that stirred up much public outrage and is the latest step in a months-long crackdown on rights activists, independent media and Opposition supporters. The Prosecutor-General’s Office last month petitioned the Supreme Court to revoke the legal status of Memorial — an international human rights group that rose to prominence for its studies of political repression in the Soviet Union and currently encompasses more than 50 smaller groups in Russia and abroad. The court on Tuesday ruled in favor of the prosecution, which charged at the hearing that Memorial “creates a false image of the USSR as a terrorist state, whitewashes and rehabilitates Nazi criminals.” Memorial was declared a “foreign agent” in 2016. In their lawsuit to shut it down, prosecutors alleged that the group repeatedly violated regulations obliging it to mark itself as a foreign agent, and tried to conceal the designation. Memorial and its supporters have maintained the accusations are politically motivated, and the organisation’s leaders have vowed to continue their work. Pressure on the group has sparked public outrage. Several people were reported detained on Tuesday for picketing the courthouse. On Saturday, the authorities blocked the website of OVD-Info — a prominent legal aid group that focuses on political arrests — and urged social media platforms to take down its accounts after a court ruled that the website contained materials that “justify actions of extremist and terrorist groups.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-court-orders-shutdown-of-rights-group/article38059387.ece
29 December 2021||Cairo,||Rebels allow UN flights to land in Yemen||The Iran-backed rebels in Yemen said on Tuesday they are temporarily allowing UN humanitarian flights to land at the airport in the capital, Sanaa, following a week-long halt in flights into the northern, rebel-held territory. The rebel Houthis, who control Sanaa and much of Yemen’s north, had barred UN and other humanitarian flights from landing at the airport amid heavy airstrikes by the Saudi-led coalition on the capital and Houthis’ cross-border missile and drone attacks on the kingdom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rebels-allow-un-flights-to-land-in-yemen/article38059388.ece
29 December 2021||Moscow,||U.S.- Russia talks in early Jan. in Geneva||The United States and Russia will hold much-anticipated talks in early January on European security and the Ukraine conflict after Moscow demanded NATO halts its eastward expansion. A spokesperson for the U.S. National Security Council said on condition of anonymity late on Monday that the talks with Russia will take place on January 10. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov on Tuesday confirmed the date and said that the talks will take place in Geneva, where U.S. President Joe Biden and Russian leader Vladimir Putin met for their first summit in June. “The United States looks forward to engaging with Russia,” the National Security Council spokesperson said. Back to back meetings “When we sit down to talk, Russia can put its concerns on the table and we will put our concerns on the table with Russia’s activities as well,” he said. Moscow and NATO representatives are then expected to meet on January 12, while Russia and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), which includes the United States, will meet on January 13, the spokesperson added. The January 10 meeting will be held as part of the Strategic Security Dialogue initiative launched by Mr. Biden and Mr. Putin at their June summit. The NATO-Russia Council meeting and the talks between Moscow and the OSCE’s Permanent Council are slated to focus on Ukraine. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Moscow in the talks would take a “hard line” aimed at defending its interests and avoiding “concessions”. There was no immediate word on who would represent the sides on January 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-russia-to-hold-talks-in-early-january-in-geneva/article38059383.ece
29 December 2021||Kabul,||Afghan women protest Taliban killings of former soldiers||A crowd of women marched through the Afghan capital on Tuesday, accusing Taliban authorities of covertly killing soldiers who served the former U.S.-backed regime. Around 30 women gathered near a mosque in the centre of Kabul and marched a few hundred metres chanting “justice, justice” before they were stopped by Taliban forces. The Taliban also tried to prevent journalists from covering the march.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-women-protest-taliban-killings-of-former-soldiers/article38059377.ece
29 December 2021||Washington,||Four dead and three wounded in US shooting: police||A lone gunman killed four persons and wounded three more — including a police officer — on Monday after opening fire in multiple locations across Colorado before being shot dead, U.S. police said. The incidents began at around 5 p.m. and unfolded across at least four different locations in the cities of Denver and Lakewood, police said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/four-dead-and-three-wounded-in-us-shooting-police/article38059379.ece
29 December 2021||Istanbul,||Turkey, Qatar await Taliban green light to run Afghan airports||Private Turkish and Qatari companies have agreed to jointly operate five airports in Afghanistan, although they are still waiting to reach a final deal with the Taliban. Turkish Foreign Minister said that a “memorandum of understanding” had been inked in Doha earlier this month, covering Kabul and four other airports in the war-ravaged country.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/turkey-qatar-await-taliban-green-light-to-run-afghan-airports/article38059382.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Put out the data, boost the dose of transparency||On December 25, the Prime Minister of India announced two key decisions. First, all children in the 15-17 age bracket will be eligible to receive COVID-19 vaccines from January 3, 2022. Second, all health-care workers, frontline workers and the people aged 60 years and above (with co-morbidities and on the advice of a medical doctor) can get a third shot, or ‘precaution dose’. The policy decision was followed by a note that was released on December 27, outlining operational details. The eligibility for the precaution dose will be on the completion of nine months or 39 weeks after the second dose. The note did not mention which vaccine would be administered as the precaution dose. Teenage children whose birth year is 2007 or before will be eligible for COVID-19 vaccines. Children will receive Covaxin, the reason being (according to the note) it is the only emergency use listed (EUL) World Health Organization vaccine available for use in this age group in India. Opinion or evidence The decision is said to be based on ‘advice of the scientific community’. However, it was not clear whether that advice was based on opinion or ‘the scientific evidence’. If media reports are to be believed, in the fourth week of December, the COVID-19 vaccine sub-group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) in India, which was supposed to review the data on the scientific evidence on the booster shot and vaccination of children, had postponed the meeting for a later date. A few members of NTAGI have written or spoken publicly about not having enough scientific evidence to administer booster doses and vaccinate children in India. The term ‘precaution dose’ is being considered as tacit acknowledgement of insufficient evidence. What else explains not calling it a ‘booster dose’? These two decisions make nearly 7.5 crore children eligible for the primary vaccination and three crore health-care and frontline workers and 10 crore of the elderly suitable for the precaution shot. The individuals will become eligible for the precaution dose on the rolling basis, and on day one of the roll-out (January 10, 2022) approximately one crore health-care and frontline workers and 14 lakh of the 60-plus population will be eligible. Thereafter, every subsequent day, approximately 3,00,000 to 4,00,000 individuals will be added for the precaution dose. Vaccinating children Successive national and State-level sero-surveys have reported that a majority of children in India had got natural infection, while staying at home and thus developed antibodies. The studies have shown that children rarely develop moderate to severe COVID-19 disease. The emergence of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 has not altered the risk in children. It is in this backdrop that the benefits of vaccinating children are limited, and they are considered lower in the order of priority for COVID-19 vaccination. Most public health and vaccine experts favour a ‘targeted vaccination approach’ by prioritising high-risk children for COVID-19 vaccination. However, such an approach is likely to face an operational challenge in the identification of the eligible children. The alternative is ‘vaccinating all children in a small age-subgroup’ with the advantage of administrative simplicity. The Government has opted for the second approach. As per a note released on December 27, persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidities, on doctor’s advice, will be provided with the precaution dose. This makes vaccination a two-step process: first seeking consultation and then getting vaccinated. This additional step could prove an access barrier and people may defer the vaccination decision. For COVID-19, all the elderly are at higher risk. Therefore, it does not make practical sense in picking specific health conditions for precaution dose. There is another key concern. A majority of the elderly have one or other comorbidities. Of the 14 crore elderly population in India, an estimated 7 to 10 crore people could have co-morbidities. If they have to seek advice from a physician, in order to get vaccinated, this essentially means that there would be up to 10 crore of medical consultations, which would come at a cost — indirect (travel time and opportunity cost for individuals and an avoidable burden on the health-care system) and direct cost (if attended in the private sector), all of which is avoidable. Making it work Now that a policy decision has been made, there need to be a few considerations taken into account in order to make its implementation effective. First, the conditionality of comorbidities and the need for advice/prescription by a doctor for ‘the precaution shot’ in the elderly should be done away with. If the conditionality of comorbidity needs to be retained due to any scientific evidence — which the Government has used in decision making — then it should be a self-declaration only, without the need for a doctor’s advice. Second, there is scientific evidence and consensus on administering the third dose for immunocompromised adults. The Indian government should urgently consider administering a third dose for all immunocompromised adults, irrespective of age. Third, studies have found that a heterologous prime-boost approach — third shot on a different vaccine platform — is a better approach. Among all the options, while mRNA-based vaccines have the best boosting effect, the drawback is that they are not available in India. However, Covovax (as Novovax’s recombinant protein nanoparticle-based vaccine is called in India) has received EUL from the World Health Organization and is being produced in India. Another protein-based vaccine, Corbevax, is being developed by Biological E Ltd. in India. The manufacturer of Corbevax has submitted trial data on a rolling basis to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) in India. The Indian government has already made an ‘advance purchase agreement’ with the manufacturer for Corbevax. On December 28, Covovax and Corbevax were approved in India for restricted use in an emergency situation (https://bit.ly/3Hhb055). A recent study in The Lancet has reported that the use of a protein-based vaccine as third dose, would have a better boosting effect than the third shot of the same vaccine on viral-vectored or inactivated vaccine platforms. With approval for emergency use of two additional vaccines, India should consider administering an approved protein-based vaccine as the precaution dose. Fourth, various pending policy questions on COVID-19 vaccine need to be identified urgently. The technical expert should be given complete access to COVID-19 data for analysis and to find answers to those scientific and policy questions. Additional studies with primary data collection should be urgently commissioned for those policy issues which can not be answered by existing data. This is the only way to ensure that future COVID-19 vaccination decisions are based upon scientific evidence and not just the ‘assumptions’, ‘opinion’ or ‘advice’. Fifth, vaccination for teenage children, exclusively with Covaxin (which means 15 crore doses for this sub-group) has other implications. Covaxin will also be needed for people coming for their first shot, returning for their second shot, and then for their ‘precaution dose’ if a third shot of the same vaccine is allowed. This should be an urgent reminder for a review of vaccine supply and better vaccine stock management. Finally, the precaution dose and vaccination for children should not divert attention from the task of primary vaccination, which continues to be an unfinished task in India; 46 crore doses are still needed for the first and second shots. Data for decision making It was not that the booster dose or vaccination of children might have never been required. The discourse before the policy announcement on December 25 was more nuanced, was about the right time (when to start), the right interval (between second dose and the booster) and selecting the right vaccine (with proven benefit as booster). This was getting delayed partly due to the unavailability of COVID-19 related data to synthesise evidence and arrive at an informed decision. It is time the Union and State governments in India make COVID-19 data — this includes clinical outcomes, testing, genomic sequencing as well as vaccination — available in the public domain. This would help in formulating and updating COVID-19 policy and strategies and also assess the impact of ‘precaution dose’ as well as vaccination of children. It is also time that once technical and regulatory decisions are made, the relevant scientific evidence should be made available in the public domain. The Indian government urgently needs to make COVID-19 data available, including the one used for regulatory approvals of vaccines and for vaccine policy decisions. This will bring transparency in decision making and increase the trust of the citizen in the process. Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a public policy and health systems specialist based in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/put-out-the-data-boost-the-dose-of-transparency/article38059367.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Desmond Tutu, the conscience-keeper||Five big names dominated the struggle against apartheid in South Africa, each from a distinct part of that diverse country — Albert John Luthuli, foremost of Zulu leaders in the African National Congress (ANC) from the Natal, Oliver Tambo of the Pondo people from the country’s western flank, Nelson Mandela from the Xhosa population of the Eastern Cape, Walter Sisulu from a mixed Black and White African heritage, and Desmond Tutu of mixed Xhosa and Motswana descent. Of them, Tutu, who died on December 26, 2021, was the youngest. This is not to diminish the magnetic contribution of three other phenomenal figures — Joe Slovo (1926-1995), the White communist leader; Chris Hani, born in 1942 and assassinated in 1993; and Steve Biko, born in 1946 and brutally murdered in prison in 1977. Making comparisons Comparisons are odious but they can make for an easier understanding of people and their roles. And so, one could say that Luthuli — moderate, liberal and wholly opposed to violence — was like South Africa’s Gopal Krishna Gokhale. Tambo, who worked for a major part of his political life outside South Africa in exile with London being his base, can be seen as its Dadabhai Naoroji. Mandela, the politico-legal mastermind with his international fame for being free of all resentments despite 27 years in jail, its Gandhi-cum-Nehru. Sisulu, the ANC’s party-consolidator and ethically powered wise elder statesman, was patently South Africa’s Patel-cum-Rajagopalachari. One can suggest that Slovo’s mediating role would have won the admiration of ‘Dinabandhu’ C.F. Andrews, the Anglican cleric and friend of Tagore who mediated the Smuts-Gandhi Agreement of 1914 in South Africa; that Hani’s socialism, military strategising and personal courage powerfully invokes Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose; while Biko, self-sacrificingly bold, recalls most vividly our immortal Shaheed Bhagat Singh. Where does that comparison chart place Desmond Tutu? There is no Indian equivalent for him. Father Jerome D’Souza, the Jesuit priest from Mangalore, who was a member of the Constituent Assembly of India and played a key role in ensuring protection for the minorities in India and for the right to practise and propagate one’s faith as fundamental, comes closest. But D’Souza is still, in relation to Tutu, a ‘distant near’. The fact is that Tutu was a nonpareil. He was without an equivalent in South Africa, India or for that matter, anywhere, defying categorisation. Was he a politician in the cloth or a cleric in politics ? Did he advise politicians theologically from his pulpit or speak to his congregations — he was Bishop of Johannesburg from 1985 to 1986 and Archbishop of Cape Town from 1986 to 1996 — in the language of politics ? Those questions are unanswerable. But what is known and celebrated is that in the transition from apartheid to democracy, Tutu spoke as an African Christian who wanted truth to be respected, reconciliation to be attempted and justice to be inaugurated in the land of his birth without rancour mutilating the change and with remorse — real, spontaneous remorse — acting as a catalyst for change. This goal and this practice made Tutu a natural ally for men of the Tambo-Mandela-Sisulu mould. It also made him, at the same time, co-extensively, a man who was thought too moderate by the extreme Left and too radical by the far Right. And altogether too ambivalent for politicians and theologians, both of who like their chocolates deadly dark. Too radical for conservative upholders of apartheid, too moderate for black radicals and properly disliked by Marxists the world over for his anti-communism, Tutu yet remained staggeringly and consistently popular among the vast majority of the people of South Africa. How and why? For the plain reason that plain honesty is instantly recognised and immediately respected. A large and growing number across the world saw in this plain-speaking man of God, who was also a man of loud reverberating laughter and equally of emotional meltdowns, a man of unquestioned earnestness and manifest integrity. They saw in him a man who showed that bondage is both external — political, social, economic — and within oneself in terms of racial prejudice, ethnic hatred and personal animosities. Was this a political position or a religious one? The vast majority in South Africa, the rest of the African continent and the world at large that heard him did not bother itself with that question. It only saw in Tutu an African, deeply bonded into Mother Africa, declining to view its heritage through western norms but ready to see and correct its own limitations and errors. It saw in Tutu a Christian, deeply committed to the New Testament not as the West’s gift to the rest of the world but that of humanity’s better instincts to itself. Rather like it sees the Dalai Lama as a true Buddhist deeply committed to Tibetan Mahayana but equally to humanity’s quest for redemption through dialogue, atonement and that old-fashioned word taboo in ‘rational’ discourse — forgiveness. No two humans could be more different, more similar than Tutu and the Dalai Lama, younger by four years. Laughter has held tears in check for those two Nobel Laureates. “You are a Christian,” the Tibetan tells the South African in a recorded conversation “and will go to Heaven. I am a Buddhist and will go to a different place…”. “You are a Buddhist”, Tutu responds, “and will re-incarnate”. Both break into laughter. And then turning very serious the Dalai Lama tells a sombre Tutu: “When I die, I will remember you…” The need for human conscience There has always been need and space in every society, in South Africa and in India, homes to both the peace-makers, for something called the human conscience. Tutu raised his voice for Palestinians in the Israel-Palestine conflict, fiercely opposed the Myanmar crackdown on the Rohingya, spoke up for gay rights, and against the death penalty, for legalised assisted dying and against orthodox views on birth control. Joining his voice to that of environmentalists he called for an apartheid-style boycott of corporates that are “financing the injustice of climate change”. Countries need leaders in government, leaders in the opposition. But they also need social philosophers, conscience-keepers who do not seek popularity and are not afraid of unpopularity. Tutu was precisely that for South Africa — a physician for its conflicted soul. A decade ago, when Tutu announced his retirement from public life, he said he wanted to spend time with his family “thinking and praying”. If, as he lay dying, news had reached him that a Jesus Christ statue had been vandalised in the Indian city of Ambala and Christmas celebrations disrupted elsewhere in our country, he would have thought of Gandhi and also remembered the man who said he would remember Tutu when he died — the 14th Dalai Lama. The human conscience laughs an increasingly lonely laugh. Gopalkrishna Gandhi was High Commissioner in South Africa (1996-1997)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/desmond-tutu-the-conscience-keeper/article38059376.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The pertinent issue of trust and the Indian politician||“In politics nothing is contemptible,” warned Benjamin Disraeli, a novelist, essayist, a Conservative politician and twice Prime Minister of England. He was of course largely right, as many politicians have criminal backgrounds and resort to lies. But there are also some who identify with the electorates, sensitive to their needs, and display a vision which transcends party politics. Two questions are pertinent: does trust in politicians matter? Who trusts them or does not? These questions are highly pertinent in the present context as deep questions are being raised about the demise of democracy. A relevant survey In order to answer these questions, we rely on the India Human Development Survey (IHDS) released in 2015 (https://bit.ly/3py4dhq). Our analysis is based on two rounds of the nationally representative IHDS in 2005 and 2012. Besides being unique as an all-India panel survey, it is the only survey that asks questions on subjective well-being (SWB) and trust in public institutions such as State governments, the judiciary, the police and politicians. SWB or life satisfaction is defined as the degree to which an individual judges the overall quality of his/her own life-as-a-whole favourably. SWB is measured as perceived change in economic well-being of a household — specifically whether it is economically better-off, just the same and worse-off between 2004-5 and 2011-12. Trust is measured in ordinal levels of confidence: a great deal of confidence, only some confidence and hardly any confidence in both years. Our analysis shows that SWB in 2012 and trust in politicians in 2005 are negatively related, controlling for the effects of trust in other public institutions and socio-economic characteristics of households in 2005. By contrast, trust in most other institutions is positively related to SWB. The reasons include: ideological disconnect, failure to deliver on promises, corrupt practices, collusion with the rich and the powerful, and links with criminals. Under UPA rule The second related question addressed in detail is who trusts the politicians or does not and why. One interesting finding is that those who trusted politicians in 2005 lost trust in 2012. While the economic performance of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was good, corruption became endemic. Those who fared well in terms of relative affluence (per capita expenditure of a household relative to the maximum in the primary sampling unit) exhibited high trust in politicians. In other words, those benefiting more than others presumably believed that they owed it to politicians in power and hence expressed greater trust in them. Relative to the rural households, those in urban areas and slums reported lower trust. One reason is easier access to information in the latter relating to government policy failures, collusion of politicians with the rich and the powerful, and criminals. Moreover, higher levels of education are negatively related to trust in politicians. Those with matriculation and higher levels of education are deeply sceptical, relative to the illiterates, as they are likely to be better aware of political skulduggery and shenanigans and not so easily swayed by rhetoric. Relative to the Hindus, neither the Muslims nor the Christians expressed lower trust in politicians, presumably because alienation of minorities was not so pronounced during UPA rule. The caste hierarchy throws up a fascinating contrast. Both the Brahmins who are at the top of this hierarchy and Dalits who are at the lower rung express high trust in politicians, relative to the Other Backward Classes, but perhaps for very different reasons. While as long as the superiority of Brahmins is not challenged and Dalits are protected through affirmative action, they are more likely to repose high trust in politicians. Affiliation to social networks — two or more — is positively associated with greater trust in politicians, as manifestation of collective identity, relative to those not affiliated to any. Congruence of the needs of the electorates with politicians who serve their interests better matters. This is validated by how successful social safety net programmes are. For example, while widows’ pension and the Annapurna Scheme (10 kg of food grain to eligible aged persons who have remained uncovered under the Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme)are negatively related to trust in politicians, disability pension is positively related. The NDA years This analysis serves as the backdrop to dramatic shifts in governance following the National Democratic Alliance’s overwhelming victory in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Overcentralisation deprived State governments of their autonomy while a relentless pursuit of Hindutva through blatantly discriminatory policies (e.g., the Citizenship (Amendment) Act) and often brutal application by communal activists against the minorities — especially Muslims (e.g., ghastly violence against cattle traders) and Dalits alienated them. How these shifts affected criminalisation of politics is difficult to assess, but recent evidence raises serious concerns. Criminality among politicians has risen sharply. According to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), 24% of the winners in the 2004 Lok Sabha election had a criminal background; it rose to 30% in the 2009 general election, 34% in the 2014 elections, and 43% in the 2019 elections. Worse, 29% of those elected in 2019 had reported serious crimes including rape, murder, and culpable homicide. Between the two national parties, out of 303 winners from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2019 election, 116 (39%) had a criminal record as against 29 (56%) out of 52 winners from the Indian National Congress (INC). What is indeed alarming is that the probabilities of Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assemblies winning elections is about three times higher, relative to those without a criminal background. Candidate selection Several studies converge on the finding that parties on the cusp of winning or losing a seat are more likely to nominate a candidate with a criminal background given his/her greater probability of winning. Such candidates are typically more resourceful, protect better local interests relating to land, physical security, and dignity where the rule of law is fragile, share a caste affiliation when political competition is “ethnified”, and constituencies are more fragmented with a lower threshold of winning. It is also argued that dominant parties are less likely to field criminal candidates as the marginal benefit of winning a seat matters less than the marginal cost of reputational loss. While most of these findings are plausible, it is intriguing why the two dominant parties (the BJP and the INC) show such high shares of criminal MPs and MLAs. To conclude, high levels of criminality could wreck India’s democracy and imperil well-being. Veena S. Kulkarni is Associate Professor of Sociology, Arkansas State University, U.S.; Vani S. Kulkarni is associated with the Department of Sociology, University of Pennsylvania, U.S.; Raghav Gaiha is Research Affiliate, Population Aging Research Centre, University of Pennsylvania, U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-pertinent-issue-of-trust-and-the-indian-politician/article38059368.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Vying for influence over Kabul||On December 19, Pakistan hosted a special session of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) to address the crisis in Afghanistan. The Taliban, which took over Kabul in August after a 20-year-long war with the U.S., also attended. Saudi Arabia added weight to Pakistan’s call for the meeting. The humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan is peaking with no basic amenities available for its population and a harsh winter ahead. While Pakistan hosted the OIC, India played host to foreign ministers of Central Asian states where Afghanistan topped the agenda as well. All the attending countries — Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Kyrgyzstan — also OIC members, chose to prioritise deliberations with New Delhi. Within the OIC, there have been other fissures at play too, specifically among the Gulf states, that are now spilling over on the issue of Afghanistan and determining influence over the country’s new regime led by the Taliban. Qatar’s growing clout The centrality of Saudi Arabia’s presence during the OIC session comes after Riyadh maintained a certain distance over the developments involving the U.S., the Taliban and the erstwhile Afghan government of President Ashraf Ghani. Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Pakistan were the only three countries that had officially recognised the previous Taliban government in 1996, until its fall in 2001. However, that was a different era, and 20 years is a long time in geopolitics. Fast forward to the 2010s, and it was the small but rich state of Qatar which became the mediating force on Afghanistan. Doha hosted the official Taliban political office from 2013 to allow negotiations with the U.S. In the early 2010s, Saudi funding found its way into Afghanistan, as Salafist and Wahhabi ecosystems attempted to anchor themselves, although, many argue, unsuccessfully. Qatar’s new role on Afghanistan gave it significant diplomatic and political visibility the world over. India’s first point of official public diplomatic contact with the Taliban took place in Doha when Ambassador Deepak Mittal met Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanikzai, head of Taliban’s political office, there in August 2021. However, this was not the only geopolitical flashpoint Doha was getting deeply involved in. In West Asia, Qatar’s growing clout and ambition alike was causing unease in the traditional power centres in Abu Dhabi and Riyadh, specifically on issues such as the Qatari leadership’s support for political Islam and organisations such as the Muslim Brotherhood. Fundamental changes In 2017, these fissures broke the levee within the Gulf Cooperation Council, as the UAE and Saudi Arabia initiated an economic blockade against Doha in the hope of reining the Kingdom in and disallowing it from pursuing its geopolitical designs that were challenging the long-held power status quos. This four-year long impasse ended in 2021. However, these four years created fundamental changes within the larger Arab Gulf construct. Qatar mitigated risk and moved closer towards Turkey and Iran. In 2017, Turkey moved troops to Qatar, to make sure that the monarchy of the Al Thani family survives any attempt against it, before protecting the state itself. Today, both Qatar and Turkey are bidding to operate a landlocked Afghanistan’s airports under the Taliban regime. For the Gulf specifically, Qatar’s punching-above-its-weight approach in geopolitics was also making it more powerful and influential with Washington D.C. To mitigate this, the Saudis played a central role during the recent OIC special session. They repaired their broken relationship with Pakistan, where Riyadh had repeatedly cold-shouldered the government of Prime Minister Imran Khan. During this period as well, Doha played its cards, and in 2019, at the height of Islamabad–Riyadh tensions, offered an economically ailing Pakistan a $3 billion bailout. However, Pakistan’s dubious ‘kingmaker’ status in Afghanistan and influence over the Taliban has now made Rawalpindi’s agency on the issue inexorable.  This is highlighted by the UAE’s recent decision to allow former Afghan government officials find sanctuary in the country, but reportedly curb their participation in political activities, including on social media. The Arab Gulf is poised to become an important player once again in an Afghanistan under the shadow of the Taliban. In 2015, Narendra Modi became the first Indian Prime Minister to visit the UAE in 34 years. Abu Dhabi is expected to be his first foreign visit in January 2022. Over the past decade, India has recognised the importance of middle powers in the Arab Gulf to a fast-evolving global order, from fighting against terrorism to newer diplomacy challenges such as Afghanistan. Kabir Taneja is Fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vying-for-influence-over-kabul/article38059371.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Lack of political will||Palk Bay, an important marine zone between south-eastern India and northern Sri Lanka, has been a source of dispute for long. The conflict between the two countries has flared up again with the arrest of 68 Indian fishermen, mostly from the Ramanathapuram and Pudukkottai districts of Tamil Nadu, by the Sri Lankan authorities between December 18 and 20 and the impounding of 10 boats for “poaching” in the territorial waters of Sri Lanka. Palk Bay, home to diverse resources including 580 species of fish, extends from Point Calimere of Nagapattinam district to Mandapam-Dhanushkodi of Ramanathapuram district over about 250 km. With a shallow and flat basin, the region has an average depth of about nine metres. The genesis of the dispute can be traced to the October 1921 negotiations between representatives of the Governments of Madras and Ceylon, as the Tamil Nadu and Sri Lankan Governments were called then, on the need for the delimitation of the Palk Strait and the Gulf of Mannar. It was in the mid-1970s that two agreements were signed by India and Sri Lanka, under which the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) came into being. The IMBL made Katchatheevu a part of Sri Lanka, even though the islet, which former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had once called a “sheer rock of no strategic importance”, was once an area under the zamindari of the Raja of Ramanathapuram. Contrary to the expectations that the agreements would settle the issues of boundary and fishing jurisdictions permanently, the pacts gave way to new problems, including the recurring incidents of Tamil Nadu fishermen crossing the IMBL and getting caught by the Sri Lankan authorities. On many occasions, several fishermen lost their lives. This year, five fishermen died in what was officially called collisions between their fishing boats and vessels of the Sri Lankan authorities. The asymmetric nature of fishing practices in Tamil Nadu and the Northern Province of Sri Lanka is said to be the cause of the problem. While the former’s fishing community uses mechanised bottom trawlers, its counterpart uses conventional forms of fishing, as trawling is banned in Sri Lanka. Tamil Nadu’s fishermen had the best run during the years of the Sri Lankan civil war with restrictions placed by the Sri Lankan Government and Tamil rebels on the activities of the fisherfolk of the Northern Province. Notwithstanding several risks and challenges, the fishermen of Tamil Nadu continue to cross the IMBL, as the Sri Lankan side of the Bay is considered to have more fishery resources than the Indian side. Even though a section of specialists favours the creation of an international institution of stakeholders for regulating the fishing sector in the Bay, attempts are on to wean away the fishermen of Tamil Nadu from bottom trawling. The deep sea fishing project, launched in July 2017 amid much fanfare, has not yielded the desired results. Relaxation of norms of the project is under the consideration of the Union Government, to draw greater response from the fishermen. Given the fact that deep sea fishing takes a longer duration and has a higher recurring cost per voyage than what the fishing community experiences currently, the need for providing continuous motivation to the fisherfolk assumes critical importance. Experts say various strategies, including the promotion of seaweed cultivation, open sea cage cultivation, seaweed cultivation and processing, and sea/ocean ranching should be adopted. There is a view that if the community is encouraged to form fish farmer producer organisations, it may take to sustainable fishing practices. For all this to happen, sustained public pressure and political will are a must. ramakrishnan.t@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lack-of-political-will/article38059373.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Falling short||To overlook the orgy of communal hatred at a recent event in Haridwar that was labelled a Hindu religious congregation as an inconsequential derangement of a fringe group may be a convenient pretext for the inaction by the police and the silence of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but the reality is scary. The passivity of the BJP is a signifier and eloquent admission of the pernicious mainstreaming of bigotry. The Uttarakhand police have betrayed a cavalier attitude in their investigation by not naming any of the ringleaders, initially, and not showing the urgency the case requires, subsequently. Speakers at the event openly called for genocide and violence. Such bigotry is not the monopoly of adherents of any particular religion, and law enforcement authorities should be eternally vigilant. The murder of two people at Sikh places of worship in Punjab in separate incidents in recent days showed how matters of religion can inflame irrational passion. In one case in Punjab, a person has been arrested and charged with murder. The shameful lynchings were followed by responses from organisations ranging from the Congress to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, but none unequivocally condemned the violence. Most reactions appeared to justify the violence, privileging abstract religious sentiments over the fundamental right to life. The Congress chief in Punjab, Navjot Singh Sidhu, spoke for many politicians seeking to exploit religion for electoral purposes when he said those who offended the faith must be hanged publicly. That mainstream parties are unable to take an unambiguous and universal position that violence and the call for violence, in the name of faith, are unacceptable is unsettling and bodes ill for Indian democracy. Despite sporadic bursts of communal violence, India, unlike its neighbours in South Asia, has survived and thrived as a multicultural and multi-religious nation till date. Keeping it that way requires vigilance and vision. Violence originates in thought, transmits itself through speech and manifests itself in action. Targets in the recent past have ranged from interfaith couples to carol singers to cattle traders to teachers setting question papers. New laws appear to reinforce and institutionalise prejudice and intolerance. The heavy hand of the state that falls too frequently on the critics of the Government has left the mobs that threaten national unity untouched. Those who committed murder in Punjab, those who called for mass murder from Haridwar and those who vandalised Christian institutions in different places must all be brought to justice as per the law. Political parties must rise above their narrow interests during the current election cycle and unite against hate. Later may be too late.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/falling-short/article38059362.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Trade defence||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) recently notified the imposition of anti-dumping duty on five products manufactured in China in order to safeguard domestic producers from lower-priced imports that the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) had found as being ‘dumped’ in the Indian market. The items range from specific flat-rolled aluminium products for solar modules, and silicone sealants used in the manufacture of solar photovoltaic modules to some chemicals, including a component of the refrigerant hydrofluorocarbon. In almost all the five products, the Commerce Ministry agency initiated its anti-dumping investigations in September 2020 and reached its final findings about 12 months later. CBIC’s imposition of the anti-dumping levy for five years on these Chinese products is based on the DGTR’s findings that their import constituted ‘dumping’, which was causing injury to local producers, and an ensuing recommendation that a protective duty was warranted. A remedy sanctioned by the WTO to protect a member country’s domestic industry from imports that have been priced at levels below those prevailing in the exporting nation’s home market, the anti-dumping duty has become one of India’s most widely used trade weapons, especially against a flood of cheaper Chinese imports. As of February 2020, India had imposed anti-dumping measures on 90 Chinese products, with another 24 China-specific anti-dumping investigations in progress at the time, according to a reply made in Parliament by Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal. The use of the specific trade remedy, howsoever warranted, does, however, raise questions. A reflexive resort to the anti-dumping duty, especially if the domestic applicant is a significantly large and relatively resilient manufacturer of the product, risks skewing the market dynamics in the Indian company’s favour, with both downstream industries, in the case of intermediate goods, and consumers likely to face the consequences of reduced competition on final prices. Also, efforts to narrow the sizeable trade deficit with China by targeted recourse to the levy have made little headway in addressing the widening gap as imports have continued to largely outpace India’s exports. The effectiveness of the measure in providing timely relief to smaller domestic manufacturers facing an existential crisis on account of suspected dumping has also been undermined in the past by a less than ‘swift’ process with the DGTR hamstrung by a personnel crunch. With companies worldwide now seeking to de-risk their businesses from an excessive reliance on China in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the prospect of more capacity in that country turning surplus and being used to produce goods for dumping overseas increases. Indian policymakers have their task cut out to bolster trade defences in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/trade-defence/article38059363.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the Refugees (From an Editorial)||Bangla Desh’s Minister for Relief and Rehabilitation, Mr. Quamruzzaman, has worked out a time-table for the return of the refugees from India, starting from the first day of the New Year and continuing up to the end of February. The exiles have been housed in 827 camps in seven States of India, extending as far as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. But the bulk of the refugees are in West Bengal, with half of the total in the five districts of Malda, West Dinajpur, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Cooch Bihar. There are also large numbers in Tripura, Meghalaya and Assam. It is interesting to observe that of the 9½ million people who fled to India, nearly three million have been living for the past nine months with relatives and friends, an indication of the close links between the two Bengals. Nor should we forget that West Bengal took in a large number of refugees during the 1965 war and even before that, there was a major influx in the fifties. Most of the people who came into India during the recent civil war have expressed a desire to go back; there are, however, a number of young people, small children and old folk who have lost their relatives, the wage earners for their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/return-of-the-refugees-from-an-editorial/article38059369.ece
29 December 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI flags banks’ capital buffer needs||Scheduled commercial banks would need a higher capital cushion to deal with challenges on account of the ongoing stress experienced by borrowers as well as to meet the economy’s potential credit requirements, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said in its Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India 2020-21. “Concerted strategies for timely capital infusion need to be carried forward by the banks,” it said in the report released on Tuesday. However, it said based on the capital position as on September 30, all Public Sector Banks (PSBs) and Private Sector Banks (PVBs) maintained the capital conservation buffer well over 2.5%. Emphasising that in India, most pandemic measures had a well-specified sunset clause — some having run their course during the year — it said the impact of these measures on banks’ financial health was not immediately clear and could be fully gauged only after a period. It said as a fallout of the pandemic and the slowdown in economic activity, the credit growth of scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) remained subdued in FY21 but that non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) had stepped up to fill this space. “In [the first half of FY22], although credit growth of SCBs has shown some uptick, concerns have emerged about NBFCs’ asset quality,” it added. The RBI said in the wake of pandemic-related lockdowns in FY21, supply chains had frozen, and demand had declined, with economic agents conserving cash with a precautionary motive. This had resulted in a sharp dip in credit growth even as deposits increased. ‘Bank stocks hit’ “The fall in yields provided a silver lining, as banks booked profits on their trading accounts. Banking stocks were affected particularly adversely as markets priced in future asset quality deterioration, affecting shareholders’ wealth and confidence,” it said. Data for FY22 so far showed banks’ gross as well as net non-performing assets had moderated while provision coverage ratios, capital buffers as well as profitability indicators had improved relative to pre-pandemic levels, the RBI said. “A closer look at granular data, however, reveals a more nuanced picture. Credit growth is muted, indicative of pandemic scarring on aggregate demand as also risk aversion of banks. Banks’ asset quality may get dented, going forward,” it said. “Most of the regulatory accommodations announced by the Reserve Bank, including deferment of implementation of net stable funding ratio, restrictions on dividend payouts by banks, deferment of implementation of the last tranche of capital conservation buffer have already expired,” it said.  Stating that it had announced Resolution Frameworks 1.0 and 2.0 to provide relief to borrowers and lending institutions, it said as support measures start unwinding, some of the restructured accounts might require higher provisioning by banks over the coming months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-flags-banks-capital-buffer-needs/article38059344.ece
29 December 2021||MUMBAI,||GDP to grow 9% in FY22 and FY23: ICRA||The Indian economy is expected to maintain real GDP growth of 9% both in FY22 and in FY23, amid the uncertainty triggered by the Omicron variant of the Covid-19-causing virus, ICRA said in a report. It said that available data for the third quarter of the current fiscal did not offer convincing evidence that the Reserve Bank Monetary Policy Committee’s criteria of durable and sustainable growth recovery had been met, to confirm a change in the policy stance to ‘neutral’ when the panel meets next in February 2022. “The data for October-November 2021 does not point to a broad-basing of the growth recovery in India,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA Ltd. “After the higher-than-expected net cash outgo sought under the second supplementary demand for grants, the pace of actual government spending is likely to determine whether the pace of GDP growth meaningfully exceeds 6.0-6.5% in Q3 FY22,” she added. Similar to the trend seen in the second quarter, volumes for seven of the 13 high-frequency indicators rose above their pre-Covid levels in October-November 2021. However, volumes for the remaining six contracted in the period relative to October-November 2019, suggesting that the recovery was yet to be broad-based, she added. Fresh restrictions being introduced by several States to curb the spread of COVID-19 may temporarily interrupt economic recovery, especially in the contact-intensive sectors in the fourth quarter ending March 31, Ms. Nayar said. There is a ‘clear K-shaped divergence amongst the formal and informal parts of the economy’ with the large gaining at the cost of the small, she added. “The expansion in FY23 is expected to be more meaningful and tangible than the base effect-led rise in FY22. Based on our assumptions of GDP growth if the COVID-19 pandemic had not emerged vs. the actual shrinkage that occurred in FY21 and the expected recovery in the next two years, the net loss to the Indian economy from the pandemic during FY2021-23 is estimated at Rs. 39.3 trillion, in real terms,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-grow-9-in-fy22-and-fy23-icra/article38059346.ece
29 December 2021||MUMBAI,||SEBI tweaks share sale norms for IPOs||The Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on Tuesday approved amendments to a slew of regulations to tighten the Initial Public Offering (IPO) process and norms governing utilisation of IPO proceeds by promoters. In its board meeting, SEBI approved conditions for sale of shares by significant shareholders in the Offer-For-Sale (OFS) process via an IPO and has extended the lock-in period for anchor investors to 90 days. Shares offered for sale by shareholders with more than 20% of pre-issue shareholding of the issuer, should not exceed 50% of their holding. If they hold less than 20%, then the offer for sale should not exceed 10% of their holding of the issue. SEBI said the existing lock-in of 30 days for anchor investors would continue for 50% of the portion allocated to such investors. For the remaining portion, lock-in of 90 days from the date of allotment will be applicable for all issues opening on or after April 1, 2022. These changes are as per proposals recommended by SEBI’s Primary Market Advisory Committee. The regulator also approved a cap on IPO proceeds earmarked for acquisitions of unspecified targets and from now, funds reserved for general corporate purposes will be monitored by credit rating agencies. If the issuer company sets out an object for future inorganic growth but has not identified any acquisition target in its offer documents, the amount for such objects and the amount for general corporate purpose shall not exceed 35% of the total amount being raised, SEBI said. The limit will not apply if the acquisition object has been identified and disclosures are made in the offer documents. The regulations come amid several new-age technology firms lining up with IPO applications, several intending to allow an exit to private equity investors through the OFS route. Credit rating agencies registered with the SEBI will be permitted to act as monitoring agencies instead of scheduled commercial banks and public financial institutions, SEBI said. “Such monitoring shall continue till 100% instead of 95% utilisation of issue proceeds as at present,” it said. Winding up MF schemes Winding up of mutual fund schemes would now be possible only after the consent of majority unitholders. “Trustees will have to obtain consent of the unitholders by simple majority of the unitholders present and voting on the basis of one vote per unit held and publish the results of voting within 45 days of the publication of notice of circumstances leading to winding up,” it said. If trustees fail to obtain consent, the scheme should be open for business from the second business day after publication of results of voting, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-tweaks-share-sale-norms-for-ipos/article38059350.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Expect inflation-indexed annuities soon’||Savers concerned about the deleterious impact of inflation on their fixed retirement income may soon be able to buy indexed annuity products with returns linked to the pace of price rise, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) chief signalled on Tuesday. The pension regulator, which oversees the National Pension System (NPS) with retirement savings of Rs. 6.76 lakh crore, is working with the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India (IRDAI) to provide such an option to its more than 4.7 crore members that include government and private sector employees as well as self-employed and informal sector workers. “For a lot of people, once the annuity income starts, it remains constant over their lifetime,” said PFRDA chairman Supratim Bandopadhyay. “While there is one product that offers a simple 3% annual increase in annuity income, it will not take care of the inflation risk,” he added. “We have been talking to the insurance regulator... and annuity providers, whether they can think of such a variable annuity which gives some cushion against the rise of inflation,” he said in response to a query on inflation reducing the value of annuity incomes mandated under the NPS. ‘Panel submitted report’ “They have had some working committee on the issue and a report has also been submitted. We are in discussions with the IRDA to make sure that such products can be launched as soon as possible,” he said at a webinar hosted by Assocham on NPS benefits for corporates. Mr. Bandopadhyay has been flagging the poor returns offered in annuity products where NPS members are required to put 40% of their retirement corpus in return for a monthly income till their demise. “Suppose somebody reached Rs. 2.1 lakh at retirement, he will get an annuity of Rs. 84,000 which today will give an income of Rs. 400 or Rs. 450 a month, which is a pittance… Since annuities are taxable, deducting tax and factoring in inflation means annuities are yielding negative returns,” he had pointed out earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/expect-inflation-indexed-annuities-soon/article38059355.ece
29 December 2021||COIMBATORE,||Govt. to accept textile PLI applications from Jan. 1||The Ministry of Textiles will accept applications from January 1 for the Production Linked Scheme for Textiles announced in September this year. Announcing the finalised operational guidelines for the scheme on Tuesday, the Ministry said applications will be accepted on https://pli.texmin.gov.in/mainapp/Default till the end of January. According to an official press statement, the government approved the PLI Scheme for Textiles with an outlay of Rs. 10,683 crore over a five-year period to promote production of manmade fibre apparel, manmade fibre fabrics, and technical textile products. Textiles Secretary Upendra Prasad Singh told The Hindu the window to accept applications will open on January 1. The scheme is operational from September 24, 2021 (date of notification) to March 31, 2030. The first performance year is 2024-2025 and the units have 2022-2024 to invest and start operations. The detailed guidelines are available on the Ministry’s website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-to-accept-textile-pli-applications-from-jan-1/article38059352.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Airlines woo travellers with low fares||As the holiday season draws to a close and with it the demand for travel, airlines are wooing passengers with attractive airfares for travel from next month. On Wednesday, IndiGo and GoAir announced a special year-end sale till December 31 offering all-inclusive one-way fares on domestic flights starting from Rs. 1,122 and Rs. 1,022, respectively. The offer from the two airlines comes a day after SpiceJet said it will offer airfares starting at Rs. 1,122. SpiceJet and IndiGo have also offered one-time waiver of rescheduling fee allowing passengers to book tickets despite uncertainty regarding government restrictions due to Omicron.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/airlines-woo-travellers-with-low-fares/article38059353.ece
29 December 2021||New Delhi,||Ambani talks of leadership transition||Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani on Tuesday talked about leadership transition at his energy-to-retail conglomerate, saying he wanted the process to be accelerated, with seniors — including him — yielding to the younger generation. Speaking at the Reliance Family Day, he said Reliance was “now in the process of effecting a momentous leadership transition.” Mr. Ambani, 64, who has previously not spoken about succession plans, has three children — twins Akash and Isha, and Anant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ambani-talks-of-leadership-transition/article38059356.ece
29 December 2021||Hyderabad,||USFDA gives nod for Granules’ generic BP drug||Drugmaker Granules has received the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s approval for generic version of Prazosin Hydrochloride Capsules, indicated in the treatment of high blood pressure. The current annual U.S. market for 1mg, 2mg, 5mg strengths is about $54 million, Granules said citing IQVIA/IMS Health numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/usfda-gives-nod-for-granules-generic-bp-drug/article38059342.ece
29 December 2021||Mumbai,||RBI extends restrictions on PMC Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended its restrictions on scam-tainted Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank Ltd. for three months till March 31, as the draft scheme of amalgamation of the bank with Unity Small Finance Bank Ltd. (USFB) is still under process, as per the central bank’s notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-extends-restrictions-on-pmc-bank/article38059348.ece
29 December 2021||Centurion,||India hits back through Shami, takes a 130-run first-innings lead||Mohammed Shami was red hot on a sunny day. He was lively, moved the ball and hit the target. He was fast and direct. Went about his business with focus, skill and control against a transitional South African line-up. Subtle movement What makes Shami dangerous is subtle movement at a telling pace from an off-stump line, just enough to breach the defence or find the edge. The inspired Shami, with exemplary wrist and seam position, scalped five for 44 as South Africa, replying to India’s 327, was bowled out for 197 on the third day of the first Freedom Test. India was 16 for one in its second innings, Mayank Agarwal nicking debutant left-armer Marco Jansen. In the morning, Lungi Ngidi showcased his ability with a six-for, as India collapsed from 272 for three. This pitch, as it often happens at Centurion, quickened as the match progressed. There was more bounce, more carry. Stung by its batting capitulation, India made early inroads. Southpaw Dean Elgar, with limited feet movement, fatally dabbled at a Jasprit Bumrah delivery angling across. After a couple of lovely drives, Keegan Petersen was done in by a pacey Shami off-cutter. Then, Shami unleashed a beauty, a good length delivery that came back and hit the top of off-stump, to terminate Aiden Markram’s innings. Already reeling at 30 for three, things became worse for the Proteas. Rassie van der Dussen, poking at a Mohammed Siraj away seamer, edged to an alert Ajinkya Rahane in the cordon. Siraj could have struck with his next delivery — slanting across the left-handed Quinton de Kock — but K.L. Rahul grassed the catch in the cordon. Amidst the carnage, India suffered a blow when Bumrah left the field with a sprained ankle. The pace ace, however, returned to the arena close to tea. Bavuma and de Kock put up some resistance. Bavuma, short and compact, drove with panache in front of the wicket. de Kock is a natural. He picks the length early, and can ease the ball through the gaps with a left-hander’s elegance. However, he can also give his wicket away like he did this time around playing on to a widish delivery from Shardul Thakur. Bavuma, covering for the swing, kept the fight going, cutting and straight-driving Thakur for boundaries. He whipped Shami to reach his half-century. Shami though had the last laugh. He seamed the ball ever so slightly away from Bavuma (52) to find the elusive edge. Earlier, Shami had consumed Wiaan Mulder with a trademark away seamer. Jansen, and Kagiso Rabada battled. Rabada’s straight six of R. Ashwin was a telling blow. Thakur’s delivery, angled in, ended Jansen’s innings. And the versatile Shami, this time seaming the ball away from the left-handed Rabada, got his coveted fifth wicket. Rhythm, pace and lift In the morning, Lungi Ngidi bowled with rhythm, pace and lift. His release (front on) was exemplary and he employed his strong shoulder to extract extra bounce. The rapid fall of wickets underlined the value of Rahul’s hundred. Ngidi and Rabada, lion-heartedly, bowled through the entire first hour. They bowled short, pitched it up and mixed their length cleverly. Rabada struck early, angling a short-pitched ball across Rahul’s shoulder and consuming the opener on an attempted hook. Behind Rahul’s 123 of timing and grace, lay resilience and discipline. Rahane (48), slashing at a delivery of extra bounce from Ngidi, perished. Ashwin succumbed to a leading edge after attempting to work Rabada, and southpaw Pant, trying to fend a Ngidi lifter, was held at short-leg (rightly kept by Elgar). The Indian innings ended soon and then the visitors hit back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-hits-back-through-shami-takes-a-130-run-first-innings-lead/article38059583.ece
29 December 2021||Newcastle,||Cavani to United’s rescue||Edinson Cavani spared Manchester United’s blushes on its return from a coronavirus hiatus as the Uruguayan rescued a 1-1 draw at struggling Newcastle on Monday. Ralf Rangnick’s side trailed to Allan Saint-Maximin’s eye-catching early goal and was out-played for long periods at St James’ Park. But Cavani came off the bench to bag his first goal since October in the second half, ensuring Rangnick avoided his first defeat in four games as United’s interim manager. United remains in seventh place in the Premier League, seven points behind fourth placed Arsenal with two games in hand. Rangnick had won his first two league games since taking over from the axed Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, but neither performance was especially convincing and this was another underwhelming effort. United did have the excuse of the Covid outbreak that forced it into a 16-day period of inactivity since it won 1-0 at Norwich on December 11. Its games against Brentford and Brighton were postponed, with the club’s training ground shut for four days. Improvement needed But regardless of the coronavirus chaos, Rangnick will know United must improve dramatically if it is to secure a top four finish. Second bottom Newcastle ended a three-game losing streak, leaving it two points from safety after the most encouraging display of Eddie Howe’s eight-match reign. However, the sight of Saint-Maximin and Callum Wilson limping off with injuries was a major blow for Howe, who has won just once since replacing the sacked Steve Bruce. Although its Covid situation has improved, United still weren’t able to return a completely clean bill of health after Sweden defender Victor Lindelof tested positive on Sunday. Raphael Varane returned from injury to replace Lindelof, but United looked rusty after its enforced lay-off and Newcastle took advantage to snatch a seventh minute lead. Varane carelessly gifted possession to Sean Longstaff and he picked out Saint-Maximin. Mesmerising The French winger showed his mesmerising dribbling ability as he shimmied past Diogo Dalot and Harry Maguire before steering a fierce strike past David De Gea from the edge of the area. United equalised in the 71st minute when Dalot’s cross reached Cavani and the Uruguay striker stabbed home at the second attempt.  The result:   Newcastle 1 (Saint-Maximin 7) drew with Manchester United 1 (Cavani 71).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cavani-to-uniteds-rescue/article38059633.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian cricket is in a good place; now for the future||It was quite bizarre watching the Ashes Test in Melbourne played to a vociferous, raucous crowd and then switching channels to Centurion where India were playing South Africa in an empty stadium. The difference is startling, and further proof that just like a book is incomplete without a reader, sport is imperfect without spectators. But such are the times we live in; we should be used to the empty stadiums by now. Watching England gurgle down the drain in Australia, it is useful to remember that earlier this year an Indian team beat this same Australia in one of the most exciting Test series of modern times. An Indian team that was all out for 36 in the first Test and written off by most. Especially after their best batsman then returned home for personal reasons. India had (and continue to have) two, sometimes three players for each slot; England barely have one. But this is not just about the skill level of the players and competition for places in the team. It is about being match ready at every turn, and England are struggling because players are taking time to settle in. Modern cricket does not allow a player that luxury. Like Australia’s Scott Boland, a bowler should be primed to pick up wickets when he gets his chance. Remarkable performance Tours, especially in times of Covid, give teams little or no time to acclimatise; the focus is on the international itself, not the build-up to it. Which is why India’s performance on the first day of the Centurion Test was remarkable. They came into the match with no warm-up games, with the knowledge that no Indian team had won a Test series in South Africa before, and that often they have tended to lose the first Test of a new series abroad and then struggled to make up ground. Yet, they began dramatically, with a century opening partnership (even if the rest of the team didn’t quite build on it). Skipper Virat Kohli might be struggling for runs (although he played with some of his old fluency in the first innings), but his team is doing well; for England, skipper Joe Root is doing well, but his team is struggling. No prizes for guessing which of the alternatives a captain might prefer. In Joe Root and Pat Cummins, the Melbourne Test saw two of the most decent international captains pitted against each other. Successful captains have one of two things going for them — tactical nous and the ability to seize the moment is one. The gift of getting the men in their charge to play above themselves is another. Root’s inability to seize the moment seems to be overlapping with Cummins’s gift for having his men play for their captain. This second attribute is a speciality of Kohli’s too. Some players are in awe of him, others respond to him well; the result is a team that plays as one. The catch At the year-end, Indian cricket is in a good place. Key players are in their twenties. Or 33 like the captain himself, Ishant Sharma, Ajinkya Rahane and Cheteswar Pujara. Ravi Ashwin is older at 35. The catch in having a set of players all of the same age is that they tend to leave at around the same time too. This was the case with the Sachin Tendulkar generation, with Rahul Dravid and V.V.S. Laxman calling it a day after a tour of Australia, Sourav Ganguly having left a little earlier. Tendulkar went on for a couple of years more. With India’s opening slots admitting of a wide range of choices (Rohit Sharma, K L Rahul, Mayank Agarwal, Prithvi Shaw, Shubhman Gill), many of whom have been successful too, perhaps it is time to groom someone for the No. 3 slot. In his debut match, Pujara made a brilliant 72 at No. 3 as India chased 207 against Australia to win. He was thus given an opportunity to play alongside regular No. 3 Rahul Dravid who later said that at the same age, Pujara was the better batsman than he was. It set Pujara on the road to 100 Tests (the Centurion Test is his 93rd). A natural fit at No. 3 might be Shubhman Gill who has opened with both flair and solidity. He is 22, the same age when Pujara made his debut. Gill has already played ten Tests, and can make that slot his own. He is too gifted a player to wait for an opening at the top. The same planning can see the careers of the middle order, the fast bowlers and the spinners overlapping with the next generation. That guarantees a smooth transition, something that India planned for and enjoyed the fruits of with the Kohli generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-cricket-is-in-a-good-place-now-for-the-future/article38059359.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Guha and Gukesh impress||Mitrabha Guha and D. Gukesh — among the three lowest-rated Indian male players in the fray — produced impressive results to overtake several illustrious teammates on the second day of the World rapid chess championship at Warsaw on Monday. Carlsen leads After nine rounds, the young duo was sharing the 14th spot at six points. The leaderboard is headed by World champion Magnus Carlsen (7.5). Four rounds remain. In the women’s section, defending champion K. Humpy has 3.5 points from four rounds to share the second spot at six points from eight rounds. With three rounds to go, Alexandra Kosteniuk leads at 7.5 points. The talk of the day was the stupendous performance of young Uzbek Nodirbek Abdusattorov. In the last three rounds, the 17-year-old stunned Levon Aronian, Radoslaw Wojtaszek and Boris Gelfand to set up a 10th-round meeting with Carlsen. Among the Indians, Guha performed way over his rating of 2107 to shock Norwegian Aryan Tari (2542), Kazakh Rinat Jumabayev (2562) and Russian Alexandr Predke (2630) before holding another Russian, ninth seed Sergey Karjakin (2757). Gukesh (2050), too, remained unbeaten on the day and won the last two rounds against Greek rival Nikolas Theodorou (2559) and Armenia’s Tigran Petrosian (2621) to match Guha’s tally. First-day hero Harsha Bharathakoti (2484) continued to impress on his way to 5.5 points. Humpy was the other Indian to shine. The seventh seed continued her unbeaten run with wins over Julia Movsesian (Czech), Marta Michna (Germany) and Ekaterini Pavlidou (Greece).  Indians’ points tally: Open (after 9 rounds): Mitrabha Guha, D. Gukesh (6 each); Abhimanyu Puranik, Harsha Bharathakoti (5.5 each); S.L. Narayanan (5); Vidit Gujrathi, Nihal Sarin, P. Harikrishna (4.5 each); Raunak Sadhwani, Arjun Erigaisi (4 each); Aditya Mittal (2.5).   Women (after 8 rounds): K. Humpy (6); R. Vaishali (5.5); Padmini Rout (5) and Vantika Agarwal (4.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/guha-and-gukesh-impress/article38059574.ece
29 December 2021||Melbourne,||Boland scripts an embarrassing chapter for England||A relentless Australia spearheaded by debutant Scott Boland skittled England out for an embarrassing 68 on Tuesday to win the third Test by an innings and 14 runs and retain the Ashes with two matches still to play. A demoralised England folded up in the morning on day three in Melbourne and will now be desperate to avoid a series whitewash. Last straw England resumed at the MCG on 31 for four, still 51 runs behind, after a disastrous final hour on Monday against some outstanding fast bowling. Survival rested on skipper Joe Root, but when he fell for 28, it was just a matter of time before the rest followed — all over before lunch in an embarrassing chapter for English cricket. Boland, called up as injury cover, was invincible on his home ground, taking six for seven in four overs, equalling the record for the fastest five-wicket haul off 19 balls. Mitchell Starc ended with three for 29 as England’s misery was complete. “It is pretty insane. Just an awesome few weeks, everything clicked and everything worked out. Thrilled for Scott Boland,” said Australia skipper Pat Cummins. Ben Stokes resumed on two but his poor tour continued when he was clean bowled by Starc for 11. Jonny Bairstow made five and when Root was out it was all over, with the tailenders quickly following. “It is what it is,” said a dejected Root. “Credit to Australia, they blew us away last night and they have outplayed us in this Test match — in fact, the series so far.” Root’s feat Meanwhile Root ended the calendar year with the third-most Test runs in history. With an aggregate of 1,708 runs for the year, at an average of 61.00, the England captain was behind only Pakistan’s Mohammad Yousuf (1,788 in 2006) and West Indian legend Viv Richards (1,710 in 1976).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boland-scripts-an-embarrassing-chapter-for-england/article38059572.ece
29 December 2021||KOCHI,||‘Need to pick and choose tournaments’||With the Asian Games and Commonwealth Games lined up next year, in a season that already looks packed with tournaments, P.V. Sindhu said that she will have to pick and choose events to play. “When you see 2022, we have continuous tournaments, and we have the Asian Games, Commonwealth Games, World Championships and World Tour. So definitely you will have to see what tournaments to play and what not to play to make sure that I’m 100% fit,” said the Tokyo Olympic bronze medallist who was in Kochi to open an exclusive Li-Ning showroom here on Tuesday. “If you want to play all tournaments, you will always be outside India.” Sindhu, the 2019 World champion, said the Asian Games, virtually a mini World championship with many of the planet’s best, are always tough. “The Asian Games have always been tough. From the first round, we have to give our 100%, there’s not going to be any easy matches there,” said the 2016 Rio Olympic silver medallist. “Hoping for the best at the Asian Games, I was a silver medallist last time and of course I will be aiming for the gold but as I said, I will have to take it one game at a time, one match at a time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-to-pick-and-choose-tournaments/article38059904.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad demolishes Odisha||Hyderabad FC returned to winning ways with a thumping 6-1 win over Odisha FC in Match 43 of the Indian Super League in Bambolim on Tuesday. Bartholomew Ogbeche scored a double as HFC climbed to second, one point short of leader Mumbai City after eight games. The first two goals of the match came from own goals — the first coming from OFC defender Hector Rodas from a Joao Victor header, amid a penalty-box melee, in the ninth minute, while the latter came off the chest of HFC’s Juanan in the 16th. Garcia and Ogbeche paired up again in the first half, with the latter heading the ball in from a corner kick in the 39th minute to make it 2-1 for HFC. The second half was all HFC. Garcia started things rolling with a precise left-foot finish in the 54th minute, while Ogbeche‘s strike from outside the box gave HFC a three-goal cushion before the hour mark. ‘Super-sub’ Javier Siverio made it five within four minutes of coming on to the pitch, while Joao Victor, the HFC captain, scored from the spot in the 86th minute.  The result: Hyderabad FC 6 (H. Rodas 9-og, B. Ogbeche 39, 60, E. Garcia 54, J. Siverio 72, J. Victor 86) bt Odisha FC 1 (Juanan 16-og).   Today’s match: ATK Mohun Bagan vs FC Goa, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-demolishes-odisha/article38059580.ece
29 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Kartik Jindal stuns Kiran George, enters quarterfinals||Unseeded Kartik Jindal of Haryana shocked sixth-seeded Kiran George of Kerala 21-13, 21-11 in the men’s singles pre-quarterfinal of the BAI Series senior badminton tournament here on Tuesday. Raghu advances In another upset in men’s singles, M. Raghu of Karnataka surprised seventh-seeded Siddarth Pratap Singh of Chattisgarh 21-19, 22-20. In women’s singles pre-quarterfinals, Ashmita Chaliha of Assam shocked ninth-seeded Anura Prabhudesai of Goa 21-18, 21-17.  The results (from Telangana otherwise mentioned): Pre-quarterfinals: Men’s singles: Aditya Joshi (Utr) bt K. Sathish Kumar (TN) 9-21, 23-21, 21-9; Kartik Jindal (Har) bt Kiran George (Ker) 21-13, 21-11; Kartikey Gulshan Kumar (Dli) bt G. Aditya Bapineedu 21-11, 9-21, 25-23; M. Raghu (Kar) bt Siddharth Pratap Singh (Cg) 21-19, 22-20; M. Mithun (Rly) bt Bharat Raghav (Har) 21-12, 21-10; Priyanshu Rajawat (MP) bt G. Pranav Rao 14-21, 21-14, 21-11; Shreyansh Jaiswal (Cg) bt C. Rahul Yadav 20-22, 21-19, 21-9; Ravi (Har) bt Chirag Sen (Utr) 21-15, 20-22, 21-16.   Women’s singles: Aakarshi Kashyap (Cg) bt K. Preethi (AP) 21-11, 21-10; Tara Shah (Maha) bt M. Tanishq (AP) 21-16, 21-15; Aashi Rawat (Dli) bt A. Neysa Cariappa (Kar) 22-20, 21-14; Purva Barve (AI) bt Aditi Bhatt (Utr) 21-15, 21-17; Neha Pandit (Maha) bt A. Abhilasha 21-13, 21-8; Ashmita Chaliha (Asm) bt Anura Prabhudesai (Goa) 21-18, 21-17; Unnati Hooda ((Har) bt Tasnim Mir (Guj) 21-11, 21-12; Malvika Bansod (AAI) bt Likhita Srivastava (Dli) 16-21, 21-7, 21-13.   Doubles: V. Harika (AP) & Akshaya Warang (Maha) bt Tanishka Deshpande & Shruti Mundada (Maha) 21-11, 21-12; Khushi Gupta (Dli) & Simran Singhi (Maha) w\o Revati Devasthale (Maha) & K. Maneesha (RBI); B.V. Ramya Tulasi (TN) & Shivani Santosh Singh (Har) bt Mehreen Riza & Arathi Sara Sunil (Ker) 21-18, 13-21, 23-21; Sanyogita Ghorpade (Maha) & Prajakta Sawant (AI) bt Ashritha Kandula & Anagha Pai (TS) 21-9, 21-19; R. Arulbala & V. Nila (TN) bt Sri Sai Sravya Lakkamraju & Swetaparna Panda (Odi) 21-16, 21-16; Treesa Jolly (Ker) & P. Gayatri Gopichand bt Riduvarshini Ramasamy & S. Deepta (TN) 21-6, 21-18; R. Thanushree & V.S. Varshini (TN) bt Diksha Choudhary (Cg) & Yashica (Har) 21-12, 21-12; K. Vennala & Shriyanshi Valishetty w\o Tanisha Crasto (Goa) & Rutaparna Panda (Odi).   Mixed doubles: Edwin Joy & B.R. Divya (Ker) w\o Ishaan Bhatnagar (AAI) & Tanisha Crasto (Goa); Rohan Kapoor (Dli) & Sanjana Santosh bt Deep Rambhiya (Maha) & Kanika Kanwal (Rly) 21-19, 21-12; Vinay Kumar Singh & Ningshi Block Hazarika (CAG) & Akshan Shetty & Simran Singhi (Maha) 23-21, 21-15; K. Sai Pratheek (Kar) & P. Gayatri Gopichand bt B. Sumeeth Reddy & Rutaparna Panda (Odi) 21-14, 18-21, 21-16; Dhruv Rawat (Utr) & Shikha Gautam (Kar) bt Chirag Sen & Aditi Bhatt (Utr) 21-12, 21-18; Pratik Ranade & Akshaya Warang (Maha) bt Saurabh Sharma & Prajakta Sawant (AI) 22-20, 23-21; Vighnesh Devlekar & Sanyogita Ghorpade (Maha) bt T. Hemanagendra Babu & G. Srivedya 21-19, 22-20; S. Sunjith (RBI) & T.R. Gowrikrishna (Ker) bt Gouse Shaik (AP) & K. Maneesha (RBI) 20-22, 21-13, 21-17 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kartik-jindal-stuns-kiran-george-enters-quarterfinals/article38059859.ece
29 December 2021||Mumbai:,||A Star Is Born claims feature event||A Star Is Born, ridden by Suraj Narredu, upset the applecart of first favourite Zuccarelli by pipping him at the wire in the Arion Horse Company Indian 2000 Guineas (Gr.1), the stellar attraction of the races held here on Tuesday (Dec. 28). The winner is owned by Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla and Ms. Simone Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing and Breeding Pvt. Ltd. The winner is trained by Rajesh Narredu. Suraj had kept this son of Roderic O’ Connor-Angel Dust in the second last position till the 800m. As the field negotiated the bend, A Star Is Born, who came from the outside, was vigorously ridden by Suraj in the straight to pip the public choice Zuccarelli at the post by a long neck. A Star Is Born also gave his sire Roderic O’Connor his first Indian Classic victory.  1. CASTLEBRIDGE PLATE (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: GUSTY GIRL (P. Vinod) 1, Windy City (Sandesh) 2, Turmeric Tower (Dashrath) 3 and C’est L’Amour (Aniket) 4. 1-1/2, 1 and 3/4. 59.11s. Rs. 94 (w), 24, 10 and 14 (p). SHP: 39, FP: 123, Q: 78, Tanala: 982 and 396. Favourite: Windy City. Owners: Mr. S.R. Sanas, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Mukul Sonawala, Chetan Shah & Ashok Kumar B. Gupta. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  2. NAWABZADA RASHIDUZZAFAR KHAN TROPHY (1,800m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: GIANT STAR (Neeraj) 1, Successor (Sandesh) 2 and Magistero (Bhawani) 3. 14-1/4 and 8-3/4. 1m 49.16s. Rs. 12 (w), SHP: 13, FP; 12. Favourite: Giant Star. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldhana, M/s. Mark Saldhana, Vivek S. Jain, Faisal F. Qurreshi & Khushroo R. Battiwala. Trainer: M. Narredu.  3. PHOENIX TIGER PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: COLUMBIAN (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Fuhrer (Aniket) 2, Juiced (Parmar) 3 and Rising Brave (Shahrukh) 4. 8-3/4, Sh and 2-1/2. 1m 10.68s. Rs. 25 (w), 13, 12 and 21 (p). SHP: 33, FP: 69, Q: 27, Tanala: 198 and 124. Favourite: Fuhrer. Owners: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  4. FAIZ JASDANWALLA TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: BOTERO (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Sky Storm (Antony Raj) 2, Circle Of Love (Sandesh) 3 and Aira (Bhawani) 4. 3-1/4, 1 and 1/2. 2m 5.10s. Rs. 25 (w), 14 and 54 (p). SHP: 116, FP: 522, Q: 194, Tanala: 380 and 163. Favourite: Zarak. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt Ltd, Mr. & Mrs. Cyrus S. Palia, M/s. Vispi R. Patel & Eruch Adi Mody. Trainer: P. Shroff.  5. M.N. NAZIR TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: ENDEAVOUR (Kirtish) 1, Cellini (T.S. Jodha) 2, Spring Grove (Parmar) 3 and Sky Fall (P.S. Chouhan) 4. Lnk, 3/4 and Lnk. 58.14s. Rs. 38 (w), 11, 22 and 38 (p). SHP: 72, FP: 308, Q: 239, Tanala: 1,530 and 437. Favourite: Baby Bazooka. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd, Mr. & Mrs. Homi Mehta, Mr. Jehangir Mehta, Mrs. Liame & Mr. Milan Luthria. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  6. ARION HORSE COMPANY INDIAN 2000 GUINEAS (Gr. 1) (1,600m) (Terms), Indian Horses, 3-y-o only: A STAR IS BORN (Roderic O’Connor-Angel Dust) (Suraj Narredu) 1, Zuccarelli (Western Aristocrat-Circle Of Bliss) (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Presidential (Phoenix Tower-Riyasat) (Neeraj) 3 and Alastair (Speaking Of Which-Alice Springs) (C. Umesh) 4. Lnk, 2-1/4 and 3-1/4. 1m 36.43s. Rs. 29 (w), 14, 12 and 37 (p). SHP: 37, FP: 78, Q: 15, Tanala: 351 and 330. Favourite: Zuccarelli. Owners: Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla and Ms. Simone Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing and Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Rajesh Narredu.  7. MACHIAVELLIANISM PLATE (1,400m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: CHANCELLOR (Sandesh) 1, She Is On Fire (Zervan) 2, Twelfth Earl (S. Sunil) 3 and The Flutist (T.S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Memorable Moments. 3-3/4, 1 and 1. 1m 23.84s. Rs. 17 (w), 13, 15 and 21 (p). SHP: 46, FP: 80, Q: 118, Tanala: 710 and 203. Favourite: Chancellor. Owners: M/s. Kishore M. Dingra, Dallas Todywalla & Saleem Fazelbhoy. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla. Jackpot: 70% Rs. 1,390 (281 tkts.), 30% Rs. 325 (515 tkts.). Treble: 538 (47 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70% 806 (56 tkts.), 30% 165 (117 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-star-is-born-claims-feature-event/article38060014.ece
29 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Big win for Naval Tata||Naval Tata Hockey Academy High Performance Centre thrashed Government Thakur Pyarelal School, Rajnandgaon 21-0 in a one-sided Group C match at the 49th Nehru junior boys’ hockey on Tuesday.  The results: Group A: Guru Gobind Singh Spors College, Lucknow 15 (Vinvanshi Triloki 4, Ajeet Yadav 3, Ajeet Kumar 2, Akash Pal 2, Vishal Kumar 2, Vishal Pandey, Suraj Pal) bt Mukherjee Seminary School, Muzaffarpur 0.   Group C: Naval Tata Hockey Academy HPC 21 (Rohit Singh 7, Bidyananda Singh 4, Namarjit Singh 3, Arbin Toppo 2, Akash Soreng 2, Ricky Tonjam 2, Ashish Kumar Toppo) bt Govt. Thakur Pyarelal School, Rajnandgaon 0.   Group D: Raja Karan Hockey Academy, Karnal 8 (Amandeep 3, Sukhvinder, Rupinder Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Ansh Kamboj, Shubhdeep Singh) bt SR High School, Baria 0.   Group G: Surjit Hockey Academy, Jalandhar 17 (Prabhjot Singh 4, Sehajbir Singh 4, Dilraj Singh 3, Mandeep Singh 2, Rajan Singh 2, Sandeep Singh, Gobind Patel) bt MM HSS, Palakkad 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-win-for-naval-tata/article38059763.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Coach in focus as ATK Mohun Bagan takes on FC Goa||Wednesday’s ISL clash will witness an unusual scene — outside the playing field. One coach will be giving directions to his players against a team that he had been in charge of till less than a fortnight ago. Juan Ferrando, who left FC Goa to join ATK Mohun Bagan, could find himself in the limelight at Fatorda’s Jawaharlal Stadium. The Spaniard will certainly want to take the full points off his former team. The man who replaced him at Goa, Derrick Pereira, will be determined to deny him that pleasure. He had a decent start to his new job a few days ago, as Goa drew 1-1 with Odisha. That meant the team extended its unbeaten run to four matches. Goa is placed eighth in the table with eight points from seven games. ATK Mohun Bagan, which has three points more from the same number of games, is fifth. It should be in a confident frame of mind too, having beaten NorthEast United 3-2 in their last match. And that was the first game for Ferrando after he took over the reins from Antonio Lopez Habas. He admitted it was difficult to explain his feelings ahead of the match ahead of his former team. “Now it is important for me to focus on (my new club),” he said. “And I wish all the best to FC Goa.” Goa’s coach said his team would stick to its style against ATK Mohun Bagan. “And we will put pressure on them and try to create opportunities,” said Pereira.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-in-focus-as-atk-mohun-bagan-takes-on-fc-goa/article38060030.ece
29 December 2021||NAVI MUMBAI,||Zeel Desai and Pranjala advance||Zeel Desai recovered from a slow start to beat an error-prone Clara Vlasselaer of Belgium 4-6, 6-4, 6-1 in the first round of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the Ganesh Naik Complex on Tuesday. Three-setter Yadlapalli Pranjala had to fight her way past Vaidehi Chaudhari in three sets. After losing the first set, the free-stroking Chaudhari jumped to a 5-0 lead in the second set, only to find Pranjala equalising it. In the twelfth game, Chaudhari broke Pranjala’s serve after the latter had led 40-0 to force the decider. In the third set, Pranjala was a lot more clinical and Chaudhari just managed to hold serve once. Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia, proved too hot for Shrivalli Bhamidipaty, who struggled with her serve, especially in the second set, when she delivered six of her nine double faults in the match.  The results: First round: Zeel desai bt Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) 4-6, 6-4, 6-1; Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Shrivalli Bhamidipaty 6-2, 6-4; Misaki Matsuda (Jpn) bt Mihika Yadav 6-0, 6-0; Yadlapalli Pranjala bt Vaidehi Chaudhari 6-4, 5-7, 6-1; Nafisa Berberovic (BIH) bt Funa Kozaki (Jpn) 1-6, 6-3, 6-2.   Doubles: Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Nigina Abduraimova (Uzb) & Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) 7-5, 6-2; Funa Kozaki & Misaki Matsuda (Jpn) bt Pooja Ingale & Bela Tamhankar 6-1, 6-0.   Ekaterina Yashina (Rus) & Prarthana Thombare bt Sathwika Sama & Saumya Vig 6-0, 6-4.   Sai Samhitha & Soha Sadiq bt Shrivalli Bhamidipaty & Akanksha Nitture 6-3, 3-6, [10-7]; Naho Sato & Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) bt Sharmada Balu & Nidhi Chilumula 6-4, 6-2.   Anna Siskova (Cze) & Rutuja Bhosale bt So-Ra Lee (Kor) & Akiko Omae (Jpn) 5-7, 7-6(5), [10-5].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeel-desai-and-pranjala-advance/article38059765.ece
29 December 2021||VIENNA,||Dominic Thiem to miss Australian Open||Dominic Thiem said on Tuesday he would miss next month’s Australian Open, delaying further his plans to rejoin after injury. The 28-year-old 2020 US Open champion, who has been out for six months with a wrist injury, said he now planned to start at the Cordoba Open in Argentina, which begins on January 31. “My team and I have assessed all matters and we have decided to make some changes to my initial tournament schedule... We believe this is the right decision in order to have a good return to competition,” said the 28-year-old in a statement. The Austrian, ranked 15th in the world, has already pulled out of the ATP Cup, which starts next week, and an exhibition event in Abu Dhabi earlier this month. The Australian Open begins in Melbourne on January 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dominic-thiem-to-miss-australian-open/article38059629.ece
29 December 2021||Melbourne,||Will he, won’t he? — Joker turns Riddler!||Novak Djokovic has not withdrawn from the ATP Cup despite claims he was almost sure to do so, Tennis Australia said on Tuesday, as other top players led by Naomi Osaka began arriving ahead of the Australian Open. There has been serious doubts as to whether men’s World No. 1 Djokovic would travel to Australia, having refused to confirm if he has been vaccinated against the coronavirus. An unnamed member of his team told Serbian newspaper Blic that they were “99 percent” sure that he would not play in the ATP Cup, which comes ahead of the Australian Open, adding to the intrigue over whether Djokovic would be at the first Grand Slam of the year. But Tennis Australia told AFP the Serbian had yet to pull out of the teams event, which is due to start on Saturday in Sydney with Djokovic drawn to play Norway’s Casper Ruud on the opening day. “We haven’t heard of any withdrawals from Team Serbia for the ATP Cup,” a spokesperson said. Tennis Australia has organised charter flights to bring international stars into Melbourne and Sydney, with the first arriving on Tuesday. Defending women’s Australian Open champion Osaka was among those to touch down, but Djokovic was not on board, Tennis Australia said. Players can also opt to fly commercial. Nine-time Australian Open champion Djokovic could win a record 21st Grand Slam title if he plays at Melbourne Park, but to enter Australia he and members of his entourage have to be vaccinated. The 34-year-old has previously expressed his opposition to the vaccine and his father Srdjan said in late November that Djokovic would probably not play the Australian Open, accusing the organisers of “blackmail”. Tennis Australia has organised the charter flights to help minimise the risk of infection..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-he-wont-he-joker-turns-riddler/article38059631.ece
29 December 2021||Dubai,||Ashwin shortlisted for ICC Test Cricketer of the Year||Seasoned India off-spinner R. Ashwin was on Tuesday shortlisted as one of the four nominees for the ICC Test Cricketer of the year award. The 35-year-old snapped 52 wickets from eight Tests at an average of 16.23 and also contributed 337 runs with the bat at 28.08 with one century in the last one year. Besides Ashwin, England skipper Joe Root, New Zealand pacer Kyle Jamieson and Sri Lanka opener Dimuth Karunaratne were the others to be nominated for the prestigious award, which recognises the outstanding achievements and feats in cricket over the past year. The winner of the award will be announced on January 24. “One of India’s greatest match-winners in the longest format, R Ashwin again asserted his authority as one of the world’s finest spinners in 2021. Apart from his wizardry with the ball, Ashwin also made invaluable contributions with the bat,” the ICC said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-shortlisted-for-icc-test-cricketer-of-the-year/article38059576.ece
29 December 2021||Centurion,||We adapted and kept up the pressure, says Shami||Much about Test cricket is adapting to conditions. Conditions change, demanding different responses from the cricketers. Mohammed Shami was aware of this cricketing truth when he said, “The conditions yesterday when it rained all day and the bright sunshine today, you couldn’t have got more different conditions.” Shami, who bowled with excellent rhythm, added, “But we focused and adapted. I think we bowled in the right areas, kept up the pressure. There was some help for us.” All are special Asked where he would place his five-wicket haul here on Tuesday, Shami said, “All five-wicket hauls in Test cricket are special. You cannot pick any one of them.” Queried who was the toughest batsman he bowled to in his 200 wickets, Shami said, “You cannot pick a wicket or a batsman. All wickets are important.” Asked what would be a good target for the Indian bowlers to defend, Shami said, “There are still two more days left. Anything from 375 to 400 would be a good target.” Temba Bavuma fought hard for South Africa with an innings of 52. While he was pleased with his innings, the South African vice-captain conceded India was ahead in the game. Asked about the conditions, he said, “The movement wasn’t exaggerated. It wasn’t the quickest wicket I have played on here. Credit to the Indians for bowling so well. Particularly, Mohammed Shami.” World-class bowler Queried about Shami’s five-wicket haul, Bavuma said, “He’s a world-class bowler. We have seen him bowl like this around the globe.” Bavuma observed, “As a group we want to avoid soft dismissals. But when someone bowls wicket-taking balls, all credit to him. The movement was challenging.” About South Africa’s lack of match practice in Test cricket — it last played a Test match six months ago — Bavuma said, “I don’t want to be making excuses. You can have any number of practice sessions but match practice and match intensity are different.” He said, “On the first day, you could see, we did not play with our usual intensity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-adapted-and-kept-up-the-pressure-says-shami/article38059586.ece
29 December 2021||Sharjah,||India vs Bangladesh in semifinals||India will lock horns with Bangladesh on Thursday in the semifinals of the U-19 Asia Cup after the group-deciding match involving the latter and Sri Lanka was called off due to COVID-19 infection of two officials here on Tuesday. As many as 32.4 overs were already bowled before the match was cancelled. Due to its superior run rate, Bangladesh finished on top and will meet India in the semifinals on Dec. 30. Sri Lanka will meet Pakistan in the other semifinal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-vs-bangladesh-in-semifinals/article38059357.ece
29 December 2021||Kolkata,||Ganguly tests positive||Former India captain and president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, Sourav Ganguly, has tested positive for COVID-19 infection and was admitted to a city hospital. A press statement from Woodlands Hospital, Kolkata, on Tuesday said that he received monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy and is currently hemodynamically stable. The hospital authorities said that a medical board comprising five senior doctors is keeping a close watch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ganguly-tests-positive/article38059578.ece
29 December 2021||Bengaluru:,||Overpowered||Three-time champions Patna Pirates beat Puneri Paltan 38-26 in a Vivo Pro Kabaddi League Season-8 match here on Tuesday. Sachin scored a Super 10 (10 points) and was ably supported by Patna’s defensive trio of Sunil (4 points), Mohammadreza Chiyaneh (3 points) and Sajin C (3 points). The lack of a quality raider despite promising performances from youngsters will be a cause of concern for the Puneri Paltan which succumbed a second loss in three matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pirates-subdue-paltan/article38059585.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Airliner Academy in final||Udit Negi top-scored with 64 and Avyay Shah and Akshay Tehlan made handy half-centuries as Airliner Cricket Academy beat Global Cricket Academy by eight runs to enter the final of the 7th RP Dhoundiyal tournament.  The scores: ACA 299/8 in 35 overs (Udit Negi 64, Avyay Shah 60, Akshay Tehlan 53, Ayush 3/57) bt GCA 291/9 in 35 overs (Parth 68, Harshit 52, Kriday Berry 3/29, Vikrant 3/24) .      Mayank Rawat’s 57-run knock helped Young Friends Club beat Players Academy by four wickets in the 2nd D. Force open tournament.  The scores: Players Academy 177 in 38 overs (Tarun Bisht 41, Yajas Sharma 40, Monu Pal 3/36) lost to YFC 178/6 in 37 overs (Mayank Rawat 57) .    Anshul Solanki’s 79 runs and Harsh’s four wickets saw Paschim Vihar Panthers beat West Delhi Academy by 86 runs in the Bat & Ball tournament.  The scores: PVP 189 in 39 overs (Anshul Solanki 79, Khepratap Singh 4/21) bt WDA 103 in 28 overs (Aryan Sharma 43, Harsh 4/25, Sachin 3/22) .      Raju Barmunda’s all-round performance saw Unique Sports Club beat Sporting Club by 100 runs in the Ratan Lal Saini U-19 tournament.  The scores: USC 165 in 37 overs (Raju Barmunda 37, Pardeep Sangwan 3/21) bt Sporting Club 65 in 24 overs (Dikshant 3/8) .      Man-of-the-match Shoaib Khan scored a 45-ball 94 as Turf Sultans won by 41 runs in the Turf Junior Cricket League against West Delhi Panthers.  The scores: Turf Sultans 165/6 in 20 overs (Shoaib Khan 94) bt WDP 124/9 in 20 overs (Anurag Yadav 32, Naitik Chhabra 2/16) .      Half-centuries by Rizwan Khan and Yash Kaushik helped Ravindra Phagna Cricket Academy win by seven wickets against Shivaji Cricket Academy in the 1st KK Tiwari memorial tournament.  The scores: SCA 170 in 36 overs (Yatharth Singh 42, Anuj Bhardwaj 3/19, Ashish Bambi 3/22) lost to RPCA 173/3 in 29.4 overs (Rizwan Khan 55, Yash Kaushik 53 n.o.) .    Yash Motla picked up five wickets as Capital Cricket Academy won by 10 wickets against RK Cricket Academy through DLS in a run-curtailed match of the 2nd Kanta Devi memorial tournament.  The scores: RKCA 212 in 29 overs (Vansh Prashar 64, Ayush 34, Yash Motla 5/43, Om Kumar 3/30) lost to CCA 85/1 in 12.2 overs (Ansh Kumar 43 n.o.) .      Ayush Doseja smashed a match-winning 116-ball 183 as Swastik Sports beat St. Angel Academy by 175 runs in the 1st DR Sharma memorial tournament through DLS.  The scores: Swastik Sports 336/7 in 40 overs (Ayush Doseja 183, Abhishek Gupta 83, Aryan Dabas 4/65) bt St. Angel Academy 91/7 in 19 overs (Devansh Gupta 41, Gaurang Mishra 3/42) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/airliner-academy-in-final/article38059762.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Medansh scalps five as RBNCC ‘B’ win||A five-wicket haul by medium pacer Medansh M Urs (five for 19), helped RBNCC ‘B’ to register a facile five wicket win over Jaihind CC ‘A’ in the KSCA Mysore zone second division league at Mandya recently.  The scores:   II div.: Jaihind CC ‘A’ 111 in 29.5 overs (Prithvi Shekhar 59, Medansh M Urs 5/19, Jairaj Gowda 3/28) lost to RBNCC ‘B’ 112/5 in 26.3 overs (S.Suman 47, Aryan Kaverappa 25 n.o., Prithvi Shekhar 4/33).   IV div.: Garner CC 285/5 in 50 overs (Roshan Raju 108 n.o., B.R.Abhilash 65, T.P.Sharbin 32) bt Nanjangud CC 185 in 50 overs (H.S.Sagar 50, Kiran Kumar 41, R.Harshith Kumar 28, T.P. Sharbin 4/45).   Agraharam CC 126/8 in 50 overs ( Mohan M Jakati 30, D.C.Jagadeesh three for 20) lost to Jaihind CC ‘ B’ 131/6 in 37.3 overs (Dhanush Gowda 53 n.o., Praveen 33).    R. Smaran’s century (194 batting, 207b, 24x4, 6x6 ) helped Karnataka take an imposing lead of 459 runs against Puducherry on the second day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. Resuming at 147 for no loss, Karnataka scored 518 for six at close of play with Thippa Reddy, overnight on 98, completing a century earlier.  The scores: Second day: Puducherry 59 in 43.1 overs vs Karnataka 518/6 in 134 overs (Vishal Onat 69, Thippa Reddy 102, S. Chaitanya 36, R. Smaran 194 batting, P. Raghuveer 72, Rajvir Wadhwa 30 batting, S. Rohan 4/183) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medansh-scalps-five-as-rbncc-b-win/article38059997.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||ACA felicitates cricketers||Andhra Cricket Association (ACA), at its AGM, felicitated some of the cricketers from the State who represented the country in different age groups and brought laurels. Among those who were feted were wicketkeeper K.S. Bharat, who was in the Indian Test squad, Shaik Rasheed, who played for India U-19, B. Anusha of Anantapur, who performed well in the BCCI Senior inter-state women’s cricket championship and also represented India Red in the Challenger Series and Jhansi Lakshmi, who played for India Red.   ACA also announced Rs. 1 lakh to Anusha as a special gesture. ACA president Sarath Chandra Reddy, treasurer Gopinath Reddy, vice-president Yachendra, former Indian cricketers M.S.K. Prasad, Y. Venugopal Rao and CEO Venkata Siva Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aca-felicitates-cricketers/article38060045.ece
29 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Smaran scores century||R. Smaran’s century (194 batting, 207b, 24x4, 6x6) helped Karnataka an imposing lead of 459 runs against Puducherry on the second day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match on Tuesday.   The scores: 2nd day: Puducherry 59 in 43.1 overs vs Karnataka 518/6 in 134 overs (Vishal Onat 69, Thippa Reddy 102, S. Chaitanya 36, R. Smaran 194 batting, P. Raghuveer 72, Rajvir Wadhwa 30 batting, S. Rohan 4/183) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smaran-scores-century/article38059624.ece
29 December 2021||KOLKATA,||Renedy replaces Diaz as EB coach||East Bengal has said that head coach Jose Manuel Diaz and his deputy Garcia Angel Puebla have mutually agreed to part ways due to personal reasons. Former India captain and East Bengal assistant coach Renedy Singh has taken over as the interim head coach, said a statement on Tuesday. East Bengal, which has not won a single match and is placed 11th and last after eight matches, will take on Bengaluru FC on January 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/renedy-replaces-diaz-as-eb-coach/article38059625.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Aditi the giver||Goddess Mahalakshmi is also called Aditi, which is the deity for the star Punarvasu, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Aditi gives plentifully to Her devotees. And nobody can question Her as to why a certain person is being favoured. The story of Sankara Bhagavadpada going for bhiksha to the house of an indigent woman is well known. The woman has nothing to offer him, except a gooseberry, which she drops into his bhiksha vessel. Sankara is moved by her selflessness, and wants the woman to be blessed with wealth. So he composes the Kanakadhara Stotra in praise of Mahalakshmi. Kolachala Mallinatha Sankara Vijayam describes a conversation between Sankara and Lakshmi. When Sankara asks Her to confer wealth on the poor woman, Lakshmi says people can be given blessings only on the basis of their karma. The woman in question does not deserve wealth in this janma because of her karma. Sankara then asks if Lakshmi can rain gold on him. Lakshmi says She can, but not at the doorstep of the poor woman. Sankara then praises Her as Aditi, for Aditi is an authority who cannot be questioned. If She decides to give, who can stop Her? In response to Sankara Bhagavadpada’s prayer, Goddess Mahalakshmi then rains golden gooseberries on the poor woman’s house. Sage Vasistha has to his credit a mantra on Aditi, wherein he says that the devas, asuras, men and women are all Lakshmi Herself. How can this be? It is because Lakshmi is the mother of all. Vasistha’s mantra says Aditi is mata, medhini, mahati, mahi, Savitri and Gayatri. When Hayagriva crushed Madhu and Kaitabha, His palms were covered with fat from their bodies. He rubbed off this fat (medha) on the earth. So She became medhini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/aditi-the-giver/article38059414.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 07:30 IST,||Sudoku — December 29, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-29-2021/article38060221.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The minimalist with maximum effect||Renowned architect Laurie Baker’s underlying principle was to give everyone a place to live. “He never thought about creating architectural wonders, making an extravagant statement to the world with his architecture or putting his signature on the building. He always believed that the building should be the reflection of a person living in it and not the architecture,” says Sandhya Kannan, the curator of the exhibition titled Laurie Baker: A tribute to the architect of DakshinaChitra. The exhibition that is on till January 30 is a tribute to Baker who designed and created the museum at DakshinaChitra. It reflects upon the simplistic and minimalistic designs of the architect. Sandhya mentions an instance from Baker’s life where a man with a 15-member family wanted a house built with a budget of Rs. 10,000, which Baker did. “We are trying to show different aspects of Baker’s personality. Ideas such as being eco-friendly, sustainable and down to earth. In the exhibit, we will be displaying artifacts such as Baker’s construction plans, letters, photographs and short books that he wrote on brick work, using mud. There will also be resultant documents of surveys taken by DakshinaChitra on the vernacular architecture in the country,” she says. Baker primarily used mud and bricks in his construction, something that is found off the soil, and within a few miles of the construction site. He believed that it was not necessary to go too far and wide to procure materials in order to build a house. His architecture in Kerala is an example of this. He used materials such as jackfruit tree wood and laterite soil to build houses, which his student Benny Kuriakose later went on to popularise. Kuriakose too contributed towards the Kerala section of DakshinaChitra. “Why spend a fortune on non eco-friendly building material when you can spend a lot less on eco-friendly material that’s found in Nature in abundance,” says Sandhya shedding light on Baker’s eco-friendly mindset. Baker also had an objective to change the way people approached accommodation in non-sustainable and impractical ways which consisted of grand looking buildings and grandiose architecture.  The exhibition is on between 10am and 5pm at Varija Art Gallery, DakshinaChitra Museum.   For details log on to www.dakshinachitra.net or call: 27472603.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-minimalist-with-maximum-effect/article38059946.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s oldest hotel company updates its legacy||It’s a bustling London morning, a smoggy Delhi noon, and clear azure skies in Udaipur, when Puneet Chhatwal, Lakshyaraj Singh Mewar and I meet up — online, logging in from three different cities for a tête-à-tête that has been long pending. At first, the idea had been to meet over a meal. Perhaps at the redone The Chambers at the Taj Mahal Hotel in New Delhi to talk about everything that IHCL (the Taj group’s parent company and South Asia’s largest hospitality company) has been up to lately — posting a decent recovery after the initial months of the pandemic, strategising cogently to cut down debt, upping its revenues a whopping 132% (in Q2 FY 2021-22 over the same period last fiscal), but above all, expanding furiously, signing up not just newer hotels but interesting ones: an all-women managed luxury residence (the Taj Wellington Mews in Chennai), a 100-year-old house by the Ganga, in a town not known for either leisure or luxury (Pilibhit House, Haridwar), a hotel in the heart of the Makaibari tea estate (the Taj Chia Kutir, offering a deep dive into plantation lifestyle with permaculture and sustainability built in), and a Taj Exotica at the Palm in Dubai early next year (with a marquee Indian restaurant opening). But first, London. It’s early morning still when Chhatwal, MD and CEO IHCL, logs on, and we begin chatting about the Indian food scene in that metropolis. “Indian restaurants are buzzing,” he says, but confesses to not having checked out any save the Taj-owned Quilon “because if I am in Europe after all this while, I don’t want to eat Indian food”, he says candidly. Then again, Sriram Aylur serves some of the best South Indian coastal food in the world, and the restaurant also retained its Michelin Star for the 14th year consecutively earlier this year. We are still talking food, when Singh, the 77th custodian of the 1,500-year-old house of Mewar, joins in with a cultured namaskar . “So, Lakshyaraj ji , you have been jogging?” Chhatwal quips about the former’s fitness routine. The camaraderie between my two guests is immediately apparent. IHCL completes 50 years of operating the iconic Lake Palace in Udaipur, a home and a hotel whose visitors’ book contains messages from some of the most famous people in the world, including Queen Elizabeth II; where Octopussy , the James Bond movie famously featuring Vijay Amritraj and Roger Moore was filmed; and which was built (it opened in 1746) well before the US became a nation. “That is what I tell people… that you are in a place that existed before your country,” says Singh, more practical hotelier than prince, “otherwise who remembers history?”  For the millennial Indian  They talk about keeping in touch with the needs of the contemporary traveller, even while retaining old values, and how the pandemic has thrown up a new segment in luxury travel — of the millennial Indian, with his family, ready to pay higher than before (while still looking for value); and one whose patronage will be important going forward, even when dollar-paying high-fliers return. “The domestic leisure market is not going away,” says Chhatwal. When it comes to luxury experiences, the Indian traveller is steadily evolving in terms of exposure “and if helped by policy decisions like reducing taxes on quality wines”, this market will come of age. Cognisant of this new demand, global luxury hospitality chains such as Six Senses and Raffles as well as the Indian ITC hotels (with its new brand Mementos) have all launched/signed new hotels. While the new Six Senses Fort Barwana near Ranthambore has been in the news for the super-private wedding of actors Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal, Raffles in Udaipur has been talked about for experiences customised to the Indian context. ‘ All competition is good’  Does this competition faze my guests, both with considerable interests in Rajasthan that seems to be at the epicentre of the new hospitality tug-o-war? Chhatwal smiles, “You should not be alone at the top”, and elaborates, “all competition is good in the long run because different brands bring different customer sets, whose cost of acquisition may otherwise have been too high. This helps us because new customers get a chance to see your brand”. He proceeds to highlight the Tata legacy: “Just see the iconic properties we have… Lake Palace, Falaknuma [Hyderabad], 51 Buckingham Gate [in London, where he is staying as we speak], who can match these?” As the new India story unfolds, IHCL’s relationship with the Udaipur royal dynasty that owns HRH hotels (the only chain of palace-hotels in India under private ownership) is significant. “It is not a marriage; marriages can be complicated, this one is not,” says Singh of the 50-year-old ties between the two legacy businesses. “Through the pandemic, the Tatas have stood firmly behind us; I only had to pick up the phone and there was immediate help,” he adds. It is a relationship built on shared values, but as Chhatwal adds drily, “every relationship must have investment too, both emotional and capital”. For IHCL, it not only means better access to a pool of premium prestigious properties but also leverage when it comes to other aristocratic owners who may look up to the Udaipur royals. For HRH, growth and modernisation with the heft of such a large chain is an obvious advantage.  100 Taj hotels coming up  Chhatwal ponders the “paradox of life” where time has stood still at some places, as it should, but where modern tastes and needs must be attended to nevertheless. “That is the tightrope you have been walking everywhere,” I muse, remembering breakfast at the refurbished Machan in Delhi, a beloved coffee shop, now stripped of its striped carpet and old air. It is lighter, brighter and with options like a Japanese ‘trail’ menu, and old-style Taj service. The mention of Machan brings forth nostalgia from Chhatwal too, who is moved to exclaim, “That is the reason I became a hotelier!” He tells us how he would sit at the coffee shop watching people for hours as a young hospitality student — over the single cup of coffee he could afford then. Now, however, his eyes are firmly on the future. Chhatwal, who played cricket in his younger days, is looking forward to a fresh century: 100 Taj hotels in the next three years (the tally is 85 currently), a feat that would make it one of the top three luxury hotel chains in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/indias-oldest-hotel-company-updates-its-legacy/article38059947.ece
29 December 2021||December 29 2021 00:00 IST,||For peat’s sake||The words craft and artisanal are bandied about quite frequently nowadays when it comes to alcoholic beverage brands in India. So, I’m curious to know how Diageo interprets them. They’ve just launched their second edition Epitome Reserve, this one a peated single malt, with just 3,600 numbered bottles (signed by master blender Mahesh Patil has). It comes quick on the heels of their first edition, a single grain rice whisky launched six months ago. I’m in conversation with Vikram Damodaran, the Chief Innovation Officer of Diageo, who, along with Patil, is responsible for both the products. To him, the emerging Indian consumer is looking for product authenticity (in craft), and a narrative with roots that run deep — quite like the banyan embossed on the Epitome bottle.  When whisky met wine  The single malt is distilled at their facility in Ponda, Goa, by the Mandovi river. Select Indian six-row barley, from the Himalayan foothills over 2,000 kilometres away, goes into its making, and the whisky — matured in ex-bourbon casks — is finished in casks that previously held Cabernet Sauvignon wine. Keshav Prakash, the founder of The Vault, an importer of boutique spirits, had occasion to taste it recently, and told me that the maturation had been managed brilliantly, with the whisky balanced yet interesting, making it a great dram to pair with tandoor or BBQ. “Overall, an impressive world whisky,” he said.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-peats-sake/article38059948.ece
