30 December 2021||Chennai,||COVID-19 cases in India start to inch up as Omicron takes over||The number of COVID-19 infections in India is on an increasing trend. After consistently declining since mid-May, the average number of cases showed a bump again in the last week of December. On December 29, 13,187 cases were recorded, a 76.6% increase compared with the infections a week ago. Data for some States — Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Tripura and smaller Union Territories — were not included as of 10 p.m. on Wednesday. While Kerala continued to contribute the most number of cases, infections in all districts of the State are decreasing. On the other hand, infections are surging in other States’ urban centres such as Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Delhi. Mumbai recorded 2,510 cases on Wednesday, an 80% increase compared with the figure of the previous day, and a 400% rise from a week ago. Delhi recorded 923 cases, a 600% rise from a week ago. Bengaluru recorded 400 infections, a 90% increase from ast week’s figure. Chennai recorded 294 cases, a 100% increase. Mumbai contributed more than 15% of the country’s cases on Wednesday — the highest among all cities — followed by Delhi, which formed about 5% of infections. The recent rise in infections is due to the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. According to data from GISAID, an open-access portal for genomic data on viruses, Omicron has become the dominating variant in India. In the last few days of December, the Omicron variant was found in about 60% of the samples sequenced in India. Initial reports from other countries showed that the Omicron wave is more infectious than the Delta wave and infects more people in a shorter span. However, hospitalisations and ICU admissions are relatively lower compared with the previous waves, especially among the vaccinated. As of Wednesday, India has fully vaccinated 63% of its adults and partially vaccinated 89%, leaving a considerable share of the population vulnerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-india-start-to-inch-up-as-omicron-takes-over/article38067863.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Bitumen-surface roads in city full of craters and potholes||Executing cost-intensive infrastructure works under the Smart City projects, the city administration appears to have forgotten to maintain main and cross roads with bitumen surface leading to formation of craters and potholes across the city thereby putting road users at risk. While Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) has been converting many existing roads into concrete roads in the central parts of the city, large craters and potholes test the driving skills of motorists on many other roads with bitumen surface, including Mahakalipadpu Road, Mulihithlu Road, Mangaladevi Cross Road and others. Having witnessed patchwork before monsoon between Morgans Gate and Jeppinamogaru Junction, the Mahakalipadpu Road that witnesses voluminous traffic towards Ullal, Thokkottu, Konaje and Kasaragod in Kerala now has exposed road base and even cesspools. The Mangaluru City Corporation, which is building an alternative four-lane concrete road with two twin railway under bridges, has almost neglected maintenance of the existing road. The Mulihithlu Road, abutting Mayor Premananda Shetty’s Mangaladevi Ward in Bolara, is no exception with half of the stretch sporting craters and potholes. While shopkeepers near Mulihithlu Junction aver that many two-wheeler riders have fallen down negotiating the craters, a 13-year-old boy fell off his bicycle on Monday evening injuring his head and fracturing right elbow. They said that the condition of the road has remained pathetic, though the ward councillor traverses the stretch every day. Admitting the existence of potholes and craters in many parts of the city, the Mayor said that corporation engineers seldom make field visits. They sit in their offices and work, he said and added that if they had been on field visits, they could have pulled up contractors concerned for failing to maintain roads, Mr. Shetty said. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that he was not aware in what context the Mayor made the statement. But the corporation, like any other urban civic body, is short of junior engineers. With many projects going on across the city, the available engineers are busy monitoring them. But these should not be excuses for not maintaining existing roads in good condition, he added. Mr. Sridhar said that tenders for patchwork got delayed following the poll model code of conduct and the works have just started. Soon, all roads in the city will be restored to good condition, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bitumen-surface-roads-in-city-full-of-craters-and-potholes/article38068319.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||No COVID deaths in State||The State reported no death due to COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. However, 162 new infections were reported during the same period. It was the highest single-day tally in the past two weeks. The cumulative tally increased to 20,76,849 and the toll remains at 14,492. The daily test positivity rate of the 31,743 samples tested was 0.51%. The daily test positivity rate also crossed 0.5% for the first time in the past 16 days. The overall test positivity rate of the 3.126 crore samples tested was 6.64%. The number of active cases came down to 1,049 with 186 patients recovering in the past day. The recovery rate and the number of recoveries stand at 99.25% and 20,61,308. One-third of the infections reported in the past day were from two districts of West Godavari (30) and East Godavari (22). They were followed by Chittoor (19), Guntur (17), Visakhapatnam (17), Krishna (15), Srikakulam (13), Nellore (11), Anantapur (9), Kadapa (3), Prakasam (3), Vizianagaram (2) and Kurnool (1). Chittoor has over 20% of the State’s active cases while East Godavari and Krishna have about 13% active cases each. Kurnool and Vizianagaram have less than 1% active cases each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-covid-deaths-reported-in-state/article38067869.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Auto, taxi stir called off, fare hike likely||A revision of the minimum fares of autorickshaws and taxis appears to be on the cards. The Justice M. Ramachandran committee will be tasked with examining the demands for a fare hike, Transport Minister Antony Raju said on Wednesday after holding talks with the Motor Thozhilali Samyuktha Samara Samithi (action council of trade unions). The committee would submit its report in one month and a decision would be finalised on the basis of its findings and a follow-up meeting with the trade unions, he said. Following talks with the Minister, the action council called off the 24-hour strike planned on Thursday. According to it, the Minister termed the demand reasonable given the increase in the prices of petrol, diesel, spare parts and insurance premium. Auto and taxi fares were last revised in December 2018. At present, the minimum fare of autorickshaws is Rs. 25 for 1.5 km. The minimum fare of non-AC taxis stands at Rs. 175 for the first 15 km and for AC taxis Rs. 200 for the same distance. Responding to a demand made by the taxi unions, the Minister promised stern action against illegal taxis. The legal aspects of cancelling the driving licence and RC book of such operators would be examined, he said. The activities of the Transport Advisory Committee would be strengthened to deal with regional disputes related to e-autos, according to the Minister. Mr. Raju said that testing centres for CNG vehicles would be started in Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram within six months.  According to the action council, the Minister agreed to recommend to the Centre to increase the mandatory period for scrapping old vehicles from 15 years to 20 years. N. Unnikrishnan and Nalanchira Hari (CITU), V.R. Prathapan (INTUC), K. C. Jayapal and Pattom Sasidharan (AITUC), Maheen Aboobacker (STU), Gopan (UTUC), and Charupara Ravi (HMS) attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/autorickshaw-taxi-strike-called-off-fare-revision-likely/article38068216.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Twenty-five students of residential college test positive for coronavirus||Over 25 students of a private residential junior college in Narsingi tested positive in the past two days for coronavirus. Staff of the office of District Medical Health Officer, Ranga Reddy, said that the students are from Sri Chaitanya Junior College. “We came to know yesterday that there are some symptomatic students and took their samples. The students had returned from holidays. We have sought the parents’ consent to isolate the students here for a week. The college has been asked to close for seven working days. Isolation kits have been given,” the source said, adding that the situation is being monitored closely, and that officials have been interacting with the college management. Those students who are asymptomatic were sent home. Health officials said that the infection could have spread after students returned home from holidays. Samples of all students and staff, numbering over 200, have been taken and sent for testing. Actor tests positive Actor Manchu Manoj has tested positive for COVID and this was disclosed by him in a tweet. He appealed to everyone who came in contact with him over the last week to get themselves tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-students-of-residential-college-test-covid-positive/article38068178.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Ban likely on New Year eve celebrations in public||To prevent the spread of COVID-19 and its new variant Omicron, New Year celebrations at public places are likely to be prohibited in the State. Beaches, river bunds and public places will be closed on the night of December 31, and no permission would be given for parties in public. The police have urged people to avoid going out unless essential. Director General of Police (DGP) indicated that there may be restrictions on New Year parties in the wake of the rise in Omicron cases. “People are requested to wear masks, face shields, and hand gloves and use sanitisers while meeting others and be safe,” Mr. Sawang said. “Stern action will be taken against people who in an inebriated manner create nuisance and resort to eve-teasing and behaving indecently with women at public places and on the pretext of celebrations,” Vijayawada Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata said. Krishna Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said there would be no permission for mass gatherings and parties. New Year’s celebrations would not be allowed till midnight, the SP said. Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao said that parties in orchards, paddy fields and other places would not be allowed. “We will follow the fresh instructions issued by the State government, if any, on the New Year’s Eve celebrations,” the DIG said. “All police officers, including the Rakshak, Bluecolts, Traffic and other wings, will take up patrolling and action will be taken against violators,” Mr. Kaushal warned. Hotels, restaurants and mall managements have been requested to take permission from the police and organise celebrations by ensuring adherence to COVID-19 norms, the SP said. “ There will be no permission for midnight celebrations and stern action will be taken against revellers who create nuisance,” said West Godavari SP Rahul Dev Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ban-likely-on-new-year-eve-celebrations-in-public/article38068450.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Man arrested for desecrating five places of worship||The Mangaluru South Police have arrested a 62-year-old man hailing from Hubballi for his alleged involvement in desecrating five places of worship, including the one reported in the city on Tuesday. He has reportedly admitted before police to have desecrated 18 other places of worship. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar gave the name of the arrested person as Devadas Desai (62), son of John Desai, native of Unkal in Hubballi and residing in Kotekar here. Desai was arrested for keeping used condoms near the offering box of Koragajja Daivastana in Nandigudda on Wednesday. After a complaint by devotees, the police examined CCTV footage from the area and traced Desai. He had come on a bicycle from his house and placed the condoms in the daivastana. Mr. Kumar told reporters that Desai’s questioning revealed his involvement in similar acts of desecration in four daivastanas reported between January 2, 2021 and February 25, 2021. However, no complaints were made regarding 18 other instances of desecration. He also placed letters to hurt religious feelings of devotees. At some places, he had put in offering boxes images of politicians after disfiguring them. The arrested person stayed alone in his house in Kotekar and earned a living by selling scrapped packaging material. He reportedly confided to police that he desecrated different places of worship to make people follow the religion he professes. Having worked as a autorickshaw driver for over a decade, he identified places of worship in the city and then desecrated them, the police said. Mr. Kumar said that investigation so far revealed that Desai alone committed the acts and no one else was involved. He had used condoms that had been abandoned near State Bank Circle and other places. Though he is found to be mentally fit, the police will subject him to necessary tests to know his exact health condition. Desai will be taken into police custody for further investigation of his acts of desecration, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-arrested-for-desecrating-five-places-of-worship/article38068320.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Street vendors stage protest decrying eviction drive||Several street vendors staged a snap protest outside the Mangaluru City Corporation headquarters on Wednesday to condemn the recent action of the corporation to evict street vendors from different parts of the city. More than 200 street vendors marched from Ballalbagh Circle to the MCC and carried out the protest. Addressing the protestors, Street Vendors Welfare Association honorary president B.K. Imtiyaz said that Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar unilaterally decided to go ahead with eviction of street vendors in several parts of the city by keeping in dark the Town Vending Committee, which comprises representatives of street vendors and officials. Mr. Imtiyaz said that several street vendors, who have been severely affected due to COVID-19 restrictions, were unceremoniously evicted last week from Hampankatta, Kadri and other parts of the city. Accusing officials of selectively evicting street vendors, he said that officials seized material from the vendors. Vendors who suffered included those who had identity cards. Communist Party of India (Marxit) leaders Sunil Kumar Bajal, Yadava Shetty and Democratic Youth Federation of India State president Muneer Katipalla also spoke. Denying the charge, Mr. Sridhar said tha the eviction drive was carried out after a discussion in the committee. The corporation took action against only those street vendors who did have identity cards. Street vendors, who were operating causing hindrance to traffic movement, were also evicted. Mr. Sridhar said that he will inquire into the allegation that vendors with identity cards were evicted.  Corporation Commissioner says action taken against only unauthorised sellers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/street-vendors-stage-protest-decrying-eviction-drive/article38068323.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Centre may extend FCRA renewal date||The Union Home Ministry is likely to extend the December 31 deadline for non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and associations registered under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) to apply for renewal. The registrations of thousands of NGOs and associations that were up for renewal in October 2020 are stuck. The registrations are renewed every five years. A senior government official said only around 5,000 renewal applications have been processed so far. There are 22,762 NGOs registered under the FCRA in the country. It is mandatory to register under the Act to receive foreign funds or donations. Pandemic effect Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the amendments to the Act in 2020 that introduced stringent compliance measures, many NGOs could not complete the process. Among the changes that were brought in, operationalising a designated FCRA bank account with the State Bank of India’s main branch in Delhi was made compulsory. The bank account could be made operational only after receiving an authorisation certificate from the Ministry. Several NGOs had moved court, stating that despite fulfilling all requirements to open bank accounts by March 31, the process was not completed at the Ministry’s end, which hampered their work as they could not receive foreign funds. The Ministry had provided a relief up to September 30 to the NGOs whose registration was expiring between September 29, 2020 and September 30, 2021 to apply for renewal. It extended the deadline till December 31. If the applications are not scrutinised in time, even those whose appeals are pending could be stopped from accessing foreign funds until they are cleared.  The Hindu had reported that the FCRA division of the Ministry is facing staff crunch and logistical issues. Since the division saw the transfer of many officials, the identity and password login of the new officers were not generated in time, leading to a huge backlog. Since 2015, all FCRA activities are done online. The Ministry said in a statement on Monday that it refused to renew the FCRA registration of the Missionaries of Charity, set up by Nobel laureate Mother Teresa, on December 25, as “some adverse inputs were noticed.” The registration of the Charity was valid till October 31 and it was subsequently extended till December 31 along with other FCRA associations whose renewal applications were pending, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-may-extend-dec-31-fcra-renewal-deadline/article38067865.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,||Police impose restrictions on New Year’s eve celebrations||The city police have imposed restrictions on the December 31st night celebrations. The police announced that public gatherings and public celebrations of the New Year are banned. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that Beach Road stretch from Yarada to Bheemili, including the R.K Beach, would be closed for public right from 6 p.m. on December 31. The Commissioner added that flyovers and major roads, where there were chances of overspeeding by motorists, would be closed. The road stretches, which would be closed and other traffic advisory, would be informed later, he added. The Police Commissioner said that a special drive would be conducted by the police teams to keep a check on revellers, who violate traffic norms on that day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-impose-restrictions-on-new-years-eve-celebrations/article38068559.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Spike in cases puts Chennai on alert||With the Omicron variant of Sars-COV-2 driving the daily tally of new COVID-19 cases in Chennai to a six-month high, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has strengthened its surveillance and intensified containment measures. The city reported 294 cases on Wednesday, compared to just 136 cases reported a week ago. The last time the city reported cases higher than this was in the last week of June when the second wave of COVID-19 was subsiding. The city had a containment zone after a long time with a street in Ashok Nagar reporting more than 10 cases. The officials said that was the only street with more than 10 cases at the moment. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, who chaired a meeting on Wednesday with senior officials, said a number of steps had been planned to contain the spread of the virus and ensure that the infection was detected at the earliest. He said the city was already increasing its testing. While close to 20,000 persons a day were being tested until now, 22,210 samples were collected on Wednesday. To ensure that all the COVID-19 positive cases were brought to the notice of the GCC, he said all private labs have been asked to intimate the Corporation first if a sample tested positive. “This is how it was done during the second wave. We are enforcing that again now. Those testing positive will receive information from the GCC and not from the private labs,” he said. Spotlight on attendants He said the random sample collection would be done at potential hotspots, which included markets and commercial places, government and private offices, bus stands, railway stations and hostels. “Importantly, we are going to randomly collect samples from attendants of patients in hospitals,” he said. Mr. Bedi said all hospitals had been asked to share with the Corporation the list of persons reporting to them with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms on a daily basis through email. The Corporation had asked its officials to ensure that for every positive case, at least 20 primary and secondary contacts were tested. “We are going to ensure that in every case. If it is less for any positive case, the official concerned must provide an explanation,” Mr. Bedi said. The city had 11 COVID-19 screening centres at the moment. This would be increased to 15 by Friday. Officials have been asked to take suspected patients to testing and screening centres in vehicles arranged by the Corporation and not in private vehicles by family members. “This is to avoid exposure to other family members,” he said. To a question on home quarantine, he that persons who test positive and did not require institutional care would be allowed to be under home quarantine only if their house had a separate room with attached bathroom and adequate ventilation. “If it was not there, then we are asking the doctors to not recommend home quarantine. They will instead be taken to COVID Care Centres,” he said. Apart from these steps, he said the Corporation was focusing on vaccinating the remaining eligible population, particularly students and teachers from colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spike-in-cases-keeps-corpn-on-its-toes/article38067967.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,||With support dwindling, bandh call loses steam||As more organisations that had earlier supported the Karnataka bandh call on December 31 reversing their decision on Wednesday, the strike is unlikely to affect daily life. This comes amidst an appeal by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to call off the bandh plan. “We have already taken action against the vandals and are examining legal options to ban the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES),” he said in Hubballi. However, Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj, who has given the bandh call, is firm on going ahead with it. Praveen Shetty, leader of one of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike factions, who had earlier supported the bandh call, wrote an open letter on Wednesday arguing for postponing the strike, as businesses battered by the pandemic hoped to make some recovery on New Year’s Eve. “We will try to convince Vatal Nagaraj to restrategise,” he told presspersons. Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, led by T. A. Narayana Gowda who has not supported the bandh call, has announced a protest rally to Raj Bhavan on Thursday “to build pressure on the Union Government to ban MES”. With both factions of KRV not supporting the call, it would have no workers on the ground to mobilise support and enforce the bandh, police said. Multiple transport associations, including those connected to cabs and autorickshaws, have also withdrawn their support. “We supported the bandh call to support the Kannada cause, but since there is no unity among Kannada organisations themselves, we have withdrawn our support. Individuals can take a call on their participation,” said Tanveer Pasha, president, Ola Uber Drivers and Owners’ Association. M. Manjunath, president, Adarsha Auto and Taxi Drivers’ Association, said they had also left it to individual drivers to take a call as the association had withdrawn support. “We had also not factored in the night curfew. We thought we could do business after 6 p.m., but now even that is hit,” he said. The Kannada film industry, hospitality industry, and several trade bodies have announced though they would “morally support” the cause. They were already reeling under heavy losses and would not shut down businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-support-dwindling-bandh-call-loses-steam/article38067942.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Chilli growers adopt pesticide-free cultivation||Nearly 350 acres of chilli cultivating lands in Tiruvallur district are turning pesticide-free this season. The farmers are cultivating the US 341 variety of chillies through the Integrated Horticultural Development Scheme. The variety is known for its colour, flavour and pungency and is expected to give double the yield of the usual Ananya variety that they grow, said District Collector Alby John Varghese, who launched the Red Revolution in eight blocks on Wednesday. “The Horticulture Department provides the saplings at a subsidy. Farmers get 20,000 saplings per hectare at Rs. 20,000, which translates to Rs. 1 per sapling. The crop duration is three months. They have tied up with Aachi Masala to buy the produce,” he said. About 2,216 acres of land was under vegetable cultivation in the district, of which chillies were grown on 706 acres of land. However, most of it is sold as green chillies and due to this, farmers do not get good price since they have no other go but to sell according to the day’s rate in the market. “If the chillies are dry, they have more shelf life and the farmers can sell them at a better price,” Mr. Varghese said. The Nalla Keerai organisation is hand-holding the farmers since it was a new crop variety. Jagan, a member of the organisation, said they were controlling pests through three methods. One of them was inter-cropping by growing crops like Agathi, Aamanakku, Thuvarai, Karamani and Ulundhu that would divert the pests. “We are also using a mix of punga and neem oil and use light traps. Last year, we had a trial in Tiruvallur. This year, it has been expanded to more districts including Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi. The government had announced it and they are spending Rs. 2 crore for buying seeds for these districts,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chilli-growers-in-tiruvallur-district-go-in-for-pesticide-free-cultivation/article38067978.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Bandh unlikely to impact life||The Karnataka bandh called for December 31 is unlikely to impact life as more organisations have reversed their earlier support for the strike. However, Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj, who has given the call, is firm on going ahead with it. ‘Moral support’ Several transport associations, including those connected to cabs and autorickshaws, too have backed out. The Kannada film industry, hospitality industry, and several trade bodies have announced that they would “morally support” the cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bandh-unlikely-to-impact-life/article38067911.ece
30 December 2021||Belagavi,||Peetha to go back to using Kudalasangama Deva as Basaveshwara’s nom de plume||Mathe Gangadevi, head of the Basava Dharma Peetha in Kudalasangama, has announced that the institution will revert to the use of Kudalasangama Deva as the signature of Sri Basaveshwara’s Vachanas in all its future publications. She made the announcement in Bagalkot on Tuesday. Long ago, the late Sri Mathe Mahadevi, former head of the peetha, used Linga Deva as the signature of Sri Basaveshwara in the book Vachana Deepti. The State Government had stopped its publication and seized the copies that were already printed. Since then, the peetha stopped the re-printing and publication of that book. In the light of these developments, “we have decided to use Kudalasangama Deva and not Linga Deva in all our future publications,” she said. Mathe Mahadevi had confirmed this stand in a statement in 2017, she said. Mathe Gangadevi, who succeeded Mathe Mahadevi, is the present seer of the peetha. ‘Some still do it’ She told journalists that the institution will dissociate itself from some persons who are still using the words Linga Deva to denote the nom de plume of Sri Basaveshwara. “Some people still do it. I know. But we have nothing to do with it,’’ she said. “We will try to convince them to drop Linga Deva. We will issue a circular to all religious institutions associated with us,” she added. Sri Mahadeshwar Swami, vice-president of the peetha and the successor to Mathe Gangadevi and G.G. Patil, president of the free boarding run by the peetha, were present. Seers and heads of other Lingayat institutions have welcomed this decision. Sri Tontada Siddarama Swami, Jagatiya Lingayat Mahasabha leader Basavaraj Dhannur, Basava Kendra president Sharanappa Mithare and others have supported the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/peetha-to-go-back-to-using-kudalasangama-deva-as-basaveshwaras-nom-de-plume/article38068156.ece
30 December 2021||HONG KONG,||Hong Kong news outlet shuts down after police raids, arrests||Hong Kong lost its second independent news outlet this year after the Stand News was on Wednesday forced to shut down after its offices were raided and several current and former senior staff placed under arrest. Among those arrested were the organisations’s editor-in-chief Lam Shiu-tung, former editor Chung Pui-kuen, as well as Denise Ho, the widely popular singer, actor, and activist who was formerly a board member. Four other staffers and former board members were also arrested, while Ronson Chan, an editor at the organisation who is also chairman of the Hong Kong Journalists Association, was taken away for questioning but not arrested. More than 200 police officers carried out multiple raids on the organisation’s offices and the homes of its staff early on Wednesday and seized computers and papers. By Wednesday evening, Stand News said it had stopped all operations, would close its website, remove all content, and dismiss its staff. With its shutting, Hong Kong has lost a second independent news outlet in recent months. In June, Apple Daily, an outspoken and popular tabloid, ceased publication after its owner Jimmy Lai was arrested. While Wednesday’s arrests were made under a colonial-era sedition law, the recent moves targeting Hong Kong’s media have come in the wake of new national security legislation passed by Beijing last year, which has broadened the scope for law enforcement authorities to take action. An officer with the Hong Kong police force’s national security department accused Stand News of a “conspiracy to print or distribute seditious materials”. The accusations were linked to several opinion pieces that were critical of the government. The official told a press conference that the bank accounts of the organisation were also frozen with US$ 7.82 million in assets seized. The Hong Kong Journalists Association said in a statement, reported by the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post , that it was “deeply concerned” by the arrests and police raids. “The association urges the government to protect press freedom in accordance with the Basic Law,” it said in a statement, referring to the law under which the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has been administered since its return to China in 1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hong-kong-news-outlet-shuts-down/article38067849.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Hosur airport plan gains momentum||The proposal to establish an airport at Hosur is finally seeing some momentum on the ground. The Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO) has invited proposals from consultants for undertaking demand assessment, air traffic forecasting and identification of potential sites for setting up the airport. Traffic growth rate The shortlisted consultant will have to analyse the air traffic growth trends (passenger and cargo) in the past 10 years in nearby airports. They will also have to forecast future traffic for 30 years considering traffic growth rate and major demand drivers such as industrial growth, regional economic growth, tourism, growth in per capita incomes etc. in surrounding region. Issues to be analysed Issues such as identification and assessment of potential cargo that can be economically handled at the airport and assessment of possible diversion of cargo movement from other airports will also be analysed by the selected consultant. A senior government official, in the know of the development, said,  “After taking a decision on airport capacity and the infrastructure to be developed, the extent of land to be procured will be decided.” The official added, “Based on this and land availability, the consultant will identify the suitable location in Hosur for developing airport and assess the technical and financial feasibility.” Currently, the State has international airports at Chennai, Coimbatore, and Tiruchi and Madurai and two domestic airports at Thoothukudi and Salem.  After taking a decision on airport capacity and the infrastructure to be developed, the extent of land to be procured will be decided Senior government official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hosur-airport-plan-gains-momentum/article38067991.ece
30 December 2021||VELLORE,||Team visits areas hit by earthquake in Vellore||A three-member Central Disaster Response Team comprising senior geologists from Geological Survey of India (GSI) and professor of geology from Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) conducted a preliminary survey of villages affected by the earthquake in Pernambut town, Vellore on Wednesday. The team, which consists of Animesh Thakur, Assistant Geologist of GSI (Hyderabad), Sivakumar, Senior Geologist of GSI (Chennai) and G.P. Ganapathy, Professor, Department of Geology of VIT, surveyed Tharikadu village, the most affected hamlet in Pernambut town since last week. The team also interacted with residents of the village and inspected the damaged houses. . "We will conduct an instrumentation study at select spots in the affected region in the coming days. Based on the sound recordings from these spots, we will know the cause of the incidents that happened in these villages last week," Professor Ganapathy told The Hindu . This is the second visit by the team to these villages after four years since 2017, when residents reported earthquakes in the region. Back then, officials said the quakes could have been caused by a reactivation of existing fault lines, which travel for about 135 km along Tirupattur, Ambur, Vaniyambadi, and Andhra Pradesh. Wednesday's visit comes after Pernambut experienced slight tremors damaging over 40 houses between December 23 and 25. Neighbouring Chittoor district also experienced quakes on December 23. This comes after first such quakes of 3.6 magnitude was recorded in Ambur taluk of Tirupattur by National Centre for Seismology (NCS), which monitors earthquake activity in the country. Subsequently, Vellore Collector P. Kumaraval Pandian inspected the affected areas in Pernambut last week. Based on his request, the expert team is camping in the affected areas in Vellore. A final report will be submitted to the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/team-visits-areas-affected-by-earthquake-in-pernambut/article38068312.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,||IIT-Madras named most innovative institute||For the third consecutive year, the Indian Institute of Technology - Madras is ranked the most innovative educational institute in the country. The Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA), mooted by the innovation cell of the Union Education Ministry, evaluates educational institutions across the country on various parameters. They include intellectual property rights, entrepreneurship, start-up, technology transfer and commercialisation of research on campus. IIT-M is placed under the Centrally-funded technical institutions/Cental university/institutes of national importance (technical) category. A total of 1,438 higher educational institutions participated in the exerciseas against 674 last year. IIT-M Director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the institute “places a lot of emphasis on innovations among its students and faculty, resulting in a very successful deep technology start-up ecosystem.” The only two State Government institutions that feature in the list are Periyar University and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. While Periyar University is ranked fourth among the government / aided institutions, the TNAU is ranked in the 6th to 25th band.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iit-madras-named-most-innovative-institute/article38067968.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS logs 235 new cases||The daily COVID-19 caseload in Telangana stayed above the 200-mark for the second consecutive day with 235 fresh infections being recorded on Wednesday when 38,023 samples were examined. Reports of 5,179 others were awaited. A total of 228 cases were logged on Tuesday, a substantial jump from the previous day’s 182 infections. The silver lining was that there were no fatalities related to COVID or any new case of Omicron detected in the State for the day. According to the daily health bulletin, five persons who had tested earlier positive for Omicron had recovered. However, as many as 10 persons who arrived in the city from at-risk countries were found to be positive for COVID when RT-PCR tests were conducted. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing and results are awaited. As many as 346 passengers from at-risk countries were screened, taking the total number of such persons to 12,267.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-logs-235-new-cases-no-omicron/article38068175.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagananna Palavelluva launched in Krishna||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the “Jagananna Palavelluva” initiative by the State government in collaboration with AMUL has fair purchase price to the dairy farmers by the private dairy companies in the State. Mr. Jagan virtually launched the initiative at Boravacha village of Nuzivd mandal virtually from his camp office in the presence of Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development, and Fisheries S. Appalaraju, Collector J. Nivas and others. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagan said that women dairy farmers were denied remunerative prices by private dairies until recently, and upon the introduction of the government initiative all the private dairies had increased the purchase price of milk. He said over 37,400 women dairy farmers were identified in 264 villages of Krishna district, and in the past week over 18,400 litres of milk was supplied to the 51 milk procurement centres. Mr. Jagan also interacted with the dairy farmers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagananna-palavelluva-launched-in-krishna/article38068452.ece
30 December 2021||VELLORE,||Key Palar causeways to be opened to traffic||Key causeways across Palar river in Vellore and Tirupattur districts, will be opened to vehicular traffic from January 1 as restoration of these damaged facilities is nearing completion. These causeways, which connect Vellore and Tirupattur, through border towns like Ambur and Katpadi, were damaged during the heavy rain last month that resulted in the discharge of excess rainwater into the Palar and its tributaries like Poonai and Agaram, flooding areas along Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts. Making detours Since then, affected residents in over 40 villages had to make a detour of at least eight km to reach big towns like Ambur, Katpadi, Wallajah and the Benguluru Highway (NH: 48) for their daily needs. "As these causeways remain a key connectivity, officials were working round-the-clock to complete the repair works by end of the month," said Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian. Workers from the Construction and Maintenance section of the State Highways Department, which maintains causeways across the Palar in these districts, have been working for the past fortnight in restoration work. Three causeways such as Madhanur near Ambur (Tirupattur), Virinjipuram near Katpadi and Poonai near Vellore have been damaged due to heavy rain in November. Officials of the State Highways Department said the major reason for the erosion of sand around these causeways was the illegal sand mining in the river during summer. It made the foundation pillars of these causeways weak, resulting in partial collapse during the flood in November. Around 36,000 tonnes of boulders were used to level three damaged causeways on a par with the existing road level in these districts. On an average, boulders were filled to a depth of 25 feet before gravel was used to create the platform for these causeways across Palar and Poonai rivers. One of the major challenges was river erosion of these huge boulders that are dumped into the damaged causeway as running water washes them. Refilling of boulders round-the-clock was done as part of the restoration work.  The major reason for the erosion of sand around these causeways was the illegal sand mining in the river during summer. It made the foundation pillars of these causeways weak, resulting in partial collapse during the flood in November Officials State Highways Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/key-palar-causeways-to-be-opened-to-traffic/article38068092.ece
30 December 2021||Chennai,||Apple puts Foxconn’s T.N. unit ‘on probation’||Apple Inc. has placed the Sriperumbudur facility of iPhone assembler Foxconn “on probation” after both companies found that the workers’ dormitory accommodations and dining rooms did not meet the required standards. The facility on the outskirts of Chennai was shut down earlier this month after women workers staged a protest over many of their colleagues falling ill due to alleged food poisoning. Diarrhoea outbreak It was later found that there had been an outbreak of acute diarrhoeal disease and 159 employees had been admitted to various hospitals. Of these, 155 were discharged on December 18. The other four employees were also discharged the same week. Details on when the plant would resume operations were not provided. “Foxconn’s Sriperumbudur facility has been placed on probation and we will ensure our strict standards are met before the facility reopens. We will continue to monitor conditions closely,” an Apple spokesperson said. The company did not explain what exactly this probation meant but said: “We hold our suppliers accountable to the highest standards in the industry and regularly conduct assessments to ensure compliance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apple-places-foxconns-tn-unit-on-probation-after-protests/article38067867.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Ten more cases of Omicron variant surface||The State identified 10 more cases of infection due to the Omicron variant of the novel Coronavirus on Wednesday. For the first time, three contacts of foreign returnees who were infected with the Omicron variant also contracted the virus. So far, the State reported 16 cases of Omicron infection. According to Public Health and Family Welfare Director G. Hymavathi, of the 10 cases, three were reported in East Godavari, including a 50-year-old man who returned from Saudi Arabia on December 14, and two of his contacts. In Anantapur, a 22-year-old man who returned from the U.S. and his contact, a 17-year-old girl, were infected. Two UAE returnees in Kurnool, one Nigeria returnee in Guntur, one Kuwait returnee in West Godavari and one U.S. returnee in Chittoor were infected. They arrived between December 14 and December 21. Dr. Hymavathi said that all the infected persons were healthy and were isolated, their contacts were traced and tested and positive samples were sent for genome sequencing. COVID cases Meanwhile, the State reported no death due to COVID and 162 infections in the past day taking the tally to 20,76,849. The number of recoveries increased to 20,61,308 with 186 more recoveries in the past day. The death toll remains at 14,492. Earlier, cases of Omicron infection among Kenya, Ireland, Kuwait, UAE, South Africa and U.K. returnees were reported in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Chittoor, Prakasam and Anantapur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-foreign-returnee-contacts-among-10-more-omicron-cases-in-state/article38067874.ece
30 December 2021||KALABURAGI,||Officials seal 80 illegal resorts||Following directions from the Koppal Deputy Commissioner, the district authorities identified 80 resorts and homestays operating illegally and sealed them on Wednesday. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner S. Vikas Kishore had asked the officials of the Hampi Development Authority and the Revenue Department to identify unauthorised resorts in and around Gangavati and submit a report within two days. Officials have now sealed 80 illegal resorts located in Sannapur, Mallapur, Anegundi and Rampur areas in Gangavati. Mr. Kishore has ordered removal of illegal resorts within two days and also directed the Revenue Department officials to verify documents of all unauthorised resorts. Now, resort owners have two days to vacate from such premises. GESCOM has disconnected power supply to these resorts and homestays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-seal-80-illegal-resorts-in-koppal-district/article38067956.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A rescue act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-rescue-act/article38068218.ece
30 December 2021||KOCHI,||HC: no ban on Ayurvedic treatment ads||The Kerala High Court has held that there is no prohibition on advertising Ayurvedic treatment and facilities given by individuals and institutions in the State. The court observed that Rule 170 of the Drugs and Cosmetic Rules, 1945, only prohibited the advertisement of Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drugs. There was absolutely no bar in the rules on the advertisement of treatment. Even as per the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954, prohibition was only on advertisement of certain drugs for the treatment of certain diseases or disorders. Writ petition The court made these observations while recently disposing of a writ petition that was filed by an Ayurvedic doctor from Kollam seeking permission to advertise his treatment facilities in the newspapers. The high court also directed the State government to issue circulars to the monitoring officers who were appointed under the rule 170(14) to take stringent actions for any violation of the cosmetic rules and magical remedies law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-no-ban-on-ayurvedic-treatment-ads/article38068235.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Z’ category security for two Punjab BJP leaders||Days after joining the BJP, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, former Congress Minister in Punjab, was accorded “Z” category security by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Another leader, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who joined the BJP on December 1, has also been given “Z” protection by the Ministry. Mr. Sodhi joined the BJP on December 21 in Delhi in the presence of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Round-the-clock cover A senior government official said Mr. Sodhi will be provided proximate security cover by armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force in Punjab and Delhi. Six or seven CRPF personnel will provide security round-the-clock. A member of the Punjab Legislative Assembly from Guru Har Sahai in Ferozepur, Mr. Sodhi had announced his resignation from the Congress on December 20. Said to be close to former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Mr. Sodhi was the Sports Minister in his Cabinet. Mr. Sirsa, former president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and former president of the Delhi unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal, previously had “Y plus” security. He will be protected by both the Delhi police and the CRPF. On December 26, Mr. Sirsa had posted photographs of Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence. The CRPF protects as many as 76 individuals, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and Congress’ Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/z-category-security-for-two-punjab-bjp-leaders/article38068053.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,||Scoot resumes operations||After a gap of several months, Scoot airlines resumed operations from Visakhapatnam to Singapore on Wednesday. Once the restrictions on operation of scheduled international operations are lifted, more flights can be expected. Despite pandemic, the Visakhapatnam airport has shown good growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scoot-resumes-operations/article38068449.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Draft women’s policy unveiled||Mandatory martial arts training for girls in schools and colleges, 50 additional person-days for all single- and women-headed households for employment under MGNREGS and representation of up to 33.3% in registered political parties are among the provisions envisioned in the draft Tamil Nadu State New Policy for Women 2021, released by the State Government on Wednesday. As per the draft, all forms of transport must be made women-friendly. “In buses, the first half of the seats shall be earmarked for women, and the front exit/entrance shall be used only by women,” it said. The policy would be implemented over five years. The draft policy provides for the establishment of a system of “victim support” for all cases of abuse, and focuses on rehabilitation and identity protection at the first instance, without delay, to ensure that women do not feel abandoned. According to the draft policy, the State shall pay greater attention to getting all children from poor families and special focus groups, like girls and children from SC and ST communities who are not in school, back into school. The scope of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya shall be extended specifically in educationally backward blocks to cover adolescent girls up to 19 years of age, so that they will be able to complete their school education. It aims to support at least 1,000 women student researchers from disadvantaged sections of society every year, especially in STEM subjects. A senior official told The Hindu that after receiving opinions and suggestions from the public on the draft, the policy would be finalised and released officially. The 45-page draft policy has identified four core focus areas of empowerment — social, economic, political and emotional — which will be the guiding principles of the policy. “Tamil Nadu shall provide free/subsidised coaching classes for exams like JEE, CAT, UPSC and TNPSC, and for higher management and technical courses to encourage women’s participation,” the draft stated. At least 3% interest subvention for education loans could be given to girl students pursuing higher education, and an additional 0.5% interest subvention could be provided to those who studied in Tamil medium, it said. Feedback could be sent to dsw.tn@nic.in. The draft can be accessed on The Hindu portal at https://bit.ly/womenpolicy 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/draft-womens-policy-unveiled/article38067944.ece
30 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||New Year celebrations in Puducherry to end by 12:30 a.m.||The District Administration has decided to wind up New Year celebrations and close the Beach Road by 12.30 a.m. on December 31. The decision was taken to ensure smooth movement of people before the COVID-19 curfew time, enforced from 2 a.m. to 5 a.m. The entry to the Beach Road will be allowed through 10 places after screening people for symptoms of COVID-19. In a statement, Department of Revenue and Disaster Management said in view of the prevailing situation, the Heath Department has been directed to permit only those who have taken the COVID-19 vaccine to stay in hotels and restaurants, and attend New Year events. Meeting held Collector Purva Garg on Tuesday evening chaired a meeting with senior police officials and heads of departments of Tourism and Health to review the preparations for New Year celebrations, following COVID-19 protocol, the release said. The event organisers have been asked to give an undertaking that only 50% of the available space will be used for events. The police department would monitor the events using closed-circuit television cameras (CCTV). No new applications to conduct events would be entertained after Wednesday, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-year-celebrations-in-puducherry-to-end-by-1230-am/article38068094.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||New lease of life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-lease-of-life/article38067999.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Order inside, chaos outside||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-inside-chaos-outside/article38068052.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,||50 new cases in twin dists||Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday reported 33 new COVID-19 cases. With 13 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 143. Test positivity rate was put at 0.46%. A fine of Rs. 1,10,51,670 has been collected so far in 91,574 cases of violation of norms. In Udupi district, 17 new cases were reported. All the 17 are from Udupi taluk and they are under home quarantine. With four patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 80. With 6,840 vaccinated on Wednesday, the total number of persons vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada reached 29,33,854. Of these 16,05,459 have received their first dose and 13,28,395 their second. In Udupi, 4,119 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 17,98,725. Of these, 9,61,313 have received their first dose and 8,37,412 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50-new-cases-in-twin-dists/article38068321.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Severity of illness lower, shows study||There is now clear experimental and clinical data supporting very high immune escape potential of the Omicron variant, but initial estimates show the severity of illness being lower than what was seen in previous outbreaks, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Sequencing Consortium says.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/severity-of-illness-lower-shows-study/article38067868.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,||Flight service to Singapore starts from city||International flight operations have been resumed from Visakhapatnam Airport, after a long gap, with Scoot airlines starting its service from Vizag to Singapore on Wednesday. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana issued the boarding pass to the first passenger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flight-service-to-singapore-starts-from-city/article38068558.ece
30 December 2021||Gurugram,||Two arrested for Ambala church attack||The Haryana Police on Wednesday arrested two persons in connection with the desecration of a statue of Jesus Christ and the vandalism at the British-era Holy Redeemer Church in the cantonment area of Ambala on Sunday. Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said an interrogation of the two accused — Sandeep Kumar and Ravinder Kumar — revealed that they were in an inebriated state at the time of allegedly committing the crime. No link with any organisation has been found so far, Mr. Randhawa added. The police have sought the custody of the accused for a week. A first information report has been lodged on the charges of trespass and defiling a place of worship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-arrested-for-ambala-church-attack/article38067875.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Norms for ‘faceless’ appeal scheme eased||The Income Tax department has brought in changes to the faceless appeal scheme, easing the process for taxpayers wanting a personal hearing through video conference while appealing against a tax demand by the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/norms-for-faceless-appeal-scheme-eased/article38067912.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Sabarimala, Sivagiri pilgrims exempted||The government has issued orders exempting the Sabarimala and Sivagiri pilgrimages from the night-time curbs imposed from Thursday to December 2. The decision was taken on the basis of recommendations made by the District Collectors of Pathanamthitta and Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sabarimala-sivagiri-pilgrims-exempted/article38068234.ece
30 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala temple opens today||The Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will reopen on Thursday for the Makaravilakku festival. According to the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), the temple will reopen at 5 p.m. on the day while the devotees will be permitted from December 31 morning. The Makaravilakku festival falls on January 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sabarimala-temple-opens-today/article38068238.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Night-time curfew for places of worship too||Churchgoers are likely to miss their New Year eve midnight mass. The State government has included religious places of worship in its sweeping ban on gatherings from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. to prevent a possible surge in Omicron variant-driven COVID-19 cases. The embargo would apply from December 30 to January 2. Written testimony The administration has counselled people to shun non-essential travel during the curfew. Those who venture outdoors should carry a written testimony detailing their travel purpose. The night-time ban on gatherings would also apply to social events, New Year parties, and political meetings. Earlier, the government had ordered bars, clubs, hotels and restaurants to scale back New Year celebrations drastically. Hence, New Year revelries would wind up by 10 p.m. Hotels would restrict guests to 50% of the total capacity and ensure physical distancing. An official privy to the government’s pandemic review meetings said the jury was still out on whether the Omicron variant would cause severe illness. Nevertheless, the administration was fearful that the contagion could overwhelm the State’s health infrastructure. The police would strictly enforce the mask mandate in public places. Sectoral magistrates would restrict crowds at shopping malls, auditoriums, indoor venues, cinema halls, markets, beaches and parks. A pandemic review meeting later in the week would examine whether the administration should extend the night curfew beyond January 2. The official said more restrictions were likely if the COVID-19 caseload climbed sharply. Tourism hit again The spectre of a third COVID-19 wave has forced the hospitality industry to scrap New Year celebrations. Travel restrictions, international flights’ scaling down, the general police clampdown on DJ parties, and nighttime merrymaking have dampened the holiday spirit. The pandemic situation also appeared to have thwarted the revival plans of the State’s tourism industry for a second consecutive year. An official said the government did not feel the need for imposing a Statewide lockdown. However, if warranted, containment measures would kick in at the neighbourhood and household level. The government has ordered establishments conducting in-person business to keep a customer ledger. Security personnel should check the body temperature of visitors and ensure staff members are fully vaccinated.  An official says the government does not feel the need for imposing a Statewide lockdown||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-time-curfew-for-places-of-worship-too/article38068224.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Development of footpaths, cycling tracks proposed||The draft active mobility Bill has been published by DULT with an aim to “protect rights of pedestrians and cyclists to safe, accessible, and connected pedestrian and cycling networks in urban areas in the State,” as well as “promote sustainable urban mobility and build healthy communities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/development-of-footpaths-cycling-tracks-proposed/article38067914.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Pvt. hospitals worried over relabelling||Private hospitals in Karnataka — waiting for the rollout of paediatric vaccinations to ensure that their stocks of Covaxin get utilised — are now apprehensive. This is mainly because they are finding it difficult to get the nearly 6 lakh doses that have crossed their expiry date relabelled from Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pvt-hospitals-worried-over-relabelling/article38067915.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||In order to avoid exodus, pause on more curbs||Restrictions should not be scaled up despite the ongoing surge in COVID-19 cases to nip the possibility of a mass exodus of migrant workers — witnessed during the first two waves of the pandemic — in the bud, the DDMA decided on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-order-to-avoid-exodus-pause-on-more-curbs/article38068048.ece
30 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Don’t vote on basis of caste, religion: Priyanka||Reaching out to women voters in Uttar Pradesh, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday asked them to make their elected representatives more accountable and to steer clear of voting on lines of caste and religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-vote-on-basis-of-caste-religion-priyanka/article38068049.ece
30 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJP, Cong. reject BJD’s quota plan for rural polls||Politics over providing reservation to Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in rural polls heated up in Odisha with the opposition BJP and the Congress rejecting the ruling Biju Janata Dal’s decision to select 40% of its candidates from the OBCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-cong-reject-bjds-quota-plan-for-rural-polls/article38068050.ece
30 December 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Send proposal for heritage status’||Efforts are on to include the Buddhist site excavated in and around Sannati, on the banks of the Bhima in Chittapur taluk of Kalaburagi district, in the World Heritage site list of UNESCO, said Additional Director-General (Conservation and Scientific Preservation), Archaeological Survey of India, New Delhi, Janhwij Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/send-proposal-for-heritage-status/article38068157.ece
30 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Every district will have Karmika Bhavan: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that Karmika Bhavan will be constructed in every district of the State and all amenities required for workers will be provided under one roof. The Chief Minister was speaking to presspersons after inaugurating the newly constructed Karmika Bhavan and dedicating the Shramik Sanjivini, a mobile clinic, in Hubballi on Wednesday. Appreciating the initiatives taken by the Labour Department, the Chief Minister said that Karmika Bhavans have been built in such a way as to offer all facilities under one roof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/every-district-will-have-karmika-bhavan-cm/article38068159.ece
30 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Don’t vote on basis of caste, religion: Priyanka||Reaching out to women voters in Uttar Pradesh, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday asked them to make their elected representatives more accountable and to steer clear of voting on lines of caste and religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-vote-on-basis-of-caste-religion-priyanka/article38068278.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||More defence systems to be locally made||Following the two indigenous manufacturing lists barring import of 209 major platforms and systems, the Defence Ministry on Wednesday notified a list of 2,500 subsystems and components that have been localised and another 351 imported items to be substi- tuted in the next three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-defence-systems-to-be-locally-made/article38068279.ece
30 December 2021||Mumbai,||Chargesheet by ED names Deshmukh, sons||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday filed a supple- mentary prosecution complaint (chargesheet) against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and his sons in a money laund- ering and corruption case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chargesheet-by-ed-names-deshmukh-sons/article38068281.ece
30 December 2021||MYSURU,||Police intervene as groups stage protest||Tense moments prevailed for a while at Rangayana here on Wednesday after a near face-off between the groups protesting against and supporting its director Addanda C. Cariappa. This led to the intervention of police, which issued a notice to the members of the “Save Rangayana” campaign to stop holding protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-intervene-as-groups-stage-protest/article38068326.ece
30 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘BJP will bring misrule of Congress before people’||The BJP executive committee has resolved to take the issue of alleged misrule and corruption of the then Congress regime led by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah before the people, BJP State in charge Arun Singh has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-will-bring-misrule-of-congress-before-people/article38068327.ece
30 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Temples will be freed from restrictions’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced that Hindu temples would be freed from restrictions related to utilisation of revenues generated by them. He made the announcement at the valedictory of the two-day State executive of the BJP in Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temples-will-be-freed-from-restrictions/article38067917.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Kota Sub-Inspector of Police suspended||Inspector-General of Police (Western Range) Devajyoti Ray on Wednesday placed Sub-Inspector of Police, Kota Police Station in Udupi district, B.P. Santhosh, who is accused of leading a team of personnel in lathicharging people gathered for a pre-wedding ceremony, under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kota-sub-inspector-of-police-suspended/article38068324.ece
30 December 2021||Srinagar,||Hyderpora victims’ kin disagree with SIT report||The families of victims of the Hydepora “encounter” on Wednesday disagreed with the Special Investigation Team (SIT) report on the sequence of events that left one foreign militant and three civilians, including an alleged “militant associate”, dead on November 16. “My brother was taken along by different wings of the security agencies to search the building at Hyderpora three times. How did the foreign militant take him as a human shield? What did the security forces do to get him released? Is the SIT report plausible?” Abdul Majeed Bhat, elder brother of victim Altaf Bhat who owned the building, told The Hindu . The J&K Police’s SIT has not made the post-mortem reports of the slain youth public so far. Mr. Bhat said eyewitnesses had told the family they heard his brother’s shrieks after he was taken inside the building. “When we received the body after three days, there were injuries made by a sharp object on the back of the head and one eye was swollen. There were clear signs of torture,” Mr. Bhat alleged. The family said it was cooperating with the SIT and the magistrate investigating the incident. “The police summoned us twice and asked for building and rent-related documents. We could not produce the same as the security forces seized the building on the day of the encounter and handed over its possession after 43 days yesterday (Tuesday). My brother used to keep all his documents in a locker inside the building. When we checked the room, the locker was broken and the papers were scattered,” Mr. Bhat said. The family has asked the SIT to release the CCTV footage from nearby showrooms and buildings of the fateful day. Humaira Gul, wife of another victim Mudasir Gul, who ran a real estate business from the building, said the SIT report has dashed her hopes of getting justice. “Instead of admitting that my husband was murdered, they try to defame him. I know my husband, who was also a father of a one-year-old kid. He was not remotely connected to militants. The SIT report is a cooked-up story,” Ms. Gul said. SIT warning The SIT warned political leaders and the victims’ families against any “speculative statements that have tendency to create provocation, rumour, fear and alarm among the general masses or particular section of society”. “The SIT is still investigating the matter, all such persons are once again advised to provide any type of evidence if they have regarding the incident so that every aspect of investigation is covered and concluded on merits,” the police said in a statement. Former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah in a tweet said, “If the SIT is “still investigating the matter” then what was the need to rush to the press with a statement yesterday? I don’t recall reading anywhere that yesterday’s report was an interim one. Criticising the report, whether interim or final, is the right of any citizen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderpora-victims-kin-disagree-with-sit-report/article38067792.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nagaland firing: Army team visits Mon||An Army team headed by an officer of the Major General rank on Wednesday visited the site of the botched encounter in Mon district of Nagaland as part of the Court of Inquiry (CoI) into the incident that occurred on December 4. A separate inquiry by a special investigation team, ordered by the State government, is also on. In a statement, the Army said its team inspected the site at Oting village to understand the circumstances under which the incident could have happened. “The team took along the witnesses for better understanding of the situation and how events would have unfolded. Subsequently, the team was also present at Tizit police station, Mon district, between 1.30 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Wednesday to meet a cross-section of society to obtain valuable information pertaining to the incident,” the statement said. The Army said it had requested twice through public notices urging any person having information, to directly share it, either by being present before the inquiry team at the Tizit police station or share any related input, photo or video via phone, SMS or WhatsApp. Information sought The information may also be shared in person to the inquiry team at the Dinjan Military Station in Assam, the statement said. The Army reiterated that the CoI was progressing expeditiously and all efforts were on to conclude it at the earliest. A few days ago, the Army said it was fully cooperating with the SIT and sharing the required details in a timely manner. Fourteen civilians and a soldier were killed in Mon. Six civilians were killed in the first firing by security forces in a case of mistaken identity and the others in the violence that erupted as angry locals attacked security forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-firing-army-team-visits-mon/article38067778.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Several States report spike in infections||A spike in COVID-19 infections has been reported in several States though most are yet to impose significant restrictions. Delhi has seen an 86% rise in daily new cases on Wednesday from Thursday with at least 238 confirmed cases of the Omicron variant. Despite the increase in positivity rate, the Delhi government has for now decided to abstain from stricter restrictions as it fears that might trigger a migrant exodus. Maharashtra has reported 85 new cases of the Omicron variant amidst recording 3,900 new COVID-19 cases and 20 deaths on Wednesday. Of the new cases reported, 38 had no history of international travel. Meanwhile, coastal Goa’s active cases surged to 635, with the State reporting 170 new infections today — a nearly four-fold rise in cases in 10 days which has set alarm bells ringing across the State as it gears up for New Year’s Eve. Goa Health Minister Viswajit Rane said this was similar to the rise that occurred from April-May earlier this year. Despite the surge in cases, the Goa government has as yet not imposed a night curfew in the coastal State so as to not affect the tourism business till New Year’s day. Tamil Nadu recorded 739 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. There were eight deaths in the State, while the active caseload stood at 6,654. So far, there have been 46 confirmed cases of the Omicron variant. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 566 new cases of COVID-19, with Bengaluru Urban reporting 400 cases and four deaths. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.52%, the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 1.06%. Five new cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 have been reported in Karnataka, taking the total number to 43. Confirming this in a tweet on Wednesday, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that out of the five new cases, four have a history of international travel from the United States, Dubai and Ghana. The fifth person travelled from Mumbai to Bengaluru by flight. “All positive persons have been isolated and primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested,” the Minister’s tweet said. Kerala reported 2,846 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 69,852 samples were tested. With 12 deaths due to COVID-19 reported on Wednesday, and 199 mortalities accounted for as per the Supreme Court’s guidelines, the death toll in the State has gone up to 47,277. As many as 1,494 cases were breakthrough infections in fully vaccinated citizens; 193 had received a first dose of vaccine; 854 were unvaccinated. Andhra Pradesh identified 10 more cases of infections due to the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus on Wednesday. For the first time in the State, three contacts of foreign returnees who were infected with the Omicron variant also contracted the virus. So far, the State has reported 16 cases of Omicron infections. Meanwhile, the State has reported no recent deaths due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/several-states-report-spike-in-infections/article38067799.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Kharagpur calendar says Aryan invasion is a myth||The 2022 calendar of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur on the theme of “evidence” for “rebutting the Aryan invasion myth”, which caused a controversy when it became public last week, was “just the tip of the iceberg”, with scholars abroad planning to hold workshops on the topic, according to the professor behind its concept. The calendar, titled “Recovery of the foundations of Indian knowledge systems”, covers the topics of “Recognition of the secret of the Vedas” and “Reinterpretation of the Indus Valley Civilisation”, apart from the portion on “Aryan invasion”. The claims made in the calendar came in for severe criticism on social media from writers and those who have been engaged with the issue. Tony Joseph, author of the book Early Indians ,  commented on Twitter on December 26 about “the distressing transformation of centres of excellence”. He cited the 2019 genetic study “The formation of human populations in South and Central Asia”, which, he said, was an example of the “strong, multi-disciplinary evidence for migration of Central Asian Steppe pastoralists into the Indian Subcontinent between 2,000 and 1,500 BCE”. ‘Bringing out the truth’ Brought out by the IIT’s Centre of Excellence for Indian Knowledge Systems, which was inaugurated by Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on December 18, the calendar was aimed at “bringing out the truth”, said Professor Joy Sen, Chairperson of the centre who is credited for the “concept and research” of the calendar. Professor Sen, who works the Department of Architecture and Regional Planning of the IIT, chalked up the criticism of the calendar on social media to those “conditioned in the old ways”. In fact, in a lecture uploaded on YouTube in 2019, he gave his argument for what he called the “Aryan invasion that never was”. Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, he said, “Within 72 hours, we received 1,000 emails about the calendar, of which 800 were positive, 100 were positive and negative, asking us to change something, and 60-70 were caustic, which shows their colonial hangover… Actually, when you talk against things, you make them more popular.” He stressed that younger people were reaching out to express interest in the calendar, for which orders had been received from “the Bay Area [San Francisco] to Japan”. “Overseas scholars are planning workshops on it,” he said. According to Professor Sen, the wrong information in textbooks had “destroyed pillars of national confidence”. “The people with a real scientific bent of mind have appreciated the calendar. There will always be an uncle in the family who is conditioned in the old ways who will have a problem,” he observed. The calendar carries the names of the advisory team that guided its making. It includes IIT-K Director Virendra Kumar Tewari, All-India Council for Technical Education chairman Anil D. Sahasrabuddhe and Sanjeev Sanyal, Principal Economic Adviser in the Finance Ministry. The pages of different months are dedicated to the Indus and Brahmaputra rivers; reincarnation, eons of time; cosmic symmetry; and explanation of the “Aryan invasion myth”. Then Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced the setting up of the centre for Indian knowledge systems at IIT-K on November 6, 2020. The centre’s website says it was set up for inter-disciplinary research on Indian history; advanced archaeological exploration; Indian language systems, aesthetics systems and systems of geometry and mathematics; and Indian systems of welfare economics and planning, among others. Professor Sen is listed as the only faculty member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iit-calendar-calls-aryan-invasion-a-myth-professor-says-aim-is-to-reveal-truth/article38067773.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Centre had justified FCRA non-renewal in top court||The non-renewal of the Foreign Contributions Regulations Act (FCRA) registration of the Missionaries of Charity citing “audit irregularities” comes shortly after a line of argument made by the government in the Supreme Court recently that NGOs have no fundamental right to receive “unbridled foreign contributions”. The government, through the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), was justifying amendments made to the FCRA in October 2020. Petitioners had contended in court that the amendments were choking the flow of foreign funds to NGOs engaged in philanthropic activities in India. “There exists no fundamental right to receive unbridled foreign contributions without any regulation... There is no question of fundamental rights being violated through controls of acceptance of foreign contributions by certain types of organisations as the said organisations or individuals are always open to operate with locally secured funds and achieve their expectations,” the MHA argued in court in a 90-page affidavit. It said that foreign contributions, considering their nature and vast expanse of abuse, needed tight monitoring. The government, in November, had also red-flagged the use of foreign funds to finance activities detrimental to national security and interests. The strong stand had even prompted the court to specifically ask why the MHA was involved in the FCRA as the nodal Ministry. To this, the government had referred to intelligence inputs which indicated that money from abroad was being used to feed activities meant to destabilise national peace and security. “There is an element of national security, integrity of the nation involved here... Every transaction is watched by the MHA, from the very beginning,” Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta had described the MHA’s responsibility. Mr. Mehta had said the FCRA amendments had been introduced to “strengthen the mechanism, enhance transparency and accountability”. He had said it was noticed before the amendments came that only a miniscule portion of the foreign funds was actually used by NGOs for their registered objectives.   Every transaction is watched by the MHA, from the very beginning Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-had-justified-fcra-non-renewal-in-top-court/article38067774.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||BKU against opening of dairy sector||Indian farmers will oppose the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) between India and Australia if it throws open the country’s dairy sector for Australian dairy majors, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has said. India and Australia have been in discussion since October for concluding a “full” CECA by the end of 2022, but both sides have fast-tracked the process to secure an interim agreement before that. “We have consistently opposed the government’s plans to open the dairy sector for foreign dairy majors. It was this reason that prompted us to oppose the RCEP [Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership] deal which also wanted to allow dairy imports into India. Indian farmers are fast losing land and many small farmers are dependent on dairy work and opening the sector to foreign countries like Australia will hurt millions of farmers and dairy workers,” said Yudhvir Singh, BKU General Secretary. Mr. Singh alleged that having tried unsuccessfully to open the dairy sector for the 15-country bloc of RCEP in the Asia-Pacific region, the government is trying to open the dairy sector for RCEP members such as Australia through bilateral Free Trade Agreements (FTAs). “They are trying to implement the same formula through the backdoor and we will strongly oppose any move to open our dairy sector for foreign players,” said Mr. Singh. A spokesperson of the Australian High Commission said Canberra was “seeking a liberalising agreement” for “balanced outcomes,” adding, “Since Australia and India formally launched the resumption of negotiations on 1 October, both sides have engaged on the full range of CECA issues with the aim of concluding an early interim agreement and a full CECA by end-2022.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bku-against-opening-of-dairy-sector/article38067776.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Congress has performance and vision’||With the Punjab Assembly election only a few months away, the ruling Congress, which has been facing turmoil within its State unit amid power tussles, is staring at the stiff task of retaining power. Former Punjab Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar says that before getting into any kind of electoral battle, an assurance that all sections of society are equal needs to be extended by the Congress to a section of Punjab’s people, which is at present anxious amid certain senior leaders’ remarks that only a Sikh must be the Chief Minister of the State. Excerpts:  The Congress high command has given you charge of the 2022 poll campaign committee. How you do intend to steer the campaign? The campaign could be built around either a personality or the ideology or performance or vision. We have the performance and the vision. And as far as the personality or leadership is concerned, the party high command has already clarified that they intend to go with a ‘collective leadership’ this time. It’s going to be a joint Congress. A lot of development has been achieved in the State. What, according to you, are the key hurdles for the Congress in the upcoming poll? To be successful, we need to identify our strengths and roadblocks. Our strength is what Rahul Gandhi ji believes in, and that is ‘breaking conventional norms’. He has a vision and that is what he tried in Punjab — he broke a glass ceiling when he brought in Charanjit Singh Channi as the Chief Minister, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste community. The decision was a step towards social empowerment of the deprived section of society. But certain senior party leaders at the central level in Delhi through their uncalled-for utterances and some leaders in Punjab through their conduct have worked to put a toughened kind of glass ceiling on Mr. Gandhi’s good work. Some leaders have publicly stated that “a Sikh should be the Chief Minister of Punjab”. They passed on an impression that other sections of society are disqualified for the top post. This perception has to be nipped in the bud because Punjabis don’t feel that way. I have never been made to feel like a second-class citizen. It was out of their own insecurities, petty vision that these leaders have created a bogey of ‘religious identity’ in Punjab, which is neither the Congress party’s ethos nor, definitely, the ethos of Punjabiyat . And now they have ended up making an entire community of Punjab anxious. Do you think that you were denied the chance of becoming Punjab Chief Minister for being a non-Sikh? With certain veteran Congress leaders saying that if a Sikh cannot become a Chief Minister of Punjab, where would the Sikh be, it has made it difficult for the Congress. If tomorrow, a reverse reference is made that only a Hindu can be Prime Minister in India, then how would the Congress party defend it? The remark may have been made in a personal capacity but it has sent a very wrong message. The Congress will have to disown it.  (For full interview, log on to https://bit.ly/Punjabpolls )  It was out of their own insecurities, petty vision that some leaders have created a bogey of religious identity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-has-performance-and-vision/article38067794.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Omicron has high immune escape potential: INSACOG||There is now clear experimental and clinical data supporting very high immune escape potential of Omicron, but initial estimates show the severity of illness being lower than what was seen in previous outbreaks, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Sequencing Consortium (INSACOG) said in its latest bulletin. In India, appropriate public health measures and investigations are being conducted for surveillance of the Omicron variant, INSACOG said, noting that globally there appeared to be significantly reduced ability of vaccines or prior infection to protect against symptomatic infection by the Omicron variant. Race with Delta “While Delta continues to be the most prevalent VOC [variant of concern] globally, the Omicron variant has completely displaced it in southern Africa and is on track to become the dominant variant in the U.K. and elsewhere,” INSACOG said in its bulletin on Wednesday. The genomic consortium, citing global data, said there was now clear experimental and clinical data supporting very high immune escape potential of Omicron, which appeared to be the major component of its growth advantage over Delta. “Initial estimates of severity of illness have, however, been lower than seen in previous outbreaks. Whether these initial observations are generalisable to older non-immune subjects is not clear and the threat level is still considered high,” the consortium said. Surveillance strategy  INSACOG reports genomic surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 across the country through sequencing of samples from sentinel sites and also detailed State-wise, district analysis for some States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-has-high-immune-escape-potential-insacog/article38067807.ece
30 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Don’t vote on basis of caste and religion, says Priyanka||Reaching out to women voters in Uttar Pradesh, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday asked them to make their elected representatives more accountable and to steer clear of voting on lines of caste and religion. Ms. Vadra said leaders came to voters and made announcements without any accountability or result. But this was not just the fault of the netas but also of the women, she said, pinning the blame on voting on the basis of caste and religion. “When it comes to talk of caste, community and religion, you cast your vote on these factors. Why will a neta work when they know people vote on caste and religion,” Ms. Vadra said in Firozabad while interacting with women at her party’s Shakti Samvaad . Her question is part of the Congress’s attempt to break the existing caste patterns in the State, where caste loyalties and divisions dominate political discourse and representation, through talks of uniting women voters by various promises such as a 40% share in ticket distribution in the coming election. Ms. Vadra said that work would get done when voters make their netas more accountable and when they ensure the win of the party which talked of “positive” things and empowerment rather than the one which talked of “negative” things. Ms. Vadra referred to the Ujjwala scheme of the BJP government, under which free cooking gas was provided to poor families, and said that by simply providing women a gas cylinder the government thought it could abdicate all responsibility. “They won’t even ask how will you get the second cylinder (refill), how will you get empowered, how your education will get complete and how to create employment. They think you will all vote for them if they provide you just one gas cylinder,” Ms. Vadra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-vote-on-basis-of-caste-and-religion-says-priyanka/article38067789.ece
30 December 2021||Srinagar,||Three militants shot dead in encounter in J&K, say police||Three unidentified militants were killed and one policeman was injured in twin encounters in south Kashmir on Wednesday. A police spokesman said three militants were killed in an encounter that broke out during a search operation in the Mirhama area of Kulgam. “The operation is on,” he said. The identity or affiliation of the militants could not be ascertained immediately. Earlier, one policeman was injured in an encounter between the security forces and trapped militants in Anantnag. “An encounter has started at Nowgam Shahabad in the Dooru area of Anantnag [on Wednesday evening]. In the initial firing, one police personnel got injured and was shifted to hospital,” a police spokesman said. The spokesman said the police and the security forces were on the job. “The firing is on between the militants and the security forces,” said an official. The police could not immediately establish the number of militants trapped at the encounter site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-militants-shot-dead-in-encounter-in-jk-say-police/article38067860.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||More defence systems to be locally manufactured||Following the two indigenous manufacturing lists barring import of 209 major platforms and systems, the Defence Ministry on Wednesday notified a list of 2,500 subsystems and components that have been localised and another 351 imported items to be so substituted in the next three years. “This ‘Aatmanirbhar’ initiative will save foreign exchange approximately equivalent to Rs. 3,000 crore every year,” a Ministry statement said. A positive indigenisation list of subsystems and components had been notified by the Department of Defence Production as part of the Ministry’s efforts to achieve self-reliance in manufacturing and minimise imports by the Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs), Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on social media. They would only be procured from Indian industry after the timelines indicated in the list. “DPSUs will work in close coordination with local industrial supply chain to ensure strict adherence to the stipulated timelines,” the office memorandum said. Necessary certifications and approval of all items included in the list shall be granted on priority by stakeholders concerned, it added. The positive indigenisation list is among a series of measures announced recently to reduce defence imports and give a push to domestic manufacturing. Speaking at a recent event, Mr. Singh said that in this decade, the Ministry would increase the items under the positive list for indigenisation from current 209 to over 1,000. At present, India’s defence and aerospace manufacturing market was worth Rs. 85,000 crore, of which the contribution of the private sector was Rs. 18,000 crore. In 2022, the country’s defence and aerospace manufacturing market would increase to Rs. 1 lakh crore and could reach Rs. 5 lakh crore by 2047. The Ministry is also expected to put out the final version of the Defence Production and Export Promotion Policy (DPEPP) 2020, the draft of which has been released for public feedback. In a separate development, the Army said it had established a quantum lab at the Military College of Telecommunication Engineering in MP, to lead research and training with support from the National Security Council Secretariat as part of focus on emerging technology domains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-defence-systems-to-be-locally-made/article38067801.ece
30 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Surjewala slams Haryana on dues to farm agents, workers||Hitting out at the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, senior Congress leader and its national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday alleged that a conspiracy was being hatched to shutdown grain markets in the State. Mr. Surjewala said there was an outstanding payment of Rs. 258 crore payable to the 30,000 commission agents ( arhtiyas ) on the purchase of paddy and Rs. 250 crore payable to numerous labourers, but government agencies were not paying these amounts. “By not paying the amount of Rs. 508 crore to arhtiyas and labourers, the government wants to achieve the objectiveof the three black farm laws. This entire strategy of the government is part of a conspiracy to close down the grain markets indirectly so that the arhtiyas are gradually forced to leave the market and the farmers of the State are left with no option but to sell the crop at throwaway prices to the capitalist friends of the government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surjewala-slams-haryana-on-dues-to-farm-agents-workers/article38067803.ece
30 December 2021||new Delhi,||Atal innovation ranks puts IITs, IISc on top||Seven Indian Institutes of Technology and the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, are among the top 10 central institutions in promotion and support of innovation and entrepreneurship development, according to Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) announced on Wednesday. The top rank has been bagged by the IIT, Madras followed by the IITs in Bombay, Delhi, Kanpur and Roorkee. The IISc has bagged the sixth position in the ranking followed by the IITs in Hyderabad and Kharagpur, the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Calicut, and the Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Uttar Pradesh. The ARIIA is an initiative of the Union Education Ministry to systematically rank all major higher education institutions in India on indicators related to innovation, start-up and entrepreneurship development among students and faculty members. Key parameters The ARIIA evaluates institutions on parameters such as patent filing and granted, number of registered students and faculty start-ups, fund generation by incubated start-ups, specialised infrastructure created by institutions to promote innovation and entrepreneurship. ARIIA-2021 ranking has been announced in various categories which include Centrally funded technical institutions (IITs, NITs and so on), State universities, State stand-alone technical colleges, private universities, private stand-alone technical colleges, non-technical government and private universities and institutions. According to Ministry officials, this year the participation has almost doubled to 1,438 institutes and quadrupled over the first edition. “We are delighted to be adjudged the Most Innovative Institute for the third time in a row since inception of the Atal Rankings on Innovation,” said Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT, Madras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/atal-innovation-ranks-puts-iits-iisc-on-top/article38067805.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Hong Kong news outlet closes after police raids||By Wednesday evening, Stand News said it had stopped all operations, would close its website, remove all content, and dismiss its staff. In June, Apple Daily, an outspoken and popular tabloid, ceased publication after its owner Jimmy Lai was arrested. While Wednesday’s arrests were made under a colonial-era sedition law, the recent moves targeting Hong Kong’s media have come in the wake of new national security legislation passed by Beijing last year, which has broadened the scope for law enforcement authorities to take action. Last week, memorials related to the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown were removed from four Hong Kong universities, with the law cited as the reason. An officer with the Hong Kong police force’s national security department on Wednesday accused Stand News of a “conspiracy to print or distribute seditious materials”. The accusations were linked to several opinion pieces that were critical of the government. The official told a press conference that the bank accounts of the organisation were also frozen with US$ 7.82 million in assets seized. Concerns raised The Hong Kong Journalists Association said in a statement, reported by the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post , that it was “deeply concerned” by the arrests and police raids. “The association urges the government to protect press freedom in accordance with the Basic Law,” it said in a statement, referring to the law under which the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has been administered under the “one country, two systems” model, since its return to China in 1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hong-kong-news-outlet-closes-after-police-raids/article38067779.ece
30 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mixing news with views dangerous, says CJI||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Wednesday said mixing news with views is a dangerous cocktail and that “nothing can be more lethal to democracy than the deadly combination of confrontational polity and competitive journalism”. Giving the keynote address as the chief guest at the RedInk Awards for Excellence in Journalism, the CJI said, “Journalists are like judges in one sense. Regardless of the ideology you profess and the beliefs you hold dear, you must do your duty without being influenced by them. You must report only the facts, with a view to give a complete and accurate picture.” Justice Ramana also spoke about attention-grabbing news and said, “An issue that has gained prominence recently is linked to what is called the attention economy. In the hope of grabbing eyeballs, the headlines that are given for news reports are catchy, but misleading.” Talking about his journey, the CJI said, “As someone who started his professional career as a journalist, I can understand your difficulties and struggles. Speaking truth to power and holding up a mirror to society is an immense responsibility that is extremely difficult to fulfil.” He highlighted the importance of freedom of press and said, “Women, particularly beyond metros, still find it difficult to gain a foothold in the profession. The freedom of the press is a valuable and sacred right enshrined in the Indian Constitution. Without such freedom, there cannot be a discussion and debate that is essential for the growth of a democracy. When it comes to other Indian language media and small media houses, it is the regular political reporter who doubles up as the legal reporter whenever the need arises.” Justice Ramana added, “Unlike print and electronic media, unfortunately, it is almost impossible to hold social media platforms such as YouTube accountable even after they host most derogatory and defamatory stuff which has the potential to ruin careers and lives.” He concluded his speech by paying respects to late Danish Siddiqui. He said, “He was a man with a magical eye and was rightly regarded as one of the foremost photo journalists of this era. If a picture can tell a thousand words, his photos were novels.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mixing-news-with-views-dangerous-says-cji/article38067854.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 cases in India start to inch up||Also, the pace of vaccination has been on a declining trend in December. From around 80 lakh doses a day on December 1, the rate has reduced to 60 lakh doses in the final days of December. India’s number of daily fatalities has remained steady at around the 300-mark for over two weeks. The number of tests has remained the same at around 11 to 11.5 lakh a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-in-india-start-to-inch-up/article38067855.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Apple places Foxconn’s T.N. facility ‘on probation’||A total of 159 employees had been admitted to various hospitals. Of these, 155 were discharged on December 18. The other four employees were also discharged the same week. Independent audit Apple did not explain what exactly this probation meant but said: “We hold our suppliers accountable to the highest standards in the industry and regularly conduct assessments to ensure compliance.” Details on when the plant would resume operations were not provided. According to the Apple spokesperson, following recent concerns over conditions pertaining to food safety and accommodation at Foxconn Sriperumbudur, independent auditors were dispatched to undertake additional detailed assessments. During the assessment, it was found that some of the remote dormitory accommodations and dining rooms being used for employees did not meet the requirements. “We are working with the supplier to ensure a comprehensive set of corrective actions are rapidly implemented,” the spokesperson said. The Foxconn Technology Group also said that the safety and well-being of its employees was top priority. “We have been investigating recent issues at our Sriperumbudur facility in Tamil Nadu and have found that some offsite dormitory facilities do not meet the required standards,” the company said. The organisation added that it has been taking immediate steps to enhance the facilities and services provided at the remote accommodations. Restructuring team The company further said that it was restructuring its local management team and management systems to ensure and maintain the high standards that are needed. “All employees will continue to be paid while we make the necessary improvements before restarting our operations and we will continue to provide support for our employees as they return to work,” the company said. In December 2020, Apple placed Taiwan-based Wistron Corp on probation and said that they will not receive any new business from Apple before they complete corrective actions. Apple arrived at this decision after it found that some workers at Wistron’s plant in Karnataka had not been not paid properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/apple-places-foxconns-tn-facility-on-probation/article38067783.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre may extend FCRA renewal date||Among the changes that were brought in, operationalising a designated FCRA bank account with the State Bank of India’s main branch in Delhi was made compulsory. The bank account could be made operational only after receiving an authorisation certificate from the Ministry. Several NGOs had moved court, stating that despite fulfilling all requirements to open bank accounts by March 31, the process was not completed at the Ministry’s end, which hampered their work as they could not receive foreign funds. The Ministry had provided a relief up to September 30 to the NGOs whose registration was expiring between September 29, 2020 and September 30, 2021 to apply for renewal. It extended the deadline till December 31. If the applications are not scrutinised in time, even those whose appeals are pending could be stopped from accessing foreign funds until they are cleared. Logistical issues  The Hindu had reported that the FCRA division of the Ministry is facing staff crunch and logistical issues. Since the division saw the transfer of many officials, the identity and password login of the new officers were not generated in time, leading to a huge backlog. Since 2015, all FCRA activities are done online. The Ministry said in a statement on Monday that it refused to renew the FCRA registration of the Missionaries of Charity, set up by Nobel laureate Mother Teresa, on December 25 as “some adverse inputs were noticed.” The registration of the Charity was valid till October 31 and it was subsequently extended till December 31 along with other FCRA associations whose renewal applications were pending, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-may-extend-fcra-renewal-date/article38067858.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Two arrested for Ambala church attack||Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said An interrogation of the two accused revealed that they were in an inebriated state at the time of allegedly committing the crime a day after Christmas. No link with any organisation has been found so far, Mr. Randhawa added.  The police have sought the custody of the accused for a week. An FIR has been lodged on the charges of trespass and defiling a place of worship. Father Patras Mundu, parish priest of the church, told The Hindu that the attack took place between 12.30 a.m. and 1.40 a.m. He said that two men arrived on a two-wheeler, jumped over the main gate and damaged the lights and decoration on the premises. Before leaving, they broke the glass case at the entrance and the 5.5-feet statue of the Christ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-arrested-for-ambala-church-attack/article38067859.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Centre sold CEL at a throwaway price: Cong.||The Congress on Wednesday accused the Narendra Modi government of underselling the country’s assets under the guise of disinvestment policy, flagging the recent sale of the public sector Central Electronics Ltd. (CEL) to a private firm with no domain experience. At a press conference, party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the CEL’s valuation using different methods was between Rs. 957 crore and Rs. 1,600 crore, but the government had sold the Ghaziabad-based PSU to Nandal Finance and Leasing Pvt. Ltd for Rs. 210 crore. Mr. Vallabh pointed out that the cost of land owned by the CEL alone outstripped the price for which it has been sold. The CEL owns 2.02 lakh sq.m in Ghaziabad. Going by the circle rate, the land valuation was Rs. 440 crore. “We demand that this sale be stopped forthwith… the promoters of Nandal Finance are also linked to a private university in the Noida-Ghaziabad region and are known for their proximity to BJP leaders,” he said. The government needs to spell out its road map for disinvestment and explain its reasons for selling a PSU with strategic national interest. “More importantly, they need to explain how could they sell a profit-making company,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-sold-cel-at-a-throwaway-price-cong/article38067790.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||For the benefit of devotees||Saiva Agamas given by Lord Siva are difficult to understand, and had He not explained them through chosen devotees, the Agamas would not have been helpful to us. They would have been like letters written on water, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. Agamas have four sections (padas) — carya, kriya, yoga and jnana. Carya pada tells us about Siva’s linga form, the form of Uma Mahesvara murthi, of Nandi and other parivara devatas. It tells us about temple construction, how to offer flowers, modes of atonement, and the form of japamala and yogapatta (cloth used during yoga). It tells us about funeral rites and death anniversary rituals. Kriya pada tells us how to pronounce mantras, the form of kundamandala vedhi, how to perform sandhyavandana, how to do puja, japa, homa, Siva deeksha and Acharya abhisheka. Personal worship (Atmartha) and temple worship (parartha) and naimmitika puja (occasional pujas), and details about the conduct of temple festivals are also told in Kriya pada. Yoga pada details yama, niyama, asana, pranayama, dhyana and samadhi. Yoga pada also tells us about understanding the contents of jnana pada, through meditation. Jnana pada tells of pasu (jivatma), pathi (Lord Siva) and paasam (hurdles that keep us from reaching Lord Siva). Jivatmas that do not attain liberation, are born again through eggs or through embryos, or come from sweat or seeds. They could be born as devas, humans, animals, birds, reptiles, aquatic creatures or stationary forms like plants. Jnana pada section of the Saiva Agamas tells us of the different stages of jnana and the results obtained at each stage. The Nayanmar Thirugnanasambandar says that the Saiva Agamas were told by Siva for the benefit of His devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-the-benefit-of-devotees/article38067796.ece
30 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJP, Cong. reject BJD’s quota plan||Politics over providing reservation to Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in rural polls heated up in Odisha with the opposition BJP and the Congress rejecting the ruling Biju Janata Dal’s decision to select 40% of its candidates from the OBCs. Both the BJP and the Congress said the OBC communities, which constituted more than 50% of the State’s population, did not want charity, but their representation should be guaranteed in proportion to their population through a constitutional mechanism. Infructuous order The State government has released draft reservation list for zilla parishad and panchayat samitis and sarpanch without OBC quota. The BJP Legislature Party on Wednesday moved the State Election Commissioner seeking to ensure adequate representation for the OBCs in panchayat elections through a constitutional mechanism which was in line of the Supreme Court order and appeal of the Centre. Following the High Court order, the State government’s notification for OBC reservation in the panchayat elections became infructuous and the BJD announced the 40% reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-cong-rejects-bjds-quota-plan/article38067795.ece
30 December 2021||Patna,||Petrol cost cut by Rs. 25 a litre in Jharkhand||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday announced that petrol prices will be reduced by Rs. 25 a litre for two-wheelers. The new price will be effective from January 26, 2022. He was speaking to reporters on the occasion of his government completing two years in power. The concession will be given to those who have ration cards and will be limited to 10 litres a month. The cash subsidy up to Rs. 250 a month on purchase of fuel will be given to beneficiaries through Direct Bank Transfer (DBT). According to an official of Jharkhand government, around 62 lakh people in the State will benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-cost-cut-by-rs-25-a-litre-in-jharkhand/article38067771.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Z’ security for two Punjab BJP leaders||Days after joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, former Congress Minister in Punjab, was accorded “Z” category security by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Another Punjab leader, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who joined the BJP on December 1, has also been given “Z” protection by the Ministry. A senior government official said that the Punjab legislator will be provided proximate security cover by armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Punjab and Delhi. Six or seven CRPF personnel will provide security round-the-clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/z-security-for-two-punjab-bjp-leaders/article38067782.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ready for virtual poll rallies: BJP||As cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus saw an upward tick in several States, the BJP on Wednesday declared that it was ready to hold virtual rallies, if called, in Uttar Pradesh , Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur that go to the polls early next year. Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat told presspersons that the BJP was ready for virtual election rallies. “We’d held such rallies during the West Bengal elections.” Mr. Shekhawat, who is also the party’s Punjab in- charge, said “it is the job of the poll commission to decide how, when and with what policies elections will be held and what restrictions will be there. The decision taken by it will be applicable to all parties”. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Monday briefed the Election Commission of India on the situation with regard to the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ready-for-virtual-poll-rallies-bjp/article38067787.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA seizes cash, stolen ammunition||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday searched multiple locations in four States in connection with the pilferage of weapons from the armouries of central armed forces for supply to left-wing extremists (LWE) in Jharkhand. The searches were conducted at more than 12 places in Dhanbad, Saraikela Kharsawan and Ranchi of Jharkhand; Patna, Chapra and Gaya in Bihar: Chandauli in Uttar Pradesh; and Bardhman, West Bengal. The case was first registered by the anti-terrorist squad in Ranchi in November. It alleged theft of arms and ammunition from the armouries of central armed forces and their supply to the senior leaders of CPI(Maoists) in Jharkhand. The NIA took over the probe on December 09. “During the searches, cash of Rs. 1.46 lakh, digital devices...ammunition boxes have been seized,” said the agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-seizes-cash-stolen-ammunition-boxes/article38067802.ece
30 December 2021||Pune,||Ahead of polls, Goa approves export of low-grade iron ore||The BJP government in Goa on Wednesday approved a policy permitting mining companies to export low-grade iron ore, paving the way for resumption of mining activity that has been stalled since 2018. The State Cabinet’s nod for the policy comes ahead of the Assembly election scheduled for early next year. Resumption of mining activity has been a key poll promise of Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress. Speaking after the Cabinet meeting, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said about 10 to 20 million tonnes of low-grade iron ore were lying at different locations outside the mining leases, and could sustain mining activity in Goa for the next four-five years. “The State government has formulated a policy for regularisation of mining dumps on government and private land,” Mr. Sawant said. The Chief Minister stated that in the past the State Land Revenue Code had empowered the government to impose fine if land was used for dumping mining rejects or similar materials without permission. Royalty payment “We have collected fines to the tune of Rs. 200 crore in 2013-14 from people who had dumped the ore outside the mining leases. Those who have paid the fines will be allowed to move the dumps after taking permission from the Indian Bureau of Mines and paying the royalty payment as per the policy,” said the Chief Minister. The government would take over the mining dumps where the penalty was not paid and auction the ore.  In March, the Supreme Court had deemed Goa’s mining lease renewals to be illegal and cancelled 88 such leases that had been renewed by the State government in 2014-15. The BJP government under Mr. Sawant has been looking for ways to kick-start the mining sector ahead of the polls. Goa’s mining sector, which contributed about 15-16% of the State’s Gross Domestic Product in 2011-12, now accounts for barely 2%. Mr. Sawant said the dumps were allowed to be exported through the recent amendment to Minerals (Other than Atomic and Hydro Carbons Energy Mineral) Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2021 that came into force from November 12, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ahead-of-polls-goa-approves-export-of-low-grade-iron-ore/article38067781.ece
30 December 2021||New delhi,||I-T dept. raids find parallel cash books||Income Tax department searches on two groups into manufacturing of iron and steel products, coal washery and transportation in Chhattisgarh have led to the detection of unaccounted-for transactions worth over Rs. 220 crore. The searches were carried out on more than 35 premises spread over Raipur, Korba, Bilaspur and Raigarh. The I-T Department seized documents containing a parallel set of cash books pertaining to one group. The second group was found to be evading tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-raids-find-parallel-cash-books/article38067784.ece
30 December 2021||Mumbai,||Supplementary chargesheet by ED names Deshmukh, sons||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday filed a supplementary prosecution complaint (chargesheet) against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in a money laundering and corruption case. Mr. Deshmukh was arrested by the Central agency on November 1 after being questioned for 12 hours. He was sent in ED custody till November 6 and is currently lodged at Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail. The 7,000-page chargesheet, which also names Mr. Deshmukh’s sons, has been submitted before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court. The agency has contended that the Deshmukh family controlled activities of 27 dummy companies based in Delhi and used that money to donate Rs. 4.18 crore to Mr. Deshmukh’s ‘Sai Shikshan Sanstha’ trust. There are statements by bar owners and managers that reveal dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze, currently lodged at Taloja Central Jail, collected money from them, and he had said he was receiving direct instructions from Mr. Deshmukh to do so. He also said that he was told to collect Rs. 3 lakh a month from various bars and restaurants and that he handed over Rs. 4.7 crore from December 2020 to February 2021 to personal assistant Kundan Shinde on behalf of Mr. Deshmukh. On August 23, 2021, the ED had submitted its charge sheet against Mr. Shinde, Mr. Deshmukh, and the latter’s private secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supplementary-chargesheet-by-ed-names-deshmukh-sons/article38067786.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin reviews progress of work on stormwater drain project||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday visited his Kolathur Assembly constituency, where he reviewed the construction of stormwater drains under way in Jawahar Nagar. The project was taken up at a cost of Rs. 2.52 crore. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, Chennai North MP Kalanidhi Veerasamy, Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board Managing Director C. Vijayaraj Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-reviews-progress-of-work-on-stormwater-drain-project/article38067973.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Property worth Rs. 15 crore recovered||Stating that the police recovered nearly Rs. 15 crore worth stolen items this year, Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal said the recovery rate will improve in the coming year. On Wednesday, he handed over recovered properties such as mobile phones, jewellery, two-wheelers and cars to the owners who had lost those properties and lodged complaints with the police. Mr. Jiwal said: “Now, we are able to hand over properties worth around Rs. 5 crore to the owners. We have a plan to increase the recovery rate in the coming year.” Stating that a special drive was launched against anti-social elements, drugs and tobacco products, he said the officers mooted a special drive for recovering property stolen by burglars, robbers and cellphone snatchers. “We will profile persons involved in such offences and categorise them. If necessary, history-sheeters will be added to the list. They will be watched. A group of police personnel in each police station will be tasked with watching them.” “We have been detecting rowdy elements and nabbing them. This will be followed in property crimes also. We will review the progress every month,” he added. Stating that instances of snatching of cellphones had increased because of misguided youth, the Commissioner said people walked carelessly and talked over cellphone enabling the criminals to snatch the handsets. Public should be vigilant in protecting their own property, he said. Mr. Jiwal said a special team would be formed to crack down on chain snatching. Dynamic beat patrolling would be introduced after mapping the crime hot spots, the Commissioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/property-worth-rs-15-crore-recovered/article38067975.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID cases surge as 739 test positive||After staying below the 700-mark for 20 days, fresh coronavirus infections surged in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. A total of 739 people tested positive for COVID-19, with Chennai recording the biggest jump, from 194 cases on Tuesday to 294 on Wednesday. Daily COVID-19 cases dropped below 700 on December 9, when the State logged 698 cases. From 619 cases on Tuesday, the fresh cases rose to 739, taking the tally so far to 27,46,000. Meanwhile, the sample of another person, a contact of an international traveller, tested positive for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. With this, the total number of confirmed cases of the Omicron variant stood at 46, of whom 27 patients were discharged, 17 were in hospitals and two were cross-notified to Kerala and Puducherry. With cases steadily going up in Chennai, there was a small rise in fresh cases in the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. While there were 64 cases in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur logged 31 and 33 cases, respectively. In Coimbatore, 78 people tested positive for the infection, while there were 34 cases in Erode, 28 in Salem and 24 in Tiruppur. While three districts — Kallakurichi, Mayiladuthurai and Tenkasi — had no fresh case, 21 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. Five returnees from the UAE and six from other States were among those who tested positive. The State reported eight more deaths, taking the toll to 36,758. There were no COVID-19 deaths in 32 districts. Another 614 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total recoveries so far to 27,02,588. The State’s active caseload rose to 6,654. As many as 1,03,897 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,72,34,367. Three private laboratories — Anderson Diagnostics and Labs, Coimbatore, Life Care Diagnostic Centre, Dharmapuri and Rao’s Pathlab, Tiruchi — were approved for COVID-19 testing. Another 1,53,247 people were vaccinated against COVID-19, taking the overall coverage of government vaccination centres to 8,08,28,223.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-cases-surge-as-739-test-positive/article38067982.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu lauded for regulating industry’s groundwater extraction||The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has commended Tamil Nadu for having put in place a system of issuing the permit — Consent to Operate — only to industrial units that have obtained no-objection certificates from the authorities for groundwater extraction. Pointing this out in its performance audit report on groundwater management and regulation, which was placed in Parliament last week, the CAG said such a system was in place only in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Its study covered the period of 2013-18 and information was updated till September 2020. In Tamil Nadu, the regulation for the groundwater management and issue of no-objection certificates for groundwater extraction authorises the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and the Bureau of Indian Standards to accord permission only after ensuring that applicants have got the no-objection certificates. Besides, no schemes can be formulated in over-exploited and critical ‘firkas’ (which are smaller than blocks and encompasses 10-15 villages). All schemes should be formulated through the State Ground and Surface Water Resources Data Centre, Chennai. The CAG’s appreciation assumes importance as its study of 328 cases in 18 States has revealed that 77% of the industrial projects were operating without the no-objection certificates for groundwater extraction. Assessment unit The country’s topmost auditor has also lauded the State for adopting ‘firka’ as the assessment unit because this is expected to help in identification of pockets of groundwater potential within the over- exploited and critical blocks, leading to optimal utilisation of the resources. For the purpose of effective regulation and implementation of assessment, the the State Ground and Surface Water Resources Data Centre decided in 2011 to take the ‘firka’ as the assessment unit. As for the variations in guidelines between those of the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) and those of the States and the Union Territories, the CAG observed that in Tamil Nadu, “individual households are exempted from obtaining the no-objection certificate, whereas this is not so in the CGWA guidelines”. It stated that there was “no specific mention” of mandatory recycle or reuse. After the repeal of the groundwater law for parts of the State other than the Chennai Metropolitan Area, a fresh law has not yet been framed. (The present State government is working on it). More importantly, the CAG clubbed Tamil Nadu with seven other States for having a high stage of groundwater extraction. In respect of Tamil Nadu, the stage was 81%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cag-commends-tamil-nadu-for-regulating-industrys-groundwater-extraction/article38068313.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Employee held for embezzling company’s funds||The Entrustment Document Fraud Wing of Central Crime Branch on Wednesday arrested an employee of a distribution firm of consumer goods in Avadi for allegedly misappropriating Rs. 12 crore. Sources in the police said Bhawar Sales Corporation based in Avadi has been supplying consumer goods of a leading manufacturer to several supermarkets and shops across the State. Complaint lodged Its administrative manager Rajesh had lodged a police complaint alleging during the audit of company’s accounts in 2019, it was found that two employees had been involved in the misappropriation of Rs. 12 crore. It was found after investigation that Divan, 31, one of the employees, of Tiruvallur district had collected money from customers but did not deposit the same in the firm’s account. Collusion suspected Instead, he used the money with the collusion of a few colleagues. The police arrested Divan and remanded him in judicial custody. The police said the accused faked the accounts in the software with the help of an operator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/employee-held-for-embezzling-companys-funds/article38067963.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP warns against drunk driving on New Year’s eve||Ahead of New Year celebrations, Director General of Police (DGP) C.Sylendra Babu has warned that drunk drivers would be arrested and their vehicles seized. In an advisory issued on Wednesday, he said people should not indulge in drunk driving. Police personnel would intensify vehicle checking on the night of December 31. In the wake of the spread of Omicron variant of coronavirus in Tamil Nadu and across the country, the State government has issued new guidelines banning New Year celebrations on beaches and public places. The government has advised the public to completely desist from gathering in open places to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The DGP said people would not be allowed to gather on beaches to celebrate on the night of December 31. There was no need to gather at public places or roadside and the youth should completely desist from venturing out on two-wheelers, he said. Those who travelled long distances should avoid two-wheeler rides. “All long-distance travellers have been advised to travel on a bus or train. People who travel on a four-wheeler for emergency purposes are also advised to take a break every three hours and to have tea after parking safely. Over speed and reckless driving should be avoided so that the occurrence of any accident can be prevented,” the DGP said. He appealed to the people to celebrate with their families at home without causing any nuisance to others. The places of worship have been advised to follow the guidelines issued by the government to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Hotels and restaurants are allowed to do business as per regular timings, up to 11 p.m., by following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The hospitality sector should ensure that the staff are double-vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-warns-against-drunk-driving-on-new-years-eve/article38067980.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||35 lakh gold jewellery loans found ineligible for waiver||Over 72% of the applications received for a waiver of jewellery loans obtained from cooperative societies across Tamil Nadu (except Salem) has been found ineligible, as per revised conditions. According to the Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS), at least 35,37,693 of the 48,84,726 gold jewellery loans cannot be waived under the government scheme. Officials from other districts undertook a field survey in every district to verify the loans and drafted two lists — provisionally eligible and completely ineligible. The verification of these loans had been completed in all districts except Salem, and data were being uploaded, according to a communication of the RCS to authorities. The process of finalising both the lists would be completed in the next few days. After obtaining approval from the office of the RCS, the authorities could proceed with the waiver, it said. The DMK regime initially put on hold the implementation of the waiver announced by the AIADMK regime, citing various irregularities, and eventually specified eligibility conditions so that only the eligible poor and downtrodden benefited from it. As per norms, jewellery loans obtained by persons [or their family members] who benefited from the waiving of farm loans; employees of the cooperative societies and their family members, all government staff and their family members were not eligible for waiver. Similarly, those who had paid off their loans could not make a claim for waiver [i.e. reimbursement]. Those who failed to provide ration card and Aadhaar details or furnished false details were also not eligible for the waiver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-lakh-gold-jewellery-loans-found-ineligible-for-waiver/article38067984.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Canine Squad gets two new members||Orly and Orio, both one-year-old Labradors, were inducted into Canine Squad of Chennai Customs on Wednesday for detecting narcotic substances at Chennai airport. Orio and Orly were born on December 8 last year and went through training at Customs Canine Centre, Attari, for nine months. This training centre was started in 2019 and the first batch of eleven dogs left the centre in September 2020 to various airports like New Delhi, Amritsar, Kolkata, Pune, Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Ahmedabad. The dogs from the second batch, that were also siblings, include Orly, Orio, Ovi, Ora and Opal. Officials said Orio and Orly have been trained to detect heroin, cocaine, marijuana, methamphetamine and MDMA in the baggages of passengers or parcels arriving at the airport. During the induction ceremony, Orio and Orly were in blue velvet attire and identified parcels containing narcotics substances during a demonstration exercise. M.V.S. Choudary, chief commissioner of customs and GST, Tamil Nadu, said: “These two will be an important part of the enforcement team at the airport as their intelligence, dedication, keen sense of smell will make them suitable for detecting contraband goods. Sniffer dogs have evolved with time as a critical element of the customs administration’s anti-smuggling strategy,” he said. Mr. Choudary recollected how Hero, a dog in Mumbai airport, and Dolly and Seiko in New Delhi airport, decades ago aided in detecting smugglers. K.R. Uday Bhaskar, Commissioner of Customs, Airport and Air Cargo Commissionerate, said during any calamity, the dogs were at the forefront. “Those who hitherto banked on frail human nature in carrying out nefarious activities have more reasons to fear now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/canine-squad-gets-two-new-members/article38067965.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor for academic chairs named after Bharathiar, V.O.C. and Kattabomman||Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi on Tuesday held a virtual meeting with the Vice-Chancellors of State and Central Universities and reviewed the activities relating to Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, an initiative by the Centre to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence. “The Vice-Chancellors briefed the Governor on various activities and initiatives undertaken by the universities and also discussed their future plan of action,” an official communication from the Raj Bhavan said. The Governor, who is the Chancellor of State universities, appreciated the initiatives taken by them and urged them to celebrate the event in such a manner that instils a sense of pride among the younger generations about all those who gave their lives for the country’s independence. “He also urged them to set up chairs in the names of freedom fighters and leaders of our nation like Subramaniya Bharathiyar, V.O. Chidambaram Pillai, Veerapandiya Kattabomman to fulfil their vision of building a great India,” it said. The Governor also advised the Vice-Chancellors to constitute teams of scholars to deliberate and produce documents outlining the contours of India in 2047. He drew their attention to the fact that the post-Corona world order is likely to be different from the one that emerged after the second World War when India was still a colony. He urged them to work on strategy papers for India to have its due place in the new order.Mr. Ravi also shared with them some reports in the British archives that showed how prosperous India was at the beginning of the colonisation and urged them to commission researches on India’s economic status in the 17th and 18th centuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-for-academic-chairs-named-after-bharathiar-voc-kattabomman/article38068034.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS asks Stalin to clarify on bringing petroleum products under GST||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday asked Chief Minister M.K. Stalin what prevented the DMK regime from implementing an electoral promise of getting petroleum products covered under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). He sought a clarification from the Chief Minister on the issue. In a statement, he referred to the reported observation of DMK treasurer and Parliamentary party leader T.R. Baalu wherein he had favoured the inclusion of petrol and diesel within the GST on the ground that the prices of the products would go down by Rs. 40 to Rs. 50 per litre. Mr. Baalu was also said to have mentioned that this was the position mentioned in the election manifesto of the party for the Assembly election. Mr. Palaniswami referred to reports in sections of the media that the Union government favoured the move which was being opposed only by Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Huge crowds In a separate statement, the party coordinator, O. Panneerselvam criticised the DMK government for not following up properly on his call for taking effective steps to curb the assembly of people to contain the spread of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. He mentioned the presence of huge crowds on the Besant Nagar beach and Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar, besides Kasimedu. T.T.V. Dhinakaran, AMMK general secretary, questioned the DMK’s “change of position” with regard to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Referring to the proposed visit of Mr. Modi to Tamil Nadu next month and the statement of a DMK spokesperson that there was no need to oppose his visit, he said the ruling party’s “dual role” was getting exposed, as it took one position while in the Opposition and had reversed the stand now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-asks-stalin-to-clarify-on-bringing-petroleum-products-under-gst/article38067983.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crackdown on illegal sale of prescription drugs||The police have launched a crackdown on the illegal sale of “prescription drugs” by pharmacies across the State. Acting on the instructions of Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, special teams of the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID along with officials of the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department, conducted surprise checks in pharmacies in several districts. The focus was to curtail the sale of these drugs without proper prescription, particularly to students and youth. According to Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, ADGP, Crime, action had been taken against some pharmacies in Chengalpattu, Tiruvannamalai, Thanjavur, Salem, Vellore and Tirupattur districts. The police and the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department had cautioned pharmacy owners not to sell “prescription drugs” over the counter. The surprise checks would continue, he said. Mr. Aggarwal appealed to the people to pass on any information on the illegal sale of restricted drugs by calling helpline 10581 or send a message via WhatsApp to 949810581. Public could send such input by email to spnibcid@gmail.com. In a separate operation, the police conducted a special drive in all districts against the sale of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. During the operation, over 2,000 kg of ganja and 21 kg of heroin worth about Rs. 23 crore were seized and 838 accused persons arrested. Some of these suspects had sold the contraband to drug-dependent people. The move follows instructions of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin who informed the Assembly about this and directed officials at a recent meeting that stringent action should be taken to curb the sale of drugs like ganja near educational institutions, the sources said. Task force Early this week, the national meeting of the Apex Level Committee of Narco Coordination Center (NCORD) described drug abuse as a major threat to the national security which could be dealt with overall coordination among Central and State drug-law enforcement agencies. It was urged in the meeting, in which senior police officers from across the country took part, to form a dedicated Anti-Narcotics Task Force, the sources added.  The police and the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department had cautioned pharmacy owners not to sell “prescription drugs” over the counter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crackdown-on-illegal-sale-of-prescription-drugs/article38067989.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City college student found dead, clip goes viral||A 20-year-old college student died by suicide on Tuesday night. He reportedly circulated a voice message among his friends, a few minutes before taking the extreme step, blaming a group of students of another college for it. Initially, the police had no clue about the identity. The voice note went viral and the parents and friends confirmed that the deceased was M. Kumar, a first year student of M.A. History in Presidency College and a resident of Guruvarajapet near Arakkonam. In the voice note, he said he did not want to live at the mercy of students of another college. But he did not name anyone in specific. On Wednesday, his friends gathered in front of the Government General Hospital, Tiruvallur, and staged a protest demanding action against the students responsible for his death. Following the agitation, the police tightened security. However, the parents received the body in the evening. The police suspect the death could be a fallout of unending “route thala” clash among students to establish their supremacy in buses or trains. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpling 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-college-student-found-dead-clip-goes-viral/article38067976.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MP questions ‘mission mode’ recruitment to fill reservation vacancies||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has raised concerns over the Ministry of Education’s instructions to all Central Educational Institutions (CEIs) to fill all faculty vacancies in reserved categories in a “mission mode” by pointing out that the measure had been half-hearted. In a letter to Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, he said the Ministry had not taken concrete measures to resolve issues related to implementation of reservation in a majority of the CEIs, including the IITs, IIMs and the NITs, as they followed a flexible cadre structure. Following concerns from various quarters on the poor representation of people from SC, ST and OBC communities in the CEIs, the Ministry issued instructions in August to all institutions asking them to fill the vacancies, especially in SC/ST/OBC and Economically Weaker Section categories, in a mission mode between September 2021 and September 2022. In flexible cadre structure, the faculty strength in an institution was fixed as a whole without cadre-wise split on the number of Assistant Professors, Associate Professors and Professors. A number of CEIs had approached the Ministry, seeking clarification on the implementation of Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act of 2019. Responding to a query from Mr. Venkatesan in the Lok Sabha recently, the Ministry said no CEI had expressed inability to prepare reservation rosters for the vacancies which, he said, was essential to fill them. But he said the replies received separately through the RTI Act from six CEIs, which included four IITs and two NITs, showed they were unable to prepare the rosters. In reply to the same question, he said the Ministry failed to provide community-wise vacancies available in the CEIs and instead only said 13,701 posts were lying vacant. Mr. Venkatesan also furnished a list of 130 job advertisements issued by the CEIs recently, of which only less than 20 had advertised the total number of vacancies and community-wise number of vacancies available. He urged the Ministry to ensure that all the CEIs uploaded cadre-wise and community-wise vacancies available on their websites. “If the aim of the ongoing mission mode recruitment is really to ensure adequate representation of the SC/ST/OBC categories according to the CEI Act-2019, then special recruitment should compulsorily be conducted on the basis of reservation roster of each cadre of teaching posts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-raises-concerns-over-mission-mode-recruitment-to-fill-quota-vacancies/article38067993.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tirupattur tops table in maternal health services||Tirupattur district bagged the top rank in offering maternal health services at Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (CEmONC) centres. Cuddalore stood second, while Kancheepuram came third. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian presented awards to the joint directors of health of the respective districts on Wednesday. He held a review meeting with all joint directors of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services. Among others, Darez Ahamed, Mission Director of the National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu, and S. Uma, project director of the Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project, were present on the occasion, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirupattur-tops-in-maternal-health-services/article38067994.ece
30 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMDK plea to Stalin||DMDK chief Vijayakant on Wednesday wrote to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, urging him to provide alternative housing in Tiruvottiyur to people affected by the recent building collapse. Till alternative housing is ready, the State Government should rent houses to provide accommodation to those affected, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayakants-plea-to-stalin/article38068000.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK will lead future alliances: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Wednesday said his party will lead future electoral alliances in the State. “Those who accept our leadership can join us. Be sure that we will lead and form a separate alliance. Have no doubts about whether we would change this stance or move to this or that alliance,” he told cadre while addressing the party’s special general body meeting in Chennai. “The goal to come to power in 2026 is a difficult one, but not impossible,” a resolution adopted at the meeting said. Recalling the decision of the party to go it alone in 2016, the resolution said that had this stance continued in 2021, the PMK could have increased its chances of victory. The party aligned itself with the AIADMK “to secure reservation for the Vanniyar community in education and jobs”, it said. PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said it was painful that the PMK, which was started 32 years ago, had not ascended to power. After 1971, the DMK did not retain power in consecutive elections and the AIADMK now faced internal issues, he said, adding that the situation would prove ideal for the PMK in 2026. Dr. Anbumani felt the Madras High Court unfairly struck down the 10.5% reservation for Vanniyars. “If we don’t win in the Supreme Court, we will make it a political battle,” he said. Resolutions seeking NEET exemption from next academic year, reservation for locals in government and private jobs, power for State government to appoint Vice-Chancellors were among the others passed at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-will-lead-future-alliances-ramadoss/article38067997.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Archaeology wing, science centre to be built in Museum||A massive new archaeology wing to display various reserve collections along with a Science Centre is being planned to be built by the Government Museum at Egmore. The archaeology wing would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 24.89 crore and the Science Centre at a cost of Rs. 22.40 crore. An official at the museum told The Hindu a proposal for these projects was being sent to the Centre for funding. While the archaeology wing would be constructed with 100% Government of India funding, the Science Centre would come up with equal funding from the State government and the Union government, the official said. The Science Centre is likely to be modelled on the lines of the Birla Planetarium in Kotturpuram. The new wing will span 3,000 sq.m over two floors and will aim to display most of the artefacts that are lying in the museum’s reserves. At present, only about 25% of the artefacts are on display in the existing space. The museum is also planning conservation work in the Amaravathi Gallery and is in the final stages of awarding the tender for the work. The roof, ceiling, floor and display would be part of the conservation work, a source said. Work on the National Art Gallery had been completed, the source said, adding that the space was being kept ready for displaying more art works, expected to arrive soon. The works undertaken under the Asian Development Bank funding had also been completed. The front garden with the gazebos would be taken care of by Indian Bank as part of its CSR initiatives. This was one of the spaces that was offered by the museum to corporates for adoption and maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/archaeology-wing-science-centre-to-be-built-in-museum/article38068404.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. lab gets INSACOG recognition||The whole genome sequencing (WGS) laboratory of the State Public Health Laboratory (SPHL) has joined the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG).  According to officials of the Health Department, the recognition is part of the expansion of INSACOG, a network that monitors genomic variations of SARS-CoV-2. The Department of Biotechnology has approved the inclusion of the laboratory as a new INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratory (IGSL) in the consortium. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said the SPHL’s facility, set up at a cost of Rs. 4 crore, had been recognised by INSACOG. It was inaugurated by the Chief Minister on September 14. Crucial for identification Whole genome sequencing was crucial in identifying new variants of SARS-CoV-2. Tamil Nadu had, thus far, been sending SARS-CoV-2 samples for genomic sequencing to identify variants. The recognition would expedite the process of identification of variants, on the basis of which disease prevention measures can be taken up, thereby reducing the impact of COVID-19 to a large extent, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-lab-gets-insacog-recognition/article38067995.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ONGC aid given to 214 SC/ST beneficiaries||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), Chennai, on Wednesday distributed aid totalling Rs. 33.56 lakh to beneficiaries from the SC/STs towards education, self-employment, livelihood support, and school infrastructure. The amount was distributed under ONGC’s SC/ST Component Plan 2020-21 and ONGC All India Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Employees Welfare Association (AISCSTEWA), Chennai Unit Members Contributory Fund. Executive Director R.K. Dhasmana, and Group General Manager C.B. Yadava, gave away the aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ongc-aid-given-to-214-scst-beneficiaries/article38067970.ece
30 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Arputham Nagar, Sriram Nagar to get sewer connection before Pongal||As the underground sewerage scheme in Kurichi and Kuniamuthur makes progress, the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board that is implementing the scheme on the Coimbatore Corporation’s behalf will start giving connection to houses in two localities. Sources in the Corporation say that the Board will start giving house service connection to residents in Arputham Nagar and Sriram Nagar before Pongal 2022. There are around 2,500 houses in the two localities that will stand to benefit. To ensure that the residents start getting the connection before Pongal, the Board has started completing the pumping station in Arputham Nagar and lift station in Sriram Nagar. And, the Board has also expedited the construction of the sewage treatment plant in Vellalore. The Corporation sources say the Board has completed 90% work in Rs. 44 crore treatment plant, which is designed to treat 30.53 million litres a day sewage. The Board giving connection to the 2,500-odd houses will take 1.5 to 2 million litres a day sewage to the plant. As for the other areas in Kurichi and Kuniamuthur – Wards 87 to100, the Board will start giving house service connection as and when the sewer line and lift and pumping station works are completed. As on December 28, the Board has completed 240 km of 435 km sewer line work. And, for the entire area it will have to connect 41,318 houses to the UGD network. Likewise, the Board has completed eight of the 11 pumping stations and 15 of the 19 pumping stations to be built, the sources say and add that to complete the remaining three pumping stations and four lift stations, the Corporation is talking to the residents concerned as they have had reservations about the project. The Corporation is providing underground sewerage service to Kurichi and Kuniamuthur under the Central Government’s AMRUT scheme at Rs. 591 crore. The contractor executing the work for the TWAD Board was scheduled to complete the work by March 2022 but the latter has extended the contract period by a year to March 2023 due to the delay caused during the COVID-19 lockdown period.  TWAD Board has expedited the construction of sewage treatment plant in Vellalore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arputham-nagar-sriram-nagar-to-get-sewer-connection-before-pongal/article38068017.ece
30 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Chinnasamy Avenue residents urge Corporation to develop scheme road||Roads leading to Sri T.N. Chinnasamy Avenue, Peelamedu, in Ward 39 are narrow and typical of several old town pockets within the city. Sandwiched between the railway track in the north and narrow alleys that surround the Periya Mariamman Temple in the south, the residential locality has almost no direct access to main roads. They are kind of landlocked, says a resident. The Rangammal Kovil Street and Mariamman Kovil Street thereafter are the only two roads that provide access in the south to Avinashi Road. But, those two roads are so narrow that it is difficult to drive a car, rues K. Ramachandran, a resident. The residents did not face any problem when the Avenue was developed as a layout in 1988 because the number of houses were few and far between and vehicle movement was less. Over the years, with the increase in number of houses and vehicles, it has become difficult to enter and exit the locality, he adds. The problem turns acute when residents of Rangammal Kovil Street or other roads encroach upon motorable space for a function or event, the residents say and add children are the worst sufferers because the school buses do not enter the locality. They face the same problem when requesting ambulance to take a diseased resident out, the residents complain and say the only solution to the problem is for the Corporation to develop the scheme road as shown in their approved layout. The scheme road that is half developed runs south to the railway track in the north to touch a road that leads to the M.G. Road. By developing the road the Corporation will give the residents easy access to Avarampalayam and Ganapathy in the west and Avinashi Road in the south. In the east, the residents will have access to the bridge across the railway track near the Peelamedu Railway Station, they further say. The southern half of the alignment shown as road in the layout is vacant and therefore, the Corporation will have no problem developing it, add the residents. Mr. Ramachandran says the residents have been raising the issue with the Corporation since 2012 but the civic body has done little. Given the problems they face, the Corporation should consider their plea at the earliest, they add. A Corporation North Zone officer says the civic body will study the problem and residents’ suggestion to provide a solution at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-chinnasamy-avenue-residents-urge-corporation-to-develop-scheme-road/article38068010.ece
30 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector asks retirement homes in Coimbatore to get registered||The retirement homes for senior citizens functioning in Coimbatore district, which have not been registered under the Tamil Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2009 so far, must submit fresh proposals with the required documents, District Collector G.S. Sameeran said in a release on Wednesday. As per G.O. No. 83 of the Department of Social Welfare, the managements of the retirement homes must attach 18 different documents with the proposal and submit it to the District Social Welfare Office for registration. The documents include registration of the trust/society, by-laws, aims and objectives of the retirement home, details of management committee and staff members, audit statement for three years, building stability certificate from a chartered Public Works Department engineer, no-objection certificate from the Fire and Rescue Services, sanitation certificate from Deputy Director of Health Services, building license from the Tahsildar, account details under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and pending cases in police stations and courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-asks-retirement-homes-in-coimbatore-to-get-registered/article38068022.ece
30 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested for child marriage||Eight persons have been arrested in Coimbatore district on charges of being involved in child marriages in November, following complaints lodged by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department. The district administration said in a press release on Wednesday that Sathishkumar from Thoppampattiyanur near Annur, Vijayabharathi from K.K. Pudur, Vijay from Karegoundenpalayam near Annur, Mani from Krishnagiri district, Arunkumar from Marapettai near Pollachi, Premkumar from Valparai and Manimuthu and Sabariswaran from Kottur near Pollachi were booked under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and were arrested. Tip-off The officials received information on the child marriages from the Childline helpline 1098 and the police. Collector’s warning District Collector G.S. Sameeran warned in the release that those who encouraged and conducted child marriage would undergo rigorous imprisonment up to two years and would have to pay a fine up to Rs. 1 lakh. The public could provide information on child marriages through Childline helpline 1098 and Women's Helpline 181, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-arrested-for-child-marriage/article38068021.ece
30 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tracing the course of Noyyal from purity to pollution||A total of 30 persons, including college students and nature enthusiasts, were part of a 40-km-long journey on Sunday that traced the course of River Noyyal from its pristine origins at the foothills of the Western Ghats to its polluted state as it reaches the city of Coimbatore. Conducted by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in collaboration with Coimbatore-based Centre for Urban Biodiversity Conservation and Education (CUBE), the ‘River Walk’ was organised as part of the nationwide ‘Nadi Utsav’ (Festival of Rivers) initiated by the Ministry of Jal Shakti. According to Historian C.R. Elangovan, who guided the participants in the journey from Siruvani Hills to Singanallur Tank in Coimbatore, the participants were first made to witness the confluence of several streams at Kooduthurai near Madhvarayapuram to form Noyyal and how pure its water was, he said. The next stop was at Perur Padithurai (ghat), where Mr. Elangovan said that he explained to the participants how River Noyyal accorded importance to Perur, which was a major temple town and a trade centre during the reign of the Cholas. Upon reaching Nanjundapuram, the participants were made to notice the change in colour of the river as pollution became apparent, he said. By the time they reached Singanallur Tank, a part of the River Noyyal system, they were able to notice that the extent of pollution has increased, with a palpable change in odour and colour, Mr. Elangovan said. The ‘River Walk’ was held from 8 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. on Sunday. Soumya Dasgupta, project scientist at WII who was also a part of the ‘River Walk’, said on Monday that the purpose of organising the event was to raise awareness on the importance of conservation of rivers. The WII is currently working on assessment of six rivers in India namely Cauvery, Mahanadi, Narmada, Godavari, Periyar and Barak under the aegis of the National River Conservation Directorate of the Ministry of Jal Shakti, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tracing-the-course-of-noyyal-from-purity-to-pollution/article38068008.ece
30 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Servo Mechanics Cup tournament finals on Jan. 9||The finals of the fourth edition of Servo Mechanics Cup Cricket Tournament, sponsored by Indian Oil Corporation Limited’s SERVO and powered by The Hindu, will be held in the city on January 9, 2022. The tournament, played with tennis ball, is organised for two-wheeler, four-wheeler, and heavy-duty vehicle mechanics. The selection trials was held at Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science here on December 26. Mechanics who qualify from the trials will participate in the tournament to be held at PSG Sarvajana Higher Secondary School on January 8 and 9. H. Karnan, Chief Manager, Lubes- Marketing and Promotions, IOCL said, “It is a one-of-a-kind cricket tournament for mechanics. Twelve teams with 13 members each will be formed. The teams are named after different Servo products. The finals is scheduled for January 9.” Top two teams of the tournament will be awarded trophies and cash prizes worth more than a lakh. For details, contact: 98840-22168.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/servo-mechanics-cup-tournament-finals-on-jan-9/article38068028.ece
30 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Avinashilingam university recognised for its contribution to women empowerment||Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women, a deemed university, has secured the fifth rank in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA). A release from the institution said it secured the fifth rank among state university and deemed university under government and government-aided (technical) category. The fifth rank was in recognition of the service it had rendered to women empowerment. Managing Trustee T.S.K. Meenakshi Sundaram, Chancellor S.P. Thiyagarajan and Vice Chancellor V. Bharathi Harishankar congratulated the teaching and non-teaching staff that worked hard for the recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avinashilingam-university-recognised-for-its-contribution-to-women-empowerment/article38068011.ece
30 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. invites solutions to waste management problems||Coimbatore Corporation has invited solutions to waste management problems. A release from Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara said the civic body along with the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs was inviting suggestions as possible solutions to problems it faced in social inclusion, zero dumping, plastic waste management and transparency. Terming the problems as Swachh Technology Challenge, the Corporation said those interested could mail in the suggestions to commr.coimbatore @tn.gov.in by mentioning up front the topic they addressed. The Corporation would send the suggestions it deemed fit to the State Government, which would reward the best solution with Rs. 5 lakh as first prize, Rs. 2.50 lakh as second prize, Rs. 1.50 lakh as third prize, Rs. 1 lakh as fourth prize and Rs. 75,000 as fifth prize. The details regarding the Swachh Technology Challenge was available onwww.ccmc.gov.in, the Commissioner said and urged people to mail in their suggestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-invites-solutions-to-waste-management-problems/article38068012.ece
30 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Diversion of train services||Salem Division of Southern Railway announced diversion of train services due to engineering works pertaining to doubling of railway tracks between Omalur and Mettur Dam railway stations in Salem district in January and March 2022. A release issued on Wednesday said that Train No. 11014 Coimbatore Junction – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Express will be diverted via Salem, Magnesite Junction, Kuppam, Bangarapet and Krishnarajapuram railway stations on January 2 and March 2 next year. Consequently, the train will skip stoppages at Dharmapuri and Hosur railway stations. Train No. 12678 Ernakulam Junction – KSR Bengaluru Intercity Express and Train No. 12677 KSR Bengaluru – Ernakulam Junction Intercity Express will be diverted via Salem, Magnesite Junction, Kuppam, Bangarapet and Krishnarajapuram railway stations on March 2 and these trains will skip stoppages at Dharmapuri, Hosur and Carmelaram railway stations, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diversion-of-train-services/article38068020.ece
30 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Newly elected office-bearers||R. Gopalakrishnan was elected chairman of the Coimbatore Certified Goldsmiths Association during the meeting of its general body held recently. The other office-bearers were Subbaiah Ayyappan - Secretary, Ganesh Prasad - Treasurer and P. Ravi - Deputy Chairman. The deputy secretaries elected were Kanagasabapathy Annathurai, KPS Rajesh, Rajesh Kumar and Ramesh Suresh Lakshmanan and honorary advisers were Nagaraj, Venkatachalam, Santhosh Balasubramaniam and Gauri Manokaran Rajendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newly-elected-office-bearers/article38068032.ece
30 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||78 fresh COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||A total of 78 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department did not report new deaths and the toll remained at 2,509. As many as 104 persons recovered on Wednesday and the district had 962 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 24 new cases on Wednesday. The district had 431 active cases and 38 persons recovered. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll increased to 1,025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/78-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article38068025.ece
30 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Chinnar dam opened for irrigation||Water from Chinnar dam was released for irrigation by Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare M.R.K. Paneerselvam at Palacodde here on Wednesday. The water will help irrigate a watershed area of over 4,500 acres in the old and the new ayacut. This entails irrigation of over 2626 acres in the old ayacut, and over 1874 acres in the new ayacut. About 25 cusecs of water will be released for 64 days with a turn system of six consecutive days of water flow and two days of break, followed by eight consecutive days of water flow and two days of break. Panjapalli, Periyanur, Podiuttapalli,Athimuttalu, Marandahalli, Kolasaahalli, P.Chettihalli, Jerthalan, Palacodde, Gujjarahalli, Erranahalli, Polarahalli, and Samanur are among the villages to benefit from the water released from the dam. Mr. Paneerselvam said, farmers of over 13 villages will benefit. The water has been released in a timely manner to enable farmers take up the seasonal cropping. The long-standing demand for an irrigation scheme to tap the run-off from Hogenakkal was also under consideration, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chinnar-dam-opened-for-irrigation/article38068144.ece
30 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery stolen, house set on fire||In a shocking incident, unidentified persons took away 20 sovereigns of gold jewellery and set on fire the house of an Assistant Postmaster, Manimaran, 50, here on Tuesday night. The police said that Mr. Manimaran, who was living in Tirunagar, had been visiting his son at Nanthavanampatti and was staying there at night for the last few weeks. On Tuesday night, he left for his son’s house as usual. However, in the early hours of Wednesday, his neighbour at Tirunagar noticed smoke bellowing out of Mr. Manimaran’s house and alerted Fire and Rescue Services and the police. When Mr. Manimaran rushed to his house, he found that all furniture, dresses and other things kept in one of the bedrooms had been detsroyed. The police found an almirah broken open and 20 sovereigns of gold jewellery stolen. Dindigul Town North police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-jewellery-stolen-house-set-on-fire/article38068133.ece
30 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Gaur rescued from well near Natham||A gaur that fell into a farm well near Natham in Dindigul district was rescued on Wednesday. The animal had strayed from Perumalai Reserve Forest and entered the coconut grove of K. Mangan near Perumal Temple. 40-foot-deep well The animal fell into a 40- foot-deep well, which had water up to five feet, on Tuesday. Upon being alerted by the local people, Forest Department officials, led by Alagarkovil Forest Range Officer S. Jeyaseelan, and Station Fire Officer B. Tirukolnathar, attempted to rescue the animal with the help of a crane. However, the officials had to wait for teams of veterinary doctors from Hosur and Theni. After veterinary doctors Kalaivanan and Prakash tranquillised the animal, the officials struggled for more than three hours to pull it from the well. The animal was let into the forest after it regained consciousness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaur-rescued-from-well-near-natham/article38068035.ece
30 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Handloom expo begins in Erode||A State-level handloom exhibition which will be held till January 12, 2022, was inaugurated at V.P.V. Mahal on Sathy Road here on Wednesday. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy inaugurated the exhibition in the presence of L. Madhubalan, Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), Rajya Sabha MP Anthiyur P. Selvaraj, Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam and other officials in the district. Organised by the State Department of Handlooms and Textiles as part of National Handloom Development Corporation scheme, the exhibition will be held from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. for 15 days in which weavers cooperative societies from 14 districts in the State are participating. A total of 40 stalls displaying bed sheets, kora saris, silk saris, bed spreads, jamakkalam, mats and other handloom products have been set up at the venue. A discount of 30% will be given for all purchases and a sales target of Rs. 40 lakh has been fixed for the exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handloom-expo-begins-in-erode/article38068150.ece
30 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievance meetings to be held on December 31||The monthly farmers’ grievance meeting will be held at 10 a.m. on December 31, Friday, at the Collectorate. A press release from Collector H. Krishnanunni said that farmers can submit their petitions from 10 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and can air their grievances during the meeting scheduled to be held from 11.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Officials will give replies from 12.30 p.m. to 1.30 p.m., the release added. In Salem, the meeting will be held at 10.30 a.m. at the Collectorate on December 31. It will be presided over by Collector S. Karmegam. In Namakkal, the meeting will be held at the Collectorate at 10.30 a.m. on December 31. A release from Collector Shreya P. Singh said that farmers and representatives of farmers’ associations can participate and were asked to adhere to COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievance-meetings-to-be-held-on-december-31/article38068148.ece
30 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Banned plastic items seized||Corporation officials, who inspected shops, seized banned plastic items and levied fine on shopkeepers here on Wednesday. Officials inspected tea shops, provision stores, bakeries, mutton stalls and other establishments on Bhavani Road and other areas in the city. They found banned items in four shops and imposed a fine of Rs. 500 each on the shopkeepers. Officials said that raids will continue and warned shopkeepers not to use or sell banned plastic products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-plastic-items-seized/article38068153.ece
30 December 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged against hike in water tax||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) led a sit-in protest slamming the hike in water tax by the Hosur Corporation on Wednesday. The protesters also flagged a series of other grievances and demands. According to the protesters, the water tax had been trebled even in the face of erratic water supply and drinking water shortage in many areas. The water tax has been raised from Rs. 480 to Rs. 1500, they said. A few months ago, the District Residents Welfare Association had also raised the hike in the water tax after the upgrading of the local administration to Corporation. However, the facilities and infrastructure grossly fell short of that of a Corporation, the association had alleged. The protesters also demanded basic amenities that included approach roads, drainage, water connections and street lights to residential colonies. A demand was also made for an approach road to the crematorium in Dinnur. They also sought an electric crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-staged-against-hike-in-water-tax/article38068138.ece
30 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hybrid mode marks High Court hearings in 2021||2021 turned out to be yet another extraordinary year for the Indian judiciary. The courts in India, which started the year by conducting hearings only through video conferencing in view of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, slowly resumed the hybrid mode of functioning. The courts conducted hearings by combining both online and physical mode. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court for most part of 2021 heard cases in hybrid mode. It will now resume hearings only in physical mode from January 3, 2022, when the court reopens. ‘Right to be funny’ Some of the significant observations made by the court comprised suggestion on inclusion of ‘Right to be funny’ and ‘Duty to laugh’ in the Indian Constitution. It gave importance to mental health and environmental issues. It stressed the need to establish Central health institutions like NIMHANS in Bengaluru in each zone in the country. The court observed that it was the duty of the State to address the special needs of ‘mentally ill’ remand prisoners. Taking note of the fact that influential people were involved in a series of elephant poaching incidents reported in the State, the court had ordered a CBI inquiry. It observed that poaching was done not for livelihood, but for international trade and sadistic pleasure in creating art in other living beings. ‘A prayer not an anthem’ The court had also observed that Tami'l was the language of the Gods while directing that consecration proceedings should also be conducted in Tamil in temples. It said Tamil Thai Vazhthu was a prayer song and not an anthem. There was no executive order requiring attendees to stand up. Following the observation, the government passed an order stating that it was the State song and people should stand up while it was being sung. The court directed the National Human Rights Commission to submit a report on Thoothukudi police firing incident that took place during the anti-Sterlite protests in 2018. It observed that the Centre should respond in English when the States send a communication to the Centre in English. It also ordered a CBI probe into the 2019 TNPSC Group IV examination scam. Case against director Quashing the FIR against film director Pa. Ranjith, it observed that the voice of the oppressed though expressed in the form of criticism was not meant to be oppressed and criminalised. But to be listened to, discussed, addressed and remedied. The court ordered the restoration of a Hindu woman’s community certificate that was cancelled as she had married a Christian man. Safe workplace The court observed that a safe workplace was a woman’s legal right. It directed the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to enroll an advocate who had participated in anti-Sterlite protests. The Right to Maternity Protection could not be infringed at all, the court observed while ordering the authorities to reinstate a woman anganwadi worker. The court stressed on the importance of libraries and reading habits. While quashing the FIR against YouTuber Maridhas court observed that a YouTuber was also entitled to Freedom of Speech and Expression like journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hybrid-mode-marks-high-court-hearings-in-2021/article38068121.ece
30 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tension in Central Prison||Tension prevailed inside and outside the Central Prison here on Wednesday, when a few prisoners hurled roof tiles on the road. Police said that following a minor scuffle between two groups of prisoners, jail authorities took one of them for enquiry. His supporters climbed the trees and started hurling tiles from the jail building on New Jail Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-in-central-prison/article38068123.ece
30 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Sacred Groves’ through the lens||‘Sacred Groves’ photography (winter camp)-cum-exhibition was conducted at Gandhi Museum by Dhan Foundation in association with HCL Foundation in order to create awareness among the people of the concept of Kovil Kaadugal or Sacred Groves. The photography contest saw participants from all over India. The theme of the contest was ‘Sacred Groves’ and participants were taken to the sacred groves in Madurai and Dindigul districts. Two community leaders, P. Maya Alagar from Kasampatti and A. Alagan from Valayapatti, who were part of the judges panel, explained the importance of Kovil Kaadugal . They said people worship the forest as a deity. Those who enter the sacred groves should follow a strict discipline. The forest produce is left untouched as a mark of respect to the forest. Permission for the photography contest was granted as it would create awareness of the concept of sacred groves among the people. Ornithologist T. Badri Narayanan said biologists saw the concept of sacred groves as a good repository of plant resources of that particular area. The native saplings were given importance. From a conservation point of view Kovil Kaadugal was important. There was emphasis on protection and conservation of flora and fauna, said Assistant Professor Stephen of American College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sacred-groves-through-the-lens/article38068122.ece
30 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks report from Centre on 68 fishermen||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to file a status report on a petition that sought immediate steps for the release of 68 fishermen who have been arrested in Sri Lanka. On December 18, 43 fishermen were taken into custody by the Sri Lankan Navy. On December 19 and 20, a total of 25 fishermen were taken into custody. A Division Bench of Justices C.V. Karthikeyan and S. Srimathy sought the report on December 31. The court took note of the fact that the Indian authorities had already sent communications to their counterparts in Sri Lanka. The court asked the authorities to set a time limit to bring the fishermen home. Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted that the charge against the fishermen was that they had poached in Sri Lankan territorial waters. The fishermen were remanded in judicial custody in local courts in Sri Lanka, he submitted. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin hadsought the intervention of the Centre to get the fishermen back, he said. The communication made by the government to the Centre was submitted to the court. Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri submitted that Indian authorities were in talks with Sri Lanka. Diplomatic channels had been opened, she said and sought time to file a detailed report. The petitioner, G. Thirumurugan, coordinator of the Tamilnadu Meenavar Paadhugaapu Urimai Iyakkam based in Ramanathapuram district, sought a direction to the Centre and the State to take immediate steps for the release of the fishermen and their boats. He also complained that disinfectants were sprayed on the fishermen when they were taken into custody in Sri Lanka. This was a human rights violation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-report-from-centre-on-68-fishermen/article38067988.ece
30 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Body exhumed in suspected female infanticide case||A day after receiving a complaint regarding a suspected female infanticide in Sedapatti, Madurai Rural District Police on Wednesday exhumed the body of an infant who was buried by her parents near their house. A team, led by Additional Superintendent of Police S. Chandramouli, inspected the spot. The body was exhumed after the infant’s grandmother, Karupayee, identified the spot where it was buried. Revenue officials were present during the exhumation, and forensic experts from the Government Rajaji Hospital conducted a post-mortem on the spot. Viscera samples were collected for chemical analysis. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said an external injury was found on the head of the week-old child. However, he said only the post-mortem report could reveal the cause of death. Kaushalya, of Sedapatti, had delivered her third female child at the Primary Health Centre in Sedapatti on December 21. When her neighbours noticed that the baby was missing, they alerted the police. During a preliminary inquiry, the parents claimed that the baby had died, and they had buried the body near their house. Sedapatti police registered a case under Section 318 of the IPC. The parents are absconding. Meanwhile, the Madurai district Child Welfare Committee received an eight-day-old baby girl from its parents on Wednesday. The parents claimed that they could not bring up the child and volunteered to hand it over to the CWC. Its members B. Pandiyaraja and Shanmugam received the infant in the presence of medical officers and nurses at Government Rajaji Hospital. The infant was handed over to a special adoption centre at Karumathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-exhumed-in-suspected-female-infanticide-case/article38068001.ece
30 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Over 860 children's home functioning without adherence to rules closed down in Tamil Nadu: Minister||Over 860 children's homes functioning without adherence to licence conditions have been closed down in the last one year, Social Welfare Minister Geetha Jeevan said. When asked about the action taken after a case of illegal sale of children from a home was reported in Madurai in July this year, Ms. Geetha said action was being taken against children’s homes after continuous vigil on their activities. All safety aspects of children, right from building stability to the functioning of the homes, were being closely monitored. After inaugurating the office for Regional Deputy Director, Social Welfare Department here on Wednesday, the Minister said all issues related to children in 19 districts in the South, would be monitored from the new office. To a question on sporadic cases of female infanticide reported in the State, Ms. Geetha said awareness was being created in the vulnerable areas to educate parents that there was no difference between the male and female children. “Girl children also take care of their parents,” she said. One of the main reasons for female infanticide was the social evil of high dowry in some areas. After Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said his Government was committed to the safety of girl children, the number of calls received through Childline (1098) has increased manifold. “The officials have been instructed to make public the action taken on all the calls so that it creates awareness among people about the stringent law and action taken on child abuse cases,” she said. However, the Minister clarified that the increase in number of cases now was only a reflection of awareness created among people about legal provisions to handle child abuse cases and not due to a sudden increase in such crimes. Child marriage Strict action was being taken by the police and social welfare department against those involved in child marriages. “The rescued children [on complaints of child marriages] who express their wish to go back to their parents alone are sent back to the family. Others are accommodated in Government homes and their education is taken care of,” she said. Ms. Geetha refused to comment on the Centre's proposal to increase the age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years. Minister for Commercial Taxes P. Moorthi, Director of Social Defence Department S. Valarmathi, Madurai Collector S. Aneeesh Sekhar, Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan, Madurai District Child Protection Officer A. Ganesan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-860-childrens-home-functioning-without-adherence-to-rules-closed-down-in-tamil-nadu-minister/article38067986.ece
30 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Additional coaches in Tiruchendur - Palakkad express train announced||The Southern Railway has augmented Tiruchendur- Palakkad- Tiruchendur express train (16732/16731) and Tirunelveli- Tiruchendur- Tirunelveli express special train (06673/06678) with two general second class coaches. A statement said that the additional coaches were for the convenience of travelling public during festival holidays. Accordingly, Tiruchendur- Palakkad train and Tirunelveli- Tiruchendur special train would have additional general second class coaches from December 30 and Palakkad- Tiruchendur train and Tiruchendur special train would have additional coaches from December 31. Now, these trains would run with a composition of 10 general second class coaches and two second class general-cum- guard van. The temporary arrangements would continue till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-coaches-in-tiruchendur-palakkad-express-train-announced/article38068126.ece
30 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Small-scale industries expo begins today||Madurai District Tiny and Small-Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) will conduct its fifth ‘Made in Madurai’ Expo for four days from December 31 to showcase only the products that are being manufactured in Madurai to the people. The free-entry exhibition will be open from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. at MADITSSIA Hall. The expo would be an eye-opener to the people of Madurai, most of whom were not aware of what were being manufactured in Madurai, said MADITSSIA president M.S. Sampath. The main objective of the expo was to transform Madurai into an industrial city by projecting its strengths and the opportunities available. Over 120 stalls would be put up by big and small companies, said ‘Made in Madurai’ chairman R.S. Gunamalai. The products to be displayed would include textiles, plastic, engineering, rubber, food and milk products, pharmaceuticals, furniture, motor pumps and kitchenware. Seminars on various topics would also be held as part of the expo. COVID-19 protocol would be strictly adhered to and people should wear masks and maintain physical distance during the event, MADITSSIA members said. MADITSSIA’s ‘Made in Madurai’ expo was first held in 2001. Subsequently, it was held in 2003, 2013 and 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/made-in-madurai-expo-from-december-31/article38068314.ece
30 December 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||611 recruited at mega private job fair||The mega private job fair in Mayiladuthurai conducted by the district administration resulted in recruitment of 611 candidates by 76 participating companies. As many as 4,295 candidates with qualifications of class VIII onwards comprising 1,865 boys and 2,430 girls took part in the recruitment drive conducted as per instructions from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, under the aegis of the Rural Livelihood Mission, Urban Livelihood Mission, and District Skill Development, Employment and Entrepreneurship Guidance Centre. Handing over the job offers to the candidates in the presence of Mayiladuthurai MP S. Ramalingam; MLAs Nivedha M. Murugan, S. Rajkmar, and M. Paneerselvam; and senior officials, Collector R. Lalitha said the other applicants will be imparted skill training by the District Skill Development, Employment and Entrepreneurship Guidance Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/611-recruited-at-mega-private-job-fair/article38068097.ece
30 December 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Rates fixed for combined harvesters rented out by private entities||Nagapattinam district administration has fixed rates for hiring of combined harvesters from private entities, with a view to regulating the activity in deference to requests by farmers. After tripartite talks involving representatives of farmers' organisations, private entities renting out mechanised agricultural equipment, and agents, the district administration has permitted fixation of Rs. 2,250 as the rate per hour for belt type harvester and Rs. 1,600 per hour for tyre type harvester. The administration would initiate legal action in case the directive on these rates is flouted, Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said. Complaints over the rates of the harvesters hired from private entities could reach officials of Agricultural Engineering Department on 94420 49591 Executive Engineer, 94422 40121 and Assistant Executive Engineer 80724 50529/ 94424 52515, the Collector said in a press release. As for the harvester equipment let out on hire by the Agricultural Engineering Department, the rates were Rs. 1,630 per hour for belt type harvester and Rs. 1,010 per hour for tyre type harvester.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rates-fixed-for-combined-harvesters-rented-out-by-private-entities/article38068096.ece
30 December 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Thrust on freshwater prawn culture in ponds||The Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts have accorded a thrust on freshwater prawn culture in ponds, under the National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture. Subsidies are being provided to those who undertake freshwater prawn culture in ponds. Subsidy to the extent of 40% is being provided for creation of small ponds for rearing shrimps, as per a recent call made by the authorities to promote fresh water prawn culture. According to Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, aquaculture production of giant freshwater prawn, Macrobrachium rosenbergii in India has shown a phenomenal increase in recent years. Aquaculture has created enthusiasm among entrepreneurs especially for shrimp farming in coastal areas. Although India has vast freshwater resources they are not fully exploited except for carp culture in limited scale. Fresh water fish culture employing composite fish culture technology has become popular for use in large number of tanks and ponds in the country, studies state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thrust-on-freshwater-prawn-culture-in-ponds/article38068117.ece
30 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Dumping of garbage along Cauvery river bank continues||Dumping of household and industrial waste on the Cauvery river bank at Kokkarayanpettai in Tiruchengodu taluk and setting it on fire continues to be a perennial problem that causes air and water pollution. As per Census 2011, there are 1,715 houses in Kokkarayanpettai with a population of over 6,500. In the absence of proper solid waste management, waste collected from houses by the conservancy workers are taken in pushcarts and dumped along the river. “Dumping of waste has been continuing for many years now”, said a motorist who pointed out that burning of garbage, that mostly comprise plastic, causes air pollution. Also, commercial establishments and poultry shops located at Four Roads Junction, dump the waste on the river bank regularly. Debris, poultry waste, waste from hotels, industrial waste, used dress materials and other waste are dumped regularly and set on fire. The dump yard is located along the Outer Ring Road that connects Kokkarayanpettai with Thindal in Erode district. Since vehicle flow is frequent on the road, smoke from burning garbage that constitutes plastic affects two-wheelers and other motorists, said Sampath, who uses the road every day. He said that the panchayat had earlier placed a board asking people not to dump the waste. Motorists said that since the river is located less than 100 metres from the Four Road Junction, shopkeepers and others find it convenient to dump the waste throughout the day as there is no monitoring or action by officials. Motorists said that garbage was washed away in the water when the discharge in the river was high, a few years ago. Residents wanted a permanent solution to the problem as the river water is used by lakhs of common people and by farmers in delta districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dumping-of-garbage-along-cauvery-river-bank-continues/article38068146.ece
30 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Special medical camp in Kolli Hills today||The second phase of medical camp to cover tribal people in 12 villages will be held at the Panchayat Union Middle School at Thottikadu in Perakarai Nadu in the hilltop here on Thursday. In a release, Collector Shreya P. Singh said there were over a hundred habitations in Kolli Hills where tribal people live in large numbers. To provide healthcare facilities to people, one government hospital, three government primary health centres, 16 sub-centres and mobile hospitals were functioning in the hill area. The administration conducted a medical camp at Semmedu on December 28 in which 475 people participated. During the second phase of the medical camp, ‘Nalam Kappom Kolli Malai’, people from 12 villages can participate, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-medical-camp-in-kolli-hills-today/article38068140.ece
30 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||PU staff held on graft charge||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) arrested the office driver of Puduchatram Panchayat Union (PU) in Rasipuram taluk for demanding and accepting Rs. 1,000 from a farmer here on Wednesday. Selvam (45) wanted to drill a borewell in his farmland and came to the union office to meet the Block Development Officer. Prabakaran (50), the driver, told him that he would obtain a no-objection certificate and demanded Rs. 1,000. The officials caught Prabakaran red-handed while accepting the amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pu-staff-held-on-graft-charge/article38068151.ece
30 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Meet held on poll roll preparation||Monitoring Officer for Electoral Roll preparation and Director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Service A. Gnanasekaran held discussions with officials at the Collectorate on the preparation of electoral roll on Wednesday. Subramaniyan, Tahsildar (Election), T. Sivasubramanian, Collector’s Personal Assistant (General), and Tiruchengodu RDO Elavarasi attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-held-on-poll-roll-preparation/article38068154.ece
30 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Schools asked not to hold classes during vacation||The district administration has asked schools not to conduct special classes during the vacation and warned that action will be taken against violators. A release from Collector Shreya P. Singh said that the State government had declared holidays for schools from December 27 to 31 and announced that schools will reopen on January 3, 2022. Headmasters, headmistress and principals of all the government, government aided, self-finance, matriculation and CBSE schools were clearly instructed not to conduct classes in schools. Students should avoid visiting schools during the holidays. “If any complaints were received stern action will be taken”, she said,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-asked-not-to-hold-classes-during-vacation/article38068141.ece
30 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Artiste pens first French translation of Thiruvasagam||For someone who has performed at some of the world’s most revered venues and maintains a crammed trophy cabinet, dancer-musician Raghunath Manet has an insatiable appetite for pushing new frontiers of artistic accomplishment. Manet, who alternates between Paris and his French Quarter home in Puducherry these days, has pursued eclectic creative impulses that straddle the worlds of Bharatanatyam, veena, choreography, jazz fusion and film-making. Now, the artiste has authored what would be the first-ever French translation of Thiruvasagam, the volume of hymns composed by 9th century Saivite saint-poet Manikkavasagar. Though the inspiration for the roughly 150-page “Le Tiruvasagam de Manikkavasagar” came while performing several years ago at the Ambalathadayar Madam Nagalinga Swami Siddhar Jeeva Samadhi temple in the city, which is believed to enshrine the original Thiruvasagam palm-leaf scriptures, Manet is inclined to see his work as a labour of love, as another natural outcome of his “perpetual service” to Lord Siva. “Being a male dancer, I have been always attracted to male repertoire in the sense that I used to perform a lot on the theme of Siva. When you touch the theme of Siva, you touch the Saiva Siddhanta, the philosophy of Siva at a subconscious level”, said Manet, whose documentary film with Didier Bellocq, Dance of Siva , was presented at Cannes in 2013. Capturing the cosmic, the philosophical and the poetic essence in the French translation was an arduous task, he says. His reference material spanned a range of works on Manikkavasagar, including the first English translation by Rev. G.U. Pope and Tamil-to-Tamil interpretations. “I hope my translation of the hymns that have embedded an entire philosophy, reaches a large section of the French-speaking population, which is second only to the English-speaking demographic,” he said. For someone who embraced Bharatanatyam and the veena to inhabit a traditionally women-dominant space, Manet says he has always felt that dance and music were entwined worlds, one incomplete without the other. Manet was just six when his grandfather Gnanamani Pillai and first guru took him in as a disciple for lessons in violin, flute and vocal music. “However, it was not easy to sign up for dance as a child...in fact, the first resistance to the idea and reprimands came from my own family,” he recalls. A few years later, he would train under accomplished dancer M.S. Nathan of Villianur and practise along with his siblings Jayanti and Vasanthy to hone the skills and continue the same after moving to France. He learnt the veena from Rajeshwari Padmanabhan and would return to train in Bharatanatyam at Kalakshetra, founded by Rukmini Devi Arundale. ‘Constant updating’ Manet has developed a distinct template of the choreographed concert-performance that he had taken to all corners of the world. Art, he says, needs constant updating to stay contemporarily relevant. In the role of a cultural ambassador, he has won several accolades and awards. The Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Award (PBSA) 2017 presented by the President of India, the "Officier des Arts et des Lettres" (2016) for promoting Indian arts and culture in France and the "Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres" from the French Ministry of Culture have the pride of place on his showcase. Manet’s artistic collaborations have involved stalwarts in the East and West, from M. Balamuralikrishna, T.V. Gopalakrishnan and Umayalpuram Sivaraman to American jazz legend Archie Shepp, dancer Carolyn Carlson and French performers such as Didier Lockwood and Richard Galliano. “I am the sum of influences of so many masters and I was fortunate to have performed with and imbibed from,” says Manet, who once travelled all the way to London to meet master Ram Gopal and work with him for a few years. The artiste’s forays also include his association with films, including Diamant Noir by Arthur Harari and Le journal d’un séducteur by Daniel Dubroux with Jean-Pierre Léaud. He has also done extensive research on the Devadasis, temple dancers, and the iconography of temples using archival material in France---he has authored a doctoral thesis and book, “Les bayadères, danseuses sacrées du temple de Villenour’’ on the devadasi traditions of Puducherry. “My mission is to restore to Puducherry its deserved pedestal in the temple dance-music heritage”. His school, Tala Sruti, has about 150 students, including children in orphanages in the city, spread across the world. In between the freewheeling chat, he turns performative. His eyes light up and face shines in expressive abhinaya as he breaks into a Balamurali Krishna tillana when he recalls the times with the guru. At another point, Manet interrupts himself to dance in front of the large Nataraja statue, which, more than being another living room show-piece, is quite the fulcrum of his life and art.  I hope my translation of the hymns that have embedded an entire philosophy, reaches a large section of the French-speaking population Raghunath Manet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artiste-pens-first-french-translation-of-thiruvasagam/article38068368.ece
30 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 12 fresh COVID-19 infections||No death due to COVID-19 was reported in the Union Territory even as 12 fresh cases were detected from 2,390 tests on Wednesday. Of these, Puducherry recorded 11 and Mahe logged one. Karaikal and Yanam did not report any fresh case in the last 24 hours. With 11 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 120. This comprised of 35 patients in hospital and 85 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.50%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.45%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,880, with Puducherry logging 1,468, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has so far recorded a cumulative aggregate of 1,29,446 cases and 1,27,446 recoveries. Of an estimated 20.43 lakh tests conducted so far, over 17.32 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,725 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered a total of 13,85,794 vaccine doses so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-12-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38068124.ece
30 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) cadre protest over privatisation||Cadre belonging to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Wednesday formed a human chain at several places in the Union Territory as a mark of protest against the privatisation of the Electricity Department and to highlight various other demands. The party’s local unit secretary R. Rajangam, in a statement, said the human chain was formed to highlight demands, including keeping electricity distribution in the Union Territory under the territorial administration’s control, filling around 10,000 vacancies in government departments and setting up industrial units on government-acquired lands to create jobs. CPI(M) leaders Sudha Sundararaman, T. Murugan and V. Perumal also joined the party workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-cadre-protest-over-privatisation/article38068374.ece
30 December 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||History students stumble upon Mahavira sculpture||A group of history students of Bharathidasan University have discovered a sculpture of Jain Tirthankara Mahavira at Eraiyur in Pudukottai district recently, according to the Archaeological Research Forum, Pudukottai. The four students, S. Mariammal, S. Rengaraj, R. Priyanka and S. Logeswaran, all second year students of the five-year integrated course in M.A. History at Bharathidasan University, stumbled upon the sculpture, a stone lingam and broken pieces of a nandi . The students, with interest in archaeology, made the discovery during a field exploration taken up at the village. They were guided by A. Manikandan, research scholar, Department of Ancient Science, Tamil University, and founder of Archaeological Research Forum, as he had earlier found remnants of a temple in the village. “We found the sculpture half buried in a thorny bush and were able to identify it as Mahavira as we had studied about him and seen his images. Our assumption was subsequently confirmed by the Archaeological Research Forum too,” said Mr. Rangaraj. The sculpture measured 89 cm in height and 54 cm in width. Mr.Manikandan said the sculpture depicting Mahavira in a seated meditative posture probably belonged to the 10th century CE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-students-stumble-upon-mahavira-sculpture/article38068106.ece
30 December 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery recovered||The police recovered nearly 600 sovereigns of gold jewellery from a well within the compound of a house from where nearly 700 sovereigns were reported missing on Tuesday. Three special teams were formed to investigate the theft. According to police sources, N. Jagubar Sadiq, a businessman who hails from Gopalappattinam near Meemisal in Pudukottai district, was living abroad with his family. His house in his hometown remained locked for most of the year, except when the man would visit his hometown. However, he had not made any trips over the last year due to COVID-19. His relatives all live nearby, and had noticed that the house had been broken into on Tuesday. On checking, they found that jewellery had been stolen. According to the complainant, Mr, Sadiq's sister, 687 sovereigns were stolen. The police immediately began an investigation and three teams were formed. On a hunch, a team decided to check the bottom of the well, where some jewellery was found wrapped in a polyethene bag. A gold appraiser was immediately summoned, who determined the value as 597 sovereigns. The jewels were taken to Meemisal police station. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-jewellery-recovered-a-day-after-theft/article38068098.ece
30 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘There is rise in number of POCSO cases’||The increase in the number of cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in Ramanathapuram reflects the increase in awareness of crimes against children among the people, said Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police E. Karthik. Talking to reporters here on Wednesday, Mr. Karthik said the number of cases reported under the POCSO Act had increased from 45 (2019), 90 (2020) to over 100 cases till date in 2021. Stating that investigations had revealed that only seven cases were grave in nature and other cases were mostly due to elopement of minor girls and harassment. Child marriages “The number of child marriages has increased in the last one year mainly because of schools not functioning (due to COVID-19 pandemic) for most part of the year,” Mr. Karthik said. Besides, parents married off their minor daughters to fulfil their responsibility of arranging their marriages. The district had recorded 51 murders, out of which five were for murder for gain. “In two of the cases registered as murder of gain, the accused had taken valuables from the scene of crime to divert the attention of the police,” he added. However, he said that motive for 25 murders was illicit affairs which was a disturbing trend. Though the district police were able to crack 90% of the crime cases, the recovery rate remained around 60%. “This is because of the limited time available for the police as they had to remand the accused within 24 hours on arrest. Besides, complainants also exaggerated on the value of looted properties,” Mr. Karthik said. The district police managed to keep crime under control by bonding over 600 persons and detaining over 100 persons under the Goondas Act. The district police had seized 800 kg of ganja and 2,500 kg of gutka this year, he added.  Though the district police was able to crack 90% of the crime cases, the recovery rate remained at around 60% E. Karthik Superintendent of Police, Ramanathapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/there-is-a-rise-in-number-of-pocso-cases-says-sp/article38068128.ece
30 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Trains to be diverted for track doubling work||Since doubling of railway tracks between Omalur and Mettur Dam are to be carried out, three trains will be operated on diverted route. A press release from the Salem Railway Division said that Train No.11014 Coimbatore Junction – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Express, scheduled to leave Coimbatore Junction at 8.50 a.m. on January 2 and March 2 and run through Salem, Dharmapuri, Hosur, will be diverted to run via Salem, Magnesite Junction, Kuppam, Bangarapet and Krishnarajapuram. Consequently, the train will skip the stoppages at Dharmapuri and Hosur. Train No.12678 Ernakulam Junction – KSR Bengaluru Intercity Express, scheduled to leave Ernakulam Junction 9.10 a.m. on March 2 and run through Salem, Dharmapuri, Hosur, will be diverted to run through Salem, Magnesite Junction, Kuppam, Bangarapet and Krishnarajapuram. The train will skip the stoppages at Dharmapuri, Hosur and Carmelaram. Likewise, Train No.12677 KSR Bengaluru – Ernakulam Junction Intercity Express, scheduled to leave KSR Bengaluru at 6.10 a.m. on March 2 and run through Hosur, Dharmapuri, Salem, will be diverted to run through Krishnarajapuram, Bangarapet, Kuppam, Magnesite Junction and Salem. The train will skip the stoppages at Carmelaram, Hosur and Dharmapuri, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-to-be-diverted-for-track-doubling-work/article38068142.ece
30 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Life imprisonment for man in sexual assault case||A 26-year-old man was on Wednesday sentenced to undergo life imprisonment for sexually assaulting a mentally retarded 17-year-old girl in Attur. The prosecution case is that on September 25, 2014, S. Velmurugan of a village in Thalaivasal police station limits committed the crime against the girl, who is also visually impaired. A case under Section 376 of IPC r/w Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered and he was arrested. The case was on trial at the Special Court for Trial of cases under POCSO Act, 2012. On Tuesday, Judge S. Muruganantham found the man guilty and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment and levied a fine of Rs. 25,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-imprisonment-for-man-in-sexual-assault-case/article38068139.ece
30 December 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Regulations for jallikattu resented||The Tamizh Desiya Peravai has opposed the regulations imposed by the Thanjavur district administration for organising jallikattu in the district. TDP president, P.Maniarasan called upon the State government to ensure that the traditional event was held as usual. He had also regretted that imposing stringent conditions for the conduct of jallikattu was unfair while such conditions were not laid down for the conduct of events organised by political parties or programmes attended by elected representatives, including Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regulations-for-jallikattu-resented/article38068101.ece
30 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils statues of Anna, Karunanidhi||Chief Minister M.K.Stalin unveiled the statues of former Chief Ministers, C.N.Annadurai and M.Karunanidhi installed on the DMK’s district office premises here on Wednesday. After unveiling the statues, the Chief Minister received petitions from the people. The Chief Minister is scheduled to distribute welfare assistance to the beneficiaries of various schemes and inaugurate completed projects in the Thanjavur district at a function to be held at the Rajah Serfoji Government College grounds on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-unveils-statues-of-anna-karunanidhi/article38068109.ece
30 December 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Helmet rally drives home message of safety||A two-wheeler rally was taken out in Thoothukudi town to create awareness of the importance of wearing helmet on Wednesday. Collector K. Senthilraj flagged off the rally in front of Armed Reserve Ground. The rally went through VVD signal, Old Bus Stand, VOC Road and concluded at the Lady of Snow Church. The Collector said that the district administration has decided to conduct similar road shows every month highlighting different aspects of road safety rules. The Collector added that this was being done in order to bring down the number of road accidents in 2022. Transport Department officials and the Traffic Police along with other departments have identified black spots in the town. The Highways Department officials have been asked to take up road engineering and junction improvement works. Officials have also been asked to take up awareness programmes on road safety rules in order to prevent loss of lives. The Collector also distributed masks to motorists to highlight the need for wearing it during the pandemic. Regional Transport Officer Vinayagam, Traffic Inspector of Police Mayilerum Perumal were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helmet-rally-drives-home-message-of-safety/article38068130.ece
30 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Integrated bus terminus project set to take off in Panchapur||Chief Minister M.K.Stalin will lay the foundation stone for the integrated bus terminus (IBT) at Panchapur in the city on Thursday, bringing to fruition a proposal that has been hanging fire for more than two decades. The State government has decided to establish an IBT and allied infrastructure at Panchapur, off the Tiruchi-Madurai Highway, at a total estimated cost of Rs. 832 crore. On Tuesday, the government order was issued sanctioning the first phase of works at an investment of about Rs. 350 crore. This includes the establishment of the IBT in an area of about 48 acres at an investment of Rs. 140 crore and a truck terminal on 25 acres at an estimated cost of Rs. 76 crore. A multi-utility facilities centre would also come up as part of the project at an investment of Rs. 59 crore. Another Rs. 75 crore would be spent on providing roads, storm water drains and other necessary amenities and infrastructure. A part of the funding, about Rs. 210 crore, is proposed to be drawn from the Smart City Mission. The foundation stone laying for the project would bring to an end the long political wrangling and indecision over the proposal, which was originally mooted in the mid 1990s. Down the years, successive governments have looked at various sites. The site at Panchapur was identified during the previous DMK regime over the decade ago. Chief Minister M.K.Stalin had also inspected the site in August 2010 as the then Deputy Chief Minister. But the project failed to take off following the regime change subsequently. However,Municipal Administration Minister K.N.Nehru had remained firm on establishing the bus stand at Panchapur. City residents are relieved that the project has finally gained a concrete shape. “At last they have decided one way or other; there is no point debating over the suitability of the sites any longer. It is a welcome decision,” said S.Pushpavanam, Secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu. Mr.Pushpavanam, however, insisted that the project should be completed within a specific time frame, possibly within two years. N.Ramakrishnan, a civic activist who had long been lobbying for establishing the bus stand at the Mannarupuram Army grounds, observed: “Though I have reservations over the suitability of Panchapur site, a decision has been made now. We hope the project would be executed after careful planning as it entails a huge investment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/integrated-bus-terminus-project-set-to-take-off-in-panchapur/article38068114.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fourth serological surveillance undertaken||Health officials in the district have undertaken the fourth round of serological surveillance to determine the development of antibodies against COVID-19 among residents in Tiruchi. While the exercise would help in indicating herd immunity, it would also help determine the population eligible for the booster dose, the officials said. The State health department identified 42 localities, of which 14 were in Tiruchi city. In the city alone, 1,500 samples would be taken. These places were selected as they had reported a high number of containment zones, and also a good response to the vaccination drives. A team of four doctors began working to collect blood samples on Dec 26, and work will go on till December 31. "A large combination of samples is being taken under the Kish Method - a way of randomly choosing survey respondents within a household," A. Mohammed Hakkim, doctor in charge of the survey said. The samples will be sent to a laboratory of the DPH to test for antibodies. The team was also taking random samples to determine the spread of dengue fever. During the first serosurvey, health officials found 30% of the population with antibodies in Tiruchi city, while in the second round, which was between the first and second waves of COVID-19, it was around 27%. About 60% of the 300 people whose blood samples were collected during the third serosurvey had developed antibodies against COVID-19. This time around, the person from whom the sample was taken would also get a certificate of their antibodies’ status, a health official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fourth-round-of-serological-surveillance-undertaken/article38068119.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversions today||The city police have announced traffic diversions on the Tiruchi-Dindigul Highway in view of the Chief Minister M.K.Stalin’s visit to the city on Thursday evening. Mr.Stalin will be participating in a government function at the CARE College campus situated near Ramji Nagar off the Dindigul Road. City Police Commissioner G.Karthikeyan has announced that the following traffic diversions would be in place from noon to 8 p.m. on Thursday: All light and heavy goods vehicles and mofussil buses, heading towards Dindigul would be diverted via the Chennai-Madurai National Highway from the Aristo Roundabout and go via Viralimalai and Manapparai. In the return direction, the vehicles would take the same route via Manapparai and Viralimalai and enter the city via Mannarpuram, TVS Tollgate and Head Post Office to reach the Central Bus Stand. Light and heavy goods carriers headed towards Chennai from Dindigul would have to go via Manapparai, Kulithalai and the Karur-Tiruchi Road to reach Tiruchi and take the Chennai Highway. All heavy and light goods carriers from Dindigul headed towards Thanjavur would have to go via Manapparai, Viralimalai, Panchapur and Pudukottai ring road to join the Thanjavur Highway at Thuvakudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversions-today/article38068110.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bypass road sought around Gangaikondacholapuram||With widening of Tiruchi-Chidambaram National Highway making substantial progress in recent months, heritage enthusiasts and residents of Gangaikondacholapuram have called for construction of a by-pass around the town to protect the Brihadisvara Temple, a world heritage monument, from possible hazards caused by movement of heavy vehicles close to the structure. The 134-km long highway is being widened in three packages covering Tiruchi-Kallagam, Kallagam-Meensuritti and Meensuritti-Chidambaram stretches. The highway passes alongside the Brihadisvara Temple, a UNESCO world heritage monument under the maintenance and control of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Established by King Rajendra Chola I (1012-1044 CE) after his victorious expedition up to the Gangetic plains, Gangaikondacholapuram was the capital of the Cholas for about 250 years. He also built the Brihadisvara Temple with a huge lingam , which has been in worship till date. The Gangaikondacholapuram Development Council Trust (GKC Trust) comprising heritage enthusiasts and local residents has long been lobbying for providing a diversion around the temple to protect the monument. “The well-maintained living temple is a national pride. But the national highway runs close to the temple and its development would attract more traffic. This could endanger the temple structure,” argues R. Komagan, Chairman, GKC Trust. In a recent representation to the Regional Director of ASI, Bengaluru, he called for the constitution of an expert committee to assess the impact of hazards posed by pollution and the deterioration that the structure might suffer due to movement of traffic on the widened highway near the temple. The road was laid by the British government to carry stones dismantled by them from the temple’s outer and inner prakarams , Mr. Komagan claimed and pointed out that it ran close to the protected boundary of the monument. The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act (or AMASR Act) covers this buffer zone, Mr. Komagan maintained, expressing apprehensions that the movement of heavy trucks could cause strong vibrations and air pollution affecting the structure and its sculptures. The highway development project would only worsen the situation as it would attract more traffic. The entire temple had been built with interlinking joints. Besides, the temple car and processions go via the road, known as vadakku radha veedhi . NHAI safety rules would not permit and there was no proper road for diversion of traffic during temple festivals, he said. The GKC Trust also filed a public interest litigation in the Madras High Court, which directed the competent authority of NHAI to pass appropriate orders on the objections raised by the trust. NHAI sources maintained that no major development or widening was planned on the road stretch for about 900 metres near the temple complex. Only improvements to the existing two-lane road had been proposed and a stretch of about 300 metres ahead of the temple would be widened by five feet each on both sides. “We have sought a no objection certificate [NOC] from the ASI for this improvement. Only upon receiving the NOC, we will take up the work and fully adhere to the conditions that may be specified. There is no land acquisition involved near the temple though some encroachments may have been removed, triggering apprehensions of locals,” an official told The Hindu . He said when the road was made into a four-lane highway in future, a bypass road would most likely come up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bypass-road-sought-around-gangaikondacholapuram/article38068103.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||33 new COVID-19 cases reported in central region||Thirty-three fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the central region on Wednesday, a dip compared to the previous days. One death due to the viral infection was reported in Tiruchi district. All the nine districts in the central region reported less than 15 fresh cases. A total of 12 patients reported positive in Tiruchi and seven in Thanjavur. Five patients reported positive in Tiruvarur and four in Karur. Two patients contracted the infection in Perambalur. Ariyalur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts registered one fresh case each. No case was reported in Mayiladuthurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article38068116.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of sickles hit, migrants unable to earn a living||Migrant families who travel to Tiruchi to sell billhooks and sickles, usually purchased by farmers and agricultural labourers in the district, have lost their source of livelihood as police restrict sales. The makers travel to various parts of Tamil Nadu once a year, where they spend months making and selling agricultural equipment from locally available iron. Four women and ten children were seated in front of a small shed in Khajamalai main road looking to sell knives, billhooks, sickles and some shovels. They had made these over the last month and had set up shop there on Tuesday morning. However, within hours, police personnel asked them to refrain from selling their ware. There have been multiple incidents of attacks using weapons in the state over the last few months. Speaking to The Hindu , Rani Billo, the eldest woman in the group said that she had been travelling to Tamil Nadu for the last 20 years. The entire family would pack up their belongings and travel to the southern states where they would stay for at least five months. The women would make and sell them, while the men would work as labourers. The money they make would sustain them for the remaining seven months. "We learnt how to make these tools from our parents. We travel to different parts of the country to sell them," she said. The COVID-19 lockdown had already dealt them a hard blow, and the police restrictions added to it. The equipment is also purchased by families to chop coconuts and other such kitchen use. "We make the instruments for agricultural use. People using it for criminal activities is not our fault," Rashi Banu, one of Billo's daughters' said. Their nomadic lives were determined by the harvesting seasons in the states they travel to. "We know that sugarcane is harvested in these parts soon. We hoped to sell some sickles by then," Banu said. The sickles range anywhere from Rs. 100 to Rs. 500. Unsure of where to go, the women and their children were waiting for their husbands to return to travel elsewhere. “We do not know where to go, but we must move if we plan to sell our ware,” Billo said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-sickles-hit-migrants-unable-to-earn-a-living/article38068108.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 116.92 feet on Wednesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 4,021 cusecs and the discharge 15,002 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38068112.ece
30 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Headmaster booked for harassing student||The headmaster of a Government-aided school in Thisayanvilai in the district has been booked for sexually harassing a Plus Two student. According to police Christober Jeyakumar, headmaster of the school in Kulasegaranvilai, has been accused of having passed lewd comments over the phone to the student. Based on a complaint from her, Tirunelveli Rural District Police have booked him under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSCO) Act. The police said that the headmaster, who has been placed under suspension by the school management, was absconding. Thisayanvilai police are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headmaster-booked-for-harassing-student/article38068315.ece
30 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 136 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 420.26 cusecs and a discharge of 1,104.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 116.60 ft (118 ft.) with an inflow of 65 cusecs and a discharge of 235 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38068402.ece
30 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates several projects in Palladam, Pongalur||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan on Wednesday inaugurated several projects to the tune of Rs. 7.92 crore in Palladam Municipality and Pongalur Panchayat Union in Tiruppur district. A release said that he opened a weekly market building in Pongalur village panchayat worth Rs. 41.03 lakh and inaugurated works to lay new roads in Madapoor village panchayat. In Palladam Municipality limits, Mr. Saminathan inaugurated two water tanks with capacities of 75,000 litre and 60,000 litre respectively at Panapalayam and Vadugapalayam. Under the Kalaignar Urban Development Scheme, he inaugurated works to construct facilities such as compound wall, pathway, toilets and CCTV cameras for an upcoming park in Ward No. 12. At the Government Hospital in Palladam, the Minister inaugurated the construction works for a building under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission to provide accommodation for the attenders of patients, the release said. District Collector S. Vineeth, Project Director of District Rural Development Agency A. Lakshmanan and local body officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-several-projects-in-palladam-pongalur/article38068024.ece
30 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four Bangladeshi nationals arrested in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday arrested four Bangladeshi nationals on charges of staying illegally without valid documents. According to the police, Faridul Islam (24), Ridoy Hossain Refat (23), Shimul Rahman (27) and Rayhan (26) were arrested in Sevanthampalayam within the limits of Tiruppur Rural (Nallur) police station. The four were working in a private garment unit in the city. As per the directions of Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha, the Intelligence Section police collected details of those working in garment units in the city. Upon further investigation, the police found that these four in Nallur did not possess any valid documents such as passport or visa. Documents confirming their Bangladeshi citizenship were seized from their residence on Wednesday, the police said. Following this, they were booked under section 3(2)(c) (The foreigner shall not remain in India or in any prescribed areas therein) read with 14 (Penalty for contravention of provisions of the Act) of the Foreigners Act, 1946. The four accused were remanded in judicial custody at Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai. Five men secured Meanwhile, the Thirumuruganpoondi police on Wednesday secured five men upon suspicion that they were Bangladeshi nationals and further investigation is on, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-bangladeshi-nationals-arrested-in-tiruppur/article38068013.ece
30 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual assault on LKG student||The Tiruppur City Police on Tuesday arrested a man employed as a bus cleaner and conductor in a private school in Tiruppur on charges of sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl studying in LKG on the school premises. The police said that D. Sathish (29) from Neruperichal was booked by the All Women Police – Tiruppur North under sections 7 (Sexual assault) and 8 (Punishment for sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The arrest follows an investigation that lasted for more than 10 days, which involved questioning of over 20 staff members from the school and reviewing footage from multiple CCTV cameras. The accused allegedly touched the victim in an inappropriate manner on December 14, the sources said. The victim’s mother lodged a police complaint on December 17. On the same day, over 500 persons from various organisations staged a demonstration till midnight on Perumanallur Road near Pooluvapatti demanding action against the accused. The investigation was carried out by Inspector of All Women Police Station – Tiruppur North Prema and was supervised by Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha, the sources said. The accused was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexual-assault-on-lkg-student/article38068018.ece
30 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for sexual assault on minor girl||The police on Tuesday arrested a 17-year-old youth on charges of sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl near Kunnathur in Tiruppur district. According to the police, the victim and the accused were from the same neighbourhood. The accused sexually assaulted the girl on December 17. The victim’s mother came to know about the incident after nearly 10 days, the police said. Subsequently, she lodged a complaint at the Kunnathur Police Station on Tuesday, following which a case was registered against the youth under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused was arrested later in the day and sent to the Juvenile Observation Home in Coimbatore, according to the police. Man arrested The All Women Police – Pollachi on Wednesday arrested a man on charges of sexually assaulting a woman near Pollachi. The police said that G. Balasubramani (39) allegedly raped the 28-year-old woman at her residence near Pollachi and she was found to be pregnant during a recent medical check-up. Based on a complaint from the victim’s parent, the police booked the accused and remanded him in judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article38068019.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Online lottery network busted||An online lottery network allegedly managed by an advocate, Mappilai Meeran (37) of Pettavaithalai, Tiruchi, has been unearthed by a special team formed by the Deputy Inspector of General, Thanjavur Range, Parvesh Kumar. Information According to the police, the special team comprising the Additional Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thanjavur, Jayachandran, and Sub-Inspector, Vaduvoor, Mahendran, received information that an online lottery network was active in the delta region. Subsequent investigations revealed that a team of eight persons was involved in the network and over 100 WhatsApp groups were involved in the online lottery. Sensex software While the advocate acted as the team leader and seven others – Saravanan of Tiruvarur, Kumaresan of Koradacherry, Rajesh Kannan of Painkanadu, Manikandan of Pothakudi, Vijayakumar of Koothanallur and Shanmugavel and Krishnaveni, both Tiruchi – used the Flywin and Sensex software to conduct the online lottery. The special team arrested them and seized Rs. 12 lakh, 14 mobile phones, four laptops and 212 lottery tickets, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-lottery-network-busted-in-tiruvarur/article38068099.ece
30 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Welfare assistance distributed to beneficiaries in the Nilgiris||Welfare assistance to the tune of over Rs. 2.6 crore was given to 596 beneficiaries in Udhagamandalam on Tuesday. Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare, Hill Tribes and Bonded Labour Welfare Kayalvizhi Selvaraj said the government had increased the compensation granted to victims of caste-based violence. Victims were previously entitled to compensation ranging from Rs. 85,000 to Rs. 8.35 lakh. This was increased to a minimum of Rs. 1 lakh to a maximum of Rs. 12 lakh, she said. The Minister spoke of the schemes that the government was undertaking to ensure the welfare of Adi Dravidar and Adivasi students, farmers and business owners. Also present at the event was State Forest Minister K. Ramachandran. He said that so far, a total of 20,000 petitions were received in the Nilgiris during the “Makkalai Thedi Makkal Arasu” grievance redress programmes. All petitions have been sent to the relevant departments, he added. A. Raja, MP, spoke about the relief efforts undertaken by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin shortly after the floods that affected many parts of the State. Also present at the event was Nilgiris Collector S.P. Amrith. Ms. Selvaraj, Mr. Ramachandran and Mr. Raja also took part in a review meeting to check the implementation of the Forest Rights Act in the Nilgiris, Coimbatore and Erode districts. On Wednesday, Mr. Raja and Mr. Ramachandran took part in an event organised by the Horticulture Department and distributed welfare aid to farmers and small landholders in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-assistance-distributed-to-beneficiaries-in-the-nilgiris/article38068036.ece
30 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Repair Valley View Road: residents||The Valley View Road in Ketti – an alternative route that can be used to reach Coonoor, is badly damaged and has become extremely dangerous for road users. The road, which descends into the Ketti valley outside Udhagamandalam town, helps connect residents of Ketti and surrounding villages to Udhagamandalam, while the road can be used to reach Coonoor via the Kattery Junction. R. Ganesan, a resident of Ketti Palada, said that during emergencies, when people need to be rushed to hospital, most people use the road to reach Udhagamandalam. Many school students also walk up the road to reach the bus stop at the Valley View Junction, he added. However, recent spells of heavy rain have damaged the road and had made them extremely dangerous. R. Rani, a resident who lives near Valley View Junction, said that she had witnessed many people getting involved in minor accidents along the stretch. “Though the road is damaged, it is the fastest route to reach Ketti from Udhagamandalam. The other option would be for motorists to reach Ketti via Yellanalli, but most people prefer this route as it is much shorter,” she said. She said that even cars and pickup vans ply on the road. “Also, water leakage from pipelines onto the road makes the whole stretch very treacherous,” she said, adding that tourists often use the road and find it very difficult to reach Ketti. “Immediate repairs should be undertaken so that the road is made even, and till then, traffic, especially cars, lorries and pickup trucks should be stopped from using the road, as accidents could put the lives of people living by the side of the road at risk,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repair-valley-view-road-residents/article38068016.ece
30 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Eatery fined for sale of water in plastic bottles||An eatery functioning along the Kotagiri to Kattabettu Road was fined Rs. 25,000 for sale of water and beverages in plastic bottles during a raid conducted by Revenue Department officials on Tuesday. In a press release, the district administration said that regular checks were being conducted in all businesses in the 11 town panchayats in the Nilgiris, as well as four municipalities in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Gudalur and Nelliayalam. Checks are also held to curb illegal dumping of waste, and sale of banned items packaged in single-use plastics. On Tuesday, Revenue Department officials received a tip-off that the eatery was selling water and beverages in plastic bottles. A raid was conducted and 112 plastic bottles were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eatery-fined-for-sale-of-water-in-plastic-bottles/article38068033.ece
30 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Resorts in MTR asked not to burst firecrackers||Forest Department officials in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) have warned private resorts against allowing their guests to celebrate the New Year with fireworks. A note distributed among resort owners and residents in the buffer zone pointed out that celebrating with fireworks would affect the wildlife. Fumes and noise from fireworks could unsettle the wildlife and turn them aggressive. There had been instance of the animals getting disoriented and even abandoning their young ones. The government was also against people assembling in large numbers to celebrate, because of the spread of the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Besides residents, the owners and guests at private resorts in Masinagudi, Mavanallah, Moyar, Singara, Vazhaithottam, Bokkapuram, Anaikatty, Siriyur, Thenumarahada and other hamlets have been asked to follow the instructions. The department issues such instructions during Deepavali also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resorts-in-mtr-asked-not-to-burst-firecrackers/article38068014.ece
30 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Border check-posts in Vellore on high alert||Vehicular movement at the check-posts bordering Tirupattur and Chittoor districts have come under intense surveillance by health officials in Vellore owing to the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. Officials said key check-posts such as Christinapet and Serkadu connecting Vellore with Chittoor were being monitored. Samples were taken from travellers at these points. Relevant documents, including second dose of vaccination, were also being checked. “A health check-up is also being done for motorists, especially the long-distance travellers. With the new year just a few days away, the flow of motorists across the borders is high,” said a health official. At present, the district has six check-posts such as Christinapet, Serkadu, Paththalapalli, Paradarami, Sainagunta and Ponnai (Madhanakuppam) connecting Tirupattur, Ranipet and Tiruvannamalai with Vellore. Details of these travellers are taken and they are monitored by the COVID-19 war room based on the results of their samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/border-check-posts-in-vellore-on-high-alert/article38068372.ece
30 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 13 fresh COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,483 with 13 fresh cases reported on December 29. With a total of 49,225 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 117. The district's toll is 1141. In Ranipet district, 13 fresh cases were reported and the total stood at 43,688. In Tirupattur district, two fresh cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,470. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of fresh infections were four, which took the total cases to 55,352. Of these, 54,632 have been discharged. The number of active cases stood at 47.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-13-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38068403.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 34 new cases||Erode district on Wednesday reported 34 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,07,710. While 47 persons were discharged, 457 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 28 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,02,449. While 43 persons were discharged, 333 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 1,727. Namakkal district reported 19 cases taking the tally to 54,529. While 37 persons were discharged, 309 continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded three cases, and 11 cases discharged. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 70 cases as of Wednesday. A total of 44,101 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded two fresh cases and six cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 53. As of date, a total 28,989 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-34-new-cases/article38068136.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Men at work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/men-at-work/article38068030.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Draft women’s policy unveiled||As per the draft, which was released on Wednesday, all forms of transport must be made women-friendly. “In buses, the first half of the seats shall be earmarked for women, and the front exit/entrance shall be used only by women,” it said. The policy would be implemented over five years. It provides for the establishment of a system of “victim support” for all cases of abuse, and focuses on rehabilitation and identity protection. The State shall pay greater attention to getting all children from poor families and special focus groups, like girls and children from SC/ST communities who are not in school, back into school. The scope of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya shall be extended specifically in educationally backward blocks to cover adolescent girls up to 19 years of age, so that they are able to complete their schooling. It aims to support at least 1,000 women student researchers from disadvantaged sections every year, especially in STEM. An official told The Hindu that after receiving inputs from the public, the policy would be finalised and released. The draft has identified four core focus areas of empowerment — social, economic, political and emotional — which will be the guiding principles of the policy. “Tamil Nadu shall provide free/subsidised coaching classes for exams like JEE, CAT, UPSC and TNPSC, and for higher management and technical courses to encourage women’s participation.” Feedback can be sent to dsw.tn@nic.in. The draft can be accessed at https://bit.ly/womenpolicy2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/draft-womens-policy-unveiled/article38067990.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi Mahotsavam, chanting of Thiruppavai, Kovaipudur temple, 5.20 a.m. onwards.    Jansons Institute of Technology: Programming Enigma - A puzzle solving contest, 3.15 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Signing of MoU with Tamil Aaivu Arakattalai, 10 a.m.  Kathir College of Arts and Science: Department of B.Com (PA): national-level virtual quiz contest on Goods and Services Tax, 10 a.m.; Department of BBA (CA): Workshop on Entrepreneurship, kill, attitude and behavioural development, 10 a.m.    Committee of Hosts: Sirpi 85, valediction and presentation of Sirpi literary awards, NGM College, Pollachi, 10 a.m.  Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Symposium on “Empowering Adolescents to End Child Marriages”, 2 p.m.    Nilgiris Documentation Centre: Release of Ooty Bicentennial Special Calendar: December 30, 11 a.m. at Hotel Sullivan Court, Rose Garden Road, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38068026.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||tiruchi today||RELIGION  Sri Ananthakrishna Varadharaja Perumal Temple, Angarai: Dhanur masa bhajans, Namavali veedhi bhajans, 5.30 a.m. GENERAL  District Administration: Inauguration of renovated Chathiram Bus Stand and other projects and foundation stone laying for integrated bus stand and other projects, CARE College campus, Thayanur, 4.30 p.m.  Union Ministry of Textiles and State Department of Handlooms: Handloom expo, IMA Hall, Salai Road, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.  Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College Department of Chemistry: Special meeting, Rajesh Sonti, Assistant Professor, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education, speaks, on ‘NMR a tool in characterisation and structure elucidation of pharmaceutical degradation products,’ 10 a.m.  M.A.M. B-School: Installation of office bearers of Students Exnora, P.Mohan, founder, Youth Exnora International, chief guest, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article38068438.ece
30 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vatal and supporters taken into custody||The police took into custody Vatal Nagaraj, Kannada activist and former MLA, and some of his supporters during their protest against MES in Belagavi on Wednesday. The protestors were released later. Earlier, Mr. Nagaraj addressed the protestors at the Rani Channamma Circle. He said that the Karnataka Bandh called by Kananda organisations on December 31 will not be withdrawn. “Come what may, we will go ahead with the bandh. I know that several leaders, including some Ministers, have appealed to Kannada organisations to call off the strike. But we will not listen to them. We want the State Government to ban Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti and we will not stop until the government bans it,” he said. “MES has damaged harmonious life in Belagavi district between speakers of Kannada and Marathi. MES members routinely try to create law and order problems. They organised Black Day on Rajyotsava Day on November 1 and also Maha Melava on the first day of the Winter Session of the Legislature, they insult the Kannada flag, they desecrate statues of national heroes, including Sangolli Rayanna. Why should they not be dealt with strongly?’’ he said. He said that the State Government should not delay banning the political organisation. Why should it be delayed? “We want to bring pressure to bear on the government to ban MES. We will not rest till that is achieved,’’ he said.  ‘Come what may, we will go ahead with the bandh; I know that several leaders, including some Ministers, have appealed to Kannada organisations to call off the strike but, we will not listen to them’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vatal-and-supporters-taken-into-custody/article38068161.ece
30 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. move to amend RGUHS Act opposed||All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) has opposed the State Government’s move to amend the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) Act, as it suspects that it will lead to wrong utilisation of the institution’s funds. AIDSO has accused the government of trying to divert the university’s money to other causes through the amendment. “The RGUHS has over Rs. 1,500 crore in deposits. This is the money the university has collected over the years as affiliation fees from various medical, para medical, nursing and other colleges. Arguably, this money needs to be spent on strengthening the university and the field of medical education in general. Ideally, the State Government should build a modern campus for the university, set up government medical colleges in every district, fill all vacant posts of teaching and non-teaching staff in medical colleges, ensure that meritorious youth get medical education at affordable costs, set up a scientific mechanism to monitor all affiliated colleges and ensure that tertiary health care is available free to the poor. Sadly, the State Government is going in the opposing direction. It is trying to divert funds from medical education to other purposes,’’ AIDSO convenor Mahantesh Bilur said. The government is using vague words such as “the funds will be used to improve the quality of health in the State” to take away the university’s money. AIDSO has learnt that the proposed Bill includes provisions such as appointing the Principal Secretary Health as the chairman of the university’s finance committee, instead of the Vice-Chancellor. This should not be allowed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-move-to-amend-rguhs-act-opposed/article38068165.ece
30 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||No support for bandh call: Chandargi||The action committee of Belagavi District Kannada Organisations will not support the Karnataka Bandh called by some Bengaluru-based Kannada organisations on December 31. Convener of the committee Ashok Chandargi has said that there are several other ways to convince the State Government of the need to take action against the disruptive activities of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) and there was no need for a bandh. Closing down the State will affect several small traders and daily wage workers, apart from affecting students, employees and businessmen. There is no need for a bandh, he said in a video released to his followers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-support-for-bandh-call-chandargi/article38068160.ece
30 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rani Chanamma varsity organises Azadi Ka Amruth Mahotsav||Rani Channamma University and Vidya Bharathi Uchha Shikshaa Samsthana organised Azadi Ka Amruth Mahotsav on Tuesday. Executive Committee member of RSS North Karnataka unit Ravindra delivered a special lecture on freedom struggle. He expressed concern over a trend of limiting national heroes to their caste groups. “Limiting Mahatmas to their castes is detrimental to the nation. That practice should stop,” he said. “Some vested interests are limiting leaders who fought for the betterment of the nation and society to their castes. Sri Basaveshwara, Shivaji Maharaj, B.R. Ambedkar and Sangolli Rayanna are world leaders and national heroes who fought to find solutions for the problems of society in the past. We should not affiliate them to smaller groups like castes and communities,’’ he said. He traced the history of the Vijayanagara empire, the Chalukya, the Maratha and the Kittur kingdoms. He also spoke of the Bhakti movement and social reform movements across the country led by saints and 12th century Sharanas, Purandaradasa, Kanakadasa, Ramadasa, Sant Jnaneswar, Sankaracharya and Madhvacharya. Basavaraja Padmashali, Registrar, RCU, Prakash Kattimani, Assistant Professor and coordinator of Vidya Bharathi Uchha Shikshaa Samsthana, and others spoke. Students and faculty of the Department of Political Science, and Journalism and Mass media were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rani-chanamma-varsity-organises-azadi-ka-amruth-mahotsav/article38068163.ece
30 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||MoU signed||Angadi Institute of Technology and Management (AITM) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with CGK Constructions and Real Estate for knowledge exchange, promotion of research and development, providing practical experience for students and faculty training, among other things. Chaitanya Kulkarni, founder, CGK CRE and CREDAI office-bearer, said that the MoU will help bridge the gap between industry and academics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-signed/article38068162.ece
30 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bhima Koregaon anniversary||Chetan Ahimsa, film actor, will inaugurate Bhima Koregaon anniversary to be organised by Dr. Ambedkar Jana Jagruti Samiti in Hukkeri on January 3. Sri Chandrashekar Shivacharya of Hukkeri Math, Forest Minister Umesh Katti, Member of Legislative Assembly Satish Jarkiholi, Congress leader Channaraj Hattiholi, and others will be present. Dilip Hosmani, president of the vedike, announced this in Hukkeri on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhima-koregaon-anniversary/article38068164.ece
30 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Flood alert issued in border villages||The district administration has issued an alert to farmers in the border villages of the Krishna in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts following reports of a sudden release of 2 tmcft of water from the Radha Nagari Dam in Maharashtra on Wednesday evening. Error Irrigation Department officials of the State said that Maharashtra has accidentally released the water due to an error during the repair of a crest gate at Radha Nagari Dam. However, there was no immediate threat of flooding in the river, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flood-alert-issued-in-border-villages/article38068166.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Troubled year for retail, entertainment industries||As a particularly troubled year for hospitality, retail and entertainment industries draws to a close, more than lamenting about its losses in the year gone by, the industry is worried about the upcoming year. They fear 2022 will be a repeat of the previous two years. If so, it would make it the third straight year of heavy losses. “The Omicron scare and restrictions imposed for the New Year’s Eve has a spine-chilling sense of deja vu in the industry,” said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, President, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Federation. The worst-hit The hospitality industry is one of the worst hit. “Of the over five lakh eateries we have in the State, at least 5% have permanently shut shop since the beginning of the pandemic. With work from home still being the norm, many hotels that had opened around workspaces have become unviable,” Mr. Hebbar said. The situation in retail and entertainment industries seem no different. Many malls in the city that used to be bustling with shoppers today wear a deserted look, with neither shoppers nor business establishments. “We have remained completely shut for almost six months in 2021. Today, there is a vacancy of nearly 40% in almost every mall in the State. Even those who are still operating are not paying rent on a regular basis. All retail business has taken a big hit. But the only sector that seems to be growing is online, at our cost,” said Uday Garudachar, BJP MLA and owner of Garuda Malls, a chain of eight malls in the State. The entertainment industry also has a similar tale of woe to tell; the growth of online streaming platforms at the cost of theatres. However, as theatres remained shut, the number of films released was down to a trickle compared to pre-pandemic times. Pre-condition for entry “Ever since the pandemic hit us, we have remained close for 15 months. Even for the few months that we have opened, we had 50% occupancy restrictions and double dose vaccine as a precondition for entry. Some rules do not make sense. For instance, why should we send back those without two doses of vaccine? A vaccine camp at theatres would help the government augment vaccine coverage,” said K. V. Chandrashekhar, President, Karnataka Film Exhibitors Association. He also said that at least 150 single screen theatres have permanently shut down in the state. The industry, after repeated appeals, found some reprieve in terms of rebates in property tax and waiver of standard deposit charges in power bills this year. However, establishments also complained that there has been no rebate in renewal of trade and excise licenses. Plea for govt. aid “If there is a lockdown or severe occupancy restrictions imposed in the coming year, the Government should extend these rebates and also give other benefits if we have to survive, if not, we shudder to think what will be our situation,” said a veteran from the pub industry in the city, who did not wish to be named. Others argue that it was high time we learnt to live with the virus and extreme restrictions and lockdowns were not the answer anymore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/troubled-year-for-retail-entertainment-industries/article38067920.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Development of footpaths, cycling tracks proposed||The draft active mobility Bill has been published by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) with an aim to “protect the rights of pedestrians and cyclists to safe, accessible, and connected pedestrian and cycling networks in urban areas in the State,” as well as “promote sustainable urban mobility and build healthy communities.” Explaining the need for the Bill, the draft says: “Karnataka is a highly urbanised State, and it is projected to have more than 50% of its population living in urban areas by 2025. Exponential increase in the number of private vehicles on the urban streets is causing congestion and deterioration of air quality in urban areas of the State, and is also resulting in high road fatalities wherein pedestrian and cyclists are more at risk of injury and loss of life. A large section of people of all ages and abilities walk or cycle to commute or for access to public transport. Improvements in pedestrian and cycling infrastructure also ensure equity as people from low income groups walk and cycle extensively.” The draft acknowledges that the current legal framework does not have specific provisions to determine and protect rights of pedestrians and cyclists — the most vulnerable among the road users — to equitable allocation of space on roads/streets, and a safe and accessible environment for walking and cycling. “The purpose of this Bill is to facilitate a transition to sustainable urban areas wherein streets and public places are designed and developed keeping in view the needs and requirements of all road users, and every road user is conscious and respectful of the rights of other road users,” it says. Among the proposals made in the bill are the preparation of a comprehensive mobility plan, “people-centric design of urban streets,” redevelopment of existing streets and new streets. “Urban local bodies and local planning authorities shall ensure that footpaths and cycle tracks or shared paths of adequate width are mandatorily provided in the development plans for all new streets in new or existing layouts and areas and are built accordingly. Such footpaths, cycle tracks or shared paths shall be connected to the wider pedestrian and cycling network in the area to form a complete and connected network,” it says. Development of footpaths, cycling tracks, safe crossings at intersections and street mid-blocks, pedestrianised streets or zones and ‘slow streets’ — urban streets in predominantly residential areas, school zones, hospital zones or with pedestrian volume higher than 2000 per hour for at least four hours per day — are among the other measures proposed. The draft Bill also tackles issues such as public transport infrastructure, first and last-mile connectivity Regulation and facilitation of public bike sharing and other shared micro-mobility modes Citizens can send their suggestions on the draft bill to dult@karnataka.gov.in by January 31, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/development-of-footpaths-cycling-tracks-proposed/article38067937.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||As cases rise, many apartments say ‘no’ to New Year bash||With the number of COVID-19 cases registering an increase in the city, many apartment complexes across the city have now decided not to have any New Year celebrations. The State Government has brought in strict regulations ahead of the New Year to check the spread of COVID-19, including night curfew and prohibiting celebrations in public places. The Bangalore Apartments’ Federation (BAF) has also issued two advisories to its member apartments to have muted/ minimal celebrations if at all, or avoid gatherings/ mass celebrations all together itself. Vikram Rai from BAF told The Hindu that with the risk emerging with the new COVID-19 variant, precautions taken by apartments should continue. Jayalakshmi C., a resident of an apartment complex in J.P. Nagar, said that the management committee had understood the gravity of the situation and had decided to do away with celebrations this time. “If we are to celebrate, we have to have it outdoors, and the guidelines state otherwise,” she said. An apartment complex in Hebbal-Kempapura recently hosted a huge Christmas party that saw attendance of several residents from different age groups. “We had a gala celebration, where we had dance performances and live food counters. While some residents wore masks, there were others who did not follow any COVID-19 appropriate behaviour,” said a resident. However, there has been no communication on new year celebrations. However, some apartments have taken additional measures, such as collecting vaccination details of all residents and help staff, apart from insisting on even guests to produce vaccination certificates at the time of entry. This, even though there are no directions from either the state government or the BBMP to do so. Meanwhile, BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta has been reviewing the measures taken in light of increase in COVID-19 cases in the city. On Wednesday, 400 cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban district. He told reporters that there were around 100 micro containment zones across the city, of which nearly 50% were in apartments. “We are localising the cases in the micro containment zones to check the spread,” he said and added that the jurisdictional health officials were coordinating with the apartments associations, residents’ welfare associations and residents’ groups to ensure that all the guidelines are implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/as-cases-rise-many-apartments-say-no-to-new-year-bash/article38067923.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plan put forward to resolve loudspeaker row||To resolve the issue of loudspeakers used in the mosques, a delegation comprising members of Imarat-e-Sharia met the City Police Commissioner with a device developed to control the decibels as per the prescribed levels. After the police raided some mosques and seized loudspeakers, the members consulted technical experts and developed a device to control the decibels of the loudspeakers at the mosques automatically. The delegation on Tuesday met City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, and other senior police officials seeking their permission to install the devices at all mosques across the city so that the problem can be resolved amicably. Assuring cooperation, Mr. Pant advised them to get the device certified from the competent authority before installation, and assured that the seized loudspeakers will be returned. “We are submitting the device to get it approved by the pollution control board, Moulana Maqsood Imran Rashadi, Imam, Jamia mosque, who led the delegation, told The Hindu . Following directions from the High Court, the city police had cracked down on many mosques.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-put-forward-to-resolve-loudspeaker-row/article38067921.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CBI books Customs officials||Two superintendents and an inspector of the Customs department are among five persons booked by the anti-corruption branch of the CBI for allegedly facilitating smuggling of over 3,200 kgs of red sanders, clearing it as a consignment of industrial ductile pipes this June. Based on a complaint filed by Deviprasad G., sub-inspector with the CBI, an FIR was booked on Wednesday against C. Venkatesh, Ananth Padmanabha Rao, both superintendents of Customs at air cargo, Devanahalli, Ravinder Pawar, inspector, customs, air cargo along with two private parties, charging them under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Deviprasad, who is the investigating officer in this case, conducted a preliminary inquiry into the alleged scam and found that an illegal export attempt was made by forging the documents by the accused officials and clearing it as industrial products in return for a huge sum of money. Mr. Deviprasad conducted an inquiry and submitted a report to the Customs department on December 21, before filing an FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbi-books-customs-officials/article38067928.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||LED street lights project in city fails to take off||The city’s wait for LED (light emitting diode) street lights seems to be getting only longer. After over three years of wait, the project to replace 4.85 lakh sodium vapour lamps with LED lights failed to take off, and the contract with the consortium led by Shapoorji Pallonji now stands cancelled. LEDs are typically long-lasting and are energy efficient. The failure of the pan-city contract to a single vendor under the Build, Own, Operate and Transfer (BOOT) model, where the consortium was expected to invest around Rs. 840 crore and recover costs over the next ten years, has put a question mark over the feasibility of the model during a slump in the economy. “The basic model is that we will share with the firm what we save in energy costs with the LED lights. The pan-city contract under the BOOT model failed to take off. So we may not go for a single vendor for the whole city and will likely opt for smaller tenders,” said Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. Looming uncertainty If the private sector doesn’t respond to the call for investments, the Government may be forced to invest, and in that case there is no timeline for the project, and may be pushed indefinitely, sources said. “The consortium, despite giving them several opportunities, has failed to deliver on both financial closures and on the first milestone. So we have cancelled the contract with them. We are working out modalities of new contracts to replace sodium vapour lamps with LED lights,” said Mr. Gupta. The cancellation of the contract came after the consortium allegedly failed to deliver on targets. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds charge of Bengaluru Development, had chaired a meeting in September and expressed unhappiness over the project failing to take off. As a last opportunity, he set the target of installing one lakh LED lights by December end. Spurred into action by this, the consortium began installing LED lights in multiple zones,but failed to reach the one lakh milestone. Sources in the civic body said there were also complaints about the LED lights installed - they were too dim and failed to light the streets adequately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/led-street-lights-project-in-city-fails-to-take-off/article38067934.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Eye donation: Exclusive number launched||Narayana Nethralaya that runs the Dr Rajkumar eye bank has launched an exclusive number – 8884018800 – through which those who wish to pledge their eyes can register their names. The eye bank will send a link to a form that has to be filled out to complete the formality of pledging. Once the form is filled out and submitted, the intended donor will immediately get an “eye pledge certificate’ and further instructions for eventual eye donation. The number was formally launched on Wednesday by film star Raghavendra Rajkumar, elder brother of Puneeth Rajkumar who passed away two months ago. The late actor’s eye donation gave sight to four people, thanks to a new technology adopted by Narayana Nethralaya. Mr. Raghavendra Rajkumar announced the launch of the exclusive number at the samadhi of Puneeth, where he along with some of his family members had come to pay his respects and perform rituals to mark two months of his demise. Bhujang Shetty, chairman and managing director of Narayana Nethralaya, said the hospital’s eye bank has witnessed a surge in eye donation pledges. “Ever since the late actor’s eye donation, 12,000 people have pledged their eyes. I am expecting at least 7 lakh more will pledge their eyes with the missed phone call facility that we have launched on Wednesday,” he said. “The number of eye donation pledges that had touched 10,000 in November have crossed 12,000 now. While 234 eyes were collected from the donors in November, 209 have been collected this month up to December 27. Previously, in a month, the eye bank would only get anywhere between 100 to 200 pledges,” the doctor added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/give-a-missed-call-to-pledge-sight-at-dr-rajkumar-eye-bank/article38067930.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hospital directed to refund excess charges||Manipal Hospitals in Hebbal has been asked to refund the excess amount it had allegedly charged from three COVID-19 patients. According to a press release here on Wednesday, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP), Yelahanka, Health Officer visited the hospital on Tuesday and found that three patients had been overcharged. The State Government has already stipulated treatment charges and medical facilities are bound to adhere to it. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) K.V. Trilokchandra said private hospitals can only charge patients the amounts prescribed by the Government. As per the Government orders, hospitals may charge Rs. 10,000 for general ward, Rs. 12,000 for HDU beds, Rs. 15,000 for isolation ICU (without ventilator) and Rs. 20,000 for isolation ICU (with ventilator). If any private medical facility is charging more than the prescribed amount, the public may contact the Chief Health Officer (Public Health) , Ph: 080-22975516 or Helpline Number 080-22660000 / WhatsApp number 9480685700.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-directed-to-refund-excess-charges/article38067925.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 caught for peddling drugs||CCB officials on Wednesday caught three Nigerian nationals and recovered synthetic drugs worth Rs. 80 lakh from them. The police raided a house in Bagalur and recovered 400 grams of MDMA, 40 grams of cocaine and 400 grams of hashish packed in soap boxes, officials said. Inquiries revealed that the accused came to India on business visas and overstayed to peddle drugs. The accused would source the drugs from their contacts in Mumbai. They were storing the drugs to sell them to their clients for the new year celebrations, Sandeep Patil, joint Commissioner of Police, (Crime), said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-caught-for-peddling-drugs/article38067935.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic, police officials review precautions||With an increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the city, senior civic and police officials reviewed the measures and precautions in place. On Wednesday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told reporters that there were indications of increase in COVID-19 cases. With the new year round the corner, the State Government had already issued guidelines, the enforcement of which will be jointly monitored by both BBMP and police personnel. “Citizens must follow mask discipline, as without it (masks), they are susceptible to infections. They must also avoid crowded areas,” he said. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said night curfew was being strictly enforced across the city. He said the citizens had cooperated with the police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-police-officials-review-precautions/article38067924.ece
30 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Edible oil prices down||The Central Government’s intervention has helped to reduce the prices for sunflower oil, said P. Chandra Shekhara Reddy, Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, South, Freedom Healthy Cooking Oils. In a press release, Mr. Reddy said “ Earlier this year, due to global factors the price of sunflower oil to consumers increased up to Rs. 180 per litre. Kudos to the intervention by the Government of India that initiated a series of cuts in duty on sunflower oil that helped us reduce the price to customers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/edible-oil-prices-down/article38067940.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 566 new cases, six deaths||Five new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus have been reported in Karnataka, taking the total to 43. In a tweet on Wednesday, Health Minister K. Sudhakar said four have a history of international travel from the U.S., Dubai, and Ghana. The fifth person travelled from Mumbai to Bengaluru by flight. “All positive persons have been isolated and primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested,” the Minister’s tweet said. Among the five are: a 22-year-old female, resident of Davanagere (travelled from the U.S.), a 24-year-old male from Bengaluru (returned from the U.S. via Qatar), a 53-year-old male from Tamil Nadu (who arrived at KIA from Dubai), and a 61-year-old male from Bengaluru (travelled from Ghana via Doha), according to the tweet. Meanwhile, the State on Wednesday saw an uptick in the daily fresh cases, with 566 new cases, taking the total to 30,05,798. The figure on Tuesday was 347. Bengaluru Urban reported 400 fresh cases and four deaths on Wednesday. With six deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,324. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 245 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,59,674. The State now has 7,771 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.52%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.06%. As many as 1,08,726 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 86,794 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,62,35,594.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-state-reports-five-new-cases/article38067913.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for trying to sell antlers of blackbucks||Two persons were arrested by the J.P. Nagar police on Wednesday. The police recovered two pelts and four antlers of blackbucks from them. The accused, Lokesh Narayanappa, 45, and Yarriswamy, 37, from Jalahalli ,were caught red-handed near Sarakki market while they were waiting for customers to make a sale, the police said. ‘Smuggled them in goods van’ The accused, Yarriswamy, confessed that he had hunted the two blackbucks from Palur forest area in Anantapur district, Andhra Pradesh, and smuggled it in a goods van to the city to sell it with the help of his associate, Lokesh, Harish Pandey, DCP, south division, said. The accused have been booked under various sections of the Wildlife Act and further investigation is on to ascertain their criminal background.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sale-of-blackbuck-antlers-two-held/article38067927.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not hiking price ceiling for tender works riles SC/ST contractors’ group||The State Government’s statement that there is no proposal to increase the ceiling for tender works from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 1 crore for SC/ST contractors has riled the Karnataka SC/ST Contractors’ Association. Minister for Public Works C.C. Patil informed the recently-concluded session of the State legislature in Belagavi that there was no proposal before the government to increase the increase the price ceiling. N. Mahadevaswamy, president of the association, said the State Budget in 2018-19 had proposed to increase the amount in construction works to Rs. 1 crore. Minister for Water Resources Govind M. Karjol, who earlier held PWD portfolio, had written to then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to increase the amount in tender works for SC/ST contractors. Besides Ministers V. Somanna and B. Sriramulu, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, MLAs H.K. Kumaraswamy, Nehru Olekar, K. Annadani, and N. Mahesh too recommended to the government to increase the price ceiling, he said. ‘Put on hold temporarily’ The Finance Department said the government has decided to put on hold the proposal temporarily following the instruction of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds the finance portfolio. But Mr. Patil’s reply to R.B. Thimmapur of the Congress in the Legislative Council that there was no proposal before the government has annoyed the SC/ST contractors, the association president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-hiking-price-ceiling-for-tender-works-riles-scst-contractors-group/article38067950.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BNP safari fees revised||Bengaluru Bannerghatta Biological Park, Bengaluru has announced that the safari fees will be hiked with effect from January 1. As per the revised rates, the fee for adults, children and senior citizens from Monday to Friday will be Rs. 300, Rs. 180 and Rs. 230 respectively, while it will be Rs. 380, Rs. 230 and Rs. 280 on Saturday, Sunday and government holidays. The charges of the AC bus safari and jeep safari too have been increased. The revision has been made to sustain increased expenditure towards fuel charges, feeding, maintenance, etc., the executive director of the park said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bnp-safari-fees-revised/article38067922.ece
30 December 2021||CHENNAI,KARNATAKA||‘Release Central funds at the earliest’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to advise the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to release the Central assistance sought by the State towards restoring infrastructure that were damaged during the northeast monsoon. The Central team for assessing the damage caused by incessant rain visited Tamil Nadu on November 21. The State government has submitted three memoranda seeking Rs. 1,510.83 crore for temporary restoration and Rs. 4,719.62 crore for permanent restoration of damaged infrastructure such roads, bridges and public buildings. The memoranda were submitted on November 16 and 25 and December 15. A copy of the Chief Minister’s letter to the Prime Minister was circulated to the media. “The financial position of the State government has been under severe stress due to the pandemic and the subsequent flood situation only accentuated it. The State disaster response funds have also been fully utilised. As you may agree, the affected people need to be compensated at the earliest to enable them to get over the present impact of the floods,” Mr. Stalin said. Damaged infrastructure also has to be reconstructed so that transport, irrigation, education etc., are put back in track, he added. Tamil Nadu witnessed unprecedented rain this year, resulting in heavy flooding, inundation of habitations, farm lands, loss of human and animals lives, damage to standing crops and infrastructure. The State undertook expeditious relief operations and restored normalcy in the shortest possible time, Mr. Stalin contended, and requested the Prime Minister to advise the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to release the assistance at the earliest.  The State Government has submitted three memoranda seeking Rs. 1,510.83 crore for temporary restoration and Rs. 4,719.62 crore for permanent restoration of damaged infrastructure such roads, bridges and public buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/release-central-funds-at-the-earliest/article38067948.ece
30 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||23 estate workers test positive||As many as 23 plantation workers of two estates located at Devihalli and Anemahal in Sakleshpur taluk of Hassan district tested positive for COVID-19 infection on Wednesday. A majority of them are native of West Bengal. Two of them had returned from West Bengal recently. The infected have been isolated. District Health Officer K.M. Sathish Kumar and other officials visited the two estates and reviewed the measures taken to avoid spread of the infection in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/23-estate-workers-test-positive/article38068329.ece
30 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: strict guidelines in place||Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N.Ramesh has issued guidelines imposing restrictions in the district to avoid the spread of COVID-19 infection. Restaurants, hotels, clubs and pubs should offer services to only 50% of the capacity between December 30 and January 2. The staff employed in these centres should carry COVID-19 negative certificate, besides having completed two doses of the vaccine. The number of participants in function including marriages has been limited to 300. The organisers should ensure the participants follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. From December 28 to January 7, a night curfew would be in place. The movement of the public between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. had been banned. Those who are into emergency services can travel with identity cards. However, there would be no restrictions on the movement of buses and trains. In Hassan Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has said the night curfew would be implemented effectively in the district. The police would take strict action against those violating the guideline. Hotels, home-stays and restaurants would be allowed to book only up to 50% of the total capacity between December 30 and January 2. “If the hotels have taken bookings beyond 50% in advance, they have to cancel and refund their customers. We have given instructions to the owners”, he said. The officer said every day 3,000 samples were being tested for the infection. The test positive rate had been 0.15%, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-strict-guidelines-in-place/article38068331.ece
30 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Every district will have Karmika Bhavan: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that Karmika Bhavan will be constructed in every district of the State and all amenities required for workers will be provided under one roof. He was speaking to presspersons after inaugurating the newly constructed Karmika Bhavan and dedicating the Shramik Sanjivini, a mobile clinic, in Hubballi on Wednesday. Appreciating the initiatives taken by the Labour Department, he said that Karmika Bhavans have been built in such a way as to offer all facilities under one roof. “Already, eight Karmika Bhavans have been built in the State and more such facilities will be built in other districts soon. Mobile clinic units have been launched to provide medical care,” he said and added that Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar has done a great job in providing relief to workers during the pandemic. The Chief Minister also announced that the mobile clinics have hi-tech and advanced medical equipment. Apart from providing first aid, various tests, including blood and urine tests, life saving drugs, ECG, and other services will be available in mobile clinics. In the coming budget, additional grants will be allocated for these mobile clinics, he said. Mr. Shivaram Hebbar, Public Works Minister C.C. Patil, Handloom, Textiles and Sugar Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, Cooperative Minister S.T. Somashekhar, Tourism Minister Anand Singh, senior officials of the Labour Department and others were present. The new three-storey Karmika Bhavan built in an area of 24 guntas at a cost of Rs. 7.5 crore has all basic amenities and fire safety installations. It will house various offices of the Labour Department, Labour Welfare Boards and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/every-district-will-have-karmika-bhavan-cm/article38068169.ece
30 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘BJP will bring misrule of Congress before people’||The BJP executive committee has resolved to take the issue of alleged misrule and corruption of the then Congress regime led by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah before the people, BJP State in charge Arun Singh has said. Speaking to presspersons on the sidelines of the committee meeting in Hubballi on Wednesday, Mr. Singh said during the Siddaramaiah regime, there was rampant corruption because of which some officials even took the extreme step of ending their lives. He said under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the party would win 150 seats in the next Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-will-bring-misrule-of-congress-before-people/article38067952.ece
30 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Eying 150 seats, BJP goes for micromanagement||The BJP State executive committee meeting has decided to strengthen the party at the booth-level by focussing on micromanagement involving ‘page pramukh’ and ‘page samithi’ to aim for winning 150 seats in the 2023 Assembly polls. Briefing presspersons after conclusion of the meeting, party State general secretary Mahesh Tenginakai said during the two- day deliberations, the strategy for next Assembly elections and organisational programmes for the next three months were finalised. He said the meeting resolved focus on ‘page pramukhs’ and ‘page samithis’. Various programmes for strengthening the organisation was emphasised upon and a clear message on not tolerating indiscipline was sent out, he said. Issues such as extending ‘Vistarak Yojana’ was also discussed. Preparations to secure 150-plus seats in the Assembly polls will be done meticulously, he said. He clarified that the issue of defeat in the Belagavi Council poll was not raised during the meeting and that the Jarkiholi brothers had taken prior permission from the State president for not attending the meeting. The executive also passed a resolution thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for restoration of Varanasi (Kashi) and ‘pro-people’ initiatives. The executive also resolved to hold the next meeting of the committee in Vijayanagar district on March 28 and 29, 2022. Regarding the slow pace of developmental works in the twin cities, Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa said he had taken up the issue with officials concerned. Works that were delayed due to COVID-19 will be expedited, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eying-150-seats-bjp-goes-for-micromanagement/article38067955.ece
30 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Seniors should resign to make room for new faces’||Stating that there was a need for modifying the State Cabinet on Gujarat model, Chief Minister’s Parliamentary Secretary M.P. Renukacharya demanded that senior Ministers should resign to make room for new faces. Speaking to presspersons on the sidelines of the BJP State executive meeting in Hubballi on Wednesday, he said that those leaders who had become Ministers for three-four times should voluntarily resign. ‘We will make an appeal to the party high command and the Chief Minister,” he said. Subsequently, when media persons sought a reply on Mr. Renukacharya’s demand, RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said they were ready to resign if the high command instructs them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seniors-should-resign-to-make-room-for-new-faces/article38067953.ece
30 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||ASI Hampi asked to propose World Heritage status for Buddhist site at Sannati||Efforts are on to include the Buddhist site excavated in and around Sannati, on the banks of the Bhima in Chittapur taluk of Kalaburagi district, in the World Heritage site list of UNESCO, said Additional Director-General (Conservation and Scientific Preservation), Archaeological Survey of India, New Delhi, Janhwij Sharma. A team of officials from ASI, led by Mr. Sharma, visited the Buddhist site on Tuesday and directed the Hampi Circle of the ASI to submit a proposal to the ASI, New Delhi, seeking World Heritage site status for the nearly 2,000-year-old Buddhist Stupa and the first inscribed portrait of Emperor Asoka. Directing the officials of the Hampi Circle, ASI, to submit the proposal, Mr. Sharma stated that conservation works on the Buddhist site at Sannati will be resumed by April 2022. There is no dearth of funds at ASI to take up conservation works, he added. The move came after a delegation led by Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav met Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Culture Arjun Ram Meghwal and ASI Director-General V. Vidyavathi in New Delhi and demanded that steps be taken for the conservation of the ancient site of Buddhism that is crying for attention. The ASI excavation at Kanaganahalli near Sannati unearthed the remains of a large stupa, along with a set of nearly 60 sculptures. Archeological excavations were conducted by the State Directorate of Archaeology in Sannati and by the ASI at the Ranamandala and Kanaganahalli sites. Sculptures and inscriptions found here attest to the vibrant Buddhist art and culture in the region and they will help archeologists in their research works, Mr. Sharma said. He said that the excavations at Sannati have contributed many Buddhist sculptures, including inscribed historical figures of Asoka and the Satavahana kings and depictions of the Jataka Tales. The discovery of an Asokan slab edict and his portrait is an important contribution to historical records, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-on-to-get-site-at-sannati-included-in-world-heritage-list/article38067957.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Allow Yakshagana Prasangas to go on till midnight’||Owners of different Yakshagana Melas (troupes) on Tuesday urged the Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner to allow melas to perform prasangas till at least midnight in view of night curfew being enforced till January 7. Meeting Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra under the banner of BJP Kale and Samskruthika Prakoshta, the owners informed the administration that hundreds of people depending on Yakshagana were already hit hard because of the COVID-19 pandemic since two years. Without there being any performances, artists are not getting salaries and have been leading a difficult life. At a time when the situation appeared to be returning to normal, imposition of night curfew again has brought misery to the artists, they said. Performances already booked are getting cancelled as the programmes cannot be held during the night now. Over 900 artists working with more than 30 troupes thus have been rendered jobless during the peak performance time, mela owners told the Deputy Commissioner. As the artists will lose income during the period, the administration should allow performances at least till midnight, they said. The owners also urged the administration to hold discussions with representatives of melas to make alternative arrangements for them. Otherwise, artists and their family members will hold a protest demonstration in front of the district office, they said. Senior artist Sarapadi Ashok Shetty, Rajesh Gujaran from Sasihithlu Mela, S.A. Varkadi from Mangaladevi Mela, Vinod Kumar Bajpe from Bappanadu Mela, Ramesh Kulashekara from Sunkadakatte Mela, Santhosh Shetty Kadthala from Nagashakthi Mela, artists M.K. Ramesh Acharya, Mijar Thimmappa, Srinivas Salian Bondel, Pradeep Kodyadka, Kodapadavu Dinesh Shettigar, Santhosh Karambar, Chandrashekhara Guruvayanakere, Sandesh Badagabellur and others were present. BJP Prakoshta convener Sarapadi Ashok Shetty in a release quoted Dr. Rajendra as saying that the administration will not disturb Yakshagana performance if the government gives freedom to the district administrations with regard to night curfew. Mr. Shetty urged elected representatives to get the night curfew order modified by the government.  ‘Hundreds of people depending on Yakshagana are already hit hard because of the COVID-19 pandemic for the last two years’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allow-yakshagana-prasangas-to-go-on-till-midnight/article38068411.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vimala Pai Konkani annual literary awards announced||The Konkani Bhas Ani Sanskriti Prathistan, World Konkani Centre, Mangaluru, on Tuesday announced Smt. Vimala V. Pai Vishwa Konkani Sahitya Puraskar, annual literary awards for Konkani Literature, for the year 2021. Massam, a collection of Konkani short stories by Antony Barkur (Antony Prakash D’Souza) was chosen as the Best Konkani Book of the Year (Prose), while Indradhonu Udeum, a collection of Konkani poems by Uday Narasinha Mhambro, was selected as the Best Konkani Book of the Year (Poetry). Suresh Jaywant Borkar was selected for the Vimala V. Pai Vishwa Konkani Jeevan Siddhi Samman 2021 for his life-time contribution to Konkani language pedagogy, grammar and lexicography, said prathistan president Nandagopal Shenoy in a release here. The awards carry a prize money of Rs. 1 lakh each along with an award memento which will be presetend to the recipient at the annual Vishwa Konkani Puraskar ceremony to be held at a future date which will be announced soon. The awards have been sponsored by T.V. Mohandas Pai in the name of his mother Smt. Vimala V. Pai and are being awarded every year since 2010. The awards are based on a two-tier evaluation process. Firstly, a preliminary panel consisting of 16 referees recommends books shortlisted from among those published during the award period. Based on these recommendations, a five-member jury makes the final selections for the award. Award Jury for the year 2021, comprising Uday Bhembre, Kiran Budkuley, Payyanur Ramesh Pai, Melwyn Rodrigues and Gokuldas Prabhu, deliberated on the recommendations of referees and made the final selections based on merit of the literary works, Mr. Shenoy said. World Konkani Centre founded by Konkani Bhas Ani Sanskriti Prathistan, a premier Konkani organisation established in 1996 under the leadership of Vishwa Konkani Sardar Basti Vaman Shenoy, has been relentlessly working towards preservation of Konkani language and culture since inception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vimala-pai-konkani-annual-literary-awards-announced/article38068409.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Charvattur-Mangaluru Central train service restored, starting January 4||The Railways has finally responded to demands to restore Charavattur-Mangaluru Central Passenger, popularly known as Student Express, as an Unreserved Express Special starting January 4 besides restoring Mangaluru-Kozhikode Reserved Express Special. A release from Southern Railway here said that Train No 06491 Charvattur-Mangaluru Central Daily Unreserved Special will leave Charvattur at 6.20 a.m. to reach Mangaluru Central at 8.30 a.m. via Nileshwar, 6.30 a.m., Kanhangad, 6.40 a.m., Bekal Fort, 6.45 a.m., Kotikulam, 6.55 a.m., Kasargod, 7.05 a.m., Kumbla, 7.15 a.m., Uppala, 7.25 a.m., Manjeshwaram, 7.35 a.m. and Ullal, 7.45 a.m. The train will have 10 general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. Hundreds of students from Kasargod district in Kerala used to travel on the Charvattur Passenger every day to attend schools and colleges in Mangaluru and as such, the train was called Student Express. Though the Railways had restored other trains, the Charvattur Passenger was not operated, causing inconvenience to students. Ganapathi Group of Institutions Correspondent Mahesh Bondal, Pashchima Karavali Railway Yatri Abhivriddhi Samithi and others had been demanding the restoration of train services. Besides the Charvattur Passenger, the Railways has also restored the services of Mangaluru Central-Kozhikode Daily Reserved Express (Train No 16610) which leaves Central at 5.15 a.m. to reach Kozhikode at 10.15 a.m. starting January 3. This train will have 10 general second class and two lugage-cum-brake van coaches. Advance reservation for the service will open at 8 a.m. on Thursday, the release added.  The Southern Railway has restored unreserved coaches on some of the trains operating from Mangaluru Central Railway Station by declaring two each luggage-cum-brake van coaches on these trains as unreserved bogies starting January 1. These are: Train Nos 16605/16606 Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil-Mangaluru Central Ernad Express, 22609/22610 Mangaluru Central-Coimbatore-Mangaluru Central Intercity Express and 16324/16323 Mangaluru Central-Coimbatore- Mangaluru Central Express. In view of bookings already made for Train Nos 16649/16650 Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil-Mangaluru Central Parasuram Express, the conversion of two coaches into unreserved bogies will be effected on January 4, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/charvattur-mangaluru-central-train-service-restored-starting-january-4/article38068414.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Economy is being reset: Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said that the resilient attitude of people during the pandemic and government support are helping India reset its economy post-pandemic. Delivering the M.V. Kamath Centenary Memorial Lecture virtually to students of Manipal Institute of Communication, Manipal, Ms. Sitharaman said that the government prioritised people’s life through free foodgrains and vaccine when the pandemic and natural disasters affected people in 2020. She said that the IMF and World Bank have recognised India as the fastest growing economy after the pandemic. She also talked about memories she shared with M.V. Kamath and certain highlights from his reporting and writing career.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/economy-is-being-reset-nirmala-sitharaman/article38068413.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kota Sub-Inspector of Police suspended||Inspector-General of Police (Western Range) Devajyoti Ray on Wednesday placed Sub-Inspector of Police, Kota Police Station in Udupi district, B.P. Santhosh, who is accused of leading a team of personnel in lathicharging people gathered for a pre-wedding ceremony, under suspension. Mr. Ray passed the order based on a report by Udupi Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan. Six police personnel, who were part of the team, have been moved out of Kota Police Station, said a press release. After a complaint by residents about loud noise from a Mehndi function in the Koraga Colony of Kotathattu village, Mr. Santhosh and six personnel stormed into the venue and thrashed invitees and bridegroom Rajesh on Monday night. Several activists, Kundapur MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty and Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary had sought disciplinary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kota-sub-inspector-of-police-suspended/article38068405.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Judge lays foundation stone for judicial quarters building||Supreme Court Judge S. Abdul Nazeer on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for construction of eight flats under the first phase of construction of Judicial Officers Quarters B Block at Hathill here. The eight flats will come up in two blocks of four floors. Each flat will have built-up area of 252 square metres each and comprise one office, three bedrooms, hall, kitchen and dining room. The estimated cost of construction is Rs. 9.98 crore. These eight flats will come up opposite the A Block that has 12 flats that were constructed recently. Mr. Nazeer was accompanied by High Court of Karnataka Judges K. Somashekar and Mohammad Nawaz, High Court Registrar General T.G. Shivashankare Gowda and Dakshina Kannada Principal District and Sessions Judge B. Muralidhara Pai. Mangaluru Bar Association president N. Narasimha Hegde, Secretary H.V. Raghavendra and several senior advocates, including Kallige Taranath Shetty and Shambu Sharma, met Mr. Nazeer and sought help in expediting the process of construction of the new building for the Bar Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/judge-lays-foundation-stone-for-judicial-quarters-building/article38068416.ece
30 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccine for over one lakh adolescents||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Wednesday directed healthcare personnel to get ready to vaccinate as many as 1,01,549 people aged between 15 and 18 from January 3. Chairing a meeting in this regard, Dr. Rajendra said that the target group will get only Covaxin and preparations should be made to administer vaccine through educational institutions and jurisdictional health centres, he said. The Deputy Commissioner asked the concerned to draw a detailed plan of action for the purpose. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara, Additional Deputy Commissioner Channabasappa, District Health Officer Kishore Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-for-over-one-lakh-adolescents/article38068417.ece
30 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Police intervene as factions stage protest at Rangayana||Tense moments prevailed for a while at Rangayana here on Wednesday after a near face-off between the groups protesting against and supporting its director Addanda C. Cariappa. This led to the intervention of police, which issued a notice to the members of the “Save Rangayana” campaign to stop holding protests in front of Rangayana and shift their protest venue to the premises of the Deputy Commissioner’s office. The groups, however, dispersed. One group supporting Mr. Cariappa took exception to the continuation of protest by the “Save Rangayana” members despite the police notice. They argued that they too will hold the demonstration in front of Rangayana in support of its director if the protest by the other group is allowed. As the sloganeering by the groups in support of their demands intensified, the police intervened and asked the “Save Rangayana” members to vacate the venue saying that no protests are allowed outside the Rangayana as the protests were causing disturbance to the daily activities. After Tuesday’s padayatra, the ‘Save Rangayana’ activists led by Pa. Mallesh continued to stage a demonstration for the dismissal of the director for his alleged promotion of “communal agenda” in the repertory. Holding placards they sat in a dharna in support of their demands. On knowing this, the groups supporting Mr Cariappa, which staged a demonstration at the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Tuesday, entered the scene and raised slogans against the demand. The notice issued from the office of the Commissioner of Police to the ‘Save Rangayana’ members said no permission has been given for staging protest at Rangayana since December 20. Despite this, the protest has continued, affecting staging of plays and other activities at the repertory besides the cultural, public and other activities at Kalamandira.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-intervene-as-factions-stage-protest-at-rangayana/article38068333.ece
30 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||STPI incubation centre to be ready by March||The new building and the incubation centre of the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) is expected to be ready by March 2022 as the construction work of the IT infrastructure at a cost of Rs. 24 core is in progress at the Hebbal Industrial Area here. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Wednesday inspected the work which has been entrusted to the Central Public Works Department, Mysuru. The three-storey building has about 40,000 sq. ft semi-furnished ready-to-occupy raw space with data centre and network operation centre. It has an auditorium, conference hall, discussion rooms and cafeteria. The STPI Mysuru was allotted 2.36 acres of land through KIADB/KEONICS in January 2008, to attract and support the start-ups/SME in Mysuru region. The centre was inaugurated by the then Prime Minister, late A.B. Vajpayee, on November 1, 1998. Mysuru is the first non-capital city to have an STPI centre in India. Mysuru has shown significant progress in nurturing the growth of the software industry after the setting up of the centre, according to the STPI. The centre aims to promote the development and export of software and software services, including IT-enabled services, besides providing statutory and other promotional services to exporters by implementing software technology parks, electronics and hardware technology parks (EHTP) schemes and other schemes formulated by the government. It also provides data communication services, including value-added services to IT/IT enabled services, and ITES related industries in addition to promoting micro, small and medium entrepreneurs by creating a conducive environment for entrepreneurship. The STPI aims to establish and manage infrastructure resources such as datacom facilities, project management and consultancy and IT support facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stpi-incubation-centre-to-be-ready-by-march/article38068336.ece
30 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Bommai will remain CM till 2023’||Refuting speculations over the change in leadership in the State, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Wednesday said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will complete his term till 2023 and added that the elections in that year will be fought under the leadership of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Mr. Bommai. Speaking to reporters, he said there shouldn’t be any confusion or doubt as Mr. Bommai will remain the Chief Minister until 2023 and rejected the claims/speculations about the change in leadership. Aspirations “Not everyone can become the Chief Minister though it is obvious that the 223 MLAs also dream of becoming the Chief Minister. Such aspirations are not confined to BJP. In the Congress too there would be people dreaming to become the Chief Minister,” he replied. Mr. Simha said the party’s senior leaders have clarified on the leadership issue at the State Executive meeting and there shouldn’t be any misperception on the issue anymore. Mr. Yediyurappa is the party’s tallest leader in the State and Mr. Bommai has been successfully leading the State as the Chief Minister. The party will fight the polls in 2023 under their leadership, he clarified. To a reference that the change in leadership issue has been raised by some BJP leaders, he said, “All 223 MLAs at the Vidhana Soudha aspire to become the Chief Minister. Many will show interest when asked about the Chief Ministerial candidate even in the Congress party. All of them will have such aspirations but only one person can become the Chief Minister.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-will-remain-cm-till-2023/article38068334.ece
30 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Drinking water supply timings to fluctuate in parts of Mysuru||The time of drinking water supply in parts of the city is likely to fluctuate till January 25, 2022, in view of the repair works taken up at the storage tank of Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW) in Yadavagiri. The areas to be affected include Mandi Mohalla, Lashkar Mohalla, Yadavagiri, Bannimantap A, B and C Layout, Eeranagere, Siddiqia Nagar, Shivarathreshwara Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Bada Makan, Haleem Nagar, parts of Devaraja Mohalla, Nazarbad, Vidyaranyapuram, Vishweshwaranagar, Chamundipuram, Lourd Nagar, Meena Bazar; Mysuru City Corporation’s (MCC) Ward No. 8, 17, 19, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 40, 41, 55. 60, 61 and 62, besides Metagalli and Hebbal Industrial areas, according to a press statement from MCC. Appeal The Executive Engineer of VVWW, in a statement, has appealed to the residents of the localities to store water whenever it is supplied and cooperate with the MCC. The repair works at the storage tank in Yadavagiri will be held between December 28 and January 25, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drinking-water-supply-timings-to-fluctuate-in-parts-of-mysuru/article38068330.ece
30 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||ICU ambulance service to be offered by MIMS||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh has directed officials to ensure that the ICU ambulance is made available for medical emergencies in all parts of the district. An ambulance costing Rs. 66.28 lakh was handed over to Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) at a function on Monday. She pointed out that the people of the district had experienced a variety of problems ever since COVID-19 pandemic hit them about two years ago. The absence of an ICU ambulance was among them. Several people staying in far-off villages had to undergo a lot of difficulties to reach the district hospital in Mandya for medical emergencies, she said while adding that many people had lost their lives due to non-availability of proper ambulance facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/icu-ambulance-service-to-be-offered-by-mims/article38068328.ece
30 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||TiE meet focuses on goals for Mysuru||A three-day conference organised by Mysuru chapter of The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) earlier this month saw speakers from different parts of the globe sharing their journeys and suitability of Mysuru to pursue entrepreneurial goals. Delivering the valedictory address at TiECON.LOCAL, serial entrepreneur and Managing Director of Telos Investments and Technologies, Bengaluru, Aroon Raman, said it is possible to create a world-class entity in Mysuru. “It is possible to create a world-class entity in Mysuru? Yes, it’s possible and we have done it”, said Mr. Raman, who was earlier associated with Raman Boards which was engaged in manufacture of insulation products. The three-day hybrid conference – of which the first two days were online and the last day offline – saw a total of 18 speakers from across the globe share their experiences through sessions spread across nine hours. “We had 18 successful entrepreneurs, mentors and investors across the globe address and share their expertise with the participants. More than 500 members attended the virtual sessions and 150 attended the offline event”, said a statement issued by TiE Mysuru chapter on Tuesday. B.V. Jagadeesh, founder of Kaaj Ventures, USA, who delivered the inaugural address, spoke on “newer trends for entrepreneurs” and listed “data (data is the new oil for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning), 5G, Human Genomics and Personalised Medicines, Digitizing Old to New (Internet Applications), Block Chain and Infrastructure for Modern Situations” among them. Member-HR, Capacity Building Commission (CBC), Government of India, R. Balasubramaniam, called upon entrepreneurs to come together and shape the future of the country. The meet saw the conferment of life-time achievement awards on Founder Chairman of Excelsoft Technologies M.H. Dhananjaya, Chairman of NR Group and NR Foundation R. Guru and former CEO OF Unilog Content Solutions Achutha B. Krishnamurthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tie-meet-focuses-on-goals-for-mysuru/article38068337.ece
30 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Ban order under Section 144 of Cr.PC imposed||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has imposed prohibitory oder under Section 144 of Cr.PC between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Thursday in a 200-metre radii from tahsildar offices in Yadgir, Gurmitkal, Wadagera, Shahapur, Shorapur and Hunsagi taluks where counting of votes will be taken up. Votes cast in elections to two town municipal councils, Kakkera and Kembhavi in Shorapur taluk, and byelections to five gram panchayats that were held on December 27 will be taken up for counting. The Deputy Commissioner has also imposed a ban on selling liquor through wholesale and retail centres between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. on Thursday, according to release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ban-order-under-section-144-of-crpc-imposed/article38068168.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fighting climate change without development blind spots||For three years, the congregation of All Saints’ Church has been struggling to change Namma Metro’s decision to build a concrete station box within its verdant sacred grove, a stunningly beautiful and serene garden in the middle of heavily concretised Bengaluru. Trees in this garden are gorgeously old, older than the 150-year-old charming and fragile church they embrace, a church with distinctive architecture designed by Robert Fellowes Chisholm, one of the pioneers of the so-called Indo-Saracenic style. To the European Investment Bank (EIB), which lent €500 million to Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), Governments of India and Karnataka promised Namma Metro would be built to European Union’s Environmental and Social standards, which require protecting cultural and religious heritage and biodiversity rich spaces. The guidelines require projects financed by EIB not to destroy carbon sinks, especially in heavily built metropolises. BMRCL argues that the price paid by the loss of this verdant sacred grove is the balance demanded by weighing environmental considerations with developmental priorities. It is also a popular sentiment, quite often employed to justify just about any mega project. Almost always, the judiciary agrees with this sentiment. But when a similar situation arose when for the Phase I of the Metro massive strips of the Jayanagar boulevard was to be clear felled, or when 416 roads were to be widened to accommodate more space for traffic – risking permanent loss of urban greenery and pedestrian and street vending spaces – Karnataka High Court had directed BMRCL, and also Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and all infrastructure development agencies to plan with people’s views and aspirations considered through democratic processes. Deep thinking and concern for the future is what past generations have demonstrated in how they have constructed urban spaces. Which is why we have such astonishingly biodiverse and beautiful gardens, as in All Saints Church, or Lalbagh, or Krishna Rao Park, Cubbon Park, Coles Park, the lovely boulevards and private gardens across the old Bengaluru. They are holders of fond memories, as they are of nesting landscapes with architectural flourishes, accommodating biodiversity, and reflective of compassionate decision making. All of which gets erased if a didactic approach becomes the dogma justified by claiming that is what sustainable development constitutes. Systemic reasoning Such systemic reasoning will not weigh the value of a lake, garden, stream, boulevard, wetlands and forests in utilitarian terms, but will appreciate their centrality to the struggle we are now engaged in globally to mitigate carbon emissions and stop runaway climate change. It is such compassion that is essential to ensure we do everything necessary to sink excess carbon in the air, and make not only our cities, but the world more liveable. The Make Bengaluru Climate Friendly – A Blueprint for Integrated, Participatory and Inclusive Urban Governance was evolved by the Environment Support Group, with deeply engaged participation from key representatives of multiple sectors: from the governments, academia, media, civil society, trade unions, vulnerable communities, etc. Through nine online discussions, a plan of action was built to make the metropolis sensitive to climate change’s harsh impacts and respond by integrating natural intelligence endemic to the place in formal decision-making. Resilient solutions The process focused on discovering resilient solutions to various complex challenges: urban flooding during monsoons and water scarcity in summer; massive investment in public transportation, yet traffic congestion and no space to walk and cycle almost everywhere; enhanced attention to personal and public health, yet health care is increasingly out of reach; massive increase of public investment in pollution control technologies, yet air and noise pollution is omnipresent and intensifying; the middle classes are getting wealthier, yet susceptible of lifestyle disorders as healthy food becomes beyond reach for most, while poor and working classes can barely afford nutritious food. Of a metropolis as a cosmopolitan space respecting aspirations and concerns of diverse communities, while majoritarian politics threatens community cohesion, policies encouraging ‘smart’ living, when tackling climate change require nuanced ground up planning and governance based on deeply democratic decision-making. The actions proposed were grounded in imagining what it would take to work with the frameworks proposed in Article 243 ZD/E of the Indian Constitution (introduced in 1992), which require representative planning and development decisions taking account of environmental limits to growth. In that sense they acknowledge how deeply futuristic our Constitution is, with Article 14 and 39 constituting the foundations of what was to become later as the basis on which the Rio Declaration is grounded, and of course the Common but Differentiated Responsibility paradigm. Inclusive, reasoned, intelligent, non-didactic decision making was found necessary and central to such imagining of transformations essential to secure interests of present and future generations, and sustainably. As the city struggles out of a November filled with unprecedented rains, which has broken the city’s infrastructure and forced thousands of families into a struggle to recover from the flooding of their homes, and as massive commercial and IT complexes built to make Bengaluru a ‘global city’ turned into fishing zones, the question looming large is if we are willing to acknowledge calamitous climate change induced impacts is already bearing down on our metropolis, or if we prefer to have our heads buried in sand. The broad message is that to sustain this metropolis into the future, we intelligently step away from past hubristic and undemocratic methods of governance, and engage in a politics which accommodates our diversities, and employs it’s enterprising nature as a vibrant engine that will groove us into extraordinary possibilities. Exploring which we can get into the journey of making Bengaluru an inclusive and climate friendly metropolis, and a model for the world.  (Leo F. Saldanha is part of Environment Support Group, an interdisciplinary policy analysis, advocacy and campaign initiative advancing environmental and socio-economic justice)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fighting-climate-change-without-development-blind-spots/article38067939.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New clothing?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-clothing/article38067932.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||The waiting game||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-waiting-game/article38068171.ece
30 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||CPI(M) panel moots action against Rajendran||A district-level panel of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], which looked into the alleged lapses of party leader S. Rajendran in the last Assembly election campaign, has recommended action against him, including expulsion from the party. The two-member probe panel was created to inquire into the allegations that Mr. Rajendran, a three-time MLA from Devikulam, had not actively participated in the election campaign of party candidate D. Raja and that he had abstained from party meetings held after the elections. M.M. Mani, Udumbanchola MLA, had said at an area committee meeting at Marayur that Mr. Rajendran would be expelled from the party if he did not correct himself and failed to obey the party. The district panel recommended to the State committee that action be taken against Mr. Rajendran, party sources said. Mr. Rajendran said that if the party wanted to expel him, they should do so. “There is no point in working with a party that does not trust me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-panel-moots-action-against-rajendran/article38068293.ece
30 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Hike compensation for wildlife attacks: Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said that the Opposition would pressurise the government to increase compensation for farmers suffering losses in wildlife attacks. Speaking to the media here on Wednesday after visiting a relay hunger strike staged by the Mananthavady Assembly constituency committee of the UDF seeking protection from wild animal attacks, Mr. Satheesan said the compensation provided by the government to farmers was as per the norms fixed in 2014 and it was very low. The Opposition would raise the issue in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hike-compensation-for-wildlife-attacks-satheesan/article38068221.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||It’s stocktaking time for Kochi Corpn.||The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which governs the Kochi Corporation, rates 2021 as a year of all-round success despite lacking a clear majority, while the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the opposition cannot disagree more.  The Hindu spoke to Mayor M. Anilkumar and opposition leader Antony Kureethara on how the Corporation fared this year. While Mr. Kureethara gave the Corporation a dismal two out of ten marks, Mr. Anilkumar said that though he was satisfied with the performance despite the challenges posed by the pandemic and lack of a clear majority, he would rather leave the rating to people before adding that people probably gave their verdict clear in the Gandhi Nagar by-election where the LDF enhanced its victory margin to over 700 votes. Waste management “The previous UDF council had to drop the proposal for biomining of waste at Brahmapuram plant for Rs. 16 crore in the face of opposition from the LDF, which is now going ahead with it at an inflated Rs. 70 crore,” said Mr. Kureethara. Mr. Anilkumar countered that waste management improved with the appointment of squads for cleaning up roads and fining offenders. “We cleaned up 10 acres at Brahmapuram where a temporary plant will be set up shortly. The UDF should introspect why it was indecisive about biomining despite having a clear majority,” he said. Online services e-governance, which was supposed to decentralise service delivery, has failed despite the investments in zonal offices, forcing people to visit the Corporation office often. Tax collection is in doldrums with tax receipts being issued in violation of the Municipal Act enabling many to take advantage of the chaos to secure stays from the court,” alleged Mr. Kureethara. The Mayor said that tax collection was never foolproof in the Corporation, and that the introduction of plinth area-based taxing coupled with e-governance was a step towards addressing the issue. “e-governance has enabled the Corporation to start issuing death and birth certificates online from November. Tax collection for buildings assessed prior to 2013 will start from February, while steps are being taken to clear the complications caused after an IT major that run the system abandoned it,” he said. Mr. Kureethara accused the Mayor of demanding an exorbitant Rs. 40 crore for the completion of the Corporation’s new building despite the previous council having got it 90% completed. “The entire estimate needed for the completion of the new Corporation building will be placed before the finance committee in keeping with the opposition demand and the council will be taken into confidence,” said Mr. Anilkumar. Health sector Mosquito menace, disruption of assistance to the elderly under Vyomithram project and dumping of waste along roads continue to mar the health sector, Mr. Kureethara said. “The year also saw court intervention in the day-to-day activities of the Corporation, from waste management and town vending zones to drinking water issue like never before,” Mr. Kureethara alleged. The Mayor claimed that the biggest success was achieved in the health sector by successfully withstanding the devastating second wave of the pandemic and delivering food on doorsteps during the crisis period. An unprecedented system of monthly review of the health sector in the presence of all stakeholders has also been put in place, the Mayor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-stocktaking-time-for-kochi-corpn/article38068256.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Women entrepreneurship project extended to more blocks in district||Impressed by the success of the Startup Village Entrepreneurship Programme (SVEP) in Vadavucode block panchayat where it was introduced on a pilot basis four years ago under the aegis of the District Kudumbashree Mission, the programme has now been extended to Vypeen and Alangad blocks in the second and third phases respectively. The programme under the National Rural Livelihood Mission created 2,129 women enterprises in Vadavucode instead of the targeted 2,054. The pilot project was launched alongside a block panchayat in Pathanamthitta in 2017. “We are planning to create around 1,500 women micro-enterprises in Vypeen in the next four years. The final phase of the 50-day training programme for the 27 micro-enterprises consultants (MECs) got under way on Wednesday,” said S. Renjini, Kudumbashree District Mission Coordinator. The programme is in the initial stage in Alangad block panchayat where the selection of MECs is under way. SVEP aims at the economic empowerment of women by harnessing their entrepreneurial skills. While SVEP is mainly a Union government project funded by the Centre and the State in the ratio of 60:40, a similar programme fully funded by the State government is being implemented in North Paravur block panchayat under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative. The idea is to create around 2,000 women enterprises in the next four years to rebuild lives in one of the worst affected places in the 2018 deluge. “The micro-enterprises created in Vadavucode block where SVEP programme has expired are now largely self-sustainable. Besides, they are also being assisted by the State government for scaling up and growing using the Kudumbashree entrepreneurship development funds in addition to offering support for marketing and branding,” said Ms. Renjini. SVEP is being run by a network of trained MECs and the Block Nodal Society for Enterprise Promotion (BNSEP) constituted with the chairperson and micro-enterprise convener from each Community Development Society (CDS) in the panchayats coming under the block. MECs identify potential entrepreneurs, conduct surveys to assess their interested areas, and help them with the preparation of detailed project reports and availing of bank loans. MECs are also guided by an experienced mentor with Kudumbashree background.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-entrepreneurship-project-extended-to-more-blocks-in-district/article38068244.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Unruly scenes at Kalamassery Municipal Council meet||Acrimonious scenes were witnessed at the Kalamassery Municipal Chairperson’s cabin on Wednesday morning after the ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) councillors and their counterparts from the opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) came to near blows over the premature dismissal of a council meeting after passing the agenda without discussion. In the melee, an LDF councillor, Lisy Karthikeyan, complained of discomfort and was rushed to a nearby hospital. Discontent has been brewing among the LDF councillors for a while over the alleged failure of the governing committee to issue the minutes of council meetings as legally mandated. “For the last one year, we haven’t received the minutes of a single council meeting. We had raised this issue at the last council meeting held 22 days ago and the Chairperson [Seema Kannan] had then said that minutes of the meetings would be issued before the next council meeting. But that wasn’t honoured and when we raised this demand, the Chairperson unilaterally declared the agenda comprising 22-odd items as passed and dismissed the meeting. She and the ruling councillors then trooped out of the council hall ignoring our protests,” alleged Henny Baby, the Opposition leader. Corruption alleged The LDF alleged ulterior motives behind the passage of the agenda without discussion as potentially corrupt deals figured in it. “There is corruption in the tendering of an earthmover for removing waste from roads. Besides, the bodybuilding work of the 10 autorickshaws bought for waste management was unilaterally tendered for Rs. 2.90 lakh ignoring the quotation of a government agency for Rs. 1.90 lakh,” alleged Mr. Baby. Ms. Kannan, however, shot down allegations of corruption. “The council clerk had asked for a few minutes to distribute the copies of the minutes but the opposition councillors were impatient even to allow it. The allegation that we have not issued the minutes of any of the council meetings is baseless as the minutes of many meetings had been issued. They continued to disrupt the meeting despite our requests, so I passed the agenda for which I have the right and the majority,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unruly-scenes-at-kalamassery-municipal-council-meet/article38068247.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||State-level launch of LIFE Mission third phase today||The Statewide inauguration of the third phase of Life Mission ‘Manassodithiri Mannu’, a campaign meant to identify land for the landless, will be held here at the Ernakulam Town Hall on Thursday. Minister for Local Self-Government and Excise M.V. Govindan will launch the programme and Industries Minister P. Rajeeve will preside. Kerala Life Mission sources said an MoU between the Kerala State Life Mission and Chittilappilly Foundation would be signed during the inauguration of the Life Mission-Chittilappilly Housing programme. Willingness The Foundation has expressed willingness to provide Rs. 2.5 lakh each to a thousand people for buying land for building houses under the Life Mission programme. Sources also said that a Kerala NRI from Nellikuzhi, near Kochi, had agreed to provide 50 cents for the housing programme. Online receipt According to the Local Self-Government Department officials, a total of 9,20,260 applications had been received online so far under the Life Mission programme. The Life Mission programme has been supported under various schemes like PMRY (Rural and Urban) as well as by the SC and ST Department, Fisheries Department and Minorities Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-level-launch-of-life-mission-third-phase-today/article38068257.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KSSIA to put forward demands to Industries Minister at meet||The Kerala State Small Industries Association (KSSIA) will accord a reception to Industries Minister P. Rajeeve and hold an interactive session with him here at the KSSIA Hall on Saturday. The association, representing around 8,000 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the State, is looking forward to meet the minister to air its views on the industrial scenario, especially against the backdrop of the opening up of activities after the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions and the new initiatives taken by the government to improve the ease of doing business and draw more private investments. Early this week, KSSIA had submitted a memorandum to the minister, highlighting, among other things, the implementation of the price preference policy. The policy declared by Union and State governments had not been implemented by government agencies, including public sector units and local self-government bodies. The policy was declared to help the marketing of products from MSMEs. The association also recalled that some of the concessions extended to MSMEs like exemption from Earnest Money Deposit when participating in a tender had been reintroduced after repeated requests from the industries. However, the demand for Security Deposits when participating in tenders is still in place. Large sums of money are demanded as security deposits when participating in a tender and most often there are difficulties associated with getting back these deposits, the association said. ‘Simplify rules’ KSSIA also appealed to the government to simplify the rules and regulations governing the construction of buildings meant to house industrial units. The association feels that small units being established in interior areas could be exempted from the purview of getting sanction from the Town Planner. At present, any factory building with an area of 1,500 sq.m. or more need the Town Planner’s permission. But such buildings in the area could be sanctioned by the panchayat concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kssia-to-put-forward-demands-to-industries-minister-at-meet/article38068243.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A quirky campaign against Kochi’s potholes||Jaison Antony, an independent creative advertisement consultant from Palarivattom, often roams around the city during early mornings either alone or accompanied by his wife. Rather than taking in fresh air to get his creative juices flowing, the advertisement professional of nearly three decades standing keep looking for potholed roads that could be death traps for unsuspecting motorists. He photographs the more dangerous ones and even takes videos complete with the comments of nearby residents and vendors. He then puts the pictures in photoshop and draws an image of Yama, the Lord of Death, around them and posts them on his social media handles with the hashtag Kaalankuzhi, which loosely translates as deadly potholes. He had even activated his Facebook page that had been lying dormant for years specifically for running the campaign, which has drawn eyeballs. There were a couple of incidents that served as a trigger for the campaign. A dangerous pothole right next to the Palarivattom metro station had drawn his attention more than a year ago. He wanted to do something about it but couldn’t as his work kept him busy. Then he came to know that it claimed a life after a husband and wife on a two-wheeler was felled by it. “I felt very bad about it, and I was nagged by the guilt feeling that had I acted on my thought I could have saved a life. Then I and my wife ourselves had a fall near Oberon Mall after our motorcycle get caught in two successive potholes in a drizzle. I was so infuriated that I blocked the road to fill the potholes with bushes and tree branches,” recollected Jaison. He believes that some of the roads that he featured in the campaign including Kathrukkadavu Bridge, Edappally, and Cheranalloor were resurfaced as a result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-quirky-campaign-against-kochis-potholes/article38068251.ece
30 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mystery continues over discovery of woman’s charred body||The investigation into the incident in which the body of a woman suspected to have charred to death was found in a room gutted in fire at her household at Peruvaram near North Paravur remained inconclusive for want of evidence to reconstruct the sequence of events to determine whether it was an accident or any foul play was involved. The charred body of a 25-year-old woman was found in her household on Tuesday afternoon. The police have registered a case for unnatural death. Adding to the mystery is the disappearance of the victim’s 22-year-old younger sister since the incident. Their parents were away and only the sisters were at the home when the incident took place. The police said that the missing woman had mental health issues and had gone missing twice in the past. The police had found her on both occasions and put her up in a shelter home after producing her before a magistrate. Later, the parents got her back home. Since then, they used to tie her to restrict her movement when they were away and that was the case on Tuesday. “As per medical reports, she was burnt to death and there were no signs of external injuries or assault. There was the smell of kerosene in the room. We will have to find the missing girl to reach any kind of conclusion,” the North Paravur police said. Incidentally, though the younger sister had gone missing, the gate to the house had remained closed indicating that she might have scaled the wall. The police could not find any helpful footage from the CCTVs around the household though she was found walking along the road from another CCTV on Wednesday afternoon. The police have found some bloodstains from the scene and would sent them for further examination. The victim had reportedly called the parents repeatedly before she met with the tragic end. People in the neighbourhood had noticed smoke emanating from the household and alerted the police and fire force personnel. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) visited the spot on Wednesday and took stock of the progress of the investigation. Efforts have been intensified to trace the missing woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mystery-continues-over-discovery-of-womans-charred-body/article38068249.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,500 cops to keep New Year revelry in check||K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), has warned of strict action against New Year revelry if any one is found in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. The Ernakulam Rural police have put in place elaborate arrangements to ensure that the celebrations pass off without any untoward incidents. Nearly 1,500 police personnel will be deployed for security from the day before New Year eve. Using the public announcement system, organising programmes in public spaces without prior permission and bursting firecrackers in public places remain banned. Those found driving under the influence of alcohol will be sternly dealt with. Vehicle checking will also be intensified to detect drunken driving and the licences of those found guilty will be suspended. Liquor outlets will not be allowed to function beyond the permissible time limit. Outlets will be closely monitored for any possible violations. Men and women police personnel, both in uniform and in plainclothes, will be deployed at public places, beaches and parks to check public drinking and troubling of women and children. Trained police personnel have been deployed for the detection of those dealing in drugs and other narcotics. CCTVs have been mounted on beaches and parks to observe the happenings round-the-clock. Special bandobast and patrolling will be implemented in all rural police station limits from the evening of December 31. Camera-aided enforcement will be undertaken against overspeeding while checking drivers will also be held with the help of interceptor vehicles. Police personnel in plainclothes will be deployed at tourists spots to ensure that visitors, including foreign tourists, are not troubled. “People should avoid crowding in beaches and other public places. Visitors will not be allowed to enter beaches after the permitted time. People should also cooperate by avoiding DJ parties,” said Mr. Karthik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1500-cops-to-keep-new-year-revelry-in-check/article38068252.ece
30 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea to govt on medical insurance scheme||The Kerala Pradesh School Teachers’ Association, Ernakulam district unit, has urged the government to address the anxieties of government servants and teachers regarding Medisep, a comprehensive medical insurance scheme. “Enough number of hospitals have not been empanelled for treatment. The present situation demands going around looking for hospitals for different illnesses. The OP reimbursement condition could lead to needless interventions,” the KPSTA district leadership meet said here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-govt-on-medical-insurance-scheme/article38068239.ece
30 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rubber price crashes||The price of RSS 4-grade of natural rubber has taken a hit, falling to the range of around Rs. 162 a kg even as farmers were hoping that the price could breach the Rs. 200-level. The price had risen to over Rs. 190 about a fortnight ago. Farmers had expressed the hope that the price would at least hold steady as supply had been short. One of the reasons being cited for the fall in price is the increased tapping. With the withdrawal of a prolonged rainy season, farmers have began to tap rubber trees in right earnest. However, the long spell of rain and the onset of the dry season has seen rubber trees shedding leaves and latex yield being reduced considerably, said Pius Cherian Pottamkulam, a rubber grower. The peak season for rubber production is usually between November and February. However, changes in climatic conditions had seen heavy rain late into the year, resulting in loss of tapping days as well as reduction in yield. However, the rubber growers had a considered view that the difficulties associated with import and a short supply would help sustain the price. The rubber industry had approached the government to allow import of natural rubber at concessional rates, which had not been considered by the government. At the same time, a shortage of containers had resulted in a hike in freight rates, preventing profitable import of the commodity, Mr. Pius said. Shajimon Jose, a rubber grower in Kanjirappally, said the price of the commodity in the international market had ruled low amidst allegations that the industry players were trying to suppress the price. The January-February season used to see a peak in production in the past but the present climatic conditions would see a drop in production, he said. The farmers have also complained of a severe reduction in latex yield from trees because of the severe heat conditions. Figures from the Rubber Board showed that the average price of rubber was Rs. 125.95 during 2018-19; it went up to Rs. 135.22 during 2019-20. There are 8.22 lakh hectares under rubber in the country of which 6.9 lakh hectares comprise tappable area and the annual production is around 7.15 lakh tonnes. Meanwhile, Rajiv Budhraja, Director General of Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’ Association, told The Hindu that the demand scenario had weakened for the tyre industry in India. The tyre segments that were natural rubber-intensive such as medium and heavy commercial vehicles and tractors were under stress. The latest data showed that truck and bus tyre production had entered the negative territory in October 2021 with 2% drop in production. In the case of tractor front tyres, the drop in production in October 2021 was 26%. The trend of decline in production seemed to have continued in November and December too, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-hopes-dashed-as-rubber-price-dips/article38068242.ece
30 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala HC for distribution of land to tribespeople||The Kerala High Court has directed the State government to implement in six weeks its decision to grant pattas to the forest land in the possession of tribespeople and to speed up the distribution of 19,000 acres of forest land to landless tribespeople. The court passed the order recently on a writ petition by Adivasi Kanikkar Samyuktha Sangam, Thiruvananthapuram, and two others. The petitioners sought to disburse the remaining vested forest land out of 19,000 acres released as per order of Supreme Court for the distribution to landless tribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-hc-for-distribution-of-land-to-tribespeople/article38068258.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Migrant workers’ clash with police: 10 more held||Ten more persons have been arrested in connection with the clashes between the police and the migrant workers engaged by Kitex Garments on Saturday night. The fresh round of arrests comes a day after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the case launched a full-fledged investigation on Tuesday. With this, 174 arrests have been made in the case. The 19-member SIT is led by Perumbavoor Assistant Superintendent of Police Anuj Paliwal and comprises two Inspectors and seven sub-inspectors. The SIT continued the evidence collection on Wednesday and is going through CCTV footage even as steps are being taken to move for the custody for the key accused. Meanwhile, a Labour department team led by State Labour Commissioner S. Chithra inspected the migrant labour camps being maintained by the company at Kizhakkambalam. The team visited three labour camps, including one for women, and three units of Kitex Garments. Checking violations “This was a preliminary inspection, on a directive of the State government, to look into the working environment of the migrant workforce and whether there were any labour law violations. A report on the inspection will be submitted to the government immediately,” said Ms. Chithra, who declined to divulge findings of the inspection. Any further inspection will be based on the decision by the government. The Kunnathunadu police had registered two First Information Reports, one each for the assault on Inspector V.T. Shajan and for the arson and damage to public properties worth around Rs. 12.05 lakh. A total of 300 identifiable persons were arraigned. Till Wednesday, 51 persons were arrested in connection with the first case and 113 in the second case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-workers-clash-with-police-10-more-held/article38068263.ece
30 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||ASI officials visit Monson’s house again||The Crime Branch probing the cases against the alleged fraudster Monson Mavungal continues to await a report from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) about the authenticity or rather the lack of ‘antiquities’, which the accused used to show off to spread his sphere of influence. A report that was expected from the ASI in September last never materialised, leaving the investigation team to fire off a volley of reminders, sources associated with the investigation said. Yet another team from the ASI visited the house of the self-styled antique collector and alleged conman in Kochi to inspect the ‘antiquities’ on Wednesday. The five-member team was led by ASI Bangalore Regional Director. A Crime Branch team led by a DySP was also present during the inspection. The ASI team has conducted an inspection earlier and the latest team was from what was known as Appeal Committee to initiate further investigation into the findings found during earlier inspection. The team is expected to submit a detailed report, said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/asi-officials-visit-monsons-house-again/article38068245.ece
30 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man arrested under KAAPA||The Ernakulam Rural police on Wednesday arrested a man accused in multiple cases, including two murders, under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA). The arrested man was identified as Athul Sudhakaran, 23, of Mulanthuruthy. He was arrested on a report by K. Karthik District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-under-kaapa/article38068248.ece
30 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kulakkada CHC to host de-addiction centre||The Excise department will soon open the second de-addiction centre in the district under the Vimukti Mission, its anti-narcotics campaign to curb the growing menace of substance abuse. The 10-bed facility coming up at the Kulakkada Community Health Centre (CHC) will offer free treatment and medicines for those in need of professional help. “The government has plans to start Vimukti de-addiction centres in all taluks and we already have a centre at the Ramarao Memorial Taluk Hospital, Nedungolam, Paravur. A caregiver is the only requirement for inpatients,” said an official. Since a lot of youngsters have been visiting the centre at Nedungolam for treatment, the department is also considering a proposal to increase the number of beds. “We often guide youngsters, especially students you are taken into custody from any excise range in Kollam for the possession of narcotics. to the centre. With the permission of their parents, we arrange consultation and admission,” he adds. The centre at Kulakkada will have a consultant psychiatrist, doctor, clinical psychologist, psychiatric social worker, and three staff nurses along with security and cleaning staff. The centres jointly operated by the Excise and Health departments will have all facilities to rehabilitate alcoholics and addicts while counselling sessions are also offered. They will be functioning 24x7. Spike in cases According to officials, the district has reported a spike in substance abuse cases while the number of youngsters using narcotics is also on the rise. The department has intensified surveillance and enforcement measures after a series of seizures and a total of 19 cases have been registered in the district during December. In the previous months, synthetic drugs, including MDMA and nitrazepam tablets, were recovered from various parts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kulakkada-chc-to-host-de-addiction-centre/article38068297.ece
30 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Constitution literacy drive begins in Kollam||Making everyone aware of the civil rights ensured by the Constitution has become a necessity of the times, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J.Chinchurani said here on Wednesday. She was inaugurating ‘The Citizen 2022’, a constitution literacy campaign jointly organised by the Kollam district panchayat, District Planning Committee, and the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA). A special planning committee meeting held at the district panchayat Jayan memorial hall evaluated the preparations for the campaign. District panchayat president Sam K. Daniel, who presided over the function, said the aim was to declare Kollam totally constitutional literate on August 14, 2022, midnight. Awareness campaign Steps would be taken to create awareness about the Constitution among all persons above the age of ten. Campaigns and training programmes would be conducted in schools, houses, and institutions with the help of local self-government institutions. Volunteers trained by KILA would handle the sessions. Special handbooks would be prepared for children and adults to create awareness. “The campaign will be made a success with the participation of the public,” said Mr. Daniel. The meeting was attended by members of the district planning committee, local government representatives, and officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/constitution-literacy-drive-begins-in-kollam/article38068301.ece
30 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Adalat for senior citizens held in Kollam||The District Maintenance Tribunal and the Social Justice department jointly organised a grievance redressal adalat for senior citizens on Wednesday. While more than 25 cases were considered, 14 were settled at the adalat. Subcollector Chetan Kumar Meena, who is also the presiding officer of the tribunal, led the adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adalat-for-senior-citizens-held-in-kollam/article38068298.ece
30 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||The College of Engineering, Kottarakkara, functioning under the IHRD, has invited applications for short-term courses starting from January. PGDCA, DCA, DDTOA, DCFA, CCLIS, DLSM, ADBME, PGDED and CCNA are the courses offered. Application forms are available on the websites ihrd.ac.in and cekottarakkara.ihrd.ac. For details, call 8547005039 or 0474-2453300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article38068299.ece
30 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Christmas, New Year celebrations at YMCA||Joshua Mar Ignathios, senior vice president, Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India, inaugurated the Christmas and New Year celebrations organised by the YMCA, Karikkam, here on Wednesday. President K.O. Rajukutty presided over the function while Fr. Sajan Thomas, Rev. Prakash Mathew, Fr. Koshy John, and Abraham Karikkam spoke. Choir groups from various churches led the carol service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/christmas-new-year-celebrations-at-ymca/article38068300.ece
30 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Green shoots of revival, but concerns remain||It’s an unusual yet a welcome sight in a pandemic year; visitors making a beeline to hill stations and beaches and most hotels packed to capacity while the weather is at its most convivial after a long spell of showers. As more locals look for a break closer to home, the Christmas-New Year season has provided a welcome boost to the tourism sector hit by the pandemic. The footfall is still well down the pre-pandemic levels (domestic arrivals were down 26.18% in the first six months of 2021 when compared to the same period in 2020) . Mixed bag The resurgence, however, is just one part of the story unfolding over the tourism sector. With new variants of the coronavirus and variations in vaccine policy across the globe, this mixture of pain from economic loss and seasonal relief looks set to continue. “Foreign bookings are yet to come in in view of the Omicron scare but domestic movement, especially family travel, is on a clear upsurge since October. The figures may be much lesser but it still mark a sharp departure from the days of zero business as witnessed in the previous months,” says K.Rupesh Kumar, State Coordinator, Responsible Tourism Mission Kerala. Taking note of the evolving market situation, the stakeholders too have begun reworking strategies. For instance, the RT Mission Kerala has rolled out a new set of packages with focus on activities such as farm tourism to suit the interest of domestic travellers. “As many as new 150 agri-tourism units have been functional while another 400 units are ready across all 14 districts,” says Mr. Kumar. While the recovery remains fragile and uneven, the human and economic cost of the pandemic-induced slump is vast. Hotels and local business had remained shut for long and people employed in the tourism sector were forced to take up menial jobs for a living. Relief packages and loan assistance schemes of the government have done little to keep them afloat. Short-term plans Admitting that the economic hit was brutal, V.Venu, Additional Chief Secretary, Kerala Tourism, says the signs of a revival are palpable across the sector though it may take some time for these to take shape. “From the experience we have in the final quarter of 2021, Kerala is going to witness a vibrant and brisk domestic tourism business in the coming year. The business that are generated locally and the neighbouring States are our markets for the immediate future and they indeed have the capacity to sustain the business,” he says. “We are still in a grey area and, hence, the idea is to plan for the short-term and continue to do this tactical work,” Mr.Venu adds with a note of caution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-shoots-of-revival-but-concerns-remain/article38068303.ece
30 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Karshakasree recognition||P.Bhuvaneswari, a farmer from Elappulli in Palakkad, has been selected for the biennial Karshakasree award for outstanding farmer in the State. The award, instituted by Malayala Manorama, carries a cash prize of Rs. 3 lakh, gold medallion, and citation. Ms. Bhuvaneswari, the 16th recipient of the honour, was selected for the award by a judging committee headed by former Supreme Court Chief Justice P. Sathasivam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elappulli-farmer-gets-karshakasree-award/article38068306.ece
30 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Read and Publish programme launched at MGU||Higher Education Minister R.Bindu has urged higher education institutions to make use of the ever-evolving digital technologies for academic advancement. She was inaugurating online the Read and Publish programme of Mahatma Gandhi University, held in association with the Cambridge University Press, on Wednesday. Academic advancement She said research projects should focus on academic advancement and local development. She also lauded the MGU for the initiatives taken towards compiling the knowledge available globally with the assistance of digital and information technology. Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas presided over the function, organised by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of the varsity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/read-and-publish-programme-launched-at-mgu/article38068305.ece
30 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beypore Water Fest concludes on a glittering note||Traveller Santhosh George Kulangara never expected that the Tourism Department would implement an idea he had casually mentioned to Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas. Addressing the massive crowd at Beypore on Wednesday during the concluding ceremony of the four-day Beypore Water Fest, he said, “Beypore has astonished me. This festival has replaced Thrissur Pooram as the biggest extravaganza in Kerala with maximum public participation.” Nearly four lakh people from Kozhikode and neighbouring districts turned up for the festival, which the Tourism Department claims to be one of the biggest water-themed festival in the country. “This is just the beginning. It may have drawbacks. But we will hold a bigger and longer festival next year,” Mr. Riyas said, adding that the department would hold similar festivals in the coastal regions in the coming days. Similarly, kite festivals are planned in all major beaches. The Minister also announced that a surfing school would be opened in Beypore as part of developing the region as a centre for all water sport activities. “Members of the fishing community here will be trained to become faculty members at the school,” he said. Actor Manju Warrier, who was the virtual guest of honour at the ceremony, in her audio message appreciated the efforts made by the department in hand-holding the tourism sector in its journey to normality post-COVID. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy, District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George, and Mayor Beena Philip were present on the occasion. Earlier, a procession of illuminated boats with plots carrying artistes performing the traditional art forms of Kerala attracted quite a crowd. The boats were joined by tow vessels of the Indian Coast Guard. Competitions such as bamboo rafting, canoeing, and sailing were held during the day along with demonstrations on flying board and kite board. Coast Guard helicopters flew past the festival ground in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beypore-water-fest-concludes-on-a-glittering-note/article38068231.ece
30 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IIM-K lone B-school on ARIIA rank list||The Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIM-K) has been recognised as the second most innovative educational institution among institutes of national importance, Central universities, and Centrally-funded institutions (non-technical) in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA), an initiative of the Ministry of Education. The ARIIA Rankings 2021 was released by Union Minister of State for Education Subhas Sarkar at an online event streamed from New Delhi on Wednesday. IIM-K is the only IIM to feature in top rankings across seven categories of ARIIA, which ranks all major higher educational institutions and universities on indicators related to innovation and entrepreneurship development. IGNOU, Delhi IGNOU, Delhi, topped the category of National Importance, Central University, and CFIs (non-technical). A total of 1,438 institutions, including IITs, NITs, IISc, and IIMs, participated in the current edition of ARIIA. This is the first edition of ARIIA, in which a separate category for non-technical institutions has been introduced. In the 2020 edition, IIM-K was placed in Rank Band A (Rank 11-25) in the category of Institute of National Importance, Central Universities, and Centrally Funded Technical Institutes. Speaking on the stellar achievement, IIM-K Director Prof. Debashis Chatterjee said, “The institute’s career best fourth rank in NIRF and second rank in ARIIA make our silver jubilee year all the more special. Innovation is the bedrock on which IIM-K has dared to go beyond traditional boundaries, and providing the right motivation and guidance to bolster entrepreneurial spirit is fundamental to our Vision-2047 of Globalizing Indian Thought.” IIM-K has its own business incubator and entrepreneurship development centre, IIM-K LIVE, which was established in 2016 with the support of the Department of Science and Technology. The centre is envisioned to function as a business incubator with the purpose of creating a National Centre of Excellence that promotes innovation, new business ventures, and entrepreneurship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-lone-management-school-to-feature-in-ariia-ranking/article38068227.ece
30 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Government urged to shelve SilverLine project||The Society for the Protection of Environment, Kerala (SPEK) has called upon the State government to take up the modernisation of the existing transportation system, including railway network, instead of going for the multi-crore SilverLine project. In a press release issued here on Thursday, SPEK functionaries alleged that the SilverLine project would never be an ideal solution to stagnated development activities in the State.  Not useful They also claimed that it would never be useful for a majority of train passengers. SPEK State president K. Vijayan and secretary K.K. Devadasan said that the benefits of the proposed project would be available only to a minority segment of the public, not to mention the huge loss to operators and investors who would be part of the project. “One of the practical ways to facilitate speedy rail travel is to reduce the existing number of stops while sanctioning new services,” they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-urged-to-shelve-silverline-project/article38068232.ece
30 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||10,000 km in 20 days on Contessa, a point well proven||Jabir and his cousins were ready for anything. They had a tool kit, spare parts, and even a puncture kit ready in case their ‘98 model Contessa broke down. But they did not have to use any of it. Back home after a 10,000-km journey across India and a visit to Nepal, as far as Jabir is concerned, it is a point well proven. “There are people who question the calibre of my Contessa. I am happy that I could prove them wrong,” Jabir said. Jabir P., Niyas K.P., Ameen K., and Younis K.P., all travel enthusiasts, are cousins on their mothers’ side and hail from different parts of Malappuram district. They set off from Morayur in Malappuram on December 8 and travelled along the western parts of India to reach Srinagar. They visited Nepal before returning through the eastern side of the country. “We had very good support from people everywhere who were curious about our car. Everyone was wishing us a happy journey, and at the border, soldiers were keen on taking pictures with us and the car,” Jabir said. It was four years ago that Jabir purchased the car and became a member of Conty Club India that has members across the country. “We share the same enthusiasm about the vehicle, which is known for the comfort it offers. However, it was not fit for rough use. The mileage of 15 to 20 km per litre of diesel is good enough too,” he said, rejoicing over the support extended by members of the club wherever they went. On Wednesday, Conty Club in Kerala accorded the foursome a warm welcome at the Walayar checkpost. “None of us are mechanics, and we were prepared for the worst that could happen with the vehicle. We have experience repairing a vehicle over video call with a mechanic. Conty Club members were there to help any way,” Jabir explained. Having barely reached home after 20 days, the foursome are now planning their next trip with their trusted friend, the 23-year-young Contessa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10000-km-in-20-days-on-contessa-a-point-well-proven/article38068220.ece
30 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Meet discusses cruise service to Lakshadweep||The scope of operating passenger ships exclusively for tourists between Beypore and Lakshadweep was discussed at a State-level meeting attended by Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil at Port Bungalow here on Wednesday. At the meeting hosted by the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industries (CCCI), a team of officials representing the Laskhadweep Administration also made suggestions on the innovative proposal to promote tourism. According to CCCI functionaries, the idea of launching the service with the support of stakeholders was first suggested by the Minister himself. If implemented, it will serve Minicoy, Agatti, and Kavaratti under the banner of Kerala Tourism, they said. Facilities such as food and dining to attract tourists were also discussed at the meeting. Meanwhile, the demand for a dedicated wharf for anchoring vessels from Lakshadweep at Beypore was again raised at the meeting for prompt action. Though a Memorandum of Understanding had already been signed for the project, it had failed to take off. CCCI functionaries said the other demands included the launch of a dedicated 24x7 ambulance service for rescue operations and roll-out of pick up vans or buses for passengers at the port to facilitate easy boarding as in airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-discusses-cruise-service-to-lakshadweep/article38068233.ece
30 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||ARIIA ranks NIT-C numero uno||The National Institute of Technology Calicut (NIT-C) has secured the ninth rank at the national level in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA-2021). The institute is also the first among NITs in the category of Centrally Funded Technical Institutes, Central Universities, and Institutes of National Importance (Technical). NIT-C Director Prof. Prasad Krishna lauded the efforts of stakeholders for the achievement. The hard work of the entire NIT-C fraternity helped the institute retain the top position despite constraints due to the pandemic, he said. To promote entrepreneurial culture among students, the NIT-C’s Institute Innovation Council (IIC), set up with the guidance of the MIC Institute of Technology, regularly conducts workshops and mentoring programmes. Many students have developed prototypes and won prizes under IIC guidance. Besides, NIT-C had set up a Technology Business Incubator (TBI-NITC) in 2003-04 with the support of the National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB), Department of Science and Technology, to incubate start-ups in IT and electronics. 88 start-ups TBI has extended incubation facilities to 88 start-ups so far. Many training programmes are conducted throughout the year for entrepreneurs to help them set up and grow businesses. A dedicated Fab Lab facility is being set up at the institute for innovators. From around Rs. 1.64-crore research funding in 2014-15, NIT-C has grown to securing a funding of Rs. 6.89 crore in 2020-21. To promote and nurture innovations by students, the institute has initiated funding to the tune of around Rs. 25 lakh since 2018. NIT-C was granted 14 patents and three copyrights for technologies developed by its researchers since 2018, and 20 patent applications are under evaluation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stellar-show-by-nit-c/article38068228.ece
30 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Awards for metal casting firm||Kozhikode-based Peekay Steel Castings has received three awards from the Institute of Indian Foundrymen (IIF), Kolkata, for the year 2020. The Export Excellence Award, Casting of the year Award for the Coimbatore unit, and Foundryman of the Year Award for the company’s chief operating officer Sabeeh M. were presented by Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Tuesday in Kozhikode at an event organised by the Institute of Indian Foundrymen, Kerala Chapter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awards-for-metal-casting-firm/article38068229.ece
30 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Unique higher education programme launched||The Malappuram Municipality on Tuesday launched a unique higher education programme titled Mission 1,000. It aims at finding admission for 1,000 students from the municipal area in national universities and institutes. Inaugurating the programme, E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, said a leadership with imagination in governance would give new insights to the young generation. This year, as many as 45 students from the municipality secured admission in universities in Delhi. They were felicitated at the inaugural function. Mission 1,000 envisages giving proper orientation to students from the higher secondary level. They are motivated to set higher goals like continuing studies at premier institutions. Besides, the municipality helps them process applications at the time of admissions. According to the municipal authorities, they take aspiring students to top colleges and universities in the country to show them the campuses. Coaching is also provided to them for entrance examinations. Initially, a task force was formed by bringing in students from Malappuram pursuing studies on campuses in Delhi. Interestingly, the presence of their friends on Delhi campuses inspired many higher secondary students here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unique-higher-education-programme-launched/article38068226.ece
30 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||CM’s attacks on League futile: Salam||P.M.A. Salam, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State general secretary, has lashed out at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan saying that he could not tarnish the secular face of the Muslim League. “No amount of criticism from the CPI(M) can tarnish the Muslim League’s secular face. The CPI(M) has lost its head. It was the CPI(M) which made an alliance with the Jamat-e-Islami,” Mr. Salam said. He said the Chief Minister was so much upset over the IUML’s mega protest meeting in Kozhikode in connection with the waqaf issue that he continued to attack the party relentlessly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-attacks-on-league-futile-salam/article38068222.ece
30 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||League vying with SDPI for communal space: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan continued his tirade against the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Jamat-e-Islami on Wednesday. Inaugurating the valedictory session of the CPI(M) district conference at Tirur, Mr. Vijayan said that the IUML was displaying contempt towards secular people and was disparaging scholars. He described the Jamat-e-Islami as an organisation with a false façade. “The government will not go for any compromise with communalist forces,” he said. According to him, the IUML was vying with the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for an upper hand in being communal. The Chief Minister said that the Congress was emaciating day by day, and that it could never be an alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “The Congress is a party with the same policies of the BJP,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said that the decision to leave Waqaf Board appointments to the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) was taken by the Waqaf Board. He said it was at the behest of the Waqaf Board that the decision was passed in the Assembly with the support of the IUML. He said that none would have to regret the proposed Silver Line. The government will address all inconveniences, he said. E.N. Mohandas was re-elected district secretary of the party for a second term. The CPI(M) district meet gave shape to a 21-point action plan to reinvigorate the party in Malappuram district. Mr. Mohandas said that the action plan would be implemented in a time-bound manner. The plan was meant to strengthen the party’s base in Malappuram, where the IUML calls the shots. The CPI(M) will launch a campaign against the nexus between the BJP and the United Democratic Front (UDF). A people’s campaign will be launched to resist the attempts to torpedo the district’s development. A debate will be held on January 16 to address the people’s doubts about K-Rail. Three Ministers, officials, experts and academicians will attend the debate, Mr. Mohandas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/league-vying-with-sdpi-for-communal-space-cm/article38068223.ece
30 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar victims’ mother alleges foul play by CBI||The mother of the minor girls found hanging in mysterious circumstances at Attappallam, near Walayar, in 2017 alleged foul play by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) here on Wednesday. In a complaint to Ananthakrishnan, CBI Dy.SP who headed the reinvestigation team, the victims’ mother said she suspected mystery in his behaviour during the investigation, and also in his haste in submitting the chargesheet before the POCSO court here. The woman alleged that the CBI had not heard her and her husband properly. She accused Mr. Ananthakrishnan of failing in his moral responsibility as head of the investigation team. She said Mr. Ananthakrishnan had brushed aside her claim that her daughters had been murdered when he came to her house a few days ago. He had then said that they were investigating it. “You submitted the chargesheet within a few days saying that my daughters had committed suicide. I really wonder how you reached such a conclusion within that short time,” she said, protesting against his failure to listen to her and her husband. Reminding Mr. Ananthakrishnan that he was made to investigate the case following a series of agitations she led with the support of the Janakeeya Samara Samithi, the woman said the the officer was duty-bound to listen to her version before reaching a conclusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-victims-mother-alleges-foul-play-by-cbi/article38068265.ece
30 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Plea for mother’s arrest||A few persons who had spearheaded the protest against the exoneration of the accused in two minor sisters’ death at Attappallam, Walayar, have written to the State Police Chief (SPC) for the arrest of the victims’ mother. The two siblings, aged 13 and 9, were found hanging in their house on different days in 2017. A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team that reinvestigated the case also found that the girls had committed suicide after undergoing severe physical and mental duress. Raymant Antony, M.M. Kabeer, and Balamurali, all members of protest forums, said in a joint appeal to the Chief Minister and the SPC that the girls’ mother was responsible for their death. “The girls’ mother had refused to meet their teachers when they called her after the death of the older girl. She refused to give counselling to the second daughter, the only witness to the older girl’s death,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-for-mothers-arrest/article38068266.ece
30 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Vallathol-Bharati celebration on Jan. 4||The Tamil Cultural Research Centre, Palakkad, and Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University, Tirur, will jointly celebrate national poets Mahakavi Vallathol Narayana Menon and Mahakavi Subramaniya Bharati on January 4, 2022. T.K. Narayanan, vice chancellor of Kerala Kalamandalam Deemed University, will inaugurate the celebrations on Malayalam University campus at 2 p.m. on Tuesday. Anil Vallathol, vice chancellor of Malayalam University, will deliver the Vallathol-Bharati memorial lecture. P. Muralidhar, Malayalam poet and former principal of Government Victoria College, Palakkad, and Vanavil K. Ravi, Tamil-English poet and lawyer based in Chennai, will receive the Vallathol-Bharati Awards at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vallathol-bharati-celebration-on-jan-4/article38068397.ece
30 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Udayabhanu re-elected CPI(M) district secretary||The district conference of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) that concluded at Adoor on Wednesday elected K.P. Udayabhanu as the party district secretary for the third consecutive term. The meeting also elected a 34-member district committee comprising five fresh faces, including Health Minister and Aranmula legislator Veena George, and a ten-member district secretariat. Besides Ms. George, former All India Congress Committee member Peelipose Thomas too have been included on the district committee. The meeting also elected 17 representatives for the forthcoming party State conference. Mr. Udayabhanu, 64, started his public life as the Kerala State Karshaka Thozhilali Union (KSKTU) secretary of Enadimangalam village in 1975. A member of the CPI(M) district committee since 1997, Mr.Udayabhanu also served as the party’s Adoor area secretary for one year in 2000. In 2015, he was appointed the district secretary of the CPI(M) for the first time. As many as 185 party delegates, including 33 district committee members and 150 members from the 11 area committees, attended the three-day district conference. The event drew to a close with a public meeting inaugurated by party State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udayabhanu-re-elected-cpim-district-secretary/article38068304.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Horticorp procuring veggies from Tenkasi||The Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) began procurement of vegetables from Tenkasi, Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday as part of a market intervention programme to curb price rise in the State. Twelve tonnes of vegetables were collected from six farmer-producer organisations (FPO) in Tenkasi district. This was expected to reach Pathanamthitta on Wednesday night. The initial consignment consisted of 750 kg tomato, 510 kg brinjal (two varieties), 1,900 kg shallots, 915 kg ladies’ finger, 765 kg snake gourd and 270 kg cluster beans. The vegetables will be distributed in Pathanamthitta, Kollam, Kottayam and Alappuzha districts, said Horticorp managing director J. Sajeev. Procurement on all days In the first week, Horticorp plans to carry out the procurement on all days. Subsequently, it will be trimmed to thrice a week. The volume of procurement will vary depending on the requirement, said Mr. Sajeev, adding that orders have been placed for Thursday and Friday. Horticorp had inked an agreement with a consortium of seven Tenkasi farmer-producer organisations for direct procurement as part of a market intervention measure launched by the Agriculture department to keep prices down. As per the deal, the bills have to be settled within 24 hours.  Horticorp has inked an agreement with a consortium of seven Tenkasi FPOs for direct procurement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/horticorp-procures-veggies-from-tn/article38068311.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Battle over SilverLine looms||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] appeared poised to battle strong political headwinds as it prepares to hit the road to promote the proposed SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s ambitious project had reportedly encountered a measure of scepticism within the ruling front. The Communist Party of India (CPI) had urged the government to allay apprehensions about the project. The KSSP, a pro-CPI(M) think tank, had asked whether the project was a development priority for Kerala given its precarious economy and ecological fragility. Nevertheless, the CPI(M) saw a new political battleground emerging in the wake of the United Democratic Front’s (UDF) anti-SilverLine campaign. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan told a news channel that the agitation was anti-Left. It had the flicker of the “liberation struggle” that saw an alignment of communal forces to unseat the first elected communist government in Kerala. On BJP, Jamaat Mr. Balakrishnan said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jamaat-e-Islami were united in their opposition to SilverLine. The Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) were also on the same page. The SilverLine project was just a fig leaf to put the LDF government and its development agenda on the backfoot. The CPI(M) would launch a grassroots-level campaign to educate the public about the project. Party workers would knock on doors with pamphlets explaining SilverLine’s importance for Kerala’s development. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would interact with stakeholders and influencers to retard the Congress campaign against SilverLine. Meanwhile, the United Democratic Front (UDF) seemed primed to battle the CPI(M) over SilverLine and has closed ranks. IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty said the UDF was united in its opposition to the project. His comment came after a report emerged that Shashi Tharoor, MP, had flip-flopped on his perceived endorsement of the mega project. The bullet train factor In an FB post, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan attempted to highlight the purported dichotomy between CPI(M)’s words and actions. The party had virulently opposed the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train. However, it had no qualms about forging ahead with SilverLine without conducting a socio-economic and environmental impact study. The party was willing to evict thousands of families and small businesses for SilverLine. It had embraced globalisation on the sly, he alleged.  The project is reportedly facing scepticism within the LDF itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-over-silverline-looms/article38068267.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||History is total only if facts are shown clear: Sivankutty||History becomes complete only if facts are presented in a clear manner, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was interacting with the 34 winners of the regional history writing competition organised by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, as part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav here on Wednesday. History, the Minister said, always troubled those who wanted to forget it. That is the reason they tried to change history whenever they got an opportunity. Better acceptance The new generation, he said, however, understood matters more and tried to be accepting. The Minister said the State would be careful while implementing the National Education Policy. Speaker M.B. Rajesh also interacted with the students and heard from them the possibilities and difficulties they faced in recording regional history. “History writing was not to be approached casually and it should be real and minutely studied,” he said. Mr. Rajesh also spoke about the Assembly, framing of legislation, and the Constitution at the programme held at the Assembly banquet hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/history-is-total-only-if-facts-are-shown-clear-sivankutty/article38068420.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Look into charges against Dileep, demands WCC||The Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) has demanded that the government look into the latest allegations raised by Balachandrakumar, a friend of actor Dileep, against him in the case related to the abduction and sexual assault of an actor. In an official statement posted in its Facebook page, the WCC questions whether police protection will be given to Mr. Balachandrakumar, who had raised serious allegations against Dileep, including bribery and intimidation of crucial witnesses. The collective has also questioned the mainstream media for not giving adequate attention to the developments and for not pursuing the truth in the matter. “Time and again, in this excruciating fight for justice, many such questions need to be asked and answered to learn the truth," says the WCC in the statement, which ends with #Avalkoppam (#withher). Allegations Mr. Balachandrakumar, who raised the allegations in an interview to a television channel three days back, had said that he had seen Sunilkumar alias 'Pulsar' Suni, first accused in the kidnap and assault case, at Dileep's house when he had gone there for the discussion of a movie, which he was set to produce with Dileep. Dileep, eighth accused in the case, had allegedly contracted Suni to abduct and assault the actor and video record the whole act. Mr. Balachandrakumar alleged that Dileep had told him not to reveal the fact that he was seen with Suni. He also accused Dileep of having possessed the video clip of the sexual assault, which Suni had allegedly filmed, and played it in the presence of others at his home. Another allegation was that Dileep had tried to influence Sagar Vincent, a crucial witness for the prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/look-into-charges-against-dileep-demands-wcc/article38068259.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC seeks report on failure to reinstall electricity posts||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has criticised the failure to reinstall electricity posts that were removed for constructing service roads at Kazhakuttam as part of the elevated highway project. Acting on a complaint by rights activist Ragam Rahim, commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) divisional engineer to examine the matter and submit a report within four weeks. The complainant said illumination from commercial establishments in the area was the only light source available to motorists along the service roads. Once these establishments closed for the day, the road was plunged into darkness. In the past two months, a number of people on two-wheelers had met with accidents. Three persons were killed in such incidents, he said in the complaint. The lack of proper lighting was also leading to an increase in activities of goonda gangs, the complainant pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-seeks-report-on-failure-to-reinstall-electricity-posts/article38068424.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man kills daughter’s friend at Pettah||The Pettah police on Wednesday arrested a 45-year-old man on charges of murdering his daughter’s friend. The accused has been identified as Lalu, a resident of Chayakudi lane in Pettah. The deceased has been identified as Aneesh George (19), who resided in the same locality. Incident at 3 a.m. According to the Pettah Circle Inspector, the incident happened around 3 a.m. on Wednesday. Lalu had woken up after hearing some noise from near his daughter’s room on the first floor. As she failed to open the door, he broke it open. A scuffle ensued between Lalu and Aneesh who was in the room. Lalu then allegedly stabbed Aneesh with a knife. Though the police arrived at the spot, located close to the Pettah police station, in 10 minutes and rushed Aneesh to the Medical College Hospital, he was declared brought dead. Investigation on The police later arrested Lalu who claimed that he had stabbed the youth mistaking him to be a thief who had intruded into the house. More investigation into the incident is on, said the police.  The accused claims that he stabbed the youth who was in his daughter’s room mistaking him to be a thief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-murdering-daughters-friend/article38068296.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mild tremor strikes Amboori, Vellarada||A mild tremor was reported in the district in the Amboori and Vellarada panchayats late Tuesday night. According to the seismic observatory of the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS) at Peechi, Thrissur, the tremor measured 1.9 on the Richter Scale. The tremor had its epicentre at Amboori, a grama panchayat in the eastern part of the district. The effects were also felt in nearby regions, including Vellarada panchayat, according to the police and panchayat oficials. Loud noise Valsala Raju, president of Amboori panchayat, said the mild quake, which occurred around 11.45 p.m., was accompanied by a loud noise, triggering tension among the residents. “It lasted only a few seconds, but a number of houses developed minor cracks,” she said. While several people who were up late experienced the tremor in the neighbouring Vellarada panchayat, no damage to property was reported, said Vellarada grama panchayat president Rajmohan M. Local residents alerted the district administration and the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) about the incident. The district administration has asked the NCESS and the district geologist to look into the occurrence. ‘No cause for concern’ KSDMA officials who visited the affected areas said the tremor did not give cause for concern. Such minor tremors are caused by the release of pressure built up in the interior of the earth through fracture zones, said Pradeep G. S., hazard risk analyst, State Emergency Operations Centre, KSDMA, who visited the region with geologist Ajin R. Revenue Minister K. Rajan too allayed the fears of local residents, reiterating that there was no cause for concern.  Temblor lasted only a few seconds, but some houses developed minor cracks, says the panchayat president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mild-tremor-strikes-amboori-vellarada/article38068428.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farmers’ victory a vindication of our democracy: Zoya Hasan||The victory of the farmers who agitated against the now-withdrawn farm laws proposed by the Centre is a vindication of the Indian democracy, political scientist Zoya Hasan has said. The Professor Emerita of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said the chapter exemplified how mass protests could challenge a powerful government. Delivering the annual lecture of the Vakkom Moulavi Memorial and Research Centre through video-conferencing on Tuesday, Prof. Hasan said the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests and the farmers’ stir have demonstrated how the people have staked a claim to democratic participation. “Despite the undermining of political institutions and a partisan media, Indians have not been silenced,” she said. Prof. Hasan pointed out that social and political movements have been a conspicuous feature of public life in the country. It would be difficult to visualise India’s modern history and critical political events without acknowledging the role of public protests and social mobilisation in their making at important junctures. Observing that the nation has been witnessing an increasing prevalence of public protests, she felt the spurt in such movements engendered a new awakening in society. In some case, they resulted in progressive outcomes and policies. She felt the Union government’s response to the anti-CAA and farmers’ protests have demonstrated an intolerance towards agitations, while the anti-corruption movement did not face any such constraints under the previous UPA regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-victory-a-vindication-of-our-democracy-zoya-hasan/article38068308.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sivagiri pilgrimage: photo exhibitions on||A photo exhibition on development activities undertaken by the State government opened at the Panchajanyam hall in Sivagiri on Wednesday in connection with the 89th Sivagiri pilgrimage. Organised by the District Information Office, the exhibition and a stall featuring government publications were inaugurated by V. Joy, MLA, Sivagiri Madhom president Swami Sachidananda, pilgrimage committee secretary Swami Guruprasad, Swami Vishalananda and Swami Saradananda. The exhibition will help acquaint the public with the development and welfare activities carried out by the government, said Swami Sachidananda. Varkala municipality chairman K. M. Laji, Varkala block panchayat president Smitha Sundaresan, Varkala DySP P. Niyas and media committee chairman Jayaraju were among those present. Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, inaugurated another stall and photo exhibition at Chempazhanthy Gurukulam. The exhibitions in both the venues are on till January 1. The Chempazhanthy, Sreekaryam, Edavakode, Chellamangalam and Kattayikonam wards of the city Corporation have been declared a festival zone in connection with the pilgrimage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivagiri-pilgrimage-photo-exhibitions-on/article38068432.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||HC notice forwarded to govt., says Governor||Insisting that he has ceased to discharge the responsibilities of the Chancellor of State Universities on December 8, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said on Wednesday that the notice served by the Kerala High Court on the reappointment of Kannur University Vice Chancellor has been forwarded to the government. Speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a function here, Mr. Khan reiterated that he did not deal with university matters any longer and that the notice had been issued “to the Chancellor and not Arif Mohammed Khan”. The High Court had sought the response of the Chancellor, who is the first respondent, on a plea that challenged the reappointment of Gopinath Ravindran as Kannur University Vice Chancellor. The Governor said he was informed by Raj Bhavan of receipt of the notice. “Like all other files, we are sending it to the government. It is up to the government to decide (on a future course) since the notice was sent to the Chancellor and not to me personally,” he said. ‘Non-interference’ He claimed he was not being adamant. “This is not a question of prestige. Governors have been made Chancellors to ensure non-interference by the government of the day. Take it over by all means if you wish to interfere (in matters pertaining to universities).” With the plea scheduled to be taken up for hearing at the High Court on January 12, the Governor’s move is likely to put the government in a fix.  ‘Notice issued to Chancellor, not Arif Mohammed Khan’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-notice-forwarded-to-govt-says-governor/article38068268.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,846 new cases reported in State||Kerala reported 2,846 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 69,852 samples were tested. Ernakulam district with 526 cases, Thiruvananthapuram with 507, and Kozhikode with 348 registered the highest tally. With 12 deaths due to COVID-19 reported on Wednesday and 199 mortalities accounted for as per the Supreme Court guidelines, the death toll in the State has gone up to 47,277. The active caseload on Wednesday was 20,456 and 1,12,284 persons were under surveillance. Of the 2,846 new cases, 20 had come from outside the State and 2,678 were infected through contact. As many as 1,494 cases were infections in fully vaccinated citizens and 193 had received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 854 were unvaccinated. As many as 2,576 COVID-19 patients under treatment in hospitals across the State were discharged after testing negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2846-new-cases-reported-in-state/article38068270.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ED attaches assets of Popular Finance||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 33.84 crore of the Popular Finance group, Kerala, and its promoters under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002 in a cheating case. The attached assets include 11 immovable properties consisting of land and building in Kerala; gold weighing 11.85 kg pledged by the public, which was re-pledged in the name of the promoters and staff of Popular Finance group; 19 fixed deposits of the promoters; cash of Rs. 3.79 crore; balances in 208 bank accounts of the Popular Finance group entities and its promoters; and 291 treasury deposit accounts. 1,300 FIRs As per the more than 1,300 FIRs registered in various districts, about 3,000 depositors had been cheated to the tune of around Rs. 1,000 crore. The deposits mobilised from the public were illegal and without permission from any regulatory agencies such as the Reserve Bank of India. The ED found that the deposits mobilised by promising high interest rates, had been illegally utilised for purchase of properties and luxury cars, parked as fixed deposits in the name of family members and remitted abroad for non-viable and sham business enterprises. The company had no viable business to sustain the promise of higher interest to depositors. The gold pledged by the public were re-pledged for availing themselves of loans and the loan proceeds routed to the personal accounts of the family.  Arrested In August, the ED had arrested Thomas Daniel and Rinu Mariam Thomas, who helmed the family-controlled business spread across 270 branches in India, for their role in disposing of the proceeds of crime. Thomas Daniel is in judicial custody. The agency had attached assets worth Rs. 31.16 crore of the group. With the present action, the total attachment in the case has touched Rs. 65 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-attaches-assets-of-popular-finance/article38068271.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Roll-up stand at Collectorate unveiled||District Collector Navjot Khosa on Wednesday inaugurated a roll-up stand set up at the Collectorate to communicate the activities of the Women and Child Development (WCD) department to the public. The stand introduces various projects of the department such as educational assistance, Abhayakiranam, Mangalya, Padavukal, Ponvakku, Balanidhi and so on. Mental health support to children and parents through parenting clinics and nutrition counselling are also being provided by the department. Those eligible for entitlements should contact the nearest anganwadi or the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) offices. The department’s phone number and details of website have been provided on stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/roll-up-stand-at-collectorate-unveiled/article38068425.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tax collection camps||The city Corporation is organising building tax collection camps in various wards as part of its measures to improve revenue collection. The camp in the Mudavanmugal ward will be held at the ward committee office from 10 a.m. on Thursday. The last date for payment of building tax without fine is December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tax-collection-camps/article38068427.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Omicron: checks to be stepped up from today||Vehicle inspections will be stepped up in the capital city from Thursday night as part of the night-time restrictions imposed by the government till January 2 to prevent a surge in COVID-19 cases in view of Omicron, City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay said on Wednesday. Inspections will be carried out from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. when the night curfew is in force, he said. Only travels related to medical emergencies and essential services will be permitted after 10 p.m. Non-essential travel will attract stern action. As per a government order, hotels, other shops and establishments should down shutters by 10 p.m., said Mr. Upadhyay, urging the public to cooperate with the measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/omicron-checks-to-be-stepped-up-from-today/article38068430.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NGO to observe 2022 as Year of Climate Education||Friends of Nature, a non-profit organisation (NGO) working in the area of environmental education, biodiversity conservation and climate change, has decided to observe 2022 as the ‘Year of Climate Education.’ Organised as part of the 15th anniversary of the founding of the organisation, the observance is intended to discuss extreme weather events experienced in the State in conjunction with the global climate crisis. It will also kick-start programmes among students and youth to enhance environmental awareness and literacy, particularly related to climate, and transform them into catalysts to bring about changes in lifestyle and habits, according to a statement by the NGO here. Fifteen events that will last a year will be organised so that people can acquire the knowledge needed to combat climate change. A two-year internship programme for undergraduate students will also be offered, the NGO said. A green army of volunteers comprising school student will be formed under the interns. Under the green campus initiative, campuses will be graded on the basis of their environmental factors/activities, it said. Camping site A camping site for nature study will be started. A ‘Restore flora challenge’ will be held from June 5 to August 15 for planting saplings of indigenous plants and maintaining them for the next five years. For the restoration of the urban ecosystem, biodiversity-beautification programmes will be held in cities, with priority for planting trees and plants that attract butterflies and birds. As many as 200 ecosystems will also be cleaned. Awards will be given to those who are models for forest conservation activities. A 15th anniversary lecture series will be organised. Online discussions of 15 contemporary issues to be discussed by experts will be available on the organisation’s YouTube channel from April, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngo-to-observe-2022-as-year-of-climate-education/article38068426.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth arrested for house trespass, abuse of minor||A 23-year-old youth was arrested on Wednesday on charges of trespassing into a house and abusing a minor girl here. The accused has been identified as Abhishek of Oolampara. The incident took place on Monday when the girl’s parents were away. The police arrested the youth on the basis of a complaint filed by the girl’s mother. He was produced before a court and later remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-arrested-for-house-trespass-abuse-of-minor/article38068433.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teach girls to grow up wise, confident: actor||Girls should be taught to decide wisely who their life partner should be, actor Maala Parvathi said on Wednesday. Ms. Parvathi said that through the Sthreepaksha Navakeralam awareness campaign against dowry and atrocities against women being implemented by the State government and the Kudumbashree, girls should be able to grow up wise and confident. However, even now, educated girls above the age of 18 were not allowed to take decisions about their life on their own. Girls should be taught to dream – about their education and career, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teach-girls-to-grow-up-wise-confident-actor/article38068421.ece
30 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Scholarships invited for BPL students||HLL Lifecare Ltd.’s Prateeksha Charitable Society has invited applications for scholarship for students pursuing professional and technical courses. The scholarship is eligible for students from families from below the poverty line (BPL). Application forms are available at HLL Lifecare offices and on the websitewww.lifecarehll.com. The forms should be sent to Manager (HR), HLL Lifecare Ltd., Corporate and Registered Office, HLL Bhavan, Poojappura, Thiruvananthapuram – 695012. The last date is January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scholarships-invited-for-bpl-students/article38068310.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||507 new cases||The district logged 507 new COVID-19 cases and 634 recoveries on Wednesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 6.5%. The number of active cases stood at 3,285, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/507-new-cases/article38068431.ece
30 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Petrol pump staff hacked||A petrol pump employee was hacked by a man allegedly after the former asked him not to use his mobile phone on the pump premises on Tuesday night. Ananthu (24) sustained wounds on his left elbow after he was hacked with a machete. The incident happened at a pump near Thennoorkonam, Vizhinjam, around 10.45 p.m. The police have launched a search for the assailant, identified as a 28-year-old from Vizhinjam. He had stopped at the pump with another man around 10 p.m. Ananthu asked him not to use his mobile. He returned alone later and attacked the employee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petrol-pump-staff-hacked/article38068434.ece
30 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Bringing hope in helpless situations||Clowning is basically about connecting with people and bringing smiles to their faces. And Monica Santos from Spain, a professional clown, has been on a mission to touch the lives of people who are in painful situations, especially in hospitals and palliative care centres. Founder of Big Smiles, a forum of professional hospital clowns in India, Ms. Santos was at the HOPE FEST, organised by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi in Thrissur, to perform her solo clown theatre. “I work to bring a whiff of lightness in people’s lives through humour and tenderness,” says Ms. Santos. “Since 2017, my work could touch lives of more than 28,000 people, in very painful situations, at hospitals, orphanages, old age homes, palliative care centres, homes for rescued women from human trafficking, and schools for differently able children.” A former bank employee in Spain, she was attracted to clowning after attending a clowning workshop. “Later, when I tried to learn more about clowning, I realised that it is a serious business. It became the philosophy of my life,” Ms. Santos. She reached Mumbai in 2016 and found the Big Smiles. “Once you put your soul and energy into the art of clowning, you can engage your audience. Clowning has a universal language. The most important task of a clown performer is to make a strong connection with the audience. You need to be in tune with them.” She developed her first hospital clown programme in India for children, cancer patients, and their relatives at Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, in 2017. Santos says she does clowning for a social purpose. “We cannot cure the disease but at least can bring a relief to the pain for a while by distracting their attention from the suffering, ” Ms. Santos points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bringing-hope-in-helpless-situations/article38068400.ece
30 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||HOPE Fest gets off to a colourful start||The HOPE Fest, a cultural festival that replaced the annual event of International Theatre Festival of Kerala (ITFoK) this year, started on Wednesday. The percussion ensemble led by maestro Peruvanam Kuttan Marar kicked off the three-day festival of music, theatre performances, and cultural events. Around 150 percussion artistes participated in the event organised almost like the famous Ilanjithara Melam of the Thrissur Pooram. The HOPE festival aims to bring clowns who are not yet a visible presence in Kerala’s theatre, to the mainstream. Their great presence in classical and folk theatre is being showcased. Colourful clown shows, which brought a whiff of lightness to life, were highlights of the festival on the opening day. Dr. Vikadan, a solo clown performance by Vinu Joseph, a graduate of the School of Drama, Thrissur, was a fresh experience for the audience at the festival. The 50-minutes performance evolved from territories of bouffon, mystery, and fantastical body, inspired from Jaques Lecoq’s (French actor, director and teacher) pedagogical matrix in theatre. The playful interaction between the clown and bouffon slowly led to the core elements of the performance. The show also tried to provoke and engage the audience on the journey. Performances  Hope Clowns by Garggi Ananthan, Athul M. and Ajay Udayan was the other clown show at the festival. Once Upon a Clown Time by Monica Santos will be staged on Thursday. A solo performance by Gopalan Adatt, directed by Jose Koshy, was the opening short play at the festival. Takkunnu Oru Kathai by Erode Naataka Kottakai and directed by V. Sathish was all about the anxiety and frustration of artistes during the pandemic.  Tinkuy , a circus theatre show, was another highlight of the festival on the opening day. It talked about the importance of the encounter between entities. Tinkuy is a word from the South American Quechua tribe that means “encounter”, “reunion” etc. This tribe celebrates the power of encounter between people especially in difficult moments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hope-fest-gets-off-to-a-colourful-start/article38068240.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In the name of law||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-the-name-of-law/article38068365.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Still art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/still-art/article38068423.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tough lesson||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tough-lesson/article38068436.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rescuers in action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rescuers-in-action/article38068273.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Losing its charm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/losing-its-charm/article38068254.ece
30 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth provide a home for displaced birds in Anantapur||A group of volunteers have come forward to provide a shelter to urban birds, displaced due to the cutting of trees on the road margins as part of the widening works of 9.2 km stretch of State Highway 32 in Anantapur. The group, calling itself ‘Discover Ananthapuramu’ and popularising its activities on social media platforms, has embarked on a mission to put up 2,000 nests on existing trees. Led by social activist Anil Kumar Reddy, these youngsters have been fixing nests on all trees along the route where they were cut for the past three days. Coir-made nests “We are at present putting up coir-made nests, sourced from Coimbatore, and aim to complete the target as early as possible,” says Mr. Anil Kumar Reddy. Quoting from a book on bird habitat written by Caroline Isaksson, a professor in the Department of Biology, Evolutionary Ecology in Lund University (Sweden), Mr. Anil Kumar Reddy says birds are forced to either accept or avoid the new conditions to survive in a urban habitat. Many of them leave once the area is urbanised, thus resulting in a significant loss of local biodiversity, he adds quoting Ms. Isaksson. Studies have shown that man-made structures provide suitable nesting sites for a range of species and that the breeding success of birds in such a setting was often higher in comparison to those nesting in other rural locations. “We have decided to knock on the doors of every house that has a tree and give them a couple of nests so that more and more birds are attracted,” he adds. This project is self-funded and the volunteers had earlier taken up the task of removing nails from the trunks of trees in the city. Those interested in having a nest could approach them on their Facebook page, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-provide-a-home-for-displaced-birds-in-anantapur/article38067812.ece
30 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A year of mixed results for Anantapur police||Busting red sanders and sandalwood smuggling rackets, helping the NDRF in rescuing people in the recent floods, installing 19,578 CCTV cameras at crucial places all over the district to monitor law and order, Special Enforcement Bureau making confiscation valued at Rs. 14.24 crore in 11,692 cases in a district with a long inter-State border with Karnataka, have been some of the achievements of the district police in the current calendar year. Road accident cases slightly increased from 1,118 in 2020 to 1,120 in 2021, and the number of fatalities saw a rise from 612 to 626 and injuries coming down by 5%, said SP Fakkeerappa Kaginelli at the annual crime review press conference here on Wednesday. The number of IPC cases came down by 12% and special and local law cases by 16% compared to 2020, but the COVID-19 violations went up 2,130 to 6,563 cases. Murders went up from 99 to 101, while the attempt to murder cases came down from 205 to 203, but bodily offenses were very low despite a busy year of local body elections, the SP said. Giving credit to Additional SP SEB J. Ramamohan Rao for the enforcement of checking sand and liquor smuggling, the SP said 90ml disposable packs had been the key commodity of smuggling, and Mr. Ramamohan Rao explained the details of the number of persons arrested (16,117) and vehicles seized (5,096). The district police had been at the forefront in staff welfare and provided compensation (Rs. 14 lakh) to all the families, who had lost breadwinners to the COVID virus and covered treatment of all other personnel through insurance, the SP said. The police opened a special library on the conference hall premises for the children of the police personnel helping in the preparation of the UPSC examination and live classes had been arranged from the reputed coaching institutions, Mr. Fakkeerappa added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-year-of-mixed-results-for-anantapur-police/article38068381.ece
30 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Car plunges into open well in Anantapur||A car proceeding from Guntakal to Ballari(Karnataka) plunged into an open well or large waterbody at Donekal village in Vidapanakal Mandal of the district on Wednesday. The police and Fire Department personnel were engaged in the rescue operations with the help of two cranes. The number of persons trapped in the car is not clear. ‘30-foot deep pit’ According to police personnel, the pit was 30-foot deep and the car seems to have got stuck in the mud at the bottom of the pit. According to the locals, the pit was dug by the highway road widening contractor and there were no ‘danger’ signals or signages, which could have led to the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/car-plunges-into-open-well-in-anantapur/article38068382.ece
30 December 2021||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 Omicron cases in Anantapur, Kurnool||Two persons each tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Wednesday. One of the two who tested positive in Anantapur is a 17-year-old girl, the primary contact of the first person who had tested positive for Omicron in the district, and another is a 22-year-old male who had recently returned from the United States. Both of them were tested on December 22 and their genome sequencing samples came today. Anantapur District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad said that both of them were healthy and had got their sample tested again on Tuesday which came negative. They got the symptoms a bit late, he said. The first case was that of a 51-year-old man from Anantapur city who had returned from U.K. on December 18. He had tested positive on December 21. The two Omicron cases that emerged today from Kurnool district were from Dhone. A 45-year-old man and a 41-year-old woman had come to the district from Dubai on December 20 and tested positive for the virus on December 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-omicron-cases-in-anantapur-kurnool/article38068385.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mekedatu padayatra of Congress triggers turf war||The proposed padayatra of the Opposition Congress from Mekedatu to Bengaluru seeking early implementation of the drinking water project appears to have paved way for a political turf war in the Cauvery basin. This was visible with the Congress and the JD(S) indulging in a verbal duel over the padayatra that passes through the Vokkaliga heartland where both parties are trying to keep their support base intact. While JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy accused the Congress of trying to hoodwink people in the name of padayatra, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar hit back alleging that the JD(S) and the BJP were conspiring against him. Mr. Shivakumar lashed out at Mr. Kumaraswamy and said it has been planned next month in the interest of people in the State and not to fulfil personal ambitions. ‘All can participate’ Reacting to Mr. Kumaraswamy’s statement that the Congress’s padayatra was aimed at misleading people of 83 taluks, Mr. Shivakumar said the padayatra was non-partisan and anyone, including the JD(S), can participate. The padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru had been planned from January 9 to press for early implementation of Mekedatu drinking water project across Cauvery. The Congress leaders and legislators have decided to take out the padayatra, he said. “Mr. Kumaraswamy is an intelligent and seasoned politician. He is the director and producer of Kannada films. He (Mr Kumaraswamy) knows when and how to speak,” ridiculed the KPCC president. Mr. Shivakumar said the Congress was committed to the interest of the State. Many leaders, including former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar and H.D. Deve Gowda had taken out padayatras in the past. Some protests bore fruits and some not, he said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai took a dig at the Congress saying that it had lost the moral right to speak on corruption. Terming the padayatra as politically motivated, he sought to know what the Congress had done under its rule and when it was part of the coalition government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mekedatu-padayatra-of-congress-triggers-turf-war/article38067814.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitals worried over expired vaccines||Private hospitals in Karnataka — waiting for the rollout of paediatric vaccinations to ensure that their stocks of Covaxin get utilised — are now apprehensive that they may not be able to participate in the vaccination programme immediately. This is mainly because they are finding it difficult to get the nearly 6 lakh doses that have crossed their expiry date relabelled from Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer. Following the Centre’s directions, the State Government has told private hospitals that vaccines should not be utilised beyond the expiry date mentioned on the label of each vial. In the first week of November, Bharat Biotech had communicated to private hospitals that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, had extended the shelf life of Covaxin doses to 12 months from the date of manufacturing. Following this, the vials that had an expiry date between September 2021 and June 2022 will now expire between March 2022 and September 2022, the communication stated. “The company had assured us that our stocks will be revalidated for efficacy and relabelled with the extended expiry date of a year. However, as of Wednesday not a single vial has been relabelled. Even if they start doing it now it may take at least three to four weeks for the relabelling process to be completed,” said H.M. Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). Pointing out that the hospitals were not sure how the efficacy of the unused stock would be revalidated by the company, Dr. Prasanna said he was planning to write to the Union Government in this regard. “We were hopeful of utilising the stocks as the Centre has permitted only Covaxin for child vaccinations as of now. However, without the relabelling we cannot participate in the child vaccination programme,” he said. Sources said the company was dilly-dallying in taking back the stocks for relabelling as it wanted private hospitals to buy fresh stocks. Former president of PHANA, R. Ravindra, who owns Suguna hospital in Rajajinagar, said private hospitals needed the support of the Government. “We can participate in the vaccination programme if the government resolves this issue at the earliest. With the third wave approaching, there is an urgent need to strengthen the vaccination programme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospitals-worried-over-expired-vaccines/article38067817.ece
30 December 2021||Eluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘2,889 held for crimes against women in 2021’||As many as 1,395 cases of crimes against women, 228 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and 131 rape cases have been registered in West Godavari district in 2021. Police arrested 2,889 persons for allegedly resorting to crimes against women, and 204 sexual offenders involved in rape cases were arrested, Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma said. Rowdy-sheets were opened against 75 criminals, of which 45 were involved in POCSO Act cases, and suspect sheets were opened against 65 offenders and Dossier Criminal (DC) sheets opened against two persons in the district, said the SP at a yearender press conference on Wednesday. In all, 1,071 thefts, 344 burglaries by night and 51 burglaries by day were registered. Eleven robbery cases and four dacoities were booked. Police arrested 680 thieves and a probe is on in the remaining cases. Police arrested 215 persons in 75 kidnap cases, while 1,003 offenders were booked in 737 white-collar offences, and 86 persons arrested in 49 murder cases, Mr. Rahul Dev Sharma explained. Police booked 26 cases against cricket bookies and persons resorting to betting and seized Rs. 9.51 lakh from them, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2889-held-for-crimes-against-women-in-2021/article38067877.ece
30 December 2021||HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temples will be freed from revenue curbs, says Bommai||Close on the heels of getting the Anti-conversion Bill passed in the Assembly, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced that Hindu temples would be freed from restrictions related to utilisation of revenues generated by them for their development. Making the announcement at the valedictory of the two-day State executive of the BJP in Hubballi on Wednesday, Mr. Bommai said the process of freeing Hindu temples from legal restrictions would be done before the Budget session of the legislature by giving it a form of law. “We will free our temples from legal restrictions. There will only be regulations and these temples can be maintained independently,” he noted. ‘Will make it happen’ The Chief Minister said: “At present, places of religious importance of other religions are protected under various laws and they have freedom to follow their religion. However, there are various restrictions when it comes to religious places pertaining to Hinduism. They have been brought under various legal restrictions and regulations. For utilising revenue generated by them, they have to seek permission from various government officials. Many of our seniors want these restrictions to go. I promise that our government will make it happen.” Special taskforce Mr. Bommai also announced that a special task force would be set up for implementation of the Protection of Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 when it becomes an Act after getting passed in the Upper House. Mr. Bommai took a dig at former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah saying that his dream of abolishing the anti-conversion legislation within a week of coming to power would remain a dream. “Because of your stand against this legislation, you will not come to power. This law which gives everyone the right to follow their religion will remain as long as the sun and moon are there,” he remarked. He also announced that the Anjanadri Hill of Koppal district, believed to be the birth place of Hanuman, would be developed on international standards. A Sriram temple will be built at Anjanadri and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be invited to initiate the development works, he said.  Several initiatives Emphasising that he had learnt a great deal from Mr. Modi and that he had guided him many a times, Mr. Bommai said under his guidance he had taken up several initiatives, including maintaining social justice. “We will show our commitment to the ideology of Mr. Modi by implementing the National Education Policy by April,” he said. The Chief Minister concluded his speech by saying that he had no self-interest or ego and everyone was free to correct him. “If at all I have any interest, it is the interest of Kannadigas and the State. If at all there is a prestige issue with me, then it is of the BJP and Mr. Modi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temples-will-be-freed-from-revenue-curbs-says-bommai/article38067816.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reconsider re-allotment applications of teachers’||Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the District Educational Officers concerned to send the representations and appeals made by 21 government school teachers to the State government for considering their request for allotment to the districts of their choice. The judge passed this direction after hearing hearing a batch of seven writ petitions filed by 21 teachers working in Ranga Reddy, Mahabubnagar and Jogulamba Gadwal districts. The judge instructed the government to examine cases of the petitioners afresh. The government should reconsider petitions of the 21 teachers based upon seniority, medical grounds and any other grievances expressed by them with regard to options in the order of preference they had exercised. These issues must be considered in compliance of the guidelines explained in GO No. 317. The entire exercise should be completed within three days, the judge said, disposing of the petitions. P. Jayaprada, one of the petitioners working as school assistant in Zilla Parishad High School of Ranga Reddy district, was allotted to Jogulamba Gadwal district. Her allotment was part of the re-allotment of employees to different districts in accordance of the new Presidential Order issued in 2018. She stated that she was placed at No. 15 as per seniority list. She opted for RR district and gave least preference to Jogulamba Gadwal district. Her lawyer contended that authorities reflected her seniority incorrectly. Interestingly, a person placed at No. 158 as per seniority was considered for allotment to RR district ignoring the petitioner’s request for allotment to that district. In another case, Khandavally Rajeshwari working at ZPHS Farooqinagar in RR district stated that she was not allotted to the district of her choice. Her counsel stated that authorities did not consider her case based on seniority. The petitioner was suffering from cancer. Her request for allotment of the district of her choice was not accepted even on medical grounds, the lawyer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reconsider-re-allotment-applications-of-teachers/article38067946.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amul to invest Rs. 500 crore in Telangana||Sabarkantha District Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd (Sabar Dairy), which packs milk and produces milk products under the Amul brand, will be setting up facilities in Telangana with a total investment of Rs. 500 crore in two phases. One of the largest milk cooperatives and a member of the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd, Sabar Dairy entered into an MoU with the Telangana government on Wednesday for setting up its largest state-of-the-art processing plant. Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and Sabar Dairy managing director Babubhai M. Patel signed the MoU in the presence of Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao. The processing plant will come up in a special food processing zone in Telangana with an investment of about Rs. 300 crore in Phase 1 and Rs. 200 crore in Phase 2. It will provide direct employment to more than 500 persons and opportunities to several ancillary industries. The Minister’s office, in a release, said Amul has selected Telangana to set up its largest plant in southern India with capacity to process 5 lakh litres per day of milk expandable to 10 LLPD to manufacture packed milk and value added dairy products such as curd, buttermilk, lassi, yogurt, paneer and sweets. Amul will also set up its bakery production division in the State with a range of products such as breads, biscuits, traditional sweets and baked snacks. With this plant, Amul will strive to procure the required milk and other raw material from Telangana farmers and the various cooperatives and FPOs operating in the State, the office said. Thanking the leadership of Amul for deciding to set up its largest plant in Telangana, the Minister highlighted the all round performance of the State, especially the friendly industrial policy and the existing investment ecosystem. Amul entering the State would add strength to Telangana’s milk industry. Mr.Patel said the decision to set up the plant in Telangana was after taking note of the State’s industry friendly policy and investment ecosystem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amul-milk-cooperative-to-invest-rs-500-cr-in-ts/article38068184.ece
30 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PD Act slapped on red sanders smugglers||The Kadapa police have slapped PD Act on three notorious red sanders smugglers allegedly involved in the illegal trade for the last seven years. The trio were arrested for their involvement in felling and transportation of the red sanders trees. The trio was also found to have tied up with several smugglers across Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pd-act-slapped-on-red-sanders-smugglers/article38068388.ece
30 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gangs from 15 States involved in ganja trade||Gangs from a mindboggling 15 States of the country have been allegedly found involved in the ganja trade in the East Godavari Agency. Five persons from Delhi have also been arrested for their links with the ganja trade in the Agency. In 2021 alone, 515 persons allegedly involved in the ganja trade have been arrested from the 15 States, including Delhi and Gujarat. East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Raveendranath Babu on Wednesday told newsmen during the press meet on ‘Crime-2021’ that 126 persons arrested in connection with the ganja trade belonged to Telangana. The others arrested in the ganja trade include 58 persons from Odisha, 41 from Maharashtra, 31 from Tamil Nadu and 20 from Karnataka. Prime hurdles “Geographical disadvantages and presence of the Left Wing Extremist groups are the prime hurdles to speed up the drive against the ganja cultivation on the borders of Odisha and Chhattisgarh”, said Mr. Babu. Ganja worth of Rs. 16.70 crore was seized and 515 cases were registered in the district in 2021. Crime against women A total of 689 dowry harassment cases have been registered in the district, excluding Rajamahendravaram city, in 2021. However, 1,526 cases pertaining to crime against women were reported. The district witnessed 61 murders and 76 kidnappings, including the reported elopement of minors, according to Mr. Raveendranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gangs-from-15-states-involved-in-ganja-trade/article38068376.ece
30 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor case: prosecution moves for further probe||The prosecution on Wednesday filed a petition before the Additional Special Sessions Court seeking a further investigation into the sexual assault of woman actor case involving actor Dileep following the revelations of a man who claims to be Dileep's friend. Another petition was also filed before the court seeking to suspend the trial of the case. In an interview to a Malayalam channel, Balachandrakumar, who claimed that he used to discuss film projects with Dileep, said he had seen ‘Pulsar’ Suni, one of the accused in the case, at the resident of Dileep. He said it was Dileep's brother Anoop who introduced Suni to him in December 2016 at the actor’s residence at Aluva. He had also alleged that Dileep had got a copy of the video on the sexual assault of the woman actor even before it was produced before the court. He had claimed that on November 15, 2017, Dileep, his family members, and a VIP guest watched the video of the sexual assault at the actor’s residence. He said he was making the revelations as he feared for his life now. He had also heard a conversation between Dileep and his brother Anoop about influencing a witness called Sagar. He claimed that Dileep told him several times not to reveal the incident to anyone. The woman actor was allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted in a moving car on February 17, 2017. Dileep was arrested in July 2017 and released on bail after being in jail for 85 days. There are 300 witnesses in the case and the examination of witnesses are on at an in-camera proceedings. Prosecutor walks out Meanwhile, Special Prosecutor V.N. Anilkumar reportedly walked out of the court in a huff when the court asked the prosecutor to submit his request in writing for deferring the examination of investigation officer Baiju Poulose. The prosecutor sought deferring the examination of the investigation officer as the officer could not be present before the court. Witnesses Babu Kumar and Manoj Karanthur were examined on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-case-prosecution-moves-for-further-probe/article38067820.ece
30 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Composer Kaithapram Viswanathan no more||Kaithapram Viswanathan, who died while undergoing treatment for cancer here on Wednesday at the age of 58, tuned several chart-topping melodies though he wasn’t among the busiest of composers in Malayalam cinema. He may have worked in only 30-odd movies, but he arrived at a time when music still really mattered in films. That allowed him to come up with some beautiful songs, such as Ennu varum nee ..., which he tuned for his maiden film, Kannaki . Sparkling debut It was indeed a sparkling debut by Viswanathan, whose elder brother Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri had already established himself in cinema as a prolific lyricist. Besides Ennu varum nee... , rendered soulfully by K.S. Chithra, the Jayaraj film also had melodies such as Karineelakkannazhaki.. . (Chithra) and Iniyoru janmamundenkil.. . (Yesudas). His next film Thilakkam proved that Kannaki was no fluke. The highlight of the album was Neeyoru puzhayaay... , sung by P. Jayachandran. K.J. Yesudas’s Enikkoru pennundu... also became popular. He went on to create melodies like Aaad e di... ( Ullam ), Swantham swantham... ( Madhyavenal ), but he somehow was never flooded with work. Background music He once told this correspondent that he was glad that three of his compositions fetched the State Award for the best playback singer for Yesudas, Jayachandran, and G. Venugopal. Viswanathan himself won the State Award for the best background music for Kannaki.  “He had a deep knowledge of music and had a knack to come up with the right tune for a song at the first attempt itself. That is something I haven’t seen in any other composer I have worked with,” Jayaraj told The Hindu. “It is a pity that his potential was never fully utilised.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/composer-kaithapram-viswanathan-no-more/article38067819.ece
30 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Historical inscriptions in utter neglect at Srisailam’||Some historical monuments at Srisailam are being neglected and proper care needs to be taken immediately, archaeologist and Pleach India Foundation CEO E. Sivanagireddy said. During a visit to the temple town on Wednesday, Mr. Sivanagireddy said he found Telugu and Kannada inscriptions of historical importance neglected. He told The Hindu that after a thorough survey in and around Srisailam, he had noticed that an inscription with Kannada script on a Nandi pillar located at the Nandi Mandapa opposite Mallikajuna Temple had sunken into the ground, and as a result close to half of the inscriptions was invisible. “Same is the case with another inscription etched in front of the steps leading to Patalaganga, which have been defaced by a thick coat of white paint that concealed part of the script on one side and the other three sides were camouflaged by stone idols and picture frames,” he explained. The two Kannada inscriptions incised on the natural boulders located to the left side of the Ganga Bhavani Snanaghatta Road have been left uncared for and have no protection. In more grave neglect, the Gollabhama Mandapa, which was dismantled in 1965, had not been reconstructed and its architectural members have been stacked near the Kalyana Katta, Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Sivanagireddy appealed to the authorities in the State government to immediately restore them to their original state and preserve them for posterity, by removing the paints and also erecting proper pedestals with signages to tell visitors about their historical importance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/historical-inscriptions-in-utter-neglect-at-srisailam/article38068384.ece
30 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daunting task lies ahead for health workers||Images of the havoc that the second wave of the pandemic caused across the country are still fresh in people’s minds. In Prakasam district, the viral disease touched a peak of 2,000 cases in May 2021. But thanks to relentless efforts of the health professionals, the number of fresh cases came down to less than 100 by September-end and to 50 in October and to a single digit in December. Even in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday, the district reported only three COVID-19 cases, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The recovery rate improved to 99.16% with over 1.37 lakh persons recovering from the illness. But now, the new Omicron variant, which is reported to be highly transmissible, threatens to undo the efforts made by the health staff so far in containing the spread. To check the spread of the new variant in the district, officials have adopted a multi-pronged strategy to identify all those with foreign travel, subject them to testing and put them in home quarantine. With one person who had returned from South Africa testing positive for Omicron variant, the health staff took cluster containment activities in full vigour in the Cloughpet area in the city. Fortunately, 150 primary and secondary contacts of the person had tested negative. In all, 11 persons with recent foreign travel history had tested positive, according to health officials here. The results from the Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, showed that three of them tested negative for Omicron variant. The genome sequencing results of eight other foreign returnees are still awaited, health officials added. ‘1,500 foreign returnees in the district’ As many as 30 staff are now working round-the-clock to identify all the foreign returnees and restrict them to their homes for 14 days. “We have so far identified 1,500 persons in the district with foreign travel history,” COVID Management Centre head B.Thirumala Rao said. Many of them had tested negative on their arrival. Health staff had difficulty in spotting all the foreign returnees as they camped in Hyderabad or other places without returning to the addresses mentioned in their passports, he added. The district administration has appealed to foreign returnees to voluntarily undergo COVID test and not to move out of their homes for a fortnight, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daunting-task-lies-ahead-for-health-staff/article38068346.ece
30 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many from Prakasam in CPI(M) State committee||Leaders from Prakasam district have got plum posts in the newly-formed State committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Its new State Secretary V.Srinivasa Rao hails from Kellampalli village, near Marripudi, in the district. Prakasam district East and West committees secretaries Punati Anjaneyulu and Sd. Haneef figured in the new State committee as also Jala Anjaiah from S.N. Padu and Y.S.Siddiah from Gangavaram. Mr. Srinivasa Rao, who will chalk out programmes to strengthen the party in the State ahead of the next general elections, has been involved in people’s movement from his student days and served the party in various capacities at the State and Central level. Opposing neo-liberal economic policies, pursued vigorously by both the Union and State governments, would be the main task of the new committee that would also strive to deny any foothold for the “communal” Bharatiya Janata Party in the State, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-from-prakasam-in-cpim-state-committee/article38068347.ece
30 December 2021||Orders issued,ANDHRA PRADESH||36 Dy. SPs promoted as Additional SPs||The State government issued orders promoting 36 Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) as Additional Superintendents of Police (ASPs).  Orders to this effect were issued on Wednesday. Officers working in the Intelligence, Crime Investigation Department (CID), Law and Order (L&O), Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E), Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and other wings of the Police Department were given the promotions. The promoted officers were directed to report in the Andhra Pradesh Police Headquarters and to the heads of the branches concerned within 15 days, the orders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/36-dy-sps-promoted-as-additional-sps/article38068350.ece
30 December 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||A temple art form swings across gender barrier||Tholpavakkoothu, one of the oldest shadow-based temple art forms in the country, used to be a male domain until recently. Now, a woman member of a Tholpavakkoothu family has produced an all-woman Tholpavakkoothu show, the first ever. Rajitha Ramachandra Pulavar, who led the performance at the District Panchayat Hall in Kerala’s Palakkad on Christmas, aptly titled the show Penpavakkoothu, meaning women’s Tholpavakkoothu. It took centuries for a woman to perform a Tholpavakkoothu, breaking the conventions set by generations. Rajitha says she was prompted to learn the art form when her father Ramachandra Pulavar, a leading exponent of Tholpavakkoothu, was criticised for allowing a European woman to sit on the steps of the Koothambalam while performing a show some years ago. “Ever since that incident, I was determined to learn and perform the art form. It is no longer a man’s domain,” says Rajitha, who joined her father whenever he travelled abroad. Rajitha can now make leather puppets used for Tholpavakkoothu and direct the shows as well. The show she presented on Christmas, telling the story of a woman from her infancy to adulthood, was well received by the crowds. Rajitha and her team touched upon the problems faced by women in families and societies. Mohammed Sulfi scripted the show and Jasmin gave background music. Rajalakshmi, Aswati, Nitya, Nivediya, Sreenanda and Sandhya were among those who gave life to shadow puppets. Rajitha’s historic Tholpavakkoothu show was part of a drive by the Kerala government to reassure women on their safety. Empowering women Rajitha said the neglect and harassment being faced by the women in society could be overcome only by empowering them and making them take up mainstream roles. Tholpavakkoothu is widely held in Devi temples across Malabar, especially in neighbouring districts of Palakkad, as a devotional art form. Women used to be only spectators of this art form until Rajitha made the bold move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-art-form-swings-across-gender-barrier/article38067823.ece
30 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sabarimala temple to open for Makaravilakku||After three days of break following the Mandalam season, the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will reopen on Thursday for the Makaravilakku festival. According to the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), the temple will reopen at 5 p.m. on the day while the devotees will be permitted from December 31 morning. The Makaravilakku festival falls on January 14. In view of the easing pandemic situation, the TDB counts on a further surge in the daily footfall, while the spot booking facilities will be available at Nilackal and Erumely. Devotees are required to furnish the vaccination certificates or the result of RT-PCR tests. Forest route The forest route from Erumely will be thrown open to pilgrims on Thursday. The devotees, who take spot booking from Erumely, will be permitted to enter the path from Koyikkalkadavu between 5.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m., while admission to Azhuthakadavu and Mukuzhi will be from 7 a.m. to 12 noon. The devotees will be permitted to travel only in batches and no person will be allowed to hit the route after 5 p.m. Meanwhile, arrangements are also in place from Pampa to the Sannidhanam for welcoming the devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sabarimala-temple-to-open-for-makaravilakku/article38067821.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police attribute registration of more cases to higher awareness||The year 2021 saw an increase in registration of cases of crime against women and children in Tirupati Urban police district, which the department attributes to the people’s heightened awareness and the department’s improved accessibiity through ‘Dial 100’ and DISHA App. Twenty-one cases of alleged rape were registered in 2019, which dipped to 16 in 2020, and rose to 26 in 2021, while POCSO cases stood at 24, 19 and 33 in 2019, 2020 and 2021 respectively. Cases of harassment and alleged outraging modesty of women also steadily rose from 169 in 2019 to 215 in 2020 that increased to 268 in 2021. Women and children were targetted even on the virtual front, as five child porn cases had their roots in Tirupati. “We acted on time to nab six culprits and block 34 links/videos from the web”, said Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban), while revealing the year’s performance on Wednesday. The Alipiri police also removed a social media personality’s tampered videos, which were allegedly circulated for pecuniary benefits. The city also witnessed two cases of missing babies from Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, who were rescued based on technical inputs. The Alipiri police nabbed a gang of eight persons in July for illegally converting international VoIP calls using SIM boxes. Another crime having international ramifications was busted when six persons of foreign origin, including two from China and four from Myanmar, were arrested for unauthorised stay. “About 244 foreigners are officially staying in Tirupati Urban now, 214 of them from China,” Mr. Naidu said. More than ensuring traffic discipline, the e-challan helped the department rake in the moolah through hefty fines. The number of traffic violation cases doubled from 72,764 in 2020 to 1,48,247 in 2021, which includes triple riding, driving by minor, using cellphone while driving and not wearing masks. Admitting that security cover for VIPs on Tirumala visit, political events and protest demonstrations consumed a chunk of man-hours, Mr. Naidu called cyber security, road safety and youth-oriented policing as his future priorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-attribute-registration-of-more-cases-to-higher-awareness/article38068387.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor police use ‘tech edge’ to achieve 99.53% conviction rate||Chittoor district police achieved an impressive conviction rate of 99.53% in 2021, which is comparatively higher than 95.71% of 2020, thanks to administrative discipline as well as the edge achieved on the technology front. The crime-related cases witnessed a slight increase from 2,148 last year to 2,277 in 2021. On the crime front, the district recovered Rs. 8.21 crore worth of property, against the reported loss of Rs. 10.13 crore, achieving 81% recovery rate. The department has embraced technology to such an extent that a whopping 1188 lost mobile phones worth Rs. 1.75 crore were recovered in a year. Disclosing the annual performance at the year-ender meeting held in Chittoor on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said cases pertaining to crime against women jumped from 622 last year to 785. “Cases hitherto brushed under the carpet for stigma are reported to the police today. This is a result of our sensitisation programmes conducted for women and the extensive usage of DISHA App”, he said. The formation of an exclusive Technical Analysis Wing comprising a skilled team of 20 constables proved to be the game-changer in tracking top-notch criminals in the cyber arena, he said. As many as 66,376 denizens of Chittoor district had downloaded the ‘AP Police Seva App’ and filed 5,103 complaints during the year, of which 5,096 were settled. The enforcement wing cracked the whip on cricket betting, cockfights, and seized arms and explosives. “Our Special Enforcement Bureau controlled illegal mining and transportation of sand, liquor across the porous inter-State borders and controlled arrack production”, Mr. Kumar added. The department stamped its feet on the notorious red sanders smuggling by booking 34 cases, arresting 174 criminals and recovering property worth Rs. 3.04 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-police-use-tech-edge-to-achieve-9953-conviction-rate/article38068389.ece
30 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed in quarry blast||One person was killed and three others were injured when boulders slid off the rocky surface in a suspected quarry blast in Kuppam constituency on Wednesday. According to Kuppam police, the incident happened near Somapuram village in Santhipuram mandal where the persons allegedly took up blasting to extract stones. Amid doubts of whether a blast had indeed occurred or not, police found that there was no permission accorded for stone exploration at the site. The deceased was identified as Govindaraju of Kuppam, while the three injured were shifted to PES Hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-killed-in-quarry-blast/article38068348.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poornahuti done at Kanaka Durga temple||Priests at the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam in the city performed poornahuti with much fervour at the yagasala near Sivalayam on Wednesday, marking the end of the annual Bhavani Deeksha - a highly significant event for lakhs of devotees across the State. Amidst chanting of Vedic hymns, the temple priests offered a silk sari, sandalwood pieces, ghee, flowers and fruits to the ‘homam’, and aaseerwachanam (blessings) were given to the devotees. Thousands of Bhavani devotees, after taking a holy dip in the Krishna, made a beeline for the Kanaka Durga temple from midnight and offered special pujas to the Goddess to mark the conclusion of the deeksha. A huge ‘homagundam’ constructed on Arjuna Veedhi was used by devotees to deposit their ‘Irumudi’ that they had carried on their head, walking all the way from their homes or chosen destinations. The vicinity of Indrakeeladri reverberated with chants, bhajans and slogans – ‘Bhavani Mata ki jai’, ‘Jai Bhavani Jai Jai Bhavani’ – as Bhavanis thronged the shrine to relinquish their deeksha. Circumambulation mandatory Circumambulation of the Indrakeeladri (Giri pradakshina) is mandatory for the devotees who take the deeksha. About 4.50 lakh devotees thronged the temple this year to relinquish their deeksha. The total turnout is expected to touch 5 lakh by the end of the season. Though the relinquishment concludes with poornahuti, a spillover of devotees will remain on Thursday. The devotees generally do not prefer to relinquish deeksha on Tuesdays and Fridays. So, there is a possibility that Bhavani devotees are likely to come on Saturday as well. Temple authorities are expecting the rush to continue and are making arrangements accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poornahuti-done-at-kanaka-durga-temple/article38067880.ece
30 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders parroted script written in TDP office: Sajjala||The BJP leaders parroted the script written in NTR Trust Bhavan during their ‘Janaagraha Sabha’ organised in Vijayawada on Tuesday, Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy alleged on Wednesday. Addressing the media, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said leaders such as Sujana Chowdary and C.M. Ramesh, the “trusted lieutenants” of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, were wielding power in the BJP. The meeting was organised as per the agenda set by Mr. Naidu, the YSRCP leader alleged. The BJP meeting appeared like the one affiliated to the TDP, he said, and questioned why was the TDP not demanding the disqualification of its MPs who had joined the BJP. “For the first time in the history of the country, a national party is working as an affiliate of a regional outfit. The BJP neither has presence nor understands the feelings of the people. The TDP, the BJP, the JSP and the CPI are birds of the same feather,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy observed. Mr. Chowdary and Mr. Ramesh took forward the TDP agenda, and the plan was to help the TDP emerge as a powerful alliance in the elections. “But Mr. Naidu will not realise his dream. The TDP’s true colours have been exposed with the collection of Rs. 100 crore for the padayatra of the Amaravati farmers,” he alleged. The ploy of these parties could be understood by the fact that they were opposing the One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme that benefited the poor, he said. The BJP, in its manifesto, had promised Kurnool as the judicial capital. The party should clear the air whether it approved Visakhapatnam as executive capital, the YSRCP leader said. It was surprising that Mr. Naidu wrote a letter to the DGP based on party leader Vangaveeti Radha’s comments at a meeting that recce had been conducted near his house, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. Had Mr. Naidu been in power, he would not have provided security even if Mr. Radha requested for it, he added. “The State government has assured to provide security to Mr. Radha,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-parroted-script-written-in-tdp-office-sajjala/article38068355.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC Board discusses action plan to rejuvenate organisation||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Board met on Wednesday and discussed a plan of action to be initiated post-COVID-19 to revitalise the public sector transport giant. This was the first meeting after the new board was put in place. Corporation’s Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao welcomed the new Chairman A. Mallikarjun Reddy with a bouquet. The meeting discussed in detail the measures needed to be initiated to put the corporation back on rails post-pandemic. The agenda comprised 45 issues that were taken up by the board members who took stock of key aspects like revenue earned and the money spent, maintenance of the fleet of buses and steps to offer improved services to the commuters. The merger of APSRTC employees in the government has taken a huge financial burden off the shoulders of the corporation. From January 2020, when the employees migrated to the Public Transport Department, they have been receiving their salaries directly from the State government, which spends a monthly sum of Rs. 250 crore and annually Rs. 3,000 crore towards their salaries. COVID impact  Of the 10,502 employees affected by COVID-19 pandemic from March 2020, 322 of them had succumbed to the virus. Even when the virus was raging at its peak, the APSRTC did not stop its services and continued to help people commute from one place to the other amid strict adherence to the COVID protocol, said the officials. Improved services in bus stations, technical issues in bus depots, imparting skills to the employees periodically and purchase of new buses were other issues that came up for discussion. Vice-Chairman Vijayanand Reddy, Zonal Chairpersons of Vizianagaram, Vijayawada, Nellore and Kadapa G. Bangaramma, Tatineni Padmavathi, Supraja and M. Manjula respectively, Principal Secretary, Finance S. S. Rawat, Princiapal Secretary, Transport and Roads and Buildings M. T. Krishna Babu, Principal Secretary, GAD Bhushan Kumar and others were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-board-discusses-action-plan-to-rejuvenate-organisation/article38068359.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||The Hindu to host awareness session on cancer tomorrow||The Hindu FIC, in association with HCG Curie Cancer Centre, will conduct a cancer awareness programme and health checks for police personnel, on December 31. City Police Commissioner Kanti Rana Tata will inaugurate the event at 7.30 a.m. at Armed Reserved Grounds on MG Road. The objective is to create awareness and remove stigma and fear surrounding cancer, as it would help people recognise the early signs and symptoms and enable them to seek treatment at an early stage. The session would focus on aspects that can help lower the risk of cancer, such as people shifting to healthy lifestyle changes, avoiding exposure to known cancer-causing substances, or taking medicines or vaccines that can prevent cancer from developing. HCG Regional Director M. Gopichand will deliver a health talk. COO M. Sridhar will be present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-hindu-to-host-awareness-session-on-cancer-tomorrow/article38067883.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ‘recce’ near Radha’s house, Naidu urges DGP||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Director General of Police (DGP) Gautam Sawang to commission an inquiry into the recce allegedly conducted by miscreants near the house of TDP leader Vangaveeti Radha with an aim to eliminate him. In the letter addressed to the DGP on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu said the law and order situation in Andhra Pradesh was appalling. ‘Jungle raj’ The latest target seemed to be Mr. Radha, the party leader from Vijayawada, Mr. Naidu said. “Such illegal acts carried out in broad daylight point to the reign of jungle and goonda raj in the State,” the TDP president said. “There is a need to conduct an inquiry in a transparent manner and ensure that the culprits are brought to book. Such incidents are recurring as no serious action is being taken. The government will be held responsible should anything happen to Mr. Radha,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-recce-near-radhas-house-naidu-urges-dgp/article38068351.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan felicitates shuttler Kidambi Srikanth||Indian badminton player Srikanth Kidambi on Wednesday met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister felicitated the player who had scripted history recently by becoming the first Indian to win a silver medal at the BWF World Championships. The government had announced a cash reward of Rs. 7 lakh for Mr. Srikanth and allotted five acres of land in Tirupati for development of a badminton Academy. During the TDP term, Mr. Srikanth had been appointed as Deputy Collector. Minister for Tourism and Sports M. Srinivasa Rao, Special Chief Secretary G. Sai Prasad, SAI Andhra Pradesh Chairman B. Siddharth Reddy, Managing Director N. Prabhakar Reddy, Officer on Special Duty Ramakrishna, and Mr. Srikanth’s parents were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-felicitates-shuttler-kidambi-srikanth/article38067826.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 9,034 cr. destroyed: SEB chief||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau conducted raids across the State on illegal sand, liquor and NDPL, ganja and country made liquor and booked 1,05,689 cases in 2021, said SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal. He said the SEB arrested 1,47,217 persons, who were allegedly involved in smuggling liquor, ganja, sand and for hoarding black jaggery. Police seized 21,499 vehicles used for illegal operations in the State. Under ‘Operation Parivarthana’, the SEB personnel destroyed marijuana (ganja) plantations in about 7,375 acres worth about Rs. 9,034 crore in Andhra-Odisha Border and in East Godavari. “The operation is being taken up in 299 villages, including Cheemakonda, Jangamput, Ranjila Mamidi, Chinna Gulleru, Chinna Vancharangi in Visakhapatnam and in two mandals in East Godavari districts. About 380 teams are participating in Operation Parivarthana,” Mr. Brijlal said. Cases booked under PD Act Besides, Preventive Detention (PD) Act cases had been booked against habitual ganja smugglers and raids were being conducted on trains and buses and private vehicles checked on the National Highways to check the smuggling of the contraband. Patrolling has been intensified on the State borders to check smuggling of Non-Duty Paid Liquor from Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha and Tamil Nadu, the SEB Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-worth-rs-9034-cr-destroyed-seb-chief/article38068515.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||25th currency chest of IDBI Bank set up in city||IDBI Bank deputy managing director Suresh Khatanhar on Wednesday inaugurated the bank’s 25th currency chest near Chuttugutna junction of the city. It is the first chest of IDBI in the State and caters to the banking needs in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam regions. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Suresh said that the chest improves the liquidity cash management services to ensure improved customer services with timely availability of cash to bank branches and ATMs. He said the setting up of the chest showed the significance and growth potential in Andhra Pradesh. He said IDBI Bank had emerged as one of the largest private sector banks, and 67% of its clients were retail customers and 33% were corporate customers. During the second quarter of the 2021-22 fiscal, the bank reported a net profit of Rs. 567 crore with year on year growth of 75%. IDBI Bank executive director (Centralised operations) Pradip Kumar Das said that apart from IDBI Bank other banks could also use the services of the chest as per RBI rules. He said IDBI Bank had been playing a key role in direct benefit transfers for government schemes in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25th-currency-chest-of-idbi-bank-set-up-in-city/article38067878.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vacancies in Revenue, Endowments to be filled||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission has issued notifications to fill 670 posts of Junior Assistant-cum-Computer Assistant in the Revenue Department and for 60 posts of Executive Officers (Grade-III) in Endowments Department. In a statement, Commission secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said the applications should be submitted online between December 30 and January 19. The notifications are also available on the Commission’s websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.in, he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vacancies-in-revenue-endowments-to-be-filled/article38067881.ece
30 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. keen on temple assets, but not their development’||TDP Polit Bureau member K. Kala Venkata Rao on Wednesday alleged that the State government was interested only in grabbing the assets of temples and not in ensuring their security and development. In a statement, Mr. Venkata Rao demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy explain why the culprits had not been arrested even one year after the desecration of Lord Rama idol at Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district. The government’s “failure” to nab the accused in the series of temple attacks was tantamount to insulting the sentiments of the Hindus, he said. The idol atop Bodikonda at Ramateertham had over 400-year history, and the place was popularly known as the ‘Ayodhya of North Andhra’, Mr. Venkata Rao said. While modern technology was being used to nab the accused in 24 hours of committing the crime, the government could not take any action in the idol desecration case so far, the TDP leader alleged. There were more than 230 instances of attacks on Hindu temples and places of worship in the State ever since Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy took over as the Chief Minister. “Action has not been taken even in a single instance,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-keen-on-temple-assets-but-not-their-development/article38068353.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||First phase of ICET counselling completed||The APSCHE has released the details about the first phase of counselling process for A.P. Integrated Common Entrance Test for admissions into MBA and MCA programmes. The State has 303 MBA colleges with 29,378 seats. Of them 25,972 seats are filled under Convener quota (70%) and 3,406 seats with students belonging to the Economically Weaker Sections (10%). In the first phase of counselling, 7,327 seats had been allotted — 6,997 in the Convener quota and 330 in EWS. The 166 MCA colleges have 6,885 seats, and of them 6,077 are under Convener quota and 808 under EWS. The APSCHE has so far allotted 5,285 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-phase-of-counselling-for-icet-over/article38068357.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. team preps for national skill contests||After winning the regional (Southern) round of skill competitions, a 30-member team from the State is gearing up to compete in the national-level skill contests, scheduled to take place from January 6 to 10 at Pragati Maidan in Delhi. A statement issued by APSSDC on Wednesday said that the 30 participants would represent 17 different disciplines, including yoga. This 30-member group will represent the State in the national event under the banner of APSSDC. Winners of the event will represent the county in a global skill competitions, scheduled to be held in Shanghai, China in October 2022. The 30 participants are honing their skills in 17 different areas of additive manufacturing, autobody repair, cloud computing, concrete construction work, cybersecurity, digital construction, electronics, IT network systems administration, IT software solutions for business, mobile applications development, mobile robotics, print media technology, refrigeration and air-conditioning, renewable energy, welding, robot systems integration and yoga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-team-preps-for-national-skill-contests/article38067885.ece
30 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘School Safety Day’ on Jan. 7||Commissioner, Department of School Education S. Suresh on Wednesday said all schools in the State must observe ‘School Safety Day’ on January 7. Addressing a meeting as part of “Children’s Safety- School Safety” jointly organised by Samagra Shiksha wing and the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Mr. Suresh said teachers would be given online training in this regard and added that the implementation of the programme should not be confined to January 7 alone, but it should be made a continuous exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/school-safety-day-on-jan-7/article38067884.ece
30 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srinivasa Rao elected State secretary of CPI(M)||The CPI(M) has elected V. Srinivasa Rao as party State secretary at its 26th conference. It has also elected a 13-member secretariat – M.A. Gafoor; Y. Venkateswara Rao; Ch. Narsing Rao; Ch. Babu Rao; K. Prabhakar Reddy; D. Rama Devi; Mantena Sitaram; B. Tulasidas; V. Venkateswarlu; P. Jamalaiah; K. Lokanadham; and Moolam Ramesh. Surendra Killo and K. Subbaravamma are invitees to the secretariat. The party has also elected a 50-member committee. Outgoing State secretary P. Madhu; Paturu Ramaiah; B.R. Tulasi Rao; V. Balasubrahmanyam; and Y. Siddaiah have also been made special invitees of the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srinivasa-rao-elected-state-secretary-of-cpim/article38068352.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime against women, accidents increased in city this year||Cases of crime against women, road accidents and property offences increased, while cyber crimes witnessed a decline in the city in 2021, when compared to the previous year. As many as 1,848 cases of crime against women were reported this year as against 1,059 in 2020 and 1,279 in 2019, according to statistics provided by the city police at the annual press conference here on Wednesday. They include 1,095 harassment cases this year as against 431 during 2020, as many as 473 molestation cases this year as against 320 last year. Meanwhile, 165 rape cases were reported this year compared to 137 cases last year. The COVID-19 lockdown, awareness programmes on women safety, Disha application and setting up of a counselling centre for Women in Need (WIN) at Swarna Bharathi Indoor Stadium, have made it easy for victims to approach the police and register their complaints. A total of 364 persons died and 1,523 people were injured in 1,528 road accidents this year as against 1,147 road accidents and 260 deaths and 1,048 injuries last year. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that Vizag Disha Police Station has charge-sheeted all the POCSO cases within 60 days. He said that the pandemic has led to a steep increase in the use of personal vehicles for commuting, which has led to an increase in road accidents. According to Deputy Commissioner of Police (I/c) (Crimes) Sravan Kumar, about 806 property offences were reported this year, compared to 696 cases in 2020 and 869 cases in 2019. The total includes 181 house break-ins, 49 snatchings and 258 two-wheeler thefts. Property worth Rs. 6.49 crore was lost and Rs. 3.73 crore was recovered during the year. Similarly, 307 cyber crime cases as against 354 during the year 2020 were reported in the city. Property worth about Rs. 9.24 crore was lost, while property worth about Rs. 1.27 crore was recovered. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) S. Gowthami said that there were no major law and order problem in the city this year. The city has reported 36 murders and 76 murder attempts this year. As many as 189 cases of atrocities against SC/STs were reported. Land grabbing cases have come down from 33 last year to 23 this year. The police have opened 271 history-sheets against those involved in crimes. Mr. Sathish Kumar from Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) said that around 3,796 kg ganja was seized in 68 cases booked in the city, in which 121 persons were arrested. ADCP (Traffic) Ch Adinarayana, ACP (Disha PS) Prem Kajal and ADCP (Admin.) M. Rajani were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crime-against-women-accidents-increased-in-city-this-year/article38068570.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solving civic problems over a cup of coffee||In a first of its kind initiative, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) will start an outreach programme, ‘Coffee with Corporators’ to receive representations and grievances from the elected Corporators. Unlike a regular reddressal programme, the corporation officials will interact with Corporators, Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and NGOs and spend a complete day with them. The first meet is likely to start from January 5 and Corporators from Zone I may be invited. “During the last council meet, we have observed that Corporators have many issues to bring to our notice and there was not much time. This time, the corporation will go to the Corporators. Mayor, Commissioner and Department Heads will spend time from morning to evening with them and receive representations,” said GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha. He said that as part of the plan, the programme would be conducted zone-wise. Each zone has about 10 to 12 wards. The objective was to give each Corporator sufficient time to enable him/her to bring the issues to our notice, he said. Mr. Lakshmisha said that after receiving complaints/representations, the GVMC would compile them and categorise the issues into three categories — short-term, medium-term and long-term — to address them. The short-term issues include sanitation, drainage and other issues. Medium and long-term issues could involve those requiring budget and approvals. This would give an insight of all the issues in the wards and measures required to resolve them in the next couple of years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solving-civic-problems-over-a-cup-of-coffee/article38068560.ece
30 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam airport maintains steady growth despite pandemic concerns||Notwithstanding the continuing COVID-19 concerns, and the latest threat of Omicron variant, which is said to be spreading rapidly, the Visakhapatnam International Airport has shown good growth both on the passenger and cargo fronts in the first 11 months of 2021 as compared with the corresponding period the previous year. In terms of infrastructure development, the works taken up under ‘linear expansion’ are in an advanced stage of completion and are expected to be completed by March 2022. Scheduled international flights, which were cancelled about 20 months ago after the outbreak of the pandemic, are scheduled to begin operations in a restricted manner under the ‘air bubble’ agreement. Scoot airlines launched its operations from Visakhapatnam to Singapore, thrice a week, on Wednesday. Once the Government of India lifts the restrictions on operation of scheduled international operations, more flights can be expected to operate from the city. New taxi track The commissioning of the new parallel taxi track (N 5) will help in increasing the number flight movements (landing and take off) at the airport. The AAI has spent Rs. 23 crore on the construction of N 5 and six additional parking bays at the airport. “As many as 12 big aircraft can be parked at the airport now. In addition to this, four smaller aircraft can also be parked at the old terminal building,” says Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao. Linear expansion “The linear expansion of the existing terminal building project has been taken up to increase the passenger handling capacity from the present 2.75 million passengers per annum (MPPA) to 3.5 MPPA. About 95% of the work has been completed, and the remaining work is expected to be completed in the next three months. Inline X-ray Baggage Screening System (ILBS) for registered baggage inspection is almost ready. This allows passengers to approach the airline counters and deposit luggage without initial scanning,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao says. The passengers handled by the airport during the first 11 months of the present calendar year are 14,22,662 against 11,04340 during the corresponding period the previous year. The aircraft movements increased to 13,971 from 11,947 during the period. The number of passengers handled prior to the outbreak of the pandemic during the 2019-20 fiscal was – domestic 25,46,382 and international 1,42,485. The enhanced capacity, as a result of the linear expansion, will take care of the passenger growth for a few more years after which the civilian operations may have to be moved to Bhogapuram, about 50 km from the city, where an international airport is planned to be built.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-airport-maintains-steady-growth-despite-pandemic-concerns/article38068361.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t opt for VRS, Discom CMD tells diploma engineers||Chairman and Managing Director of Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) K. Santosh Rao has said that 2,859 G.L.M.’s (Energy Assistants) were appointed during 2019 and in the second phase, 398 more were recruited recently. The CMD participated as a chief guest at a programme organised by the AP Power Diploma Engineers’ Association at Kakatiya Convention Centre here on Wednesday. He asked the staff not to believe in rumours that their salaries and allowances were being reduced. He appealed to the staff not to harbour any feelings of insecurity and opt for VRS. He assured them that neither the officials of power companies nor the government would take any measures that were detrimental to the interests of the staff. Referring to the issue raised by the association leaders, he said that promotions were given to Junior Engineers recently and agreed to do justice to them regarding implementation of their pay scales and other issues. Association State president V.V. Maheswara Reddy said that the staff strength does not match the increased workload. The CMD released a technical diary brought out by the association. APEPDCL Director (Projects) K. Raja Bapaiah, Director (Operations) B. Ramesh Prasad and Director (Finance and HRD) D. Chandram released a table calendar and launched an ‘app’ developed by the association. Earlier, artistes of the School of Theatre Arts regaled the gathering with their dances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-opt-for-vrs-discom-cmd-tells-diploma-engineers/article38068378.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrap OTS scheme: TDP||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders and party workers staged a dharna, opposing the One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme of the State government and demanding free registration of plots for the poor, at the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC here, on Wednesday. The party workers, holding placards against the scheme, raised slogans against the scheme. TDP Parliament district president Palla Srinivasa Rao alleged that the OTS scheme was introduced to extract Rs. 10,000 from each poor beneficiary. He demanded that the YSR Congress government given house sites free of cost to BPL families. MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu demanded that free registration be done for the houses constructed during the tenure of Mr. Chandrababu Naidu. Party leader Sri Bharat, Gandi Babji, Korada Raja Babu, Pasarla Prasad, Md. Nazeer and Lodagala Krishna were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scrap-ots-scheme-tdp/article38068566.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1.10 crore sanctioned to Paderu hospital||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has said that the government sanctioned Rs. 1.10 crore for provision of medical equipment at the Paderu District Hospital. He took part in Paderu District Hospital Development Committee meeting at Paderu in the district, on Wednesday. The government has sanctioned a mini-ambulance, three computers and has also given permission to procure steel benches for the benefit of patients. Araku MP G. Madhavi, Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi and ITDA Project Officer R Gopala Krishna were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-110-crore-sanctioned-to-paderu-hospital/article38068572.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||VOA ‘attempts’ suicide due to ‘harassment’||A Village Organisation Assistant(VOA) reportedly attempted suicide by consuming pesticide due to alleged harassment by officials and local YSR Congress Party leaders at Padayatrapalem village of Sabbavaram mandal in the district on Wednesday. Aruna Kumari, who is woking as VOA of AP Velugu, has been allegedly being harassed by the ruling party leaders and AP Velugu officials for the last one month with threats of termination of services, and appointment of a new VOA in her place. V.V. Srinivasa Rao, honorary district president of AP Velugu VOA (Animators) Employees Union, alleged that Ms. Aruna Kumari had taken the extreme step unable to bear the harassment. She was admitted to the King George Hospital (KGH) for treatment. Mr. Srinivasa Rao, along with district general secretary K. Lakshmi Prasanna and Sabbavaram VOAs Manga Satyavathi, Lavanya, Lakshmi and Mani, called on the victim at the hospital. Mr. Srinivasa Rao demanded suspension of the officials and action against YSRCP leaders, who were responsible for making Ms. Aruna Kumari take the extreme step. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline no. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/voa-attempts-suicide-due-to-harassment/article38068564.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||17 new cases in district||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 17 new COVID-19 cases and 13 discharges in the last 24 hours ending on Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,364. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,58,139. The death toll stands at 1,108 as no COVID-19 death was recorded in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/17-new-cases-in-district/article38068571.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contractors protest against delay in clearing bills||Contractors, owing allegiance to the AP Contractors Association, demanded that the State government clear their pending bills without any further delay. The contractors from all districts of the State participated in a protest, organised by the association, at the Gandhi statue, opposite the GVMC office, on Wednesday. They said that non-payment of pending bills was making it difficult for them to take up new works. Many of the contractors were in dire straits due to the non-payment of bills for the works done by them. The contractors invest money in the works, undertaken by them, by procuring loans on interest. The interest payable on the loans was accumulating . They appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to understand their woes and order early clearance of the pending bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contractors-protest-against-delay-in-clearing-bills/article38068562.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Nidhi Aapke Nikat’ to be organised on January 10||The first ‘Nidhi Aapke Nikat’ or ‘PF near you’, for this year, will be held at the Regional PF Office, Marripalem VUDA Layout, here on January 10. People may register their grievances either through post/courier/fax no.0891-2558734/ro.vizag @epfindia.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nidhi-aapke-nikat-to-be-organised-on-january-10/article38068561.ece
30 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM Cup TT tourney gets underway||The two-day DRM Cup Table Tennis Championship was inaugurated by Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy at the Railway Indoor Sports Enclave (RISE), here on Wednesday. The tournament comprised 17 categories and about 110 participants are taking part in the event. A total of 40 matches were conducted in singles and doubles on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drm-cup-tt-tourney-gets-underway/article38068568.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Popular hangout||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/popular-hangout/article38068363.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ascending tunes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ascending-tunes/article38067828.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Endowment lecture||The 15th endowment lecture in neurosciences on the topic “Neurosurgical causes of headache“ was delivered by Sanjay Behari, Professor of Neurosurgery in SGPGI, Lucknow, at Andhra Medical College(AMC), here, on Wednesday. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, AMC participated as the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/endowment-lecture/article38068563.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘There is an in-built spark to do our best during a crisis’||Gajanan Mallya has been only the second longest serving General Manager of the South Central Railway — he has been in the key position for two years and 11 months. He will be retiring after four decades of railway service this week. In this interview, he discusses the highlights of his career, dealing with challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and works done during his tenure. Edited excerpts:  How do you look back at your railway journey? Time flies. I spent 60 years of my life in railway colonies as my father, too, worked with the railways. After completing my engineering education, I was allotted to SCR and began work at Ramagundam and then Kazipet, etc. I was part of the technology change from metre/narrow gauge to broad gauge, steam to diesel to electric locomotives, vacuum to air brakes and so on. We are almost cent per cent broad gauge now and total electrification is 2-3 years away, depending on fund allocation. How challenging was dealing with the COVID pandemic? For the first time, Indian Railways came to a standstill. It was shocking because even during the cyclone, we ran our services. But, we never stopped working as the freight trains were restored and Shramik specials (first across the country; from Lingampally to Hatia) began. We had to make arrangements for food and water in association with the government and voluntary bodies as stations were shut. How did your staff respond to the crises? Railways is like the Army, geared to deal with emergencies. There is an in-built spark to do our best during a crisis. There was not a single instance of dissent and no crew member refused to work for the fear of getting infected. For me, it was a great thing as not a single train movement was affected. What were the challenges during the first and second COVID waves? We took up a massive campaign on COVID-appropriate behaviour, started making sanitisers, stitched masks and even PPE kits for our healthcare personnel as there was a shortage. Online meetings with our chairman and Minister every alternate day was about how many litres of sanitiser was available. We took other measures like bringing the crew on the same day to avoid night stays. The big issue was getting private hospital beds, so we scaled up our own infrastructure with more beds, doctors, oxygen plants, etc. Our workshops had to function, where workers were in close proximity, so we cut their strength by 50%. Did the pandemic affect your schedules? Passenger trains were fewer, but we made use of this period to organise online refresher courses for the staff, took up long-pending repairs on busy sections as in Godavari bridge (after 43 years), yards in Vijaywada, Kazipet, Rajahmundry and many other places. Long term works like new lines, doubling (771 km built/215 km new line/677 km electrified in last 3 years) were expedited as were crucial short terms of loop and bypass lines. What were the other initiatives? The focus was on freight and forming business development initiatives forced us to change our attitude towards freight customers as they give us our bread and butter. We earned a high of Rs. 108 crore last year and have crossed Rs. 148 crore this year. Any projects you wish were completed? Projects where the states had a role in funding could not be completed though we had invested our share, including the MMTS Phase II and Gajwel line among others. However, on the bright side, we were successful in improving Tirupati, Chandragiri, Tiruchanoor stations and vital links at a few places. The Bhadrachalam- Sattupalli line will be ready by February 2022.  We earned a high of Rs. 108 crore last year and have already crossed Rs. 148 crore this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/there-is-an-in-built-spark-to-do-our-best-during-a-crisis/article38068181.ece
30 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No mask, no entry at Numaish||Interspersed with the classic songs of Muhammad Rafi, Lata Mangeshkar, and Mukesh will be announcements of vaccination and the importance of masking up at the 81st All India Industrial Exhibition at Nampally. As an army of workers ready the fairground for the 46-day annual carnival, students from the Vanita Mahavidyalaya troop out at the end of the day. Dozens of languages can be heard amid the sounds of hammering and hollering by the workers. “The annual exhibition brings about Rs. 2,000 crore business to the city. We have stalls from every part of the country, from Kashmir to Tamil Nadu,” informs Aditya Margam, secretary of the Exhibition Society that runs the annual carnival. The blow from COVID-19 pandemic has been a sharp one for the annual exhibition, popularly known by its Urdu moniker, Numaish. Beginning in 1938 as Numaish Masnuat-e-Mulki, this year should have been its 83rd edition. “There was no Numaish in 1947 and 1948 due to disturbances in the Nizam’s Dominion. We missed the 2021 event due to COVID. This time, we are not taking any chances,” says Mr. Margam. Besides daily sanitisation, vaccination status of all the stall owners is being checked. There will be a strict no-mask, no-entry policy with patrolling to ensure conformity with COVID protocol. “Of the 20-acre ground that has been leased, we are using only six acres to set up the stalls. We have increased the space between stalls and widened the pathways for safety purposes,” says Mr. Margam. The fire accident on January 30, 2019, has transformed the fairground’s safety. There is a 3-km pipeline with 81 fire hydrants that can spray water to a distance of 150 feet with three lakh litre storage capacity. The Exhibition Society hired the services of a security consultant and remodelled its premises to make it fire-proof. Every year, over the course of a month and half, nearly 20 lakh visitors pay and pass through the turnstiles for an evening of shopping, loitering, eating and catching up with family or friends. 2022 will once again be that year of normalcy for Hyderabad, with thousands of visitors expected to turn up at Numaish scheduled to be held between January 1 and February 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-mask-no-entry-at-numaish/article38068183.ece
30 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Vaccination must for revellers’||Only fully vaccinated persons should be allowed to the New Year-eve parties, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police C.V. Anand told the party organisers and pubs on Wednesday. “The organisers must ensure that nobody is permitted without producing either electronic or physical certificate, of both doses of vaccination,” the Commissioner of Police said in a string of guidelines issued to the managements of three star and above hotels, clubs and pubs. The organisers must ensure that physical distancing is maintained in the venue and people without masks should not be allowed. “The licensee should personally and responsibly ensure that passes/tickets/coupons should not be sold/issued/given in excess of the capacity which violates COVID-19 protocols and social distancing norms,” the Commissioner of Police said. In the recent reporting of the Omicron variant, the organisers must engage more staff and stewards at the higher-risk areas where crowds are likely to form, such as concession stands/bars, toilets, lifts, corridors, walkways and entry/exit points and at standing performances for proper adherence to the COVID-19 norms. “Staff present at the venue should be tested negative for COVID-19 in the last 48 hours,” Mr. Anand said, adding that venues must be disinfected before starting the events. DJ should not be allowed in outdoor events and sound of the musical event should not be heard beyond the premises, any complaints from the neighbours will be treated seriously, he warned. “No vulgarity or no obscene dressing or obscene dances should be allowed. Licensee will be responsible for preventing the use of drugs and psychotropic substances by the participants in the event or in the premises,” the officer said, adding that special attention should be paid at the parking areas and other places where drugs are clandestinely sold. Mr. Anand said that licensee should ensure parking of all vehicles inside the premises of the establishment and should not allow parking on the main road. There should be separate gates for entry and for exit and it is the responsibility of the management of pubs/bars to make necessary arrangements to provide drivers/cabs to the customers who are in a drunken state to reach their destinations safely. The concept of “designated driver for a day” who can safely take home co-passengers without himself/herself indulging in drinking beyond the limit to be explained to the customers as well as displayed at prominent places for their safety, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-must-for-revellers-says-cp/article38068191.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cadre allocation, transfers force teachers to protest||Creation of new districts had eased administration to a large extent, but now the smaller districts have robbed, forever, the local status of thousands of teachers and government employees. The recent cadre allocation and transfers of government employees, particularly teachers, has made them non-locals in their own native districts. The entire exercise was done unilaterally with the opinions and suggestions of teachers unions completely ignored, argue the teachers, now on the warpath. The transfer guidelines have proved to be immensely beneficial to senior teachers while the juniors recruited after 2008 will have to forego their local status in their native districts forever, says Chava Ravi, general secretary of TSUTF and steering committee member of Upadhayaya Sanghala Porata Committee (USPC). This is unfair allocation since the new local status in the newly allotted district will stay forever with them. For example, the erstwhile Ranga Reddy district is now divided into three districts – Medchal, Ranga Reddy and Vikarabad with the last one stretched to as far as Kodangal in the erstwhile Mahabubnagar district. So, a junior teacher of Ranga Reddy district is forced to shift to Vikarabad district due to his lesser service period. This teacher will now not only have to travel to remote places like Kodangal area but have to stay in Vikarabad district cadre forever with no chance of returning back to any place in the combined RR district. Similar will be the case for teachers in Mahabubnagar that has been divided into seven new districts. “This anomaly should go. The government did not heed to our suggestions since we anticipated such a scenario,” Mr. Chava Ravi explains. He reminds that when the new districts were being formed, the teachers’ unions represented to the authorities to ensure the local status of the existing employees is protected for future service transfers. “We were assured.” Teachers opposing the new norms and transfers also raise an imperative imbalance of posts in the future. A teacher working in Mahabubnagar district says all the seniors have opted for districts nearer to the State capital or big cities. Most of them will retire in the next three to four years. So the vacancies arising there would be filled with those local candidates only. This means youngsters in the rural districts will lose employment opportunities as retirements are unlikely there for the next two decades as majority of employees are around 30 years of age. Teachers’ unions suggest a way out, saying at least the School Assistant posts should be shifted to the zonal cadre from the district cadre. This will at least give some hope for teachers to come back to their native districts when they get promotions. Or at least, the government should assure teachers that they will be given an option to go back to their original districts as and when seniors retire creating vacancies. A delegation of teachers unions represented to the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar citing irregularities in the seniority lists and also demanded revision in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cadre-allocation-transfers-force-teachers-to-protest/article38068209.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIT-Hyderabad records big jump in innovation ranking||The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) was ranked 7th in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2021. The institute had been placed in the 19th position the previous year and 10th in 2019. The ranking is an initiative of the Ministry of Education, Government of India, to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development” among students and faculties. Minister of State for Education Subhas Sarkar announced the results. “This achievement is due to the sheer hard work of the students, staff, faculty members, and the vision of the torch bearers of this institute and more importantly our alumni,” said IIT-Hyderabad director B.S. Murty. The top-3 ranks went to IIT-Madras, IIT-Bombay and IIT-Delhi, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iit-hyderabad-records-big-jump-in-innovation-ranking/article38068186.ece
30 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two women robbed of gold chains||Two women were allegedly robbed of their gold chains in separate incidents in the uptown Jubilee Hills and Banjara Hills in the late hours of Tuesday and early hours of Wednesday. In the first incident, Swapna alleged that while she was standing at Yousufguda checkpost, a man on Bajaj Chetak scooter robbed her of a gold chain weighing two tolas, ring and Rs. 2,000. The incident took place around 12.30 a.m. and the woman was under the influence of alcohol, police said. In another incident that took place near Prabat Society, behind Telugu Desam Party (TDP) office, Krishnaveni along with her husband was going to their work when a man came from behind and snatched her two-tola gold chain around 6.30 a.m.. “In this case, we suspect that the accused was familiar with the topography of the area, as he made off with the gold chain and escaped through lanes and bylanes,” police said. The victim works at a restaurant at Banjara Hills, the police said. Police said they were examining the video footage of surveillance cameras in the areas and teams were launched to nab the suspects. Woman cheated A woman from Hyderguda was cheated by online job fraudsters for Rs. 65,000, Narayanguda police said. The victim, Jennifer Rebecca Franklin, told police that in October she had got a call from a person stating that he was working for Naukri.com and she got selected for a job at Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore, as a front office executive. The caller sent her a mail and asked to pay Rs. 65,000 for medical and immigration charges. She paid as directed by the caller. “After paying the money, she realised that it was a fraud call and she had been cheated,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-women-robbed/article38068196.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Reallocation was hurried affair’||As the exercise over reallocation of employees of different categories in new local cadres is coming to a close, employees are expressing concern over the hurried manner in which the entire procedure had been taken up denying them an opportunity to present their case. The process adopted for reallocation of the employees itself had several lapses in that the new Presidential Order 2018 provides for taking nativity as the basis for posting of the employees while the government is considering seniority as the criterion for giving postings. Moreover, there were several instances of overlapping in district, zone and multi-zonal cadre employees as these were not clearly defined in terms of the new Presidential Order, the employees alleged. Moreover, the hurried manner in which the government has taken up the entire exercise has come in for criticism from the employees. The government had full three years since the new Presidential Order came into effect for reallocation of employees and organising the employees into new local cadres. But it remained silent all these days. In contrast, the Kamalanathan committee constituted for allocation of employees followed an established and transparent procedure. Sufficient time was given to employees and the allocation was made after considering the appeals made by the employees before the final orders were issued. “At least the software deployed by the Kamalanathan committee should have been utilised,” employees say. The government has, no doubt, permitted appeals by the employees against allocation to new local cadres, but with a rider that employees should report to duties first before forwarding them. “Where is the guarantee that the government considers the appeals after the employees report to duty? It is of common knowledge that transfer from one zone to another or one multi-zone to another will require the consent from the highest level,” lamented an employees’ union leader. Moreover, the reallocation to new cadres is akin to giving new appointment and there will be a little scope for transfers in the future. This apart, the scope for further recruitment in key places like Hyderabad and Rangareddy will become dim once the sanctioned cadre strength in these districts is filled after the reallocation. The entire process lacked transparency. The government should instead allow more time for the issues to be resolved before making the final allocation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reallocation-was-hurried-affair/article38068204.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amend G.O. 317, Revanth tells CM||Supporting teachers who are protesting against the new guidelines for teachers transfers, TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy demanded immediate repeal of GO 317 which was issued for allotment of staff to new local cadres. In an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said the GO 317, in its present form, is doing more harm than good for the employees and teachers. Fresh guidelines must be issued after holding discussions with the representatives of teachers and employees unions, he said. Reminding the role of teachers in the Telangana movement, he said the present allotment and transfers being made by the State government have caused mental agony to them as they are being subjected to huge injustice even in Telangana. Stating that the allocations and transfers were unscientific, he said employees and teachers are being rendered non-locals in their native districts despite living there for more than 20 years. Moreover, seniors are being given an option in postings, while juniors are being transferred to remote areas and the State government is not giving an assurance to reinstate employees who have been transferred to non-local districts in those positions if seniors retire. The State government is also not disclosing the details of how many people have left the district. For instance, if there are 41 vacancies for school assistant (Telugu) posts in a district and 18 transfers, then the authorities are showing the details of only 18 vacant posts during counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amend-go-317-revanth-tells-cm/article38068206.ece
30 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Toddler killed in Tank Bund accident||A toddler was killed while her parents are battling for life at a corporate hospital at Secunderabad when the cab they were travelling in collided with a private travels bus on Tank Bund in the wee hours of Wednesday. Police said that the victim, Dussa Shree (3) along with her parents Dussa Shiva Kumar (33), manager at a construction firm, and Dussa Samanya (30), a techie, all residents of Raidurgam, were travelling in a cab to Secunderabad Railway station to board a train to their native place, Bellampalli in Mancherial district when the accident took place around 4.30 a.m. “The cab crashed into a private bus coming in the opposite direction, which resulted in the ghastly road accident,” Gandhi Nagar police said. The cab driver, Koushik (28) from KPHB Colony, also suffered severe injuries and was rushed to Gandhi Hospital for medical assistance. As per the police, Koushik, while trying to overtake a vehicle in the front, entered the lane on the right (as there are no road medians on the Tank Bund), lost control of the vehicle and crashed into the bus, which was going towards Liberty circle. “Shree suffered severe injuries and died on the spot, while her mother and father received multiple injuries. Shiva Kumar’s condition is said to be critical,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/toddler-killed-in-tank-bund-accident/article38068195.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Nalgonda will be developed like Gajwel, Siddipet’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday said Nalgonda town would be developed like Gajwel and Siddipet, with all necessary infrastructure. He instructed senior officials, departments and leaders of Nalgonda district for work identification and proposals, for immediate approval and sanction of special funds. Reiterating the components of ‘Nalgonda adoption plan’ he had promised at the December 2018 electoral campaign, Mr. Rao said Nalgonda town’s face would be changed with the introduction of quality features. He reviewed the town and the district’s requirements, implementation of welfare schemes among other issues with officials at the District Collectorate and instructed them for immediate plans. Condolences offered Mr. Rao reached Nalgonda town on Wednesday to offer his condolences to the family of Thungathurthy legislator Gadari Kishore Kumar, whose father Gadari Maraiah passed away last week. Joining Ministers T. Harish Rao, G. Jagadish Reddy and V. Srinivas Goud, MLCs and legislators, he offered floral tributes to the portrait and comforted the family members. He also joined the family at the ceremonial lunch. Later at the Collectorate, on development plans for Nalgonda, the Chief Minister said Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao and Minister for Roads & Buildings V. Prashant Reddy would visit Nalgonda on Friday to take stock of the ground situation. He even called up Siddipet’s Municipal Commissioner K.V. Ramana Chary and asked him to take charge of the duties at Nalgonda. Mr. Rao said Nalgonda town should be equipped with an efficient underground drainage system, integrated vegetable and non-vegetarian market and religion-specific vaikunta dhamam. He instructed officials for proposals to beautify Udayasamudram reservoir with a tank bund, develop urban parks, and for a large town hall with modern features. He also suggested land pooling in the town to set up colonies through planned layouts such as Uppal Bhagayath in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-will-be-developed-like-gajwel-siddipet/article38068201.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revise power charges every month: Discoms||The power distribution companies of Telangana have mooted revision of power charges every month by appealing to the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) to amend a regulation of TSERC so as to put a mechanism in place for automatic pass through of power purchase cost adjustment recoverable on a monthly basis. In the absence of such a mechanism, the Discoms were so far raising cost adjustments as true-up in the Average Revenue Requirements filed with TSERC in the following year. The amendment will ensure that the costs were recovered from the Discoms on a monthly basis. The latest filing of ARRs by the Discoms highlighted that the Central government had notified Electricity (Timerly Recovery of Costs due to change in Law) Rules, 2021 two months ago which provided for an automatic pass through of impact in cost due to change in law automatically by a formula. These rules shall apply to generating companies and transmission licensees to recover costs due to change in law from the Discoms on monthly basis. However, there was no such automatic pass through mechanism of power purchase true-up applicable to Discoms in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) regulations of 2005 as adopted by TSERC immediately after formation of Telangana State. The implementation of the said rules by generating companies or transmission licensees on monthly basis without provision for the distribution licensees to recover the same on monthly basis from the consumers will have adverse impact on financials of Discoms, leading to huge working capital costs and also affect the entire value chain of power sector. Therefore, the Discoms prayed to TSERC to amend the relevant regulation of 2005 so as to put in place a mechanism for automatic pass through of power purchase cost adjustment in view of enforcement of electricity rules 2021 by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revise-power-charges-every-month-discoms/article38068205.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ornaments recovered||Ghatkesar police arrested two persons and recovered Rs. 11.20 lakh worth gold and silver ornaments from them on Wednesday. Malkajgiri DCP Rakshitha Murthy said the recovery was in connection with a burglary reported at Balajinagar of Ghatkesar police limits on Monday night. Dasari Venkanna and Mohammed Jaleel, residents of the same colony, broke into the house and made away with 28 tolas of gold 18 tolas of silver ornaments. Venkanna and Jaleel were habitual offenders, with two offences at Ghatkesar, one each at Bibinagar and Gopalpuram, and S.R. Nagar police stations respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/booty-recovered/article38068188.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Work only after we are paid proper compensation’||Day by day, the oustees of Gudatipally village — submerging under Gouravelli project — in Akkannapet mandal of Siddipet district are intensifying their agitation. Husnabad MLA V. Satish Kumar, who visited the site of the ongoing agitation at Gudatipally on Tuesday, had a bitter experience with oustees raising slogans against him. They demanded that the government keep its promises and said they are ready to vacate the village once all payments are cleared. They alleged that while some names were published in the draft, they went missing in the final list of beneficiaries. A large number of oustees poured out their problems before the MLA. However, soon after coming from the oustees’ protest camp, Mr. Satish Kumar announced that the works of Gouravelli will progress come what may and the government has decided to complete the project. “Some people are trying to stop the works. This is not acceptable and we will not tolerate it ,” said Mr. Satish Kumar while addressing a press conference on Tuesday. His statement irked the oustees and late in the night they wrote an open letter to the MLA. “We have been protesting for the last six days and the officials are not addressing our issues. We are not interested in stopping the works of Gouravelli reservoir. Pay us the entire compensation and we are ready to vacate the village,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-only-after-we-are-paid-proper-compensation/article38068203.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISB, Jharkhand to join hands for developing forest economy||The Indian School of Business (ISB) on Wednesday said it will be collaborating with the Jharkhand government to develop forest economy. Towards this, the Department of Scheduled Tribe, Scheduled Caste, Minority and Backward Class Welfare along the Department of Forests of Jharkhand signed an MoU with ISB’s Bharti Institute of Public Policy to develop scalable and sustainable solutions focusing on forest-based industrial value chains. The MoU was signed by Welfare Commissioner of Jharkhand Naman Priyesh Lakra and the institute’s executive director Ashwini Chhatre in the presence of Governor Ramesh Bais and Chief Minister Hemant Soren. The Chief Minister in January 2020, less than a month after assuming office, had approached ISB to propose a cluster-based strategy for the development of the State’s forest economy. Consequently, a team of researchers from ISB had proposed an institutional design to facilitate sustainable forest management, value addition and industrial procurement of seasonal forest products. The ISB team plans to pilot this approach in Gumla district, before expanding to other districts with promising forest products. The researchers have prepared an action plan, starting with creating incentives for local communities by establishing Community Forest Resource rights under the Forest Rights Act. The team is also working closely with Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society, which is the nodal agency for the National Rural Livelihoods Mission in Jharkhand, for supporting this vision through women’s self-help groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isb-jharkhand-to-join-hands-for-developing-forest-economy/article38068392.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FTCCI course in logistics and supply chain management||A certificate course in ‘Global Logistics and Supply Chain Management’ curated by the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) in partnership with Telangana government and Telangana State Trade Promotion Corporation will commence on January 8, at the Federation House here. A paid programme, the course is for three months and the classes will be held every Saturday. Visits to facilities, mentoring by industry specialist, experts and veterans as well as opportunity to connect with leaders of the industry on one to one basis are some of the features of the course. Federation president K. Bhasker Reddy said a huge demand for skilled personnel is likely in the logistics sector. Details can be sought on 8008700257 or by sending an e-mail to ankithasai@ftcci.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ftcci-new-course-from-jan8/article38068185.ece
30 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||C. V. Anand visits Punjagutta police station||Women safety should be given utmost priority, said Hyderabad Commissioner of Police C. V. Anand on Wednesday. The Commissioner, who took charge on December 25, conducted a surprise inspection at Punjagutta police station and interacted with the staff for nearly two hours. He said workload of the police is high. However, their performance in resolving pending cases was satisfying. “This (Punjagutta) police station registered about 600 cases this year and of these, only 175 cases and 45 non-bailable warrants are pending. The workload is heavy to bandobust,” Mr. Anand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/c-v-anand-visits-punjagutta-police-station/article38068189.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 1,800 cr. credited to ryots’ bank accounts||An amount of Rs. 1,255.42 crore was transferred electronically into the bank accounts of 17,31,127 landholding (pattadar) farmers having land over 1 acre and up to 2 acres as investment support for the rabi (yasangi) under the Rythu Bandhu scheme on Wednesday, the second day of benefit transfer. On day one on Tuesday, an amount of Rs. 544.55 crore was credited to the bank accounts linked to pattadar passbooks of 18,12,656 farmers having landholding up to 1 acre. According to Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, Rs. 1,799.97 has been credited to the bank out of 35,43,783 farmers in two days. The Minister said the benefit extended under the Rythu Bandhu scheme was not merely money distribution but an effort to help farmers take up cultivation in time by arranging grant for taking up the season’s agriculture activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1800-crore-credited-into-ryots-bank-accounts/article38068199.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rapido bike taxi now at all metro stations||Hyderabad Metro Rail has partnered with Rapido bike taxi service to make the daily commute easier and improve last mile connectivity. Rapido will provide bike taxis at all metro stations and metro riders can make use of this convenience, said HMR Managing Director N.V.S. Reddy on Wednesday. He also stated that the average daily ridership is around 2.40 lakh and is increasing day by day. L&T Metro Rail MD & Chief Executive Officer K.V.B. Reddy said the metro rail ridership had reached 75% of the pre-COVID levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rapido-bike-taxi-now-at-all-metro-stations/article38068187.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ORR trauma care centres increased||Six more trauma care centres will be set up soon at the ORR interchanges in addition to the existing 10. Fresh tenders have been floated for all the 16 for a period of two years, and work has been entrusted to Apollo Hospitals and Yashoda Healthcare, a statement from HMDA informed. The new centres will be set up at Taramathipet, Raviryal, Pedda Golconda, Kollur, Sultanpur and Medchal. They will however be without the Advanced Life Support ambulances. Trauma care facilities with ALS ambulances were introduced on ORR by the Hyderabad Growth Corridor Limited in November last year, at 10 interchanges -- Kokapet, Patancheru, Dundigal, Shamirpet, Ghatkesar, Pedda Amberpet, Bonguluru, Tukkuguda, Shamshabad and TSPA. A total of 1084 patients were attended at the centres in the last 13 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/orr-trauma-care-centres-increased/article38068193.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Property rights for eligible dwellers||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao instructed Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar for orders to grant property rights to eligible dwellers at the various infrastructure project colonies in the State. Mr. Rao also touched upon the issue of property rights for people who participated in the construction of projects and since settled there in the colonies for decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/property-rights-for-eligible-dwellers/article38068202.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ex-Minister Fareeduddin is no more||Former Minister and TRS leader Mohd Fareeduddin passed away on Wednesday following a heart attack. The two-time MLA has been ailing for some time and was admitted to a private hospital. He recently underwent kidney transplant, according to family members. Mr. Fareeduddin was elected as a MLA from Zaheerabad constituency in 1999 and 2004 elections. He worked as a Minister in the Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy Cabinet in 2004 as a Minister for Minority Affairs. In 2009 he was shifted to Amberpet constituency as Zaheerabad was reserved for SCs in the reorganisation. He lost to G. Kishan Reddy of the BJP. After the formation of Telangana, he joined the TRS in 2014 and was made a member of the Legislative Council in 2016. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-minister-fareeduddin-is-no-more/article38068211.ece
30 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Krishank assumes charge as TSMDC chairman||Krishank Manne took charge as chairman of the Telangana State Mineral Development Corporation (TSMDC) on Wednesday. TRS working president and Municipal Minister, K.T. Rama Rao participated in the programme and wished him luck in his new role. Mr. KTR said the TRS had recognised the youngsters who participated in the Telangana agitation and is using their energy in the development of the State. Thanking Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for appointing him, Mr. Krishnak said it is a big responsibility, given the TSMDC’s contribution to developmental projects in Telangana. He said TSMDC earned a mere Rs. 37 crore before Telangana formation but now with policies and digital transparency it has increased to Rs. 4,500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/krishank-assumes-charge-as-tsmdc-chairman/article38068208.ece
30 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 - Briefs Ranganath takes charge as city traffic chief (with photo)||Senior IPS officer, A.V. Ranganath took charge as new Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Hyderabad, on Wednesday. “My priority is to identify the accident-prone areas to ensure the safety of the public,” Mr. Ranganath said after taking charge. Prior to this posting, Mr. Ranganath worked as Superintendent of Police, Nalgonda. Vijay Kumar, an IPS officer of the 1997 batch, who was posted as in-charge Additional CP (Traffic) a few weeks ago, was asked to report back to the DGP office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ranganath-takes-over-as-city-traffic-chief/article38068192.ece
30 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Appointed||Congress leader C. Rohin Reddy has been appointed Greater Hyderabad District membership Coordinator for the ongoing Digital Membership Enrolment programme of the Congressy. TPCC working president, Anjan Kumar Yadav will lead the team. For Bhongir Parliamentary constituency Patel Ramesh Reddy will be the coordinator and he will be assisted by Gummula Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/appointed/article38068198.ece
30 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||‘Focus is to improve traffic management’||Plans are afoot to set up traffic signal lights at various busy junctions and expand the CCTV network in the city soon to effectively regulate traffic and check traffic violations, said Karimnagar Police Commissioner V Satyanarayana. Speaking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, he said renewed focus will be laid on improving traffic management to ensure hassle-free vehicular movement and road discipline on the busy stretches of the main thoroughfares in the city. As many as 10,735 drunk driving cases were booked, 34 offenders were convicted, and a total fine of Rs. 46,39,400 was imposed on drunk drivers in Karimnagar Police Commissionerate limits so far this year. Till date, a total of 66,708 cases were booked for over-speeding and dangerous driving using speed laser guns. He said an intensive drive will be conducted in the entire Police Commissionerate limits to check drunk driving and over-speeding of vehicles during the New Year-eve celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-is-to-improve-traffic-management/article38068396.ece
30 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Stone laid for Integrated Collectorate Complex||Minister G Kamalakar on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for construction of the new Integrated District Collectorate Complex on the premises of the existing old Collectorate building in the town. The new building will be constructed in three floors (ground floor plus two floors) at an estimated cost of Rs. 51 crore. It will be spread over 2.64 lakh sq. ft., sources said. The Minister along with Collector R V Karnan performed groundbreaking ceremony before laying the foundation stone for the new Collectorate building, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2022. ZP chairperson K Vijaya, Choppadandi MLA S Ravi Shankar, Karimnagar Mayor Y Sunil Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stone-laid-for-integrated-collectorate-complex/article38068210.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Doctors continue to stay away from work||Over 6,000 resident doctors of multiple city hospitals continued to boycott work, except for COVID-19 duty, for the 13th consecutive day on Wednesday to protest against the delay in NEET-PG counselling, the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) said. Hospital services have been hit due to this. “The FIR on false allegations against the doctors who were protesting peacefully should be immediately withdrawn. We urge the government and the Delhi police to do the needful. We are very disheartened by the way we were thrashed on the road by the police and despite this behaviour, we have now been accused of injuring police personnel. We did not hurt anypolice personnel and were protesting peacefully,” said Kulsaurabh Kaushik of FORDA. TPR above 1% In another development, Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that currently none of the patients, suffering with COVID-19 Omicron variant, in the city needs oxygen and that majority of them have only minor symptoms. With 923 new COVID-19 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, the test positive rate crossed the 1% mark and climbed to 1.29%. “At least 238 Omicron cases have been reported in Delhi and 57 of these patients have recovered and returned home. In Delhi, there are four genome sequencing labs that are fully operational. Omicron variants are less severe and less lethal than Delta variants. People who come to Delhi from other countries are found to be the mostly infected with this variant,” Mr. Jain said. “The cases have increased due to international flights. Even during the earlier wave, the cases rose with flights coming in,” the Minister said. Mr. Jain also said preparations for the vaccination of children and booster doses for the elderly in the first week of January have been completed and up to three lakh people can be vaccinated on a daily basis. ‘Govt. is prepared’ He said that the government has made arrangements for enough beds and oxygen and they are ready to fight COVID-19 on all fronts. “The Delhi government is prepared to take all necessary steps. All public health crisis experts are in contact with the government and are cooperating in all aspects of the situation,” the Minister said. He urged the people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctors-continue-to-stay-away-from-work/article38068073.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||To prevent migrant exodus, DDMA decides against more curbs||Restrictions should not be scaled up despite the ongoing surge in COVID-19 cases to nip the possibility of a mass exodus of migrant workers — witnessed during the first two waves of the pandemic — in the bud, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided on Wednesday. The current upsurge, mainly in the positivity rate, which settled at 1.29% on Wednesday, makes the situation ripe for the imposition of the ‘amber’ or level 2 of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), which calls for more restrictions if the positivity rate persists over 1% for over two days. The restrictions include shutting restaurants and bars as well as reductions in the number of passengers in public transport among others. Close vigil on situation However, according to government sources, the DDMA decided against the imposition of further “visible restrictions”, part of the GRAP, despite rising cases to prevent another migrant exodus while carefully monitoring the occupancy of hospital beds and focussing on the strict implementation of COVID appropriate behaviour on the ground for the time being. Over eight lakh migrant workers left the Capital for their hometowns in the first four weeks of the lockdown, according to a report prepared by the Delhi Transport Department in May this year. Lakhs of them had taken to the streets and highways across the National Capital Region (NCR) in a bid to walk down to their home towns during and after the first national lockdown in 2020. According to sources, if hospital bed occupancy witnesses an increase — testifying that the illness is of more serious a nature than it is currently, necessitating hospitalisation — the DDMA will convene an emergency meeting to impose the ‘amber’ alert, which will lead to more restrictions. Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, NITI Aayog Member Dr. V.K Paul and Director AIIMS Dr. Randeep Guleria among experts and senior Delhi government officials were part of the DDMA meeting. “After detailed discussion with experts, the need to strictly follow and enforce COVID appropriate behaviour was emphasised upon especially in the wake of rising cases of Omicron variant” the L-G tweeted. “It was decided to continue with the existing restrictions imposed recently and to keep a close vigil on the ground situation” he also tweeted. Mr. Baijal added that he had advised the Health Department to enhance preparedness to deal effectively with the emerging situation and to closely monitor bed occupancy, besides strengthening the home isolation strategy. Low bed occupancy According to statistics by the department at the meeting accessed by The Hindu , hospital bed occupancy was at its lowest compared to the previous two waves. Data recorded at the conclusion of the first wave posited that 9,411 or over 55% of the dedicated 17,068 COVID beds, 8,662 or over 61% of the 14,038 oxygenated beds, 3,429 or over 87% of the 3,940 ICU beds and 1,252 or over 90% of the 1,379 ventilators were occupied on November 21, 2020. By the end of the second wave, 7,228 or over 28% of the dedicated 25,106 COVID beds, 6,772 or over 30% of the 22,010 oxygenated beds, 3,975 or over 57% of the 6,867 ICU beds and 1,810 or over 72% of the 2,481 ventilators were occupied by May 25 this year. By Tuesday, 262 or over 2% of the dedicated 8,965 COVID beds, 256 or over 3% of the 8,405 oxygenated beds, 27 or less than 1% of the 2,769 ICU beds and 15 or a little over 1% of the 1,379 ventilators were occupied. According to the Health Department, the number of daily new cases in the city went from 39 to 496, active cases shot from 286 to 1,612 and the positivity rate from 0.07% to 0.89% between December 1 and December 28. In the same period, the number of COVID beds occupied has gone up from 111 to 280, of ICU beds from 29 to 51, of ventilators from 15 to 21 and of oxygenated beds from 108 to 276.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/to-prevent-migrant-exodus-ddma-decides-against-more-curbs/article38068084.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Avoid these routes on New Year’s Eve||No vehicular movement will be allowed towards Connaught Place after 8 p.m. on New Year’s Eve unless commuters have a pre-booking receipt of a restaurant, Delhi Traffic Police said on Wednesday. Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Vivek Kishore said that no vehicle will be allowed towards Connaught Place beyond Mandi House, Bengali Market, north foot of Ranjit Singh Flyover, Minto Road, Chelmsford Road, R.K. Ashram Marg-Chitragupta Marg Crossing, Gole Market, GPO, Patel Chowk, Kasturba Gandhi Road-Ferozshah Road Crossing, Jai Singh Road-Bangla Sahib Lane, Pachkuian Road-Bangla Sahib Lane, Windsor place, Buta Singh Marg and State Entry Road-New Delhi Railway Station. The police said that motorists can park their vehicles in the space available near the stop points. Limited parking “No vehicular traffic shall be allowed in inner, middle or outer circle of Connaught Place except for those who are carrying valid pre-reserved booking receipts from hotels and restaurants,” he said, adding that limited parking space for vehicles with valid passes will be allowed in Connaught Place on first come first serve basis and unauthorised or wrongly parked vehicles will be towed away. The police said that traffic arrangements have also been made at places having high footfall, including Saket, Greater Kailash, Lajpat Nagar, New Friends Colony, Hauz Khas, Defence Colony, Vasant Vihar, R.K. Puram, Nehru Place, Dwarka, Palam airport, Rajouri Garden, Ashok Vihar, Model Town, Mayur Vihar and other such areas. The police said that strict action will be taken against drunken driving, stunt biking, overspeeding, reckless and dangerous driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/avoid-these-routes-on-new-years-eve/article38068077.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Queues everywhere as restrictions kick in||As the ‘yellow’ alert was announced in the Capital in view of the rise in COVID-19 infections, commuters were seen queuing up outside metro stations on Wednesday. The Delhi Metro said entry through some of the gates had been restricted due to the new Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) regulations. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), in a statement, said that passengers have been advised to plan their journey in advance and allow additional time for the commute in view of the strict enforcement of social distancing norms. Similarly, bus stops also saw long queues after public transport followed the 50% occupancy norm. Patrolling intensified In order to tackle the prevailing situation, Delhi Police said that adequate precautions have been taken to ensure adherence of COVID-19 protocols with police teams deployed across market areas and other potential hotspots. “We have briefed all our personnel to carry out patrolling in specific areas and also ensure that night curfew is followed,” a senior officer said. Meanwhile, commuters in the city expressed mixed reactions to the restrictions imposed, with most stating that they expected the restrictions to come in “sooner or later”. A restaurant owner in the city’s Karol Bagh area said that he was doubtful on whether the restrictions will help curb the spread of the virus. He added: “We have been going through this ordeal for the last two years and the businesses are bound to take a hit. However, a lot of small and medium scale businesses, which are yet to recover from their previously accumulated financial losses will be shut for good if there is a complete shutdown.” A vendor at the ITO said that he was worried about whether the restrictions will be increased in the coming weeks..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/queues-everywhere-as-restrictions-kick-in/article38068079.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. may not send all samples for genome sequencing: officials||Delhi government officials are mulling not to send all COVID-19 samples for genome sequencing as 53.6% of 125 samples collected from people in the city, who did not have a travel history, have been detected with Omicron variant of COVID-19, an official source told The Hindu . These samples were collected during the past week and the genome sequencing was done on Monday and Tuesday by Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). The rest of the 125 samples were Delta variant of the virus and lineages. “These 125 samples are from different labs in the city and not from the airport. This shows that there is transmission of the Omicron variant in the community and there is no point in sending all positive samples to check whether they are Omicron variant,” a Delhi government official said. Community spread Dr. Jugal Kishore, Head of the Community Medicine Department at Safdarjung Hospital, said: “This shows that community transmission of the Omicron variant has already started in the city. But there is nothing to worry.” The Delhi government official also said that it would not be practically possible to send all samples for genome sequencing as labs in the city do not have the capacity to genome sequence all positive samples the way cases are rising. “The government is thinking of going back to the previous method in which 5% of samples selected at random are sent for genome sequencing. Samples of severe cases, breakthrough infections, reinfections etc. will also be sent for genome sequencing under this method,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-may-not-send-all-samples-for-genome-sequencing-officials/article38068085.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Eligibility terms in JNU prospectus binding: HC||The Delhi High Court has refused to interfere with a plea of a candidate who claimed that Jawaharlal Nehru University has not invited any applications for PhD in Hindi course through JNU entrance examination this academic session. “The categories and qualifications in which an academic institution seeks to attract students for various courses is a matter for the institution to decide, and the interference of the writ court in such matters is only upon a finding of manifest arbitrariness or perversity,” Justice Prateek Jalan said. Ineligible for course The High Court was hearing a petition by one Sanskriti Sharma who had applied for admission to the PhD course in Hindi in the Centre for Indian Languages, School of Languages, Literature and Cultural Studies, JNU. She has challenged the decision of the varsity holding her ineligible for the course. Ms. Sharma submitted that she applied for admission to PhD in Hindi in the National Eligibility Test (NET) — Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) category. She submitted that in the academic session 2021-22, JNU did not offer any seats for PhD in Hindi other than through the NET-JRF category. She contended that although she had not taken the NET-JRF exam, conducted by the University Grants Commission, she was entitled to be considered in the said category as the NET-JRF has not been conducted in the last three cycles. Advocate Monica Arora, representing JNU, explained that admissions to PhD programmes at JNU are offered either through the NET-JRF category, or through the JNU Entrance Examination (JNUEE). In the event the candidate is not NET- JRF qualified, he/she is entitled to appear in the JNUEE, and seek admission. On the other hand, a NET-JRF qualified candidate is not required to appear in the JNUEE but must submit himself/herself to an interview. Ms. Sharma had applied in the NET-JRF category and was subsequently interviewed, but was ultimately held to be ineligible as she has admittedly not taken the NET-JRF examination. At the time the prospectus was issued, the NET-JRF was scheduled to be held in June, 2021, but has now been postponed to December, 2021, the court was informed. Justice Jalan noted that “the eligibility conditions mentioned in the prospectus are binding”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eligibility-terms-in-jnu-prospectus-binding-hc/article38068070.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid criticism, JNU changes circular on sexual harassment||After a section of students and teachers of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) protested against the wording of an invite sent by the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) for a monthly counselling session on sexual harassment, the university uploaded a different version of the invite on its website. Lines replaced The new invite removed the line “girls are supposed to know how to draw a tangible line between them and their male friends to avoid such harassments” that had the JNU community fuming. The subhead “why is this counselling session required” that had the above line has now been replaced with “boys will be counselled to clearly distinguish between friendship and behaviour that may be considered sexual harassment”. ‘Victim blaming’ The students of the university have been demanding the doing away of the ICC and bringing back the GSCASH that was a system the university had in place to deal with cases of sexual harassment on campus. The students said that time and again, the ICC has resorted to victim blaming in its reports. The National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma had also sought withdrawal of the “misogynist” circular issued by the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amid-criticism-jnu-changes-circular-on-sexual-harassment/article38068075.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC service to help proper disposal of waste debris||With an aim to curb the haphazard disposal of construction and demolition (C&D) waste, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday launched a call-based service to help ensure a regularised method of collection and disposal in the areas under its jurisdiction. The prices for the service — which will be undertaken by Indo Enviro Integrated Solutions Limited — for the current month stand at Rs. 440.65 per tonne while the prices from January 2022 will be Rs. 452.78 per tonne. EDMC Commissioner Vikas Anand said that bulk generators of C&D waste cannot avail the service and will have to deposit their waste at the civic body’s C&D waste processing facility at Shastri Park. Increase quantity Mr. Anand said that the civic body is currently looking to increase the quantity of waste that is processed at the Shastri Park facility which can process 1,000 tonnes per day. A total of “2,56,120.48 metric tonnes” of C&D waste has been collected by the civic body from April 1 to December 28 this year. A senior official said a recurring violation that was observed this year was the dumping of construction debris at multiple undesignated spots despite various guidelines in place. “A lot of people dump their waste during late night hours. This service can help avoid such irresponsible disposal. Residents can call on 9205059982/ 9821488633 to avail the service, Mr. Anand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-service-to-help-proper-disposal-of-waste-debris/article38068071.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi's air quality improves to 'poor'; max temp 21.2 deg Celsius||Delhi’s air quality improved to the ‘poor’ category (267) on Wednesday while the maximum temperature settled at 21.2 degrees Celsius, one notch above the season’s average.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-air-quality-improves-to-poor-max-temp-212-deg-celsius/article38068082.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Correction||A report in The Hindu’s edition dated December 28 titled ‘Delhi court grants anticipatory bail to man accused of rape’ mentioned that the incident took place on October 13 and the FIR was lodged on September 9. It took place on August 13 and the FIR was lodged on September 8. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/correction/article38068081.ece
30 December 2021||Geneva,||WHO warns of COVID ‘tsunami’ overwhelming health systems||A “tsunami” of Omicron and Delta COVID-19 cases will pile pressure on health systems already being stretched to their limits, the World Health Organization warned on Wednesday. The WHO said the Delta and Omicron variants of concern were “twin threats” that were driving new case numbers to record highs, leading to spikes in hospitalisations and deaths. The WHO said new global cases had risen by 11% last week, while the United States and France both registered record daily case numbers on Wednesday. “I am highly concerned that Omicron, being more transmissible, circulating at the same time as Delta, is leading to a tsunami of cases,” WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a press conference. “This is and will continue to put immense pressure on exhausted health workers, and health systems on the brink of collapse.” He said the pressure on health systems was not only due to new coronavirus patients, but also large numbers of health workers falling ill with COVID. ‘Moral shame’ The WHO wanted 40% of the population in every country fully vaccinated by the end of the year and has a target of 70% coverage by the middle of 2022. Mr. Tedros announced that 92 of the WHO’s 194 member states were going to miss the 40% target. Mr. Tedros slammed the attitude of richer countries accusing them of hogging the weapons to combat COVID-19 — and leaving the back door open for the virus. “Populism, narrow nationalism and hoarding of health tools, including masks, therapeutics, diagnostics and vaccines, by a small number of countries, undermined equity, and created the ideal conditions for the emergence of new variants,” he said. Meanwhile, disinformation had been a constant distraction in 2021, hampering efforts to beat the viral pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-warns-of-covid-tsunami-overwhelming-health-systems/article38067851.ece
30 December 2021||Lahore,||85 held for Sri Lankan man’s lynching||Authorities in Pakistan’s Punjab province on Wednesday said they have detained 85 main suspects after determining their role in the brutal lynching of a Sri Lankan national in Sialkot city earlier this month. In a shocking incident, a mob of 800 men, including supporters of the radical Islamist party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), attacked a garment factory in Sialkot on December 3 and lynched its 49-year-old general manage, Priyantha Kumara Diyawadana, before setting his body on fire over allegations of blasphemy. “Currently 85 main suspects whose role has been identified through video footage and investigation in the brutal lynching of Priyantha Kumara are detained on physical remand,” an official of the Punjab police said on Wednesday. The official said over 100 other suspects were also included in the investigation but no evidence of their involvement in the case was detected, thus they were not named in the FIR and some of them who were detained were released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/85-held-for-sri-lankan-mans-lynching/article38067770.ece
30 December 2021||Jerusalem,||Palestinian President makes rare visit to Israel for talks||Israel unveiled a package of “confidence-building measures” for the occupied West Bank on Wednesday, after Defence Minister Benny Gantz hosted talks with Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas on his first visit in years. Mr. Abbas, leading a high-ranking delegation on his first visit to Israel for an official meeting since 2010, held talks with Mr. Gantz at his home in the central town of Rosh HaAyin, according to Israeli sources and media. “We discussed the implementation of economic and civilian measures, and emphasised the importance of deepening security coordination and preventing terror and violence — for the well-being of both Israelis and Palestinians,” Mr. Gantz said after the meeting on Tuesday evening. On Wednesday, Israel’s Defence Ministry announced “confidence-building measures” with the Palestinian Authority (PA). These included a $32 million (100 million shekel) advance payment to the PA in taxes collected on its behalf by Israel, and the granting of 600 extra permits allowing Palestinian businessmen to cross into Israel. It also announced the regularisation of 6,000 more Palestinians living in the occupied West Bank, which has been under Israeli control since the Six-Day War of 1967. Israel’s right-wing opposition Likud party condemned the latest meeting, saying that “concessions dangerous for Israel’s security are only a matter of time”. ‘Deepens divide’ Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip, also condemned the visit. It went against the “national spirit of our Palestinian people”, a Hamas statement said. An 11-day conflict in May between Israel and Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip marked the worst hostilities in the area since 2014, and unrest has persisted despite an Egypt-brokered ceasefire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/palestinian-president-makes-rare-visit-to-israel-for-talks/article38067763.ece
30 December 2021||Beijing,||New chief of Xinjian calls for modernisation of industry||The new party chief in China’s Xinjiang called for improved business conditions in his first official visit to the region, where forced labour accusations have prompted some countries to announce a diplomatic boycott of the upcoming Beijing Winter Olympics. In a visit to regional capital Urumqi this week, Ma Xingrui called it necessary to “improve the modernisation” of industrial and supply chains, said state-run local media, and to “implement measures to support enterprises and stimulate innovation.” He also emphasised the need to boost investment promotion and create a strong international business environment, including tax breaks, but did not provide further details. Xinjiang is already a major production hub, accounting for an estimated 20% of garments imported into the United States each year. But Beijing has come under mounting pressure over its policies, with U.S. President Joe Biden on last Thursday signing a law that virtually banned all imports from the region over forced labour concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-chief-of-xinjian-calls-for-modernisation-of-industry/article38067761.ece
30 December 2021||Moscow,||Memorial hit by sanctions yet again||A Moscow court on Wednesday hit Russia’s most prominent rights group, Memorial, with a second ban in two days despite an international outcry. Judge Mikhail Kazakov ordered the dissolution of Memorial’s Human Rights Centre, which campaigns against contemporary rights abuses in Russia, at the request of prosecutors. On Tuesday, the country’s Supreme Court ordered the dissolution of Memorial International, the group’s central structure which chronicles Stalin-era purges and maintains the group’s extensive archives in Moscow. That ruling was slammed by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borell, at a time when tensions are already high between Russia and NATO administration over the Ukraine conflict. Prosecutors accused Memorial’s rights centre of failing to use on its publications the “foreign agent” label, which denotes organisations that receive funds from overseas, and allegedly justifying terrorism and extremism. During Wednesday’s hearing at the Moscow City Court, a prosecutor charged that it was actually Memorial that violated the rights and freedoms of Russians and cited an alleged lack of accounting transparency. After the ruling, several dozen supporters applauded Memorial’s lawyers outside of the courthouse in freezing temperatures. “We had no illusions,” Ilya Novikov, the lawyer for the group, said. “But it is very important that this ship is sinking with a raised flag, he added. Alexander Cherkasov, head of Memorial’s rights centre, branded the court decision “political” and said the group will continue working “somehow”. ‘Heartless closure’ Memorial, Russia’s most prominent rights organisation, was founded in 1989 by Soviet dissidents including Nobel Peace Prize laureate Andrei Sakharov. Memorial International said on Tuesday it will appeal the rulings and find “legal ways” to continue its work. “Memorial is not an organisation, it is not even a social movement,” Memorial International said in a statement. Marie Struthers, Eastern Europe and Central Asia director at Amnesty International, said the accusations against Memorial were “bogus”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/memorial-hit-by-sanctions-yet-again/article38067765.ece
30 December 2021||Beirut,||Syria port strike: two die of wounds||At least two members of a pro-government militia were killed in an Israeli strike on the Syrian port of Latakia, a war monitor said on Wednesday. The strike before dawn on Tuesday marked the second time that Israel has hit the key cargo hub since the outbreak of Syria’s civil war in 2011. The Israeli attack caused significant damage with stacks of containers catching fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/syria-port-strike-two-die-of-wounds/article38067766.ece
30 December 2021||Beijing,||Chinese officials admit struggle providing food in locked down Xi’an||Chinese officials admitted on Wednesday that they have faced challenges getting enough supplies to residents in locked-down Xi’an, after the city’s inhabitants took to social media to complain they didn’t have enough food. Officials admitted that “low staff attendance and difficulties in logistics and distribution” led to trouble providing supplies.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-officials-admit-struggle-providing-food-in-locked-down-xian/article38067759.ece
30 December 2021||Kuwait,||Kuwait swears in fourth government in two years||A new Kuwaiti government was sworn in on Wednesday, the country’s fourth in two years, after the last one resigned in November amid political deadlock. Kuwait has been shaken by disputes between elected lawmakers and successive governments dominated by the ruling Al-Sabah family for more than a decade, with parliaments and Cabinets dissolved several times.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kuwait-swears-in-fourth-government-in-two-years/article38067760.ece
30 December 2021||Jakarta,||Indonesia to let Boeing 737 Max fly again after 2018 crash||Indonesia said on Wednesday that it is lifting its ban on Boeing’s 737 Max aircraft, three years after one crashed into the Java Sea shortly after take-off killing all 189 people on board. The Transportation Ministry said that the aircraft will be permitted to fly, but only after airlines carry out airworthiness directives.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indonesia-to-let-boeing-737-max-fly-again-after-2018-crash/article38067768.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Haridwar’s hubris of hate must be stopped||Between December 17 and 19, 2021, a militant Hindu religious assembly was held at Haridwar, Uttarakhand where speakers amplified targeted hate messages. Organised by Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, the head priest of the Dasna Devi temple and a high-ranking officer of the Juna Akhara (a sect of Hindu seers), the assembly had many speakers who raised the bogey of an Islamic threat to India and Hindus. Carnival of hate Swami Prabodhanand Giri, president of the Hindu Raksha Sena, a right-wing organisation, said, “... you have seen this at the Delhi border, they killed Hindus and hung them. There is no more time, the case now is that either you prepare to die now, or get ready to kill, there’s no other way. This is why, like in Myanmar, the police here, the politicians here, the army and every Hindu must pick up weapons and we will have to conduct this cleanliness drive. There is no solution apart from this.” Yati Narsinghanand, a repeat hate-speech offender, also offered Rs. 1 crore to any youth who would rise up to be a “Hindu Prabhakaran” (a reference to the leader of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam), in a clear incitement to violent behaviour. Swami Darshan Bharti, a proponent of the Hindu right, again called for restrictions on the buying of land by Muslims in Uttarakhand.   I do not want to further amplify the hateful words that were spoken in that carnival of hate at Haridwar. I will instead offer some trajectories of thought. How should we be thinking about these events and processes? Mass indoctrination First, let us recognise that there is a manic irrationality that is being carefully seeded in Indian society today and that hate-filled words have an impact on the rights and well-being of all. This process involves consistent and repetitive hate speech and fear speech against minority groups by Hindutva ideologues, which is resulting in a mass cult-like indoctrination aimed at making Hindus believe that they are under immediate threat by those that are not exactly like them. In doing so, a non-existent and unverified threat is manufactured and presented. The speakers at the Haridwar event, between their speeches, painted a picture of an India which is under threat of being taken over by Islamists, and therefore they reasoned, all Muslims must be treated with hate and suspicion. Then the purveyors of this hate speech offered a solution — Hindus must take up weapons against all Muslims in acts of self-preservation. What they effectively outlined for the followers is a fictitious reason for genocide followed by a call to engage in the genocide of Muslims. Second, we need to think about why in India it has been so difficult to isolate and prosecute hate speech even when it so clearly, dangerously and imminently asks for the weaponisation of the majority and the murder of Muslims. Why do Indian policy-makers still not clearly recognise the extent to which hate-filled narratives lead to actual events that involve a loss of lives, injury to people, loss of dignity and the stripping away of rights of targeted groups? No distinction In India we do not make a distinction between hate speech and fear speech. Hate speech (speech that expresses threats, abuse, violence and prejudice) against any community works most effectively when the public sphere has first been saturated with fear speech. Fear speech expresses unknown and unverifiable threats that create a sense of anxiety and panic in individuals. It is purposefully vague. A classic example is the spread of the “satanic panic” in the United States in the 1980s, where the bogey of satanic cults committing ritual child abuse led to deep and widespread public fear. In India, when Hindutva ideologues tell Hindus that they are under threat by Muslim others, the ideologues are creating mass fear and panic. Every time they re-articulate a trauma inflicted on the Hindu community in the past, they are mobilising an emotion of eternal hurt combined with presenting a targeted group in a negative stereotype. This has special purchase on people when societies are undergoing conditions of economic, social and political inequality and uncertainty. What such speech also encourages someone to do is simple — pick a side. Being in the middle of debates is no longer an option. Third, what we have been witnessing in India is the sustained escalation of hate speech and fear speech towards an end goal which involves the violent expulsion of Muslims from the Indian body politic. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has managed to coalesce an electorally beneficial Hindu identity around itself and over time it has blessed the rise of extreme Hindu leaders, thereby creating incentives for other such militant religious careerists, many of whom were in attendance in Haridwar. All of them followed the communal formula that can benefit them, and the BJP, politically. A transformation and support Fourth, in over a century, Hindutva ideology has progressed from a loose-cluster of fringe organisations to a sustained grass-roots political movement that has electorally managed to capture state institutions. This capture is important. This is why Swami Prabodhanand Giri can confidently talk about enlisting the police and army in a safai abhiyaan (cleanliness drive). The attendees know that they have the support of the ruling party and its institutions. They are almost sure that they can beat prosecution under existing laws that criminalise hate speech. They also instinctively understand through repeat experimentation that hate speech can lead to violence by their followers against targeted groups and that fear speech can diminish the barriers to people engaging in violence. Fifth, the display at Haridwar that was attended by at least two functionaries of the BJP, Ashwini Upadhyay and Udita Tyagi of the BJP’s Mahila Morcha, was in direct contravention of the rights of citizens that are clearly worded in the Indian Constitution. Speakers threatened of an 1857-style mutiny against Delhi, Uttarakhand, and Uttar Pradesh (sedition), incitement to arms and violence. One speaker, Sindhu Sagar Swami, even bragged about entrapping 10 Muslims in fake cases under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. All of these are offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. Set in 2014 Finally, let us also acknowledge that the Haridwar hate conference has occurred in the broader context of the escalation of attacks on minority groups, attacks on churches and mosques and the disruption of prayers. The manner and tone for such events to occur was set in 2014. What is becoming clear is that the current Indian state seeks to turn common Hindu citizens into enforcers of its majoritarian vision at the neighbourhood level. The self-styled godmen at Haridwar are the facilitators of this process, allowing the BJP just the right amount of distance to allow for plausible deniability in domestic and international fora. This is most certainly a dangerous path for India because mass political and social radicalisation does not come with power-steering. Those in power would be well advised to start making the moves to check this growing radicalisation as effectively as they seem to move to check the fictitious anti-national activities of their fictitious domestic enemies. Vasundhara Sirnate Drennan is a political scientist and journalist. She is also the creator of the India Violence Archive, a citizen’s data initiative aimed at recording collective public violence in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/haridwars-hubris-of-hate-must-be-stopped/article38067747.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The efficiency myth of Aadhaar linking||The Union Government hastily passed a Bill to link voter IDs with Aadhaar cards. Such arbitrary approaches without sufficient deliberation have become the norm, it seems. The Government claims that the move will prevent frauds and remove duplicate IDs. But as evidenced by a report by journalist Kumar Sambhav, such a move violates an individual’s Right to Privacy, enables voter profiling and excludes genuine voters — perils that have also been outlined in a statement issued by the Rethink Aadhaar campaign and endorsed by many organisations. Aadhaar was, among other things, purportedly meant to improve efficiency in welfare programmes. However, there are important lessons to learn from the dubious claims made by the Government in Aadhaar linking for welfare delivery which have a strong bearing on the new proposal. Claims on shaky ground Cash transfers in many welfare programmes, such as payment of MGNREGA wages, are done using the Aadhaar Payment Bridge System (APBS). For this to work, it is mandatory to link workers’ Aadhaar with their MGNREGA job cards and their bank accounts where the Aadhaar number of the worker becomes their financial address. The Union Government has repeatedly made claims on savings in welfare programmes due to Aadhaar. These have been methodically debunked by Jean Drèze and Reetika Khera, among others. But the Government continues claiming that “the estimated cumulative savings/benefits due to Aadhaar in MGNREGA till March, 2021 is Rs 33,475 crores.” Two Right to Information responses seeking the methodology used to arrive at such savings are relevant. In a recent response, the Government said the “Ministry has been reporting DBT Mission on the estimated DBT savings under the scheme on the assumption that 10% of the wages in the year could be saved.” In an earlier response, it had said: “Savings are in terms of increasing the efficiency and reducing the delay in payments etc.” The savings due to Aadhaar, therefore, appear to be an “assumption” while the other claims are also on shaky grounds. Wage payment delays in MGNREGA have been persistent. An analysis of more than 18 lakh wage invoices for the first half of 2021-22 by LibTech India demonstrated that 71% of the payments were delayed (called stage 2 delays) beyond the mandated period by the Union Government. Nearly 7 lakh invoices in our sample were done through the APBS; 11.65 lakh were account-based payments where the workers’ name, account number, and the IFSC code of their bank were used to transfer money. Figure 1 compares the time taken by the Union Government (stage 2) in transferring wages for the two payment methods. The axes represent the number of days taken for two kinds of payments. The 45-degree line shows the percentiles of stage 2 for APBS and the dots represent the percentiles of stage 2 for account-based payments. When dots are below the line, the account-based payments are quicker. Barring a few cases, the dots are practically on or below the line. This is perhaps the first large sample empirical evidence demonstrating that the Government’s claim of Aadhaar having “reduced payment delays” is unfounded. Indeed, there is nothing inherent in the APBS that makes transfers faster. The government’s claims on “increasing the efficiency” is also questionable. Efficiency for whom and how is such efficiency related to accountability? Between 2015 and 2019, there was intense pressure on field-level bureaucrats to increase Aadhaar linking. A recently completed study of nearly 3,000 MGNREGA workers by Anjor Bhaskar and Preeti Singh shows that 57% of job cards of genuine workers were deleted in a quest to show 100% linking of Aadhaar with job cards. Doing such plastic surgery on numbers to show efficiency gains is unethical and sets a harmful precedent. Another key concern is the opacity surrounding APBS and the consequent dilution of accountability. Cash transfers through both the payment methods can fail. The most common reason for payment failures in account-based payments is when the account number of the worker in the system is incorrect. This can be rectified at the block. However, the most common reason for payment failures through the APBS is enigmatically called “Inactive Aadhaar.” This has nothing to do with an individual’s Aadhaar being inactive but happens when there is a software mapping failure with the centralised National Payments Corporation of India, the clearing house for APBS. Workers and officials alike are clueless on resolving these payment failures. Moreover, there are several cases of misdirected payments in APBS when the Aadhaar number of one person gets linked to somebody else’s bank account so her money gets credited to somebody else’s account. These are very hard to detect as these will appear as successful transactions on the dashboard. As per UIDAI, its functions include “setting up of facilitation centres and grievance redressal mechanism for redressal for grievances of individuals.” However, no such mechanisms exist. Beyond technological alibis So, on at least three counts — timely payment of wages, efficiency gains and grievance resolution — there appears no basis to justify APBS in MGNREGA. These prompt us to move beyond technological alibis for good governance and emphasise the need for a push towards constitutional propriety and accountability for technologies. The mathematician Cathy O’Neil cautions us on how some algorithmic models and technologies for social policies can be at odds with fairness. She writes: “Fairness is squishy and hard to quantify. It is a concept. And computers for all their advances in language and logic still struggle with concepts… Programmers don’t know how to code for it...” Indeed, compromising on fairness, people were coerced into using Aadhaar which had no pilot or independent cost-benefit analysis. No feedback has been collected on the user experience of the recipients or from field-level bureaucrats. Further, it is time to overhaul the nomenclature for recipients of welfare measures. Calling them “beneficiaries” subtly transforms the state from being an institution meant to uphold constitutional rights to sounding more like a charitable institution. Instead, people should be referred to as “rights holders”. This will likely help us better interrogate whether technologies have imbibed democratic principles of transparency, accountability and participation. When Aadhaar’s use in welfare — for which it was purportedly intended — is itself shrouded in opacity, unreliability, and exclusions, we must be very worried if it is linked to voter IDs as it will further hollow out government accountability. It will fundamentally alter the citizen-State relationship. This must concern everyone as thousands of crores of taxpayers’ money have been spent on it. The Law Minister said that linking Aadhaar with voter id is “voluntary”. But given the prior experience of Aadhaar in other spheres, this will be another example of what Cathy O’Neil refers to as the “authority of the inscrutable.” Rajendran Narayanan teaches at Azim Premji University, Bengaluru and is affiliated with LibTech India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-efficiency-myth-of-aadhaar-linking/article38067756.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A whiff of trouble in the Nord Stream pipeline||It would be considered an ordinary gas pipeline were it not for the controversial nature of the project. Called the Nord Stream 2, it will spell a direct supply of natural gas under the Baltic Sea from the Russian city of Ust-Luga to the German city of Lubmin, avoiding transit through Ukraine and other European countries. However, the Ukrainian authority has called the project a ‘dangerous geopolitical weapon’. There is also strong opposition from the United States and most of the European countries (except for Austria, Germany, Hungary and the Netherlands). Their concern is that, once operational, the project would render more leverage and bargaining power to Russia while dealing with Europe and its energy market. Some political commentators share the view that Russia is trying to use Nord Stream 2 as a political weapon to put pressure on European security and ‘undermine the democratic resilience of European institutions’. At the same time, during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum 2021, Russian President Vladimir Putin dismissed these concerns, saying that ‘Nordstream 2 is purely a commercial project, which is shorter, cheaper, and economically more viable, compared to the gas transit through multiple European countries’. Mr. Putin even went as far as calling opposing views as ‘foolish propaganda’. Mounting complexities The construction of Nord Stream 2 began in 2015, when Russia’s main energy company Gazprom took ownership of the project’s operator, the Switzerland-based company Nord Stream 2 AG. The project was expected to double the capacity of the existing pipeline, Nord Stream 1, that had been operational around 2011-12. The estimated costs are around €11 billion, with the new pipeline stretching for 1,225 kilometres. Throughout its short history, the project has undergone a series of sanctions and controversies, morphing itself into the source of contention and political battleground. At the end of 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump had signed a law that imposed sanctions on any EU company that was involved in completing the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. The Trump administration feared that the pipeline would give Russia more influence over Europe’s energy supply and reduce its own share of the lucrative European market for American liquefied natural gas (LNG). Many European politicians, including then German Chancellor Angela Merkel, were opposed to the ‘extraterritorial sanctions’, stating that they were able to decide their own energy policies without an ‘interference in autonomous decisions taken in Europe’. In July 2021, the U.S. and Germany reached an agreement to allow completion of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Besides, the agreement aimed to invest more than €200 million in energy security in Ukraine, as well as sustainable energy across Europe, according to media reports. Earlier in May 2021, the Joe Biden administration decided to issue a national security waiver for the Nord Stream 2 AG, the major company involved in the construction of the pipeline. The main reason was apparently to restore trust and close cooperation between the U.S. and Germany. Energy security dilemma According to data from 2015, Germany imported about 40% of natural gas from Russia, 29% from the Netherlands, 34% from Norway, with only around 10% from Germany’s own gas fields. According to a media report, about a quarter of Germany’s electricity now comes from coal, about another quarter from renewables, 16% from natural gas and around 11% from nuclear energy. The dispute over Nord Stream 2 takes place at a time when Germany has set out a plan to shut down its nuclear and coal power plants, with an objective of gradually moving towards renewable sources of energy. In order to fill the supply gap and diversify the sources, the country plans to build its first LNG terminal to receive gas from Qatar, the U.S., and others. This winter, Europe is facing a ‘perfect storm’ in its energy market, whereby wholesale energy prices have more than doubled in 2021, and there is a limited supply of fossil fuels altogether. Russia is blamed for an intentional decrease in gas supplies to Europe, aiming to speed up the controversial Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline by European Union (EU) market regulators. There is a ‘silver lining’ in the current energy crisis in Europe though, since it could provide additional incentives for green energy investments and production of green hydrogen. Latest developments In November this year, Germany’s network regulator (Bundesnetzagentur) suspended the certification procedure for Nord Stream 2. In an official statement it said: ‘it would only be possible to certify an operator of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, if that operator was organised in a legal form under German law.’ For practical reasons, Nord Stream 2 AG decided not to undergo a complete legal transformation, but establish a subsidiary under German law that would manage only the German part of the pipeline. The involved bureaucracy inevitably means further delays in project commencement as it requires re-submission of paperwork and a renewed certification process. In December, Germany’s energy regulator said it would not make a decision on certifying Nord Stream 2 until, at least, the second half of 2022. Meanwhile, tensions have been growing between Russia and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies, amidst fears of Russia’s invasion into Ukrainian territories and a replication of 2014 scenario. The new German Chancellor, Olaf Scholz, has inherited the Nord Stream 2 dilemma from his predecessor and will have to make difficult choices going forward. Some EU leaders have called for stronger actions toward the controversial pipeline from the government in Berlin, including its possible termination in the event of further military escalation. Thus, what was meant to be an ordinary energy project has transformed itself into a powerful geopolitical tool, available to every stakeholder involved, and even beyond. Tatiana Belousova is Assistant Professor at the Jindal School of International Affairs (JSIA), O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-whiff-of-trouble-in-the-nord-stream-pipeline/article38067750.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Mayawati’s strange inertia||During a rare interaction with the media on December 23, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati was asked why she had still not stepped out and held rallies for the Uttar Pradesh elections, scheduled for February-March, despite her chief opponents having already hit the ground running. She dismissively responded that her rivals were going overboard with public rallies because they were “anxious”. The BSP workers were busy working at the booth level, Ms. Mayawati said. And whenever she plans to hold rallies, she will inform the media. Her reply, though not surprising, provides a glimpse into her fading relevance in U.P.’s everyday power politics, a self-indictment of sorts. Defections, rebellions, sackings For the BSP, this election, which it will contest alone, is less about coming to power and more about staying relevant. This is a remarkable fall for a party which, in 2007, stormed to a historic majority on its own providing the State’s first Dalit woman Chief Minister a fourth term. Since 2012, when Ms. Mayawati conceded power but trailed the Samajwadi Party (SP) by just 3.2% votes, she has faced repeated electoral upsets. In 2016-17, after the BJP took hold of her Other Backward Classes (OBC) contingent, Ms. Mayawati was forced to play the idealistic Dalit-Muslim card. Though she got 22% of the votes, the BSP won only 19 seats, a massive 306 behind the winning NDA alliance in the 403-member Assembly. The BSP has been ravaged by defections, rebellions and random sackings, falling prey to her rigidity, political inconsistency, erratic shifts in messaging and unwillingness to innovate or form smart alliances. In the last six months, Ms. Mayawati has had to appoint new leaders in the Assembly twice after previous ones embarrassingly quit the party. A similar exodus was seen prior to the 2017 election when several key leaders, including main backward caste face Swami Prasad Maurya, quit, accusing Ms. Mayawati of auctioning tickets. This time, the rebellions have been quieter but equally damning as the BSP has no sign of a secondary leadership remaining. Several leaders such as Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar who stuck with the BSP movement through thick and thin have flocked to the rival SP, leaving the BSP a reduced force devoid of charismatic faces or caste leaders other than Ms. Mayawati herself. In fact, only three of the 19 MLAs of 2017 remain with her today. Ms. Mayawati’s lack of communication, over-reliance on redundant arithmetic, aversion to agitational politics, and failure to highlight the concerns of Dalits and OBCs even when the BJP offered her issues on a platter have pushed her further out of the discourse. Barring a few customary appearances and tweets, she has been missing from the public eye, not even making the effort to reach out to her core constituency or offering solace to the aggrieved, such as in the Hathras case or during the 2018 Bharat Bandh held against the dilution of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Act. While Narendra Modi, Yogi Adityanath, Akhilesh Yadav, and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are leading from the front in their respective campaigns, Ms. Mayawati is still dependent on her Brahmin lieutenant, Satish Chandra Mishra, to address public meetings and tour the State. Mr. Mishra has not only added elements of Hindutva politics to the BSP pitch, which seems heavily focused on Brahmin appeasement, but with Ms. Mayawati’s nephew and Mr. Mishra’s son, wife and son-in-law taking centre stage in this campaign, the BSP today increasingly appears like a party dictated by two families. This is a far cry from the organisation managed by Kanshiram. Straying to the Samajwadi Party So stark has been Ms. Mayawati’s absence and the blunting of her OBC-Dalit narrative to ‘ sarvajan hitai, sarvajan sukhai (good of all, happiness of all)’, her version of ‘ sabka saath, sabka vikas (support for all, development for all)’, that Mr. Yadav has sought to embrace the vacant Bahujan space to expand his outreach among OBCs and Dalits, including her loyal and till now impregnable Jatav base, constituting 12-13% of the population. Besides the fading nostalgia for the decent law-and-order situation of its previous rule, the BSP’s pitch has little to offer in an already crowded space. Ms. Mayawati can retain a major chunk of her traditional vote base thanks to caste affiliations and tactical candidate distribution. But the lacklustre, hackneyed approach of caste arithmetic without a larger narrative, her increasing disconnect with the non-Jatav voters and her reluctance to take an unequivocal position against the incumbent have given way to the possibility that a section of her voters could stray to the SP. For these reasons, the BSP remains a factor in the 2022 election, but not a contender. In a polarised contest between Mr. Yadav and Mr. Adityanath, a hung Assembly seems like her best bet. omar. rashid@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mayawatis-strange-inertia/article38067753.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Maximising the boost||Heralding a new frontier in India’s vaccination programme, the apex drug regulator has approved two more vaccines under emergency use authorisation (EUA), and an antiviral drug. Corbevax, by Biological-E, is a protein sub-unit vaccine as is Covovax, to be made by the Serum Institute of India. Both, however, differ in their manufacturing process. Covovax has already been approved by WHO under its Emergency Use Listing and will be available globally as part of the COVAX initiative to ensure that at least 40% of the world is vaccinated on priority. Molnupiravir, which was approved this month by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, on the heels of Paxlovid by Pfizer Inc., is said to be a promising drug for those with mild and moderate disease and easily administered as a pill — its key selling point. Thirteen companies in India are set to make this drug. It has been approved for use under EUA for treating adults with COVID-19 “who have high risk of progression to disease”. Having more vaccines in the arsenal bodes well because of the uncertainties that the pandemic brings about. As of today, 90% of India’s adults have been inoculated with one dose and 60% with both doses. The experience with the new variant Omicron is that it is so infectious, it does not discriminate among the vaccinated and the unvaccinated, though severe disease and death is disproportionately among the latter. Here too, those who are above 40 years continue to be the most vulnerable. Despite three vaccines being available, India has overwhelmingly been reliant on Covishield and that is a matter of concern as a new chapter in the vaccination programme unfolds. The new directives say that “precaution doses”, which are third doses of the vaccines an individual has already been inoculated with, will be available for health-care and frontline workers and those above 60 with comorbidities. The 15-17 year age group will get only Covaxin from January 3. That several Indians have been exposed to a live infection in the second wave only improves the odds of protection. However, the only study on mixing Covaxin and Covishield — that resulted from a mix-up in Uttar Pradesh — showed that antibody levels were higher than two doses of either vaccine. A combination of Novavax and AstraZeneca (Covishield) was also effective in boosting antibodies, according to the COV-BOOST study in the United Kingdom. India’s top medical institutions must immediately test the feasibility of mixing all available vaccines so that these may be made quickly available if needed giving recipients the option of an informed choice. The second wave revealed a treatment fiasco with remdesivir — sans any therapeutic merit — that saw irrational demand and black marketing. While molnupiravir has many more manufacturers, it is important to ensure against hoarding or indiscriminate use given its potential side-effects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/maximising-the-boost/article38067742.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Far from over||The missile strike at Syria’s Latakia port on Tuesday is yet another reminder that the conflict in the Arab country is far from over. This is the second strike on Latakia, one of the busiest ports in Syria, within weeks, and Damascus has blamed Israel on both occasions. The Israeli authorities have neither confirmed nor rejected the accusations, but it is a fact that Israel has carried out air and missile attacks inside Syria in recent years. After the strike on Latakia in early December, Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said, “We are pushing back on the bad forces of the region day and night.” The multi-faceted Syrian crisis has evolved over the years. President Bashar al-Assad’s regime, with help from Russia and Iran, has defeated most of the rebel groups and recaptured almost all lost territories, except Idlib. But Mr. Assad’s apparent victory did not end the conflict. When Iran, which supplied men and weapons to Mr. Assad, built up its influence in the country, Israel, which has been occupying Syria’s Golan Heights for decades, viewed it as a security threat. Russia, whose primary focus in Syria is on the survival of the Assad regime and the protection of its own troops and assets deployed there, has largely stayed away from the Iran-Israel cold war. This gives Israel a free hand in Syria to target the Iranian and Hezbollah shipments. The Israeli approach, however, has two key problems. One, the repeated strikes are a flagrant violation of Syria’s sovereignty. Israel, which has hardly upheld international norms and laws when it comes to its security policies, is setting another bad precedent. Second, Syria, devastated by the civil war, is emerging as a new front in the Israel-Iran tussle. In recent years, Israel has reportedly carried out sabotage activities inside Iran and assassinated Iranian nuclear scientists. Iran, in return, has attacked Israel-linked vessels in the Gulf and Mediterranean waters and enhanced supplies to Shia rebel groups in the region. The Latakia strike has come at a time when international powers are trying to revive the Iran nuclear deal, post-2018. If these attempts collapse and Iran presses ahead with its nuclear programme, the chances of an Israel-Iran military conflict will soar. Israel has already said that all options are on the table to “prevent” Iran from going nuclear. So, Syria appears to a pawn in this game between the big powers of West Asia. Enfeebled by the civil war and dependent on Iran and Russia for survival, Damascus lacks the political will and resources to either check Iran’s influence or deter Israel’s attack. For Syria to see relative peace, there has to be a dial-down in tensions between Israel and Iran. A good beginning point would be the revival of the nuclear deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/far-from-over/article38067743.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||For the cause of Opposition unity||With the dust settling on the bitterly contested West Bengal Assembly elections, discussions have shifted to the Trinamool Congress (TMC)’s forays into other States, its attack on the Congress leadership, and the question of Opposition unity. An immediate question is whether the Congress and TMC can declare a truce and work together to achieve Opposition unity. The mistrust between the Congress and the TMC has come to the fore a number of times in the past few months, particularly when the TMC leadership was reaching out to the electorate in Goa or meeting key leaders of other political parties like the Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena. The differences between the two parties are rooted in the politics of West Bengal. The Congress and TMC in West Bengal have a complicated relationship. Mamata Banerjee set up a new party in 1998 as she felt that the Congress was not serious enough to take on the Left parties. Both the parties, however, came together in an alliance in 2011 to end the 34-year-old CPI(M)-led Left Front rule and Ms. Banerjee assumed the office of Chief Minister. The TMC supported the UPA-II government, and its leaders were part of the Union Council of Ministers. Therefore, Ms. Banerjee’s recent remarks that the UPA is “dead” were enough to evoke strong reactions from the Congress leadership. The unease also stems from differences between Ms. Banerjee and West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. With the rise of the TMC, the space which the Congress occupied in the politics of West Bengal slowly diminished. West Bengal is a unique case of the winner taking control of everything and the Opposition parties struggling to manage a civic body or a gram panchayat even in remote corners of the State. The shrinking Opposition space resulted in regular defections of Congress leaders to the TMC from 2011. This has forced the Grand Old Party to align with the Left parties. It is not that the Congress and TMC have not tried to reach out to each other. After the Assembly polls, the Congress tried to extend an olive branch to the TMC by not fielding a candidate against Ms. Banerjee when she contested from Bhabanipur. The TMC helped nominate Congress leaders such as Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Pradip Bhattacharya to the Rajya Sabha. But despite these attempts, there has been no truce between the two parties in the State in the last 10 years. The TMC cannot rule out the Congress as a binding force of all the Opposition parties. If the TMC attempts to occupy the space of the principal Opposition on the national stage, it is going to help the BJP. The TMC may have defeated the BJP juggernaut in West Bengal, but its support base is primarily composed of Bengali speakers. In West Bengal, the Congress too should work more at the grassroots level to bring to the fore senior leaders who are now in political isolation. It needs to rejuvenate its cadres in erstwhile bastions instead of indulging in regular bickering with the TMC. To take on the BJP in 2024, the two parties have to first mend fences in the State. The civic polls provide an opportunity for this. By allowing Congress candidates to contest these elections and not engineer defections, the TMC can set the record straight. The TMC’s political dominance in West Bengal at this moment can only be compared to that of the CPI(M)-led Left Front when it was at its political peak. Attempts by the ruling party to occupy every inch of the political space using fear and coercion may not bode well for the State and may hamper prospects of Opposition unity for the 2024 general elections. shivsahay.s@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-the-cause-of-opposition-unity/article38067758.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. bombing in N Vietnam||New Delhi, December 29: The Government of India to-day expressed its deep concern at the resumption of large-scale bombing of North Vietnam by the United States. Expressing the Government’s concern, an official spokesman told newsmen that India and its people shared the hopes of all peace-loving Governments and peoples that the bombing would be stopped immediately. Asked whether the Government had conveyed its concern to the United States Government, the spokesman said that New Delhi through its statement was making the whole world know about its views. He told another questioner that the Government had been in touch with Hanoi since the bombing began.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/us-bombing-in-n-vietnam/article38067751.ece
30 December 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Bank GNPAs may rise to 9.5% by Sept.’||The gross non-performing asset (GNPA) of commercial banks may increase to 9.5% by September 2022 under a severe stress scenario, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said in a report on Wednesday. This compares with 6.9% seen in September this year. “Macro stress tests for credit risk indicate that the GNPA ratio of scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) may increase from 6.9% in September 2021 to 8.1% by September 2022 under the baseline scenario and to 9.5% under a severe stress scenario,” the RBI said in its Financial Stability Report (FSR) of December 2021. It said SCBs would, however, have sufficient capital even under stress conditions. Emphasising emerging signs of stress in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) as also in the microfinance segment, it has called for close monitoring of these portfolios going forward. In the foreword to the report, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das noted that a stronger and sustainable recovery hinged on the revival of private investment and shoring up private consumption, which, unfortunately, still remain below pre-pandemic levels. Admitting that inflation remains a concern with the build-up of cost-push pressures, Mr. Das called for stronger supply-side measures to contain food and energy prices. ‘Stability prevailed’ He said financial institutions had remained resilient amid the pandemic and stability prevailed in the financial markets cushioned by policy and regulatory support. In the report, the RBI said global economic recovery had lost momentum in the second half of 2021 with resurfacing COVID-19 infections, the Omicron variant, supply disruptions, elevated inflationary levels and shifts in monetary policy stances and actions across economies. “On the domestic front, progress in vaccination has enabled recovery to regain traction after the debilitating second wave of the pandemic, notwithstanding signs of slowing pace more recently; the corporate sector is gaining strength and bank credit growth is improving,” the RBI added. It said the capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of SCBs rose to a new peak of 16.6% and their provisioning coverage ratio stood at 68.1% in September 2021. RBI, however, warned non-banking financial firms and urban co-operative banks to be mindful of frailties on the liquidity front and ensure robust asset-liability management, apart from improving the quality of their credit portfolios. Stress tests showed “a significant number of NBFCs would be adversely impacted in the event of liquidity shocks".  (With PTI and Reuters inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bank-gnpas-may-rise-to-95-by-sept/article38067895.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Omicron scare may hit hotel bookings in January-March’||Low sentiment among business travellers on account of the Omicron scare is expected to take a toll on bookings during January-March,the Hotel Association of India said in its outlook for the coming year. “The sentiment among business travellers is currently low owing to the Omicron scare and that is expected to take a toll on bookings during the Jan-March 2022 quarter,” said M. P. Bezbaruah, secretary general of the Hotel Association of India. Year of hope He observed that 2021 has been a year of hope, survival, and subtle recovery for the hotel industry in India. “Easing up of local restrictions while ensuring an aggressive vaccination drive, coupled with the implementation of strict protocols to ensure safety and hygiene by hotels provided a major relief and boost to confidence amongst the travelling community,” he said.  “The rate per room has also largely returned to pre-COVID levels as far as leisure locations are concerned. “Hotels across categories in metros continue to maintain average rates and are more likely to return to usual prices by the end of this fiscal,” Mr. Bezbaruah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/omicron-scare-may-hit-hotel-bookings-in-january-march/article38067889.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||I-T department eases norms for ‘faceless’ appeal scheme||The Income Tax department has brought in changes to the existing faceless appeal scheme, easing the process for taxpayers wanting a personal hearing through video conference while appealing against a tax demand by the department. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on December 28, notified the ‘Faceless Appeal Scheme, 2021’ and said that the Commissioner (Appeals) shall allow the request for personal hearing via video conference and communicate the date and time of hearing to the appellant via the National Faceless Appeal Centre. “Such a hearing shall be conducted through video conferencing or video telephony, including use of any telecommunication application software which supports video conferencing or video telephony, to the extent technologically feasible,” said the ‘Faceless Appeal Scheme, 2021’. However, a person would not be permitted to appear before the Income-Tax authority either personally or through an authorised representative in connection with any proceedings under this scheme. Under the previous ‘Faceless Appeal Scheme, 2020, a taxpayer’s request for a personal hearing for making oral submissions, required the approval of the Chief Commissioner or the Director General of I-T, in charge of the Regional Faceless Appeal Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/i-t-department-eases-norms-for-faceless-appeal-scheme/article38067902.ece
30 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Bajaj Auto to invest Rs. 300 crore in EV unit||Bajaj Auto Ltd. has announced an investment of Rs. 300 crore ($40 million) and commenced work at a new unit at Akurdi in Maharashtra for manufacturing electric vehicles (EVs). This unit will have a production capacity of 5,00,000 EVs per annum. “In 2001, Bajaj 2.0 took off on roaring Pulsar, in 2021 Bajaj 3.0 arrives on the charming Chetak,” said Rajiv Bajaj, MD. “Going forward, for the Bajaj portfolio, except for implementing one ICE platform that is currently under development, all our R&D drive train resources are now laser-focused on creating EV solutions for the future,” he said. “This alignment reflects our belief that light electric vehicles for sustainable urban mobility is an idea whose time may finally have come. Thus, this investment should leapfrog us into a market-leading position in EVs in India and overseas. The new unit would employ 800 personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bajaj-auto-to-invest-rs-300-crore-in-ev-unit/article38067898.ece
30 December 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Govt. may find it hard to meet fiscal deficit target’||The Reserve Bank on Wednesday expressed doubt over the government’s ability to contain fiscal deficit at the budgeted 6.8% this fiscal after it moved the second supplementary demand of grants worth Rs. 3.73 lakh crore which came in spite of a massive 83% jump in net tax revenue so far this year to Rs. 10.53 lakh crore. The government has budgeted for total expenditure of Rs. 34.83 lakh crore or 6.8% of GDP. While the net tax revenue rose from Rs. 5,75,697 crore in October 2020 to Rs. 10,53,135 crore till October 2021, total expenditure rose only by 9.95%, led by infra spending to Rs. 18,26,725 crore from Rs. 16,61,454 crore during the period, the RBI said in the financial stability report. Total expenditure grew 9.9%, with capital outlay expanding 28.3%, the RBI said. “But with the second supplementary demand of grants worth Rs. 3.73 lakh crore, presented in December, the budgeted fiscal deficit of 6.8% of GDP may come under strain,” the central bank warned. Though the size of gross government borrowing has proceeded at a pace that suggests that budget estimates would be adhered to, RBI said the Centre’s repayment obligations indicate a significant uptrend going forward, implying that gross borrowing is likely to remain elevated, notwithstanding fiscal consolidation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-may-find-it-hard-to-meet-fiscal-deficit-target/article38067900.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Amara Raja set to invest €10 mn in EV battery firm||Amara Raja Batteries is investing €10 million in InoBat Auto, a European Group focused on research and development in the field of batteries for electric vehicles (EVs) and production of lithium-ion battery cells as well as tailored and customs cells. Consisting of a subscription of 0.04% equity stake and convertible loan in InoBat Auto AS, Norway, the investment is part of the energy and mobility strategy Amara Raja is pursuing to foray into new green technologies and solutions through expansion and investment. The initial investment will give Amara Raja a foothold in the thriving European EV ecosystem, where multiple battery gigafactories are being established to support the region’s determined EV push, including in the U.K., which is seeing a rising need to address increasing demand for EVs, the company said in a statement.  “We will jointly explore future opportunities together to adapt the advanced battery technology developed by InoBat for markets served by Amara Raja,” executive director Vikram Gourineni said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amara-raja-set-to-invest-10-mn-in-ev-battery-firm/article38067904.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘E-commerce hiring rose 28% in 2021’||Employment opportunities in the e-commerce and allied industries witnessed a 28% surge in 2021, and recruitment activities in this segment will gain further momentum driven by economic recovery and aggressive vaccination drive, according to TeamLease Services. The sector grew by 8% in 2020 and 30% in 2021. It is now poised to reach $111 billion by 2024 and $200 billion by 2026.   “With the aggressive vaccination drive pan India and economic activities gaining normalcy, next year is going to be very optimistic,” said Ajoy Thomas, VP & Business Head (Retail, E-Commerce, Logistics & Transportation), TeamLease Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/e-commerce-hiring-rose-28-in-2021/article38067891.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Samsung India top deck sees changes||South Korean consumer electronics major Samsung on Wednesday announced top level organisational changes in India with an aim to generate more synergies among its various businesses. The company has appointed CH Choi as the new division leader for the consumer electronics business while Jinsock Lee will be the division leader for the network business and would be based in Mumbai, according to a statement. Jongbum Park will continue to be the division leader for the mobile business, it added. Chief marketing officer Asim Warsi will step down but will continue his association as an advisor with the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/samsung-india-top-deck-sees-changes/article38067890.ece
30 December 2021||MUMBAI,||‘OCIs buying property don’t need RBI nod’||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has clarified that Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs) do not require approval for purchase or transfer of immovable property in India other than in the case of agricultural land, farm house or plantation property. In a statement, the RBI said it had received several queries based on reports on a Supreme Court judgment. “It is hereby clarified that the... judgment dated February 26, 2021 in Civil Appeal 9546 of 2010 was related to provisions of FERA, 1973, which has been repealed under Section 49 of FEMA, 1999,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ocis-buying-property-dont-need-rbi-nod/article38067896.ece
30 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exporters are ‘flush’ with orders: FIEO||The country’s exports are expected to register a ‘healthy’ growth rate in the financial year 2022-23 and may touch $530 billion as exporters are “flush” with orders, the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) said on Wednesday. It added that additional exports would come from some of the sectors benefiting from production-linked incentives in the nextfiscal.  “Since we are likely to cross $400 billion in 2021-22, we should... aim for exports in the vicinity of $525-530 billion in 2022-23,” FIEO president A. Sakthivel said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exporters-are-flush-with-orders-fieo/article38067899.ece
30 December 2021||New Delhi,||IRB Infra Developers raises Rs 5,347 cr equity||IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd. on Wednesday said it has completed equity fundraise of Rs. 5,347 crore from Cintra INR Investments BV and Bricklayers Investments Pte Ltd. The company in a statement said Cintra had invested Rs. 3,180 crore and Bricklayers Investment Rs. 2,167 crore.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irb-infra-developers-raises-rs-5347-cr-equity/article38067887.ece
30 December 2021||Mumbai,||Bajaj Housing Finance lowers interest rates||Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Bajaj Finance Ltd., said it has reduced home loan interest rate to 6.65% per annum. The offer comes with several conditions. The firm allows applicants to link their home loan interest rates to RBI’s repo rate and benefit from possible rate reductions by the central bank, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bajaj-housing-finance-lowers-interest-rates/article38067893.ece
30 December 2021||Chennai,||Vijay Shankar to lead||Vijay Shankar has been named as the captain of Tamil Nadu for the upcoming Ranji Trophy season (2021-22) that begins on January 13, 2022. Washington Sundar will be his deputy. TN will play its matches in Ahmedabad and faces Jammu & Kashmir in its opener. Some notable names missing from the team include Dinesh Karthik and T. Natarajan who is unlikely to be fit for another four weeks. The team is placed in Elite Group D along with defending champion Saurashtra, Railways, J&K, Jharkhand and Goa. TN has had considerable success in the shorter formats of the game but has struggled in Ranji Trophy and hasn’t progressed past the group stages of the competition since the 2016-17 season when it reached the semifinals.  The squad: Vijay Shankar (Capt.), M.S. Washington Sundar (Vice-capt.), B. Indrajith, B. Aparajith, N. Jagadeesan, M. Shahrukh Khan, B. Sai Sudharsan, Pradosh Ranjan Paul, L. Suryapprakash, M. Kaushik Gandhi, V. Ganga Sridhar Raju, Sandeep Warrier, M. Mohammed, R. Silambarasan, P. Saravana Kumar, A. Aswin Crist, L. Vignesh, R. Sai Kishore, M. Siddharth and R. Kavin .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijay-shankar-to-lead/article38067960.ece
30 December 2021||NAVI MUMBAI,||Sowjanya gets past Imamura||Sowjanya Bavisetti fought for three and a half hours to defeat qualifier Saki Imamura of Japan 6-4, 6-7(4), 6-4 in the first round of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the Ganesh Naik Complex on Wednesday. Sowjanya, the 28-year-old left-hander, converted eight of 11 break points and dropped serve four times. She will be up against fifth Diana Marcinkevica of Latvia in the second round. Riya Bhatia was stretched to three sets by qualifier Sathwika Sama and will face second seed Nefisa Berberovic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in pre-quarterfinals. Qualifier Humera Baharmus battled past Jennifer Luikham in three sets and plays Naho Sato of Japan. Rutuja Bhosale went down in three sets to Zhibek Kulambayeva of Kazakhstan. In another lively match, Valeriya Strakhova of Ukraine knocked out top seeded Anna Siskova of the Czech Republic 6-4, 6-4. She will meet Zeel Desai in the pre-quarterfinals.  The results:   Singles (first round): Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Anna Siskova (Cze) 6-4, 6-4; Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Saki Imamura (Jpn) 6-4, 6-7(4), 6-4; Naho Sato (Jpn) bt Anna Danilina (Kaz) 6-4, 6-1; Humera Baharmus bt Jennifer Luikham 7-6(2), 1-6, 6-2; Moyuka Uchijima (Jpn) bt Nigina Abbduraimova (Uzb) 6-2, 6-4.   Akiko Omae (Jpn) bt Akanksha Nitture 6-4, 6-2; Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) bt Rutuja Bhosale 6-4, 2-6, 6-4; Ekaterina Reyngold (Rus) bt Arthi Muniyan 6-0, 6-2; Chihiro Muramatsu (Jpn) bt Sai Samhitha 6-0, 6-2; Ekaterina Yashina (Russ) bt So-Ra Lee (Kor) 6-4, 1-6, 6-4; Riya Bhatia bt Sathwika Sama 6-2, 3-6, 6-4.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Vaidehi Chaudhari & Zeel Desai bt Sarah Pang (Sgp) & Arthi Muniyan 6-1, 6-2; Zhibek Kulambayeva (Kaz) & Diana Marcinkevica (Lat) bt Smriti Bhasin & Niditra Rajmohan 6-0, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sowjanya-gets-past-imamura/article38068041.ece
30 December 2021||Centurion,||Match tantalisingly poised as India pushes hard for victory||Dean Elgar, as tenacious as they come, held firm. It was a captain making a statement. The southpaw, his team chasing a challenging 305, kept the fight going with a determined defence and typical left-handed punches. Rassie van der Dussen applied himself, but erred in shouldering arms to a Jasprit Bumrah delivery that jagged back to disturb stumps. And in the last over of the day, an inspired Bumrah yorked nightwatchman Keshav Maharaj. The Proteas were 94 for four with Elgar on a gritty unbeaten 52 at stumps on day four of the first Freedom Test at the SuperSport Park here on Wednesday. Showers forecast With showers forecast on the final day, India, inching closer to a win, needs to strike hard in the first hour on Thursday. The target India set was a demanding one on a surface with pace, lift and seam movement. Mohammed Shami, bowling with a lovely rhythm, gave a torrid time to Aiden Markram around the off-stump, before the batter inside-edged to the stumps, unsure whether to play or leave. The little Keegan Petersen stood on his toes and punched Shami to the point fence, but then, Mohammed Siraj took him out with a beauty that left the batter. Elgar was resolute though. His high backlift coming down on the ball, he cover-drove Shardul Thakur with precision and timing. When Shami erred in line, Elgar put him away to the mid-wicket fence. On him hinges the South African hopes. Rabada, Jensen impress In the morning and afternoon, Kagiso Rabada and Marco Jensen impressed as India was dismissed for 174 in its second innings. Rabada is such a natural, accelerating with the smoothness of a gazelle, loading up with the venom of a mamba and unleashing the ball with the explosiveness of a leopard. There was pace, lift and movement around the off-stump. He scalped four. Marco Jansen impressed. He is tall, has a high arm action, and gets natural bounce from a left-armer’s angle. If he develops the ball that shapes into the right-hander, he could be a handful. The nippy debutant took four wickets. Indeed, Rabada and Jansen gave little away; the accuracy of length complemented by a line close to off-stump. Lungi Ngidi too chipped in, consuming K.L. Rahul with a delivery of extra bounce and away-swing. Rahul, going for a ‘release’ shot, after being tied down, edged into the cordon. Unlucky Cheteshwar Pujara, put down at mid-wicket by Rabada when he flicked Ngidi uppishly, was rather unluckily caught, nicking Ngidi down the leg-side. The action was engrossing. Virat Kohli survived a vociferous shout for leg-before when he played around an incoming ball from Rabada. Kohli fell soon after lunch, his run of indifferent form continuing. This time he was, fatally, drawn like a moth to fire by a widish delivery angled across him from Jansen. There are problem areas in Kohli’s batting. He shuffles across and appears vulnerable to deliveries darting in, is also unsure around the off-stump. In good touch Rahane looked in good touch again and he launched into Jansen, square-driving, hooking and cover-driving the paceman. However, he was unable to consolidate, failing to keep a hook off Jansen down. The left-handed Rishabh Pant, the x-factor, cut Jansen furiously to the fence. Rabada took out R. Ashwin with a mean lifter, but Pant was unfazed, hammering support seamer Wiaan Mulder to the extra- cover fence. Pant’s bustling run-a-ball 34 — he eventually miscued a pull off Rabada — was the principal reason India set a target beyond 300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/match-tantalisingly-poised-as-india-pushes-for-victory/article38067839.ece
30 December 2021||Melbourne,||Warner advises England to prepare on synthetic wickets||The Ashes already retained, star Australia opener David Warner has advised a sorry-looking England side to prepare on synthetic wickets to be able to adjust to the extra bounce in the pitches Down Under. England’s Ashes hopes went up in smoke after Australia retained the Urn with an innings and 14-run win in just two days and a session in the Boxing Day Test here on Tuesday. A dominant Australia had won the first Test by nine wickets in Brisbane and then registered a convincing 275-run victory in the next match in Adelaide. Main hurdle Having polished his skills on the Australian pitches, Warner said bounce is one of the main hurdles for England. “From a batting point of view, the bounce is a big one. Growing up here in Australia and playing on these wickets is different for how we would approach it compared to England,” Warner was quoted as saying by ‘Australian Associated Press’. “I would probably suggest going on the synthos (synthetic wickets) and practising against the (extra) bounce, doing that in England. “You’ve always got to find ways to prepare and the only way you can prepare for bounce is on synthos in England,” he added. Warner also said that England bowlers erred in bowling back of length in the first three Ashes Test, a ploy which normally doesn’t work on Australian pitches. “In England that back of a length is still hitting the stumps … if you bowl that length at the Gabba or Adelaide, you’re not really hitting the stumps,” Warner said. “You have to be brave enough to pitch the ball up here. “We feel as a batting unit when England pitch the ball up, we drive them down the ground… but you have to do that to create the chances, to create the bat-pad gap to create those nicks,” he added. The fourth Ashes Test is set begin in Sydney on January 5. One last Ashes Warner has hinted he is keen for one last Ashes tour in 2023 to make amends for his failed campaign in England two years ago, drawing inspiration from veteran seamer Jimmy Anderson. The explosive Australian opener would be approaching 37 should he retain his place that long and in all likelihood would have joined the 100-Test club. He currently has 89 caps. Winning in India is also on his bucket list before pulling up stumps on a Test career that has so far yielded 7,551 runs at 48.40. “Winning the Ashes here was obviously a big one,” Warner said after Australia crushed England in the third Test in Melbourne to retain the Ashes. “We still haven’t beaten India in India, that would be nice to do. “And England away — we had a drawn series (in 2019) but hopefully if I manage to get that opportunity, I might think about going back.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-advises-england-to-prepare-on-synthetic-wickets/article38068039.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Abdusattrov wins; tie-break rule leaves Carlsen fuming||Dethroned champion Magnus Carlsen’s tongue-lashing of World Chess Federation (FIDE) over the “completely idiotic” tie-break rules to decide the World rapid chess title could not take away the sheen from 17-year-old Uzbek Nodirbek Abdusattorov’s sensational title-triumph at Warsaw, Poland, on Tuesday. The youngster, seeded 59th, shocked overnight leader Carlsen and went on to stun Ian Nepomniachtchi 1.5-0.5 in the blitz tie-breaker to emerge as the champion. The drama began following a four-way tie for the title after 13 rounds. Adbusattorov, Nepomniachtchi, Carlsen and Fabiano Caruana tallied 9.5 points but the championship rules allowed for a playoff involving only the top-two players. Later, Carlsen acknowledged the youngest champion in the history of the competition by stating, “Squabbles about the rules aside, what an absolutely incredible achievement!” After all, the young Uzbek’s victims included Caruana, Levon Aronian, Boris Gelfand, Radoslaw Wojtaszek and Carlsen, in successive rounds. Among the Indians, D. Gukesh came up with a sterling performance to tie for the fifth spot before finishing ninth, at nine points. Rated 2050, Gukesh performed at a phenomenal 2753 by beating Gelfand, Jobava Baadur before missing a certain win in the drawn game against Abdusattorov and letting Alexander Grischuk off the hook. Similarly, in the women’s section, K. Humpy let champion Alexenda Kosteniuk escape with a draw in the ninth round and eventually finished sixth.  Indians’ final standings:   Open (from 13 rounds): 9. D. Gukesh (9 points), 15. Mitrabha Guha (8.5), 45. Vidit Gujrathi, 55. Abhimanyu Puranik (7.5 each), 60. Harsha Bharathakoti, 64. S. L. Narayanan, 65. Nihal Sarin, 70. Sankalp Gupta (7 each), 99. P. Harikrishna (6.5), 110. Arjun Erigaisi (6), 127. Raunak Sadhwani (5.5) and 164. Aditya Mittal (4).   Women (from 11 rounds): 6. K. Humpy (7.5), 14. R. Vaishali (7), 38. Vantika Agrawal (6) and 49. Padmini Rout (5.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abdusattrov-wins-tie-break-rule-leaves-carlsen-fuming/article38067830.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa succumbs to Colaco’s magic||Twenty-three minutes into the ISL match at Fatorda’s Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on Wednesday, Liston Colaco produced a moment of magic. The wonder strike by the 23-year-old and another goal — which paled in comparison but was decent enough — from Roy Krishna gave ATK Mohun Bagan a 2-1 win over FC Goa, for which Jorge Ortiz’s goal came a bit too late. The victory took the Kolkatans into third spot. From eight games, they have 14 points, just two behind leader and reigning champion Mumbai City. Hyderabad is on 15, while Goa is eighth with eight points. Goa coach Derrick Pereira may not be too pleased with his boys’ show in this match, but for the man Periera replaced a few days ago, this was an important game. Juan Ferrando had left Goa for Kolkata. And this is turning out to be a good move for the Spaniard; his new team has won both games under his charge. The game’s complexion changed with Colaco’s brilliant goal. From some 30m off the post, he bent it like Beckham. After beating defender Seriton Fernandes, he got the ball to swerve and dip, above the head of the Goa custodian Dheeraj Singh.  The result: ATK Mohun Bagan 2 (Liston Colaco 23, Roy Krishna 56) bt FC Goa 1 (Jorge Ortiz 81) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goa-succumbs-to-colacos-magic/article38067837.ece
30 December 2021||Centurion,||We are in with a good chance, says Rathour||Batting coach Vikram Rathour was optimistic about India’s chances on the final day. “There is a bit of variable bounce in the surface now. The ball is keeping up and down. If we hit the right length consistently as we did today, we are in with a good chance.” Asked about Jasprit Bumrah’s incoming delivery that dismissed Rassie van der Dussen, Rathour said, “That’s the quality of the bowler. He set him up beautifully.” Rathour felt India batted well in the first innings. “Rahul and Mayank had that opening partnership. And there were contributions from Virat and Rahane. I thought we did well.” Asked about Virat Kohli being dismissed attempting a cover-drive outside the off-stump in the second innings, Rathour said, “This shot brings him a lot of runs. So he has to play the shot. When to play the shot, under what situations, we need to have discussions.” Despite several batters being hit on the knuckles by some hostile pace bowling by the South African quicks, Rathour said, “Everyone is fine.” Asked about the form of Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane, Rathour said, “Rahane looked in really good touch. It’s unfortunate that he got out. Pujara has played several important innings for us in the past.” He added, “We need to be patient with them. Are we getting impatient? Not at this stage.” Talking about Rishabh Pant and his crucial 34 on day four, Rathour said, “He’s working hard on his batting, his fitness. It was an important innings for us today. He can bat in different ways.” Focusing on K.L. Rahul, Rathour said, “He’s always been a very good batter. In the middle, he lost his form and place. But despite playing all formats, he is batting with a lot of discipline in Test cricket now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-in-with-a-good-chance-says-rathour/article38067843.ece
30 December 2021||Centurion,||We believe as a group we can win: Rabada||Kagiso Rabada believes South Africa can win from this situation. “Belief is everything. We believe as a group that we can win. We will give it our best shot.” The South African pace ace was all admiration for Dean Elgar’s unbeaten half-century. “He’s leading from the front. But he knows the job is not done yet.” Talking about the pitch, Rabada who scalped four on day four, said, “On the first day, the pitch was slow. After that it has quickened up. The surface now has pace, lift and seam movement.” Asked about debutant left-arm seamer Marco Jansen, Rabada said, “He’s a phenomenal talent. He’s tall, gets bounce, has pace and swing as well.” Asked if the South Africans were looking at rain forecast for the final day, Rabada replied, “You cannot depend on the uncontrollables. You got to be prepared to play your best cricket.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-believe-as-a-group-we-can-win-rabada/article38067844.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||CFC should fancy itself against BFC||Chennaiyin FC will look to return to winning ways against a struggling Bengaluru FC at the Tilak Maidan Stadium in Vasco on Thursday. The Bozidar Bandovic-coached side has 11 points from seven matches and has won just one of its last five games. It is also coming off a 3-0 thrashing at the hands of Kerala Blasters. But it should certainly fancy its chances against a BFC side which has won just once this season, the opening match against NorthEast United FC. Out of form Talisman Sunil Chhetri has been woefully out of form and has started the last two matches on the bench. That BFC drew both those matches — against ATK Mohun Bagan (3-3) and Jamshedpur FC (0-0) — adds to the intrigue, for it was the first time Marco Pezzaiuoli’s outfit went two matches without losing. Sort out its attack Even as Chennaiyin looks to capitalise, armed with the best defensive record this ISL, having conceded just seven goals, it needs to sort out its attack. The side has scored a paltry six goals, four fewer than bottom-placed SC East Bengal. Both Chennaiyin and BFC have had a week’s rest. If the break and the Christmas cheer can infuse some much-needed zest into their performances, it will be a welcome change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-should-fancy-itself-against-bfc/article38067949.ece
30 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Aakarshi in semifinals||Top seed Aakarshi Kashyap of Chattisgarh defeated Tara Shah of Maharashtra 21-17, 21-9 in the women’s singles quarterfinals of the BAI Series senior badminton tournament at Gopi Chand Academy on Wednesday.  The results: Men: Singles, quarterfinals: Aditya Joshi (Utr) bt Kartik Jindal (Har) 22-20, 18-21, 21-17; Kartikey Gulshan Kumar (Del) bt M. Raghu (Kar) 21-11, 21-12; M. Mithun (Rly) bt Priyanshu Rajawat (MP) 21-14, 21-12; Ravi (Har) bt Shreyansh Jaiswal (Chg) 21-10, 21-15. Doubles, quarterfinals: P.S. Ravikrishna & Sankarprasad Udayakumar (Ker) bt Tushar Sharma & Vinay Kumar Singh (CAG) 21-13, 12-21, 21-17; D. Achutaditya Rao (TS) & Venkata Harsha Vardhan (AP) bt H.R. Vasantha Kumar & Ashith Surya (Kar) 21-15, 16-21, 23-21; G. Krishna Prasad (AP) & P. Vishnuvardhan Goud (TS) bt Kabir Kanzarkar (Rly) & Akshay Raut (Mah) 21-16, 21-16; Manjit Singh Khwairakpam & Dingku Singh Konthoujam (Mnp) bt Shyam Prasad (Ker) & S. Sunjith (RBI) 18-21, 21-19, 21-16.   Women: Singles, quarterfinals: Aakarshi Kashyap (Chg) bt Tara Shah (Mah) 21-17, 21-9; Aashi Rawat (Del) bt Purva Barve (AI) 16-21, 21-18, 21-10; Ashmita Chaliha (Asm) bt Neha Pandit (Mah) 21-12, 21-15; Malvika Bansod (AAI) bt Unnati Hooda (Har) 21-16, 21-12.   Doubles, semifinals: Khushi Gupta (Del) & Simran Singhi (Mah) bt Sanyogita Ghorpade (Mah) & Prajakta Sawant (AI) 23-21, 21-17; K. Vennala & Shriyanshi Valishetty (TS) w/o Treesa Jolly (Ker) & P. Gayatri Gopichand (TS). Mixed doubles, semifinals: Rohan Kapoor (Del) & Sanjana Santosh (TS) bt Vinay Kumar Singh & Ningshi Block Hazarika (CAG) 21-5, 21-16; Dhruv Rawat (Utr) & Shikha Gautam (Kar) bt Vighnesh Devlekar & Sanyogita Ghorpade (Mah) 21-18, 9-21, 21-17 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aakarshi-in-semifinals/article38068173.ece
30 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Big win for Karnataka||R. Smaran’s unbeaten 201 (219b, 25x4, 6x6) and Shikhar Shetty’s spell of six for 33 helped Karnataka trounce Puducherry by an innings and 375 runs on the third day of their four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match here on Wednesday.  The scores: Puducherry 59 in 43.1 overs & 103 in 44.4 overs (Shikhar Shetty 6/33) lost to Karnataka 537/7 decl. in 140 overs (R. Smaran 201 n.o., P. Raghuveer 72, Rajvir Wadhwa 37, S. Rohan 4/191) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-win-for-karnataka/article38068325.ece
30 December 2021||Melbourne,||‘Absence of ‘Big Three’ a disaster for Australian Open’||Nick Kyrgios has urged Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic to play at the Australian Open, saying on Wednesday that it would be a “disaster” if the ‘Big Three’ were missing. Swiss ace Roger Federer has already pulled out as he recovers from a knee injury and Nadal’s plans are unclear after contracting COVID-19. Djokovic is on the entry list for the first Grand Slam of the year, which begins in less than three weeks, but has refused to confirm if he has been vaccinated, casting doubt on whether he will turn up. The dominant ‘Big Three’ have won 20 Grand Slam titles each and Kyrgios said tennis still needs them, starting in Melbourne next month. “I honestly don’t know Novak’s current situation with anything COVID-related or what he needs to play,” Kyrgios told the Melbourne Age . “I hope he’s had a good Christmas and I hope he’s able to play in the sport for as long as possible because I’ve voiced before... I think Federer, Nadal and Djokovic need to be (playing). If all three aren’t there, it’s a disaster. It’s an absolute disaster for the fans and the people that enjoy tennis. Yes, it’s obviously a good opportunity for some of the younger guys to come through and make an impact, but as a whole, we do need them to be part of the sport.” Adding to the Australian Open woes, Dominic Thiem said late on Tuesday he would miss the event with a wrist injury. Russian World No. 5 Andrey Rublev and Canada’s Wimbledon semifinallist Denis Shapovalov are also recovering from COVID-19, casting a shadow over their preparations. The Australian Open starts on January 17. Ready for action Australia’s Kyrgios, who has slipped to 93 in the world, has not played since the Laver Cup in late September, citing a knee injury, and said he was looking forward to performing again in front of his home fans. “My knee is something that has been hindering my career for a while now, it’s just something I had cleaned up last year and it feels good,” he told the newspaper. “I want to enjoy myself, I want to be happy, and that is it.”  I’ve voiced before... I think Federer, Nadal and Djokovic need to be (playing)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/absence-of-big-three-a-disaster-for-australian-open/article38068044.ece
30 December 2021||London,||Need to improve before Chelsea clash: Van Dijk||Liverpool captain Virgil van Dijk says he and his team-mates need to “look in the mirror and improve” after the 1-0 loss to Leicester. Liverpool will look to strike back in the title race at Chelsea on Sunday. “Everyone has to look in the mirror and improve,” the Dutch defender told Amazon Prime. However, Van Dijk said it was no time to give up hope as other factors may still play a role in who is crowned champion. “We’re in December. The season is so, so long,” he said. “You have seen it with Covid and injuries — lots of things can change. “There’s no point looking at (Manchester) City or Chelsea or the other teams around us. We should look at our performance today and improve.” Liverpool will also have to cope without Salah and another key player, Sadio Mane, for what could be as long as a month with both heading off for the Africa Cup of Nations. Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp, though, is more concerned that his side rediscover their brio for the Chelsea match.  There’s no point looking at (Manchester) City or Chelsea or the other teams around us||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-to-improve-before-chelsea-clash-van-dijk/article38068046.ece
30 December 2021||London,||Liverpool stumbles against Leicester||Jurgen Klopp admitted Liverpool had only itself to blame for its shock 1-0 defeat at Leicester as Mohamed Salah’s penalty miss and Ademola Lookman’s winner dented the Reds’ title challenge on Tuesday. Klopp’s side saw its 10-match unbeaten run in all competitions ended by Lookman’s second half strike. Liverpool trails leader Manchester City by six points. Beaten for the first time since its 3-2 loss at West Ham in November, second placed Liverpool paid the price for missed chances. Crucially, Kasper Schmeichel saved Salah’s first half penalty as Liverpool failed to score in the league for the first time since March. “We were just not good enough. We still had enough chances. What we did with the ball was just not right. We played a really bad game,” Klopp said. “We should have defended better. We do that usually, why we didn’t do it today is hard to explain. There were so many performances below the normal level.” Liverpool’s flop against a Covid and injury ravaged Leicester, which was hammered by City on Sunday, puts extra pressure on it to take maximum points at title rival Chelsea in their first game of 2022 on Sunday. Leicester boss Brendan Rodgers added: “It’s an absolutely heroic performance. An amazing result for us.” Elsewhere on Tuesday, Tottenham was held to a 1-1 draw at 10-man Southampton. Southampton took a deserved lead in the 25th minute with a stunning strike from James Ward-Prowse. The game was turned on its head when Mohammed Salisu brought down Son Heung-min in the penalty area shortly before half-time. Salisu was sent off for a second yellow card and Harry Kane made no mistake from the spot. Fifth placed West Ham won 4-1 at lowly Watford to bolster its top four bid, while Crystal Palace defeated bottom side Norwich 3-0 at Selhurst Park.  The results: Crystal Palace 3 (Edouard 8-pen, Mateta 38, Schlupp 42) bt Norwich 0; Leicester 1 (Lookman 59) bt Liverpool 0; Southampton 1 (Ward-Prowse 25) drew with Tottenham 1 (Kane 41-pen); Watford 1 (Dennis 5) lost to West Ham 4 (Soucek 27, Benrahma 29, Noble 58-pen, Vlasic 90) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-stumbles/article38067909.ece
30 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Knight In Hooves may score an encore||Knight In Hooves, who maintains form, may score an encore in the Altenburg Trophy (1,400m), the main event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Dec 30) False rails (width about 3m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position.  CHAMBAL PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over, 1.45 p.m.: 1. Aerospeed (1) Nazar Alam 60.5, 2. Lightning Attack (7) Saddam H 60.5, 3. Zhu Zhu Zest (10) Chandrashekar 60, 4. Nostradamus (3) Shreyas Singh 59.5, 5. Light Of Love (2) Ikram Ahmed 58, 6. Jan Zizka (5) L.A. Rozario 57, 7. Elite Agent (11) Angad 56.5, 8. Lady Nector (12) Vishal Bunde 56, 9. Bahurupah (6) P. Siddaraju 55, 10. Santorini Secret (9) Tousif Khan 54.5, 11. Altair (8) S. Saqlian 54 and 12. Awesome Girl (4) Likith Appu 52.5.  1. AEROSPEED, 2. NOSTRADAMUS, 3. ALTAIR   KODAGU PLATE (Div II), (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o and over, 2.15: 1. The Strength (10) M. Naveen 60.5, 2. Lucky Chance (6) Darshan 57.5, 3. Air Blast (5) S. Saqlain 56, 4. Ombudsman (2) Akshay K 55.5, 5. Kings Speech (4) Shane Gray 54.5, 6. Silverita (7) Antony 54, 7. Aferpi (3) Arshad 53.5, 8. Foveal Vision (1) B. Harish 52.5, 9. Hope Island (11) Vivek 52.5, 10. Shan E Azeem (9) Dhanu Singh 52.5, 11. Sweet Kiss (12) Kiran Rai 51 and 12. Hitomi Sakuma (8) Rajesh Kumar 50.  1. OMBUDSMAN, 2. SILVERITA, 3. KINGS SPEECH   SARDAR SAROVAR PLATE (Div II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 2.45: 1. Unique Style (5) Darshan 60, 2. Clever Hans (4) Vishal Bunde 55, 3. Mega Success (2) Vivek 55, 4. Purple Legend (6) Md. Habeeb 54.5, 5. Compliance (3) S. Shareef 53.5, 6. Mark One (9) P.P. Dhebe 53.5, 7. Shivalik Mirror (11) Neeraj 53.5, 8. The Sense (7) Vinod Shinde 53.5, 9. Tower Quest (10) Jagadeesh 53.5, 10. Twilight Fame (8) Rajesh Kumar 53.5 and 11. Chain Of Thoughts (1) Naveen Kumar 52.5.  1. MARK ONE, 2. UNIQUE STYLE, 3. SHIVALIK MIRROR   KODAGU PLATE (Div I), (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over, 3.15: 1. Osiris (10) Arvind Kumar 61, 2. Drusilla (9) A. Qureshi 60.5, 3. Tokyo Rose (4) Vishal Bonde 60, 4. Allabouther (10) S. John 59.5, 5. Rorito (8) Mark 58.5, 6. Striking Memory (2) Akshay K 57, 7. Flamingo Road (5) Antony 55.5, 8. Twinkle Feet (7) Arshad 55.5, 9. Classic Charm (3) Kiran Rai 55, 10. Kalyan (12) Jagadeesh 54.5, 11. Tenali (11) Dhanu Singh 53.5 and 12. Tyto Alba (6) Rajesh Kumar 52.5.  1. STRIKING MEMORY, 2. FLAMINGO ROAD, 3. DRUSILLA   BIG BROWN PLATE (1,800m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 3.45: 1. Linkin Park (5) Jagadeesh 57, 2. Sacrament (2) Shane Gray 57, 3. Faith Of Success (7) Neeraj 55.5, 4. Love (3) Suraj 55.5, 5. Muirfield (4) Antony 55.5, 6. Mystic Mountain (1) Akshay K 55.5 and 7. Pink Jasmine (6) Dhanu Singh 55.5.  1. FAITH OF SUCCESS, 2. MYSTIC MOUNTAN, 3. SACRAMENT   ALTENBURG TROPHY (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 4.15: 1. The Sovereign Orb (3) Akshay K 62.5, 2. Peluche (6) Antony 60.5, 3. Southern Ruler (1) Kiran Rai 60.5, 4. Knight In Hooves (7) Suraj 57, 5. Whizzo (4) Jagadeesh 55, 6. The Response (8) Ajeet Kumar 54, 7. Caracas (5) Arshad 52.5 and 8. Lagopus (2) P. Surya 52.5.  1. KNIGHT IN HOOVES, 2. THE SOVEREIGN ORB, 3. CARACAS   SARDAR SAROVAR PLATE (Div I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4.45: 1. Three Aces (4) Md. Habeeb 60.5, 2. Caesars Palace (8) S. Shareef 60. 3. De Villiers (9) Shreyas Singh 58, 4. Promise Kept (2) Darshan 58, 5. Reczai (3) M. Naveen 58, 6. Morganite (7) Arshad 57.5, 7. Star Cavalry (11) Ashok Kumar 54, 8. Lauterbrunnen (5) P.P. Dhebe 53.5, 9. Baba Voss (1) B. Harish 52.5, 10. Kimetto (10) Rajesh Kumar 52 and 11. Ultimate Speed (6) Jagadeesh 52.  1. DE VILLIERS, 2. PROMISE KEPT, 3. LAUTERBRUNNEN   CHAMBAL PLATE (Div I), (1,200m), rated 00 to 15, 5-y-o & over, 5.15: 1. Ultimate Striker (5) S. Saqlain 62, 2. Birchwood (11) Nazar Alam 61.5, 3. Commandpost (9) Angad 61, 4. Country’s Jewel (4) Shreyas Singh 60.5, 5. Gazebo Talk (6) P. Siddaraju 60, 6. Habanero (12) Tousif Khan 59.5, 7. Akasi (3) Likith Appu 59, 8. Ozark (8) L.A. Rozario 58.5, 9. Raw Gold (7) Ikram Ahmed 58.5, 10. Estella (10) Vishal Bunde 58, 11. San Bernardino (2) Saddam H 57.5 and 12. Smile Around (1) Chandrashekar 56.  1. ULTIMATE STRIKER, 2. ESTELLA, 3. COUNTRY’S JEWEL  Day’s best: KNIGHT IN HOOVES  Double: STRIKING MEMORY - DE VILLIERS  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knight-in-hooves-may-score-an-encore/article38067829.ece
30 December 2021||Doha,||Adil advances in doubles||Adil Kalyanpur and Preston Brown of the USA, beat Petru-Alexandru Luncann of Romania and Sidane Pontjodikromo of Netherlands 6-0, 6-3 to make the doubles quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here.  The results:   $15,000 ITF men, Doha: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ray Ho (Tpe) & Beibit Zhukayev (Kaz) bt Haadin Bava & Sai Karteek Reddy Ganta 6-1 6-7(7), [10-2]; Preston Brown (US) & Adil Kalyanpur bt Petru-Alexandru Luncanu (Rou) & Sidane Pontjodikromo (Ned) 6-0, 6-3; Rashed Nawaf (Qat) & Shahbaaz Khan bt Shashank Theertha & Tushar Madan 7-6(8), 6-1.   $15,000 ITF women, Giza, Egypt: Singles (first round): Sapfo Sakellaridi (Gre) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-1, 6-1. Doubles (quarterfinals): Anastasia Zolotareva (Rus) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi w.o. Login Khairy & Lina Sarhan (Egy); Pre-quarterfinals: Anastasia & Ashmitha bt Malak Ahmed Adel & Farida Moussa (Egy) 6-0, 6-0.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Emma Van Poppel (Ned) & Bhuvana Kalva bt Karolina Jaskiewicz (Pol) & Selya Rakki (Fra) 7-6(7), 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adil-preston-duo-advances-in-doubles/article38068042.ece
30 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Mumbai has Haryana on the mat||Haryana was struggling at 109 for five after conceding a lead of 126 runs to Mumbai on the third day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match at Kandukuri Cricket Academy Ground here on Wednesday. Earlier, resuming at 342 for seven, Mumbai finished the first innings at 373. For Mumbai, Musheer Khan claimed four wickets when Haryana batted second.   The scores: Haryana 247 in 71.2 overs & 109/5 in 65 overs (Arun Kumar 31 batting, Musheer Khan 4/48) vs Mumbai 373 in 115.3 overs (Sourabh Singh 73 n.o., Parth Vats 3/46) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-has-haryana-on-the-mat/article38068418.ece
30 December 2021||Dubai,||Buttler in running for T20 award||The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Wednesday announced Jos Buttler, Wanindu Hasaranga, Mitchell Marsh and Mohammad Rizwan as the four nominees for the Men’s T20 Cricket of the Year Award. The ICC Awards 2021 will recognise the outstanding achievements and feats in cricket over the past year. The ICC also confirmed that Lizelle Lee (South Africa), Tammy Beaumont (England), Hayley Mathews (West Indies) and Fatima Sana (Pakistan) have been nominated for ‘Women’s ODI Player-of-the-Year’ accolade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hasaranga-in-running-for-t20-award/article38067832.ece
30 December 2021||KOLKATA,||I-League’s next round postponed||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) on Wednesday postponed the next round of I-League matches, scheduled on Thursday and Friday, after several Covid positive cases were detected in multiple teams. Following an emergency meeting of the I-League Committee, the AIFF announced the postponement of six matches. “Acting on the advice (of AIFF Sports Medical Committee member Dr. Harsh Mahajan), the committee unanimously decided to postpone the matches for the next round which were scheduled on December 30 and 31, 2021. “All players, staff and referees have already been tested today, and will be tested again on January 1 and 3, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-leagues-next-round-postponed/article38067833.ece
30 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Daring foray||Naveen Kumar shone in Dabang Delhi's 52–35 win over defending champions Bengal Warriors in a Pro Kabaddi League match here on Wednesday. Naveen picked up 24 points from 25 raids, his best performance in PKL, as Dabang Delhi avenged its last season’s defeat in the final against the same opponent. Kumar was unstoppable as he was in the thick of things from the word go and the Bengal defence were left looking for answers every time he stepped on to raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daring-foray/article38067841.ece
30 December 2021||GOA,||Ronaldo’s statue installed in Goa||Portuguese football legend Cristiano Ronaldo’s statue has been installed in Panaji to inspire the youth and take football to next level in the state and country. Following dreams The statue weighs around 410kg and the aim of installing it is to motivate the younger generation towards sports and following their dreams. “This is for the first time that the statue of Cristiano Ronaldo has come up in India. “This is nothing but to inspire our youth,” Goa minister Michael Lobo said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldos-statue-installed-in-goa/article38068339.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||TN 39/1 requiring 362||Requiring 362 for victory, Tamil Nadu was 39 for one at stumps against Chhattisgarh on the third and penultimate day of the Cooch Behar Trophy men’s under-19 Elite C fifth-round match at Surat on Wednesday. Left-arm spinner P. Vignesh did the star turn for Tamil Nadu claiming four wickets.  The scores: Chhattisgarh 221 & 329/9 decl. in 105 overs (Mayank Verma 91, Shashwat Sharda 28, Pratham Singh Thakur 57, Deepak Yadav 61 n.o., Dev Aditya Singh 29, Aayush Singh Thakur 46, P. Vignesh 4/76, V. P. Diran 3/73) vs Tamil Nadu 189 & 39/1 in nine overs (B. Sachin 29 batting) .    ICF bagged the women’s title for the Rathna Stores Trophy in the Chennai District ‘B’ division volleyball league championship on Wednesday. SDAT Sports Hostel of Excellence (SDAT SHE) finished second while Sivanthi was third. Meanwhile, ICF will meet Income Tax in the men’s final.  The results: Women: Super league: SDAT SHE bt Sivanthi 25-11, 27-25, 25-13; ICF bt Chennai City Police 25-10, 25-12, 25-12; SDAT SHE bt Chennai City Police 25-19, 25-9, 25-13; ICF bt Sivanthi 25-23,25-17, 25-9.   Men: Semifinals: Income Tax bt Chennai City Police 25-14, 25-15, 25-17; ICF bt SRM Academy 23-25, 25-15, 25-18, 28-26 .    Tamil Nadu’s Anupama Ramchandran defeated Karnataka's P. Keerthana 82-07, 38-77, 69-22, 52-44 to clinch the junior girls’ snooker title at the National Billiards & Snooker in Bhopal on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-391-requiring-362/article38067962.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Naman scores nine goals||Naman Sharma struck nine times as the boys from Government Senior Secondary School, Ghuman Hera thrashed Damodar English High School, Goa 22-0 in a Group B match of the 49th Nehru Junior hockey tournament.   The results:   Group B: GBSSS, Ghuman Hera 22 (Naman Sharma 9, Yuvraj Singh 4, Rohan 3, Pankaj 2, Daksha Yadav 2, Sachin Tawatia, Mohd. Jaheed) bt Damodar English HS, Goa 0; Group E: Hockey Academy, Ludhiana 7 (Arshdeep Singh 2, Sukhvinder Singh 2, Novjot Singh 2, Jasandeep Singh) bt SNBP School, Pune 2 (P. Krishna Kumar, Arun Pal).   Group F: DGNCC 22 (Yogember Rawat 7, Kuldeep 5, Nand Kishor 3, Amit Khasa 3, Sunil Maan 2, Harsh Singh, Nitin) bt GBSSS, Poonch 0; Group G: Markandeshwar HA, Shahbad 15 (Pawel Singh 3, Amardeep 2, Ashish 2, Jeetpal 2, Harmanpreet Singh 2, Manu Malik 2, Ashish, Prabhjot Singh) bt MM HSS, Palakkad 0 .    Kartik Sharma’s five-wicket haul helped Tuli Cricket Academy thrash GC Club by 10 wickets to set up a title clash against Airliner Academy in the seventh R.P. Dhoundiyal tournament.  The scores: GC Club 62 in 17 overs (Kartik Sharma 5/23) lost to TCA 63/0 in 15 overs (Japjot Singh 32 n.o.) .    Man-of-the-match Ayush Kumar top-scored with an unbeaten 50 and claimed five wickets as RK Cricket Academy beat Dream Chaserz Cricket Academy by eight wickets in the second Kanta Devi memorial cricket tournament.  The scores: SBCA 103 in 21.2 overs (Ayush Kumar 5/19) lost to RKCA 106/2 in 11.2 overs (Ayush Kumar 50 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/naman-scores-nine-goals/article38068037.ece
30 December 2021||Udhagamandalam:,||Sajin sizzles for Gudalur||R. Sajin hammered an unbeaten 103 (14x4, 3x6) as Gudalur CC defeated Newstar by eight wickets in the NDCA first division league for the Kumbhat Rolling Trophy at the Laidlaw grounds here on Tuesday. In the NDCA-K.S. Premnath memorial knockout prize money rolling trophy, Spartans scored a similar win over Don Brandman’s at the Gandhi Maidan in Kotagiri.  The scores:   I div.: Newstar 223/7 in 30 overs (N. Vignesh 56, M. Suresh 44, M. Prakash 32, R. Deepan 4/48) lost to Gudalur 227/2 in 24.3 overs (R. Sajin 103 n.o., V. Abilash Kumar 69 n.o.).   K.S. Premnath memorial tournament: Don Bradman’s 155/8 in 30 overs (A. Fayaz 43, R. Charles 30) lost to Spartans 159/2 in 22 overs (J. Ratheesh 83, T. Nandakumar 36 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sajin-sizzles-for-gudalur/article38068003.ece
30 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Karnataka trounces Puducherry||R. Smaran’s double century (201 n.o., 219b, 25x4, 6x6) and a fine spell by Shikhar Shetty (six for 33) helped Karnataka trounce Puducherry by an innings and 375 runs on the third day of their four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match at the Dr. YSR-ACA-VDCA Stadium here on Wednesday.  The scores: Puducherry 59 in 43.1 overs & 103 in 44.4 overs (Shikhar Shetty 6/33) lost to Karnataka 537/7 decl in 140 overs (R. Smaran 201 n.o., P. Raghuveer 72, Rajvir Wadhwa 37, S. Rohan 4/191) .    Requiring 362 for victory, Tamil Nadu was 39 for one at stumps against Chhattisgarh on the third and penultimate day of the Cooch Behar Trophy men’s under-19 Elite C fifth-round match here on Wednesday. Resuming at 79 for three, Chhatisgarh declared its second innings at 329 for nine with Mayank Verma top-scoring with 91 (170b, 8x4, 3x6). Left-arm spinner P. Vignesh did the star turn for Tamil Nadu claiming four wickets.  The scores:   Chhattisgarh 221 & 329/9 decl. in 105 overs (Mayank Verma 91, Shashwat Sharda 28, Pratham Singh Thakur 57, Deepak Yadav 61 n.o., Dev Aditya Singh 29, Aayush Singh Thakur 46, P. Vignesh 4/76, V. P. Diran 3/73) vs Tamil Nadu 189 & 39/1 in nine overs (B. Sachin 29 batting).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-trounces-puducherry/article38068004.ece
30 December 2021||Kolkata,||Ganguly stable||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly remains “stable”, the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said on Wednesday. “On the second day of admission, Ganguly remains haemodynamically stable,” Dr. Rupali Basu, MD & CEO, Woodlands Hospital, said in a statement.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ganguly-stable/article38067831.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Full throttle||First meetings aren’t always the best. Tamil filmmaker H Vinoth knows that well. He first met actor Ajith Kumar fresh on the heels of his successful 2017 Karthi-starrer Theeran: Adhigaaram Ondru . At that time, Vinoth was selling the actor a script that featured a protagonist with shades of grey. Ajith, however, was not too keen on that, but insisted on remaking Hindi hit Pink in Tamil. “He wanted to do something I felt I was incapable of attempting,” laughs Vinoth, over a telephone chat, “That meeting didn’t go well.” But that is now history. Today, Vinoth has become one of Ajith’s favourite directors and is fast rising to be among Kollywood’s popular filmmakers. He has already finished two films with the star: Nerkonda Paarvai, the remake of Pink he finally ended up doing, and upcoming Pongal release Valimai , touted to be one of the biggest projects of 2022. The story does not end there: Vinoth will again team up with Ajith and producer Boney Kapoor for their next project, which makes it three consecutive projects from the same team. Excerpts from an interview with the 40-year-old filmmaker, who seems to be on a dream run in Tamil cinema: Take us back to the day when you first narrated the script of Valimai to Ajith... I narrated a one-liner of the story. He was impressed that it was socially responsible and was sure that it would turn out to be a film that would entertain all audiences. The last film you worked with him was a remake...was there inherent pressure to make Valimai more “mass”?  No, there wasn’t. The story we selected in the first place had all the elements of a mass, commercial entertainer. There is a real-life connect to the storyline, we hear...  As the subject features bikes prominently, we started researching and stumbled upon the story of how late CM Jayalalithaa directly appointed a racer as a policeman. We tried scouting for him in order to hear his life story, but we couldn’t track him down. We have taken that one incident as a small inspiration for Valimai . What do you think Ajith liked most in you to team up for three back-to-back projects?  Well, he has done it before, with director Siva (Ajith did Veeram , Vivegam and Viswasam with Siva). If Ajith feels comfortable with a person, he likes working with them continuously. I have myself told him this many times: ‘Sir, you should work with other directors too. Many assistant directors have written stories for you. If you work with them, they will also get a bright future, just like me’. He agrees with that, and he is meeting many other directors too, but he believes that there should be a spark for it to come together as a project. How happy are you making a film that has a lot riding on its star value?  I am fully aware of that, and the challenge is to tap into that as effectively as possible. I am not here to take cinema to the next level. I am here to take my life to the next level, and I have chosen this as my path for that. It is a simple demand-supply concept: working with a star, knowing what he wants and what his fans and audiences want, and delivering that to the best of my capabilities.  As a filmgoer, what about cinema fascinated you the most during your growing-up years?   I was a big Rajinikanth fan during my younger days. Till the release of Padayappa , I have queued up for FDFS tickets outside theatres. You should see the scene after the jostle of tickets is over...there would be a hundred slippers strewn everywhere near the counter. There would be so much excitement then.  Do you think the pandemic has changed the way films are being thought of, and shot?   The first time the world spoke about social distancing, as filmmakers, we were thinking about how to film the lead pair standing next to each other, and how to shoot crowds. We have moved a long way since then, as we have realised that there are plenty of ways to execute things. The pandemic has taught filmmakers to do things that we already did in a more effective manner, keeping in mind safety protocols.  When you entered the film industry, you would have had certain dreams. Do you think you have achieved all of them?   I will not describe myself as a filmmaker with a lot of passion for cinema. I treat it purely as a profession. I do not have any big dreams; all I want is to ensure that the producer makes enough and the audience who pays for the film leaves the hall satisfied and entertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/full-throttle/article38067698.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons along the coastline||Over the past two Sundays, two different sets of children could be seen trailing behind naturalist, teacher and author Yuvan Aves along Chennai’s beaches — identifying crustaceans, solving puzzles, listening intently to his descriptions of creatures of the deep. The children were enthralled, spellbound and at times visibly terrified after learning about some of the coastal fauna found there such as shell-binders/decorator worms, worms that literally dress up in the shells they find nearby; porcupine fish, a species that can expose spikes from its body after bloating up; and the most unique of them all, the ghost crab, which got its name because of being the only crab species to have eyes outside the body. Who knew that things most of us simply call shells and clams are actually molluscs, which are further divided into classifications such as bivalves (molluscs enclosed in a shell of two halves) and cones? Prism, the educational wing for children by The Chennai Photo Biennale, arranged these shorewalks, along with the Madras Naturalist society. They are an extension of Yuvan’s Living Coasts project, that is also on display at The Chennai Photo Biennale III- Maps of Disquiet. As Yuvan points out: “The larger objective of the shore walk is to create connections with our local landscapes. It’s better when this connection starts in young children. It carries on for a lifetime because perception of the space changes for children every time as they’re receptive, whereas it is slightly difficult for adults to create this connection with landscapes around them.” “We create specific programmes where young children are the primary audience. The Biennale offers people new ways to explore their own city through a new artist or a new lens,” adds Gayatri Nair, one of the co-founders of the Chennai Photo Biennale and the organiser of the event. The children were asked to sketch anything new or peculiar that they found in and around the beach, and also identify several crustaceans by referring to a booklet with information about the 96 species. Yuvan also pulled out several shells and clams from his bag for the group to identify, before conducting a game of Beach Bingo, which worked as a checklist for the children to see if they had spotted all the 16 objects common to the beach including crustaceans, molluscs, fishing nets and seabirds. Thirteen-year old Eshwar Parameswaran, one of the participants, said, “I expected the event to be like a regular classroom, but being part of it was a very intriguing experience. We learned about coastal creatures that we had never seen before. I’m really excited to explore more coastal landscapes.” Yuvan explained how in his decade-long teaching career, he has never “found a single child who isn’t completely enthralled by Nature”. He added that the late pioneering naturalist EO Wilson calls this ‘biophilia’: our natural need or affinity to connect with other life forms. “So it has nothing to do with conditioning, I’m a mere facilitator or a bridge for a natural connection between children and landscapes, which is a very natural process.” Upon being asked if he too got introduced to natural landscapes from a young age, leading to him becoming a naturalist, he says, “ I got introduced to Nature as a kid because my mother’s style of parenting was to observe and then address. She facilitated me with information about Nature, flora and fauna through books after observing my deep interest in them right from childhood. I was also inspired by a lot of my school teachers who were also naturalists. The challenging part in my journey was to deal with some people who asked me to treat it like a hobby and not a profession, but looking back at things now, I’m fortunately able to sustain myself very well while being a naturalist, educator and an activist.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lessons-along-the-coastline/article38067728.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Empathy in the sunset years||“In our country, with the culture of the joint family disappearing due to various reasons, the percentage of elderly parents living by themselves has increased drastically. The pandemic has further aggravated their plight, and added another dimension to this issue,” says Sanjay Dattatri, author of The Home Stretch: Family Caregiver’s Handbook , (Penguin). Sanjay, a software engineer, in the last seven years has been working on various initiatives to make the lives of the elderly in India better. He has been running Old is Gold, a store exclusively for senior citizens, in Chennai for the past five years. He adds, “There was already a certain amount of isolation and with the pandemic they became completely left to themselves, with no visitors and they could not even seek any assistance from relatives or friends either.” “The pandemic has taken away the social life of the geriatric population and further isolated them in their twilight years. I observed that their interpersonal skills were affected and depression among the elders is now common,” he says. The author had spent many years taking care of his bed-ridden mother; the book reflects his caregiving experience and interactions with doctors, counsellors, senior citizens and other caregivers. Sanjay’s book is an empathetic, useful guide that seeks to simplify caregiving and equip readers with the tools and guidance required to build a safer, happier and more comfortable life for the elders around them. “I often come across women in their 80s taking care of their 90-year-old invalid husbands single handedly. I also once came across a woman in her 70s caring for her 100-year-old father-in-law, 88-year-old mother-in- law and 90-year-old mother, with little help from her husband or other family members,” says Sanjay. Most often, the sons and daughters, often living abroad or in other locations in India, think that sending money would suffice. From tips on maintaining their health and independence to taking care of the bedridden, the book covers a wide range of topics to meet the progressively complicated needs of ageing loved ones. One particular topic, remote caregiving, is of greater relevance during the pandemic. “I suggest that families organise video calls on a regular basis to stay in touch with the elders. The pandemic has encouraged this trend and I am glad that technology brings cheer to elders. During one-on-one calls there may not be much to talk about, but when siblings and cousins get together on a video call much can be discussed and elders overcome their loneliness,” Sanjay says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/empathy-in-the-sunset-years/article38067721.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Startups take on the pandemic||Krishna Reddy G lost his diabetic father to COVID-19 during the first wave. Travelling from their village to nearby Tadripati in the Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh to pick up his diabetes medicine, his father fell ill and within days, was gone. The sudden loss sent Krishna into depression. But months later, after witnessing people in the nearby villages struggling to procure essentials in the midst of the pandemic, Krishna decided to create something in his father’s memory. Krishna and long-time colleague Paramesh Gandlu left their Big Tech jobs and founded KarryNow in April 2021 to create a seamless line of transportation between villages and nearby towns. Through multiple experiments with village leaders and word-of-mouth grassroots marketing, KarryNow was able to scale up quickly. Since its inception, the startup has partnered with 130 villages across the State. In the same ‘quick commerce’ realm of KarryNow, Chennai-based Boonbox has also stepped up to deliver essential goods and provide rural aid to rural areas; the startup had already established a considerable and trusting network across Tamil Nadu, and 15 other states. Meanwhile in Gujarat, vegetable farmer-vendor Sarojben from Bhuteshwari village of Gandhinagar district was eager to make profits from a bumper harvest of produce which she started selling in February 2020. But then the lockdowns brought about transport shutdowns and endless red tape of permissions to sell vegetables at Agriculture Produce Market, Dehgam, which closed for many days. Refusing to give up, she approached Padma Shri awardee Reema Nanavaty’s NGO Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), which partnered with WhatsApp to facilitate an end-to-end effective business model, connecting women farmers to customers in urban areas without physical contact. The goal was to ensure that farmers get market rates for their produce, and to create a business model that is easy to understand by everyone involved. While the pandemic highlighted the massive digital divide between urban and rural India, technologists (startups, incubators and Big Tech) have been working diligently to close this gap, choosing to work with neighbouring villages, explaining why India was named the third largest startup ecosystem in the world — just this year, Indian startups bagged a record US$36 billion in funding this year alone. A growing online presence Krishna is certain that the solution he and his partner Paramesh came up with would not be possible without the current state of Internet penetration across the country; a model like this would not have been viable 10 years ago. Similarly, Reema explains, “For the informal working women sector, innovation is a coping strategy for survival. Part of that is using more technology they are already comfortable with and for millions, in our context, this meant using WhatsApp. We started with a WhatsApp group with farmers working near Ahmedabad and potential customers. This helped connect the two and create an enterprise. Now, the model has evolved to see 200 vegetable growers selling directly to customers.” “In our early research we found that around 60% of the villagers in Anantapur use smartphones while a large portion of the rest use a keypad phone,” says Krishna. “Through our chats with residents, we found out that a vernacular app would best serve everyone, so at the end of December 2021, we are launching the app officially.” Trumping the distance The pandemic ensured that even the smallest distances between cities and nearby settlements felt vast. But companies like WhatsApp, Haryana-based fintech startup RBP Finivis and KarryNow as well as NGOs like SEWA make sure that this is addressed. Sam Gupta, CEO and founder of RBP Finivis, explains, “Often times, people in rural areas depend on cash-in-hand, and during the pandemic, it is not easy to travel to nearby towns for withdrawals and not a lot of people in these areas have confidence to use digital payment apps or use a debit card. To help them through a stressful time, we eliminate that pressure.” The machines are across the Northeast, North and Delhi-NCR to set some grounding, but they have plans to expand nationally. SEWA wanted to make sure that the produce of cherry, strawberry and apple farmers in Kashmir produce did not go waste due to the halted central supply chains. They helped these women farmers build their own decentralised supply chain and build relationships with customers. “We sent customers pictures of women farmers plucking and sorting the various fresh fruits. This was a great motivator to get a new market going and also be transparent about the fruits’ state,” says Reema. This growing trust, in spite of physical distance, has seen SEWA help bring 2,000 kilograms of cherries and strawberries and 15,000 kilograms of apples to Ahmedabad. By 2030, KarryNow hopes to work with 6,00,000 villages in India, creating more rural entrepreneurs and employees. “Startup founders in the last year have had to be problem solvers,” concludes Krishna, “and the pandemic presented countless different problems for everyone. Startups now solve two or three problems at the same time — the new norm for business and tech.”  Future forward WhatsApp partnered with a number of NGOs including SEWA, MannDeshi and Robinhood Army to foster more skill-building and create more hyperlocal entrepreneurs, without overwhelming people with hordes of technical lingo. WhatsApp is also kicking off its own startup incubator in 2022. The Rural Access Coalition is the result of a union between three rural-tech startups (last-mile distribution company Frontier Markets, agri-tech firm HESA and social impact company 1Bridge) to collectively uplift the post-COVID depreciating infrastructures across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Karnataka. Hyderabad-based cybercrime startup Cyber Jagrithi has been creating awareness in Telangana’s villages about general digital hygiene and vaccine misinformation, given the spread of fake news about COVID-19 and the increasing number of online scams. Law and justice platform Agami pivoted to fill the information gap that existed in rural communities, creating ruralindia.help that currently has 845 initiatives across 30 states. The system is a central hub for people in cities to find and support rural COVID responses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/startups-take-on-the-pandemic/article38067736.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Making of a native superhero||The making of techie-turned-film director Basil Joseph’s third film Minnal Murali is as much a story of challenges and determination as the narrative of any superhero movie. As the Christmas film soars high on Netflix, it affirms the faith Basil and his team had in the script written by Arun Anirudhan and Justin Mathew. In the making for nearly three years, Basil says they were aware of the hurdles to make a ‘superhero film’. He says, “It was the success of My Dear Kuttichathan (1984) that inspired me to dare dream of a film like Minnal Murali .” The concept of a native superhero was scenarist Arun’s. He narrated a story about a youngster, a tailor called Jaison in Kurukkanmoola, a village, who acquires superpowers after he is struck by lightning. On Basil’s suggestion, Justin was taken on board as co-writer. They worked on the script for nearly a year to come up with an interesting screenplay. “It was not easy to come up with a hero like Minnal Murali, enacted by Tovino Thomas, a grounded, common man who could strike a chord with viewers. We knew that they would immediately compare it with superhero films from Marvel and DC.” The team was aware that though the budget was extravagant for a Malayalam film, it would come nowhere near the budget of a Hollywood film. VFX, action sequences and costume were worked out in detail before the film went on floors. “If the VFX had looked cartoonish, the film would have fallen flat. The action scenes had to be different from the usual stunt scenes. There had be exaggeration but it had to measure up to international standards,” he recollects. Another challenge was designing the costume. Graphic artist Pavi Shankar designed the costume in red and blue and it was executed by Mumbai-based costume designer Deepali Noor. The team’s challenges multiplied once the pandemic interrupted shoot. “The film included crowds, a large crew, night shooting and wide frames. We wondered if we would have to compromise on some of the scenes.” To make matters worse, a set was vandalised, a first for Malayalam cinema, and the location had to be moved to Hassan in Karnataka. The long gap in between schedules created other problems. “Some actors had gained weight, while others had lost kilos. I can now laugh at it all because we were able to complete the film the way we visualised it. By then, Minnal Murali was no longer a project; it had become an emotion for us. That helped us overcome all the challenges.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/making-of-a-native-superhero/article38067690.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Adrenaline with a side of history||It is 5pm and the streets of Puducherry are coming alive after a post lunch slump. The harsh rays of the sun turn soft gold and gentle. Office-goers dash home, perhaps rushing back to their evening café au lait or chai and samosas. A game of Petanque takes place in the distance. Cars and bikes honk angrily as they try to out-race each other to what feels like an invisible finish line. Meanwhile we hop onto our e-bikes and set out to explore the French Quarter at a languid pace. Titled Picturesque Pondicherry, these cycle tours by BLive aim to introduce travellers and intrepid explorers to the French culture, as well as, the Tamil heritage of this coastal town. BLive started in Goa in November 2018. “We are the official electric vehicle tourism partner for Goa,” says Samarth Kholkar who started this company along with Sandeep Mukherjee. By 2019, it branched out to Madikeri and Virajpet in Coorg, Mysore, Jodhpur, Jaipur, Udhagamandalam and Cochin, with Puducherry being added last January. This year it made its way to Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. We meet Vignesh, our captain for the evening, who leads us on the tour that starts from the elegant Palais De Mahe. Virulent yellow cycles lined against butterscotch yellow walls, await us. “We have 15 cycles in Pondy. But in case even a solo traveller wants to do a tour we don’t turn them down,” says Samarth. The duration of the tour is around three hours. Each participant is thoughtfully handed a cloth slingbag that holds a bottle of water and eventually their mobile phones and belongings. Zip around town At eight kilometres, this is one of the shortest tours that BLive offers. We stop by 13 landmarks incuding the statue of Joseph Marquis Dupleix, French War Memorial, Jumma Masjid, Manakula Vinaygar Temple where we meet the adorable temple elephant with a superstar status, and see elderly women in elegant saris glide past on their cycles giving us a complex. A welcome refreshment break at La Maison Perumal includes piping filter coffee and Tamil recipes such as karunai kizhangu vadai or vazhapoo vadai . Plus a hands-on kolam workshop. “As of now Pondy has only two tours, but we are working on a few more: one in the heritage space, a culinary trail, a night tour and something related to the beaches,” says Samarth who recently tied up with Club Mahindra for tours outside the property, showcasing village life just a little outside the coastal town. The tours are immersive and promote sustainable tourism. The company works with local communities that have a strong understanding of the destination’s history and culture. “For example, in Goa we organise breakfast at a 200-year-old Portuguese house...” The cycles come in two modes: manual as well as electric. After brushing up on our rusty pedalling skills in the manual mode, we switch over to electric and it enables us to zip around town as smoothly as a knife through warm butter. Granted, a few passers-by intimidate us with their loud horns or rude overtaking skills but there is still something very pleasant about cycling through the charming lanes of this town, flanked by yellow and grey buildings and pink bougainvillea branches in the salty sea breeze.  For details log onto www.blive.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/adrenaline-with-a-side-of-history/article38067707.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Remember the Luna?||A petite 50cc lightweight bike, the Luna became the vehicle of choice for mothers dropping their kids to school, the only affordable moped you could purchase with a first salary in the ‘70s, a cross between a cycle and a motorcycle. The diminutive vehicle has made countless memories for families across India, but this particular one, owned by collector Vinit Kenjale, also managed to race a train. “This was in the mid-’70s. Our Luna took on the heavyweight Deccan Queen. Both started at 7.20 am for Dadar station, and the Luna beat the Deccan Queen by 20 minutes. It was unbelievable!” Kenjale’s eyes light up as he recounts this and other stories of the 550 mopeds, motorcycles and scooters, he proudly owns, and will soon put on display in Mahabaleshwar at the end of 2021, at Vintage Miles, India’s first museum dedicated to its two-wheeled wonders. “Soon, India is going to transition to electric scooters, and I want to tell the story of our two-wheelers, from when you could hear them before you laid eyes on them. There was a certain charm to the kickstart or your friends pushing your moped and later, scooter, to start it. Each of the bikes I have collected from people across India has a story to tell,” explains Kenjale, who currently houses his impressive two-wheeler collection at a shed close to his home in Pune. “I have a crew of old mechanics who are familiar with two wheelers from the 1960s-70s. They love working on the mopeds, creating spare parts, polishing them to a shine, or just hearing the engines revv again.” What started as a hobby collection in 1986 soon took up all the space in Kenjale’s yard. He realised that other Pune households faced a similar issue — garages cluttered with unused old vehicles owners refused to part with, for sentimental reasons. The museum, Vintage Miles, has been decades in the making. Spread over a large plot in Mahabaleshwar, the impressive collection will be organised in three sheds: one each for mopeds, scooters and motorcycles. “The idea is to have audio-visual aids for visitors, so they can experience what these vehicles sound like on the road. Some vehicles will be available for experiences and rides as well. I want to keep the ticket sales affordable,” adds Kenjale, whose collection has been featured in the Limca Book of Records in 2018. “I was featured on a show on The History Channel and that brought a lot of inquiries from across India; owners wanted their vehicles to get a second life at the museum, rather than lie unused in the parking lot,” adds Kenjale. While most vehicles in the collection are from Maharashtra, Kenjale organises and pays for the transport if the two wheelers are from out of State. From the oldest — a military green Matchless (1930) — to the Innocenti B-125, with a visible chassis, that was a pet project to refurbish, Kenjale’s penchant for mopeds and scooters is evident. “Theytake you back to simpler times,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/remember-the-luna/article38067740.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to the big screen||“The feeling of watching a film on the large screen is something else,” says E Thangaraj, general secretary, Indo Film Appreciation Foundation. “Sound effects and visuals can be experienced to the fullest only in a cinema theatre,” he points out. The Foundation’s 19th Chennai International Film Festival seeks to offer cinema lovers exactly this. With the last couple of years seeing more films releasing on OTT platforms than on the big screen, Thangaraj hopes that the festival will provide fodder for film buffs. “This is an opportunity for them to watch our pick of award-winning films from around the world,” he adds. This year, the festival will feature 121 films from 53 countries and is spread across two venues — PVR Multiplex (formerly Sathyam Cinemas) and SDC Anna Cinemas. Thangaraj highlights films such as Three Floors by Nanni Moretti, Vortex by Gaspar Noé, A Hero , and When Pomegranates Howl , both of which were entries at the 94th Academy Awards. Nine Iranian, five Korean, six French, and four Malayalam films are being screened. There will also be a special screening of Singeetam Srinivasa Rao’s Dikkatra Parvathi.   The film festival is on from today till January 6. To register, visit www.icaf.in or www.chennaifilmfest.com. Registration can also be done offline at SDC Anna Cinemas, 21, Anna Salai, Triplicane.   Films to look out for     Three Floors (Cannes Festival 2021, Palme d’Or nominee)  The 2021 Italian drama revolves around three families that live on different floors of an apartment building in a middle-class neighbourhood.     Vortex (San Sebastián International Film Festival 2021 winner)  The French drama details the final days of an elderly couple who has dementia.     A Hero (Iranian entry for the Best International Feature Film at the 94th Academy Awards)  The film, written and directed by Asghar Farhadi, is about Rahim, who is in prison for debt he is unable to pay back. On a two-day leave from his sentence, he tries to convince his creditor to withdraw the complaint against him.    When Pomegranates Howl (Australian entry for the Best International Feature Film at the 94th Academy Awards)  The 2020 Afghan-Australian drama film written and directed by a Iranian director Granaz Moussavi is about a nine-year-old boy living on the streets of Kabul, who dreams of becoming a movie star.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/back-to-the-big-screen/article38067683.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Now, a film on Rajesh Khanna||Curious about the life and times of Rajesh Khanna, described as the first superstar of Hindi cinema? A movie is in the works. Producer Nikhil Dwivedi has acquired the rights of Gautam Chintamani’s book, Dark Star: The Loneliness Of Being Rajesh Khanna . In a press statement, Nikhil states, “I’m in talks with Farah Khan to make the film. I’m really very excited about bringing Rajesh Khanna’s story to the big screen.” Born Jatin Khanna, and affectionately called Kaka by his industry friends, Rajesh Khanna was considered quite a complex personality and misunderstood by many. Debuting with Aakhri Khat (1966), he went on to deliver more than 15 hits in succession and generated mass hysteria, especially among female fans. Farah Khan adds in a statement, “I have read Gautam’s book, and it’s very fascinating. We are in a conversation over this but I cannot comment more.” Details about who will play the lead role and the rest of the cast are yet to be revealed by the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/now-a-film-on-rajesh-khanna/article38067680.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A force to reckon with||Post the success of Baahubali 2: The Conclusion , filmmaker SS Rajamouli’s initial idea was to make a film free from visual effects and complicated stunt sequences. By his own admission, he wanted to make a story with a love quadrangle. But when he shared the idea with his wife, she asked him: “Who will watch the film, if you make a love story?” Crediting his wife and family for being his “harshest” critics, Rajamouli says he had to shoot the idea down. The filmmaker admits that he has a fascination for bringing two superpowers together ever since childhood. It was the emotional excitement of bringing Telugu superstars Jr NTR and Ram Charan that led to the journey of RRR, a film that has been in the making for close to three years. In RRR , Rajamouli reunites with his writer-father Vijayendra Prasad and composer MM Keeravani. Set in pre-Independence India, RRR is a fictional account of two freedom fighters Alluri Sitarama Raju (Ram Charan) and Komaram Bheem (Jr NTR). When Rajamouli was scripting the film, one of the things he insisted on was to ensure that the audience was on the edge of their seats every 10 minutes. Rajamouli, however, maintains that it is the underlying emotion that drives his narratives forward, which in turn drives the spectacle. Has he ever felt the emotion may get lost in the face of visual extravaganza? Driven by emotion “If the spectacle is there just for the sake of impressing the audience, then it will fall flat. If you take a song like ‘Naattu Koothu’ [from RRR ] which is an enjoyable, foot-tapping number, what drives me even in that song is the emotion,” says Rajamouli, during a recent press interaction in Chennai along with his actors, Jr NTR and Ram Charan.  For actors Jr NTR and Ram Charan, both of whom have worked with Rajamouli previously in Student No 1 and Magadheera , RRR was a homecoming in more than one way. Although Jr NTR admitted that both their families have been professional rivals for nearly three decades, he has always been friends with Charan and RRR gave them the opportunity to spend more time together. Asked if ever there was a sense of insecurity of being outperformed by the other actor, Jr NTR clarified that there was no room for such thoughts. “Let us say Charan gives a great shot today... I will have to live up to what he has done. Rajamouli will not leave until he extracts it from me,” says NTR with a laugh, “We have been chosen and guided by one of the most secure directors. So, there was no insecurity.” Ram Charan agrees. He says RRR ’s script made him feel secure as an actor. “The entire film is just beautifully-placed. It is not like NTR gets a great action scene and I will get one...it was never about those calculations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-force-to-reckon-with/article38067687.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Mexe||Pulling at a steaming, spicy pork birria on an unusually chilly evening is not a privilege that Chennai is used to. But the past month was different as the quaint Mexican cafe in Alwarpet revamped their menu recently, introducing jackfruit tamales, carne asadas and chili con carnes, followed by crisp churros and decadent tres leches. Conceptualised by the same team behind Mezze (that serves Middle Eastern cuisine) in RA Puram, Mexe as an idea had been brewing in the minds of chef Shweta Rengasamy, Anush Rajasekaran and restaurateur Sandesh Reddy even before Mezze came into being. Their shared love for Mexican food is what naturally brought them together. Shweta and Sandesh are the brains behind the menu. With a limited seating capacity of 30, Mexe hopes to expand over the next couple of months. Made with slow-cooked pork or chicken, the toasted birria tacos lend a burst of flavour. Wash it down with a refreshing pineapple jalapeno mole, served here as a mocktail with a ginger ale base. The jackfruit tamales are bland but comforting. Try the rice bowls (chili con carnes), which are filling whole meals paired with generous servings of refried beans, salsa and guacamole.  Mexe is located at Cooperative Colony, Sri Ram Nagar, Alwarpet.8825435460.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mexe/article38067718.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The X in Vinita Chaitanya’s 2021||Bengaluru-based interior designer Vinita Chaitanya has had a busy year of collaborations. And now comes her ‘Inde Rose’ with Jaipur Rugs. The line of silk carpet pairings or coordinated sets of rugs designed by her is an expression of her observations of nature, colour, textures and techniques. There are five pairings, which she layers with unexpected weaves, textures, prints-on prints and colours. Woven in the ‘gultaraash’ technique, each has 121 knots per square inch, in dusty pinks, pale jades and purples.  What led to the collaboration with Jaipur Rugs?  Rutvi and Yogesh Chaudhary (Brand Director, Jaipur Rugs) approached me during a dinner conversation over two years ago for this. They knew my style and wanted me to bring my ‘India proud’ ethos to their range.  The last year has seen you as part of several collaborations.  I am actually very reticent to enter collaborations unless I admire the brand and they compliment my design language. For example, I approached Tarun Tahiliani to make a handcrafted unique masterpiece for my project and he readily agreed. It was a brilliant outcome and we collaborated on another beautiful piece of embroidered tapestry that was completely different. My collab with Sabyasachi for Nilaya fabric was also wonderful, I was already working with the prints and wallpapers when my friend Manju Sara Rajan approached me. The layering and ‘India proud’ ethos are what I truly believe in and I am committed to it in my design process. And then the Jaipur Rugs collaboration was in the making for two years.  Isn’t this your first time designing carpets, how was the process?    Yes, it’s my first time and it was very challenging. The Jaipur Rugs’ talented creative team was a huge asset because I am ‘painful’ about what I want, and my expectations are very high, the details, the layers and the colour palette had to be perfect before we took it to the loom and the results are just fabulous. Rutvi worked very closely with me on this.  Available at jaipurrugs.com,   prices start at Rs. 4,00,000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-x-in-vinita-chaitanyas-2021/article38068277.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Streaming saved the film industry’||In journalist and film critic Anupama Chopra’s A Place in My Heart , there are individual chapters devoted to a wildly miscellaneous range of Indian films: from 1960s classics like Mughal-e-Azam to early 2000s trendsetters like Dil Chahta Hai to the much more recent, unorthodox fare like the short film Tungrus . When one has been talking and writing about cinema for so long, it’s sometimes easy to lose sight of what one primarily expects from a film, especially on the large screen. What stands out is her evolving taste in cinema thanks to film festivals, and the acceptance of newer formats and languages, especially Malayalam and Tamil content.  The film festival advantage  “When I started off as a journalist in the early 90s, it was hard to access anything other than very mainstream cinema — except for the festivals,” says Chopra, adding, “Over the years I have developed a palate for more non-linear narratives or a cinema that’s more about stillness. But the first response is always to story, to narrative. I want the drama, I want the plotting.” Film festivals, as Chopra mentions, were crucial when it came to accessing films outside commercial Bollywood.  Chak De India , a favourite Throughout A Place in My Heart , there are chapters breaking down Chopra’s favourite films in a simple, elegant manner. There’s an early chapter about the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Chak De India (2007) that will resonate with a lot of readers. It’s sharply written and makes some fine observations about the director Shimit Amin’s narrative style, but addresses how the film has aged, thereby acknowledging its weaknesses: “You could argue that the film’s feminist stance is specious because ultimately Kabir is the male saviour who’s constantly pushing and inspiring the women to fight the odds… But Shah Rukh plays the role so persuasively that I’m willing to make my peace with that.”  The OTT shift  Perhaps significantly, one of the only made-for-streaming films Chopra talks about in the book is Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman , that too in the context of a theatrical screening organised by Netflix at Delhi’s Regal Cinema. “Movie theatres are my office and my place of worship,” she declares pithily towards the end of A Place in My Heart . At the same time, she believes that in the immediate future, “theatrical and streaming (models) will co-exist happily”. “Streaming saved the film industry. All these films over the last 18 months found distribution platforms online, found ways to recover their money. It threw up new stars: Jaideep Ahlawat, Prateek Gandhi. So that genie is not going back into the bottle, I feel. At some level, consumer behaviour has changed because of streaming.”  Published by Penguin Random HouseIndia, A Place in My Heart is priced at Rs. 599.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/streaming-saved-the-film-industry/article38068276.ece
30 December 2021||December 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Finally, a desi holiday movie||We have sex, we drink, we curse like the sailors of yesteryear, and then some. But the Indian women we often saw in movies or series were always the result of cultures of perfection or exoticisation, rather than fully-formed, flawed human beings. Slowly and surely, the real force of representation came in the comedy-drama films such as Lipstick Under My Burkha , Margarita With a Straw and Queen . But what of pure, slapstick comedy? That is Hot Mess Holiday as it captures the Indian diaspora woman of today in the bizarre context of ‘Deepavali in New York, a public break-up going viral, a diamond heist and Kal Penn being Kal Penn.’ Directed by Jaffar Mahmood, the Comedy Central film stars actor-comedians Surina Jindal and Melanie Chandra, who also executive-produced the film written by Sameer Gardezi ( Modern Family ). It also brings much-loved names such as Penn, Punam Patel, Definition Please ’s Ritesh Rajan, Kunal Dudheker, Never Have I Ever ’s Richa Moorjani, Ravi Patel, Aparna Nancherla and Ayptical ’s Nik Dodani. The film – seven years in the making – follows a finance executive who is dumped by her cheating fiancé during Deepavali and is inadvertently swept into a diamond heist. And what would any Indian diaspora film be without a few cheeky digs at the condescending attitude Indian diaspora face? That is, an angry uncle or aunty berating them for not speaking in their mother tongue fluently, still being unmarried before 30 or not pursuing the ideal career path. Hot Mess Holiday treats this with shades of comedy. A rom-com for friendship Through pre-production, the duo shared anecdotes of their decade-long friendship with the writer Sameer Gardezi; the stories were equal measures of laughs and love, highlighting Jindal’s go-with-flow approach to life and Chandra’s knack for getting all her ducks in a row. In fact, the makers decided that the characters in the film should be named Surina and Melanie. “It’s a rom-com for our friendship,” she sums up with a laugh, “It’s so beautiful to finally put something out there that says ‘females first!’ where – despite how partners, location, work issues (or a diamond heist) can test a friendship – the friendship sticks.” The duo are grateful for the ensemble featured in the film and not just those of South Asian-origin. You will see other familiar faces such as Saturday Night Live alum Chris Parnell and The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt actor Titus Burgess. Hot Mess Holiday makes the best of its cast by leveraging Dodani’s deadpan humour, Penn’s legend status, Moorjani’s dance skills, and more. The key, states Chandra, is “letting everyone on set play.” The reality is that this film would not be what it is if it were released seven years ago. For far too long, India-oriented projects about a child of poverty wanting to be a doctor or arranged marriages were the only ones greenlit in Hollywood. “If we had gotten this done with a major studio seven years ago, I feel we would have a lot more pressure to make it something we didn’t want it to be. This means playing into the tropes and stereotypes; now in 2021, people lean into hearing your unique voice,” Chandra muses. After years of attending various talent showcases in Hollywood where she was pushed to ‘put on an Indian accent’ and ‘just do the character in a sari’, Jindal was tired of “constantly creatively compromising” herself. “It hurts that the thought of Indian women having sex, smoking and drinking is an anomaly,” she sounds out.  Hot Mess Holiday released on Comedy Central India on December 25.    “It’s a rom-com for our friendship. It’s so beautiful to finally put something out there that says ‘females first!’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/finally-a-desi-holiday-movie/article38068275.ece
30 December 2021||Gandhinagar,||Follow govt. guidelines, defeat COVID-19: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said the coronavirus pandemic cannot be controlled until the masses become aware and follow the guidelines issued by the government. He also appealed to those in the 15-18 age group to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest whentheir turn beginsfrom January 3. Addressing a gathering through video conferencing after dedicating and laying foundation stones for various developmental works worth around Rs. 50 crore in his Lok Sabha constituency of Gandhinagar, Mr. Shah also asked the administration to remain alert about therising cases of coronavirus. “Coronavirus is once again rising after changing form. This time, all of us, be it municipal corporations, municipalities, district panchayats or State governments, will have to remain alert,” the Union Home Minister said. He said the government is taking stock of the situation at various levels through regular meetings with officials from the local administration. “But until the masses become aware and follow coronavirus guidelines issued by the State government, we will not be able to control its spread. Everybody will have to work together to defeat it. Those whose second dose is due must get it at the earliest,” Mr. Shah said. Vaccination is the only way to protect against coronavirus, Mr. Shah said, adding that the Central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured there is proper supply of COVID-19 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/follow-govt-guidelines-defeat-covid-19-shah-urges-people/article38068088.ece
30 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Severe cold grips North India||Biting cold swept most places in Punjab and parts of Haryana on Wednesday, with minimum temperatures hovering below normal limits. Moga in Punjab was the coldest place, recording a low of one degree Celsius. Amritsar, Bathinda, Faridkot and Ferozepur recorded identical minimum temperatures of 2.4 degrees Celsius each, according to the meteorological department here. Among other places in Punjab, Barnala, Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot reeled under intense cold recording respective minimum temperatures of 2.7 degrees Celsius, 3.9 degrees Celsius, 3.3 degrees Celsius and 4.6 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana recorded a low of 7.1 degrees Celsius while Patiala’s minimum temperature settled at 6.5 degrees Celsius. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two States, recorded a low of 5.8 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Hisar, Sirsa and Narnaul experienced a cold night recording respective minimums of 5 degrees, 4.6 degrees and 6 degrees Celsius. Ambala recorded a low of 6.9 degrees Celsius while Karnal’s minimum temperature settled at 7.7 degrees Celsius. Gurugram recorded a minimum temperature of 8.2 degrees Celsius. In Rajasthan, Fatehpur in Sikar district was the coldest at 2.2 degrees. The minimum temperature dropped at several places in the State due to rain and cold winds, a MeT department official said in Jaipur. Rain was also recorded at many places, including Kota, Dabok, Dholpur and Chittorgarh. According to the Meteorological Department, the minimum temperature dropped by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/severe-cold-grips-north-india/article38068287.ece
30 December 2021||Sagar Island,||Curbs may be imposed in Bengal after review: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday hinted at bringing back COVID curbs in the State amid the threat of a possible third wave of the pandemic looming large, including shutting down educational institutions and identifying containment zones. Ms. Banerjee, during an administrative review meeting at Sagar Island, asked officials concerned to review the overall pandemic situation in the State. “COVID-19 cases are on the rise; there are a few omicron infections, too. So, a review of the situation is required. If the numbers keep increasing, we may consider closing down schools and colleges,” she said. The CM, who visited the island to take stock of the arrangements for the annual Gangasagar mela, said that a decision on international flight and local train services will also be taken after the coronavirus situation is reviewed in Bengal. “Some Omicron cases are being detected among returnees who are arriving here on international flights… Evaluate and take a decision on the movement of international flights,” Ms. Banerjee told Chief Secretary H.K. Dwivedi and Health Secretary N.S. Nigam at the meeting. She asked the officials to conduct a ward-to-ward survey and take a call on reintroducing containment zones in the metropolis. Offices could be asked to function with 50% employee attendance, if necessary, the Chief M<inister said. “After January 3, we will decide on the Covid protocols.” Movement of local trains is unlikely to be impacted for the time being. “Reduce the number of local trains if required, but this service will not be stopped for now as many livelihoods depend on it,” Ms. Banerjee said. She urged people to adhere to COVID protocols and not panic due to the rising number of omicron cases, as the variant was “less severe in terms of fatalities than the delta variant”. Asking the officials to keep a tab on the vaccination programme of children aged 15-19 years starting January 3, Ms. Banerjee wondered why the Centre was keen on beginning booster doses when many beneficiaries were yet to get the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curbs-may-be-imposed-in-bengal-after-review-mamata/article38068292.ece
30 December 2021||Pune,||Cong. in a fix as Pratapsingh Rane hints at retirement||Days after the central election committee of Congress approved his candidature from the Poriem Assembly seat in North Goa, veteran Congressman and 11-time MLA Pratapsingh Rane on Wednesday hinted at ‘retiring’ from active politics. He stressed the need for youngsters to take the party forward in the poll-bound coastal State. Mr. Rane’s remarks, which came on the occasion of the 137th Foundation Day celebrations of Congress in Panjim, are likely to put the battered Goa unit — which has just two MLAs, one of whom is Mr. Rane — in a fix as it would have to hunt for suitable new candidates in a diminishing pool. “I have completed nearly 50 years in politics. The time has come for me to take rest... and give a chance to the youth,” said the former CM and sitting MLA from Poriem. Stating that Goa was a progressive State, Mr. Rane underscored the importance of encouraging the youth. The Congress’s decision to field Mr. Rane came after his son, BJP leader and Minister Viswajit Rane, had said he would contest against his father and defeat him by a wide margin. However, after the party approved of his candidature on December 22, the senior Rane denied that the Congress central election committee had finalised his nomination. According to informed sources, the 82-year-old Mr. Rane has been reluctant to contest the polls this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-in-a-fix-as-veteran-rane-hints-at-retirement/article38068089.ece
30 December 2021||Pune,||Tope hints at fresh restrictions as cases rise||With Maharashtra witnessing a steep rise in COVID-19 cases over the past few days, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday hinted that more restrictions across the State would be in place soon if people did not strictly follow pandemic norms. Noting that the active case tally in the State, which had stood between 5,000-6,000 till a couple of weeks back had now shot to 11,492, Mr. Tope expressed alarm on the rapid doubling of cases. “It is being seen that social functions and gatherings are going on in an unbridled manner with people throwing caution to the winds by not adhering to pandemic norms. If people do not follow rules, cases will rise exponentially, and in that event, the possibility of a further tightening of norms cannot be ruled out,” said the Minister, referring to Delhi which has clamped down on social activities. Noting the particularly drastic rise in Mumbai city, which was seeing the highest rise in fresh COVID-19 cases among all cities in Maharashtra, Mr. Tope said that Mumbai, which was reporting barely 300 cases daily a few days ago, was now reporting more than 1,300 cases daily. “The cases here are expected to rise further…they have risen seven-fold in the last week or so. We are conducting 51,000 tests daily in Mumbai alone, but even after this, the case positivity rate there is 4% which is certainly not good news,” the Minister said. He also expressed concern at the sagging pace of vaccination, remarking that the daily vaccination rate in the State has fallen from eight lakh doses to five lakh doses. “I urge the local leadership, be they MLAs from all political parties, or NGOs or religious leaders to come together and dispel negative notions prevailing among certain communities regarding vaccination,” Mr. Tope said. CM to hold meeting He informed that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be holding a meeting of the State task force on COVID-19 soon. In another development, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule, who is the daughter of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, has tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tope-hints-at-fresh-restrictions-as-cases-rise-in-maharashtra/article38068086.ece
30 December 2021||Amritsar,||Truck unions to be revived in Punjab: Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said all truck unions will be revived and a transporters welfare board with a corpus of Rs. 25 crore created if the SAD-BSP alliances is voted to power in the 2022 assembly elections. Addressing the media here, he accused the Congress government of having “struck” at the very livelihood of small truckers by abolishing truck unions. “We will revive truck unions to ensure small truckers get their due. We will also ensure there is no outside interference in the truck unions, including political interference, by laying down guidelines that only a member of the Union can become its president,” he said. He said simultaneously coordination committees would be established with members from truck unions, trade representatives as well as the government to ensure the interests of truckers as well as the industry are safeguarded. He also said a transporters welfare board would be established with a corpus of Rs. 25 crore to ensure the extension of humanitarian help to members in case of extraordinary circumstances like the recent Covid pandemic. Among other measures aimed at ensuring the welfare of the trucking industry, he announced that in case of issuance of tenders, the local truck union would get precedence. “We will also end harassment being meted out to truckers by issuing annual stickers which will ensure that no truck is stopped on the road for checking of papers,” said Mr. Badal. He promised a one-time settlement scheme would also be introduced to help truckers settle pending tax arrears. Mr. Badal said portable weigh scales would be introduced to check the menace of overloading on highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/truck-unions-to-be-revived-in-punjab-badal/article38068289.ece
30 December 2021||Aurangabad,||Battery-operated vehicles for tourists at Ellora caves||A fleet of 20 battery-operated vehicles will be made available for tourists at the world famous Ellora caves here in Maharashtra from February next year, a senior official of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) said on Wednesday. The caves are spread over 2.2 km and tourists have to walk to view these rock-cut structures. For the convenience of the visitors, the ASI has issued an expression of interest to run battery-operated vehicles in the cave complex premises, ASI Superintendent, Aurangabad circle, Milan Kumar Chauley said. “There will 20 battery-operated vehicles in the premises to ferry visitors throughout the day. We have also proposed five temporary sheds for tourists at various locations which will also serve as the stops for these vehicles,” he said. The official said they wanted these vehicles to be operational by January 1, 2022, but it will take a month more because of technical issues. “There will be five air-conditioned and 15 non-AC vehicles with a seating capacity of seven and 15, respectively, another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/battery-operated-vehicles-for-tourists-at-ellora-caves/article38068285.ece
30 December 2021||IMPHAL,||Manipur Minister quits NPP, joins BJP||Manipur Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports and Water Resources Letpao Haokip, representing the National People’s Party (NPP), resigned from the party on Wednesday and formally joined the BJP in Delhi. He was elected on NPP ticket from the Chandel constituency in the previous elections. In the 60-member House, the NPP had bagged four seats, with two berths as Ministers. Perhaps Mr. Haokip felt that his constituency was no longer a safe bet for him. Recently, he announced that he would contest from Tengnoupal, which is situated in another district. Reacting to the news of Mr. Haokip’s move, Deputy Chief Minister and national vice president of the NPP Yumnam Joykumar said, “The party shall suffer no loss because of his resignation. All of us wish him success in all his ventures.” Mr. Joykumar stated that he had heard of Mr. Haokip’s plan to change his constituency but it came as a surprise that he had changed his party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/manipur-minister-resigns-from-npp-joins-bjp/article38068055.ece
30 December 2021||Ludhiana,||7 cell phones recovered from jail in Ludhiana||Investigating agencies probing the Ludhiana court complex blast incident recovered seven mobile phones, a few of them used by the accused, from the city’s central jail, police sources said on Wednesday. The phones have been sent to forensic lab for examination, they said. Dismissed Punjab policeman Gagandeep Singh was killed in the blast on December 23. Six others were injured in the incident. According to the police, Gagandeep had gone to the washroom in the court complex to assemble the bomb to plant it somewhere. Gagandeep and two others — Ranjit Singh and Sukhwinder Singh — who were also in the same jail allegedly used these phones, the sources said. Investigations indicate that some international calls had been made from these phones. Two of these phones were used by Gagandeep while he was in jail, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/7-cell-phones-recovered-from-jail-in-ludhiana/article38068090.ece
30 December 2021||Muzaffarpur,||Disruption of speech irks CM Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday blew a fuse when the flow of his speech was interrupted by some people at a public event where he was holding forth on evils of consuming liquor. Mr. Kumar was in this north Bihar district to carry forward his “social reform campaign” as part of which he has been touring the State. “What mischief are you indulging in? Do you have no regard for social reforms? If it is so, leave this place,” snapped the septuagenarian leader, when a scuffle between some people in the crowd and security personnel caught his attention. According to the police, some local level elected representatives had come to submit a memorandum to the Chief Minister and picked up a quarrel when they were stopped at a distance from the dais.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/disruption-of-speech-irks-cm-nitish/article38068283.ece
30 December 2021||Raipur,||Baghel orders assessment of crop damage||As unseasonal rains lashed several parts of Chhattisgarh, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday directed officials to carry out an immediate assessment of damages to crops and houses in the State. Incessant showers hit Raipur, Durg, Korba and Rajnandgaon districts on Tuesday evening, causing a drop in the day-time temperature by 3 to 4 degrees Celsius, an official said.  Hailstorms witnessed Apart from this, hailstorms were witnessed in parts of Bemetara, Kabirdham, Surguja, Rajnandagon, Surajpur and Balod districts of the State. The Chief Minister has directed all district collectors to immediately carry out assessment of damages to crops and houses, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/baghel-orders-assessment-of-crop-damage/article38068284.ece
