23-08-2021||New Delhi||India’s first smog tower inaugurated in Delhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated India's first smog tower in Delhi's Connaught Place that will purify 1,000 cubic metres of air per second within a radius of around 1 km.He said the tower had been set up as a pilot project and initial trends would be available within a month. If the pilot project is successful, more smog towers will be installed in the national capital.Earlier, officials had said that a two-year pilot study would be undertaken to ascertain the effectiveness of the smog tower after it became operational.A control room has been set up at the site to monitor the operations of the smog tower. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/indias-first-smog-tower-inaugurated-in-delhi-300998
23-08-2021||Sandeep Dikshit||Afghan Sikhs, Hindus among 392 airlifted||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 22India on Sunday airlifted 392 people, including two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of the mission to evacuate its nationals and Afghan partners from Kabul.A total of 168 people, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to the Hindon airbase near Delhi in a C-17 transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF). They included the group of 150 that survived a midnight scare in Kabul, while trying to make their way to the airport. Another aircraft brought home 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital. The third flight brought back 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha by US and NATO aircraft in the past few days. Most of them were employees of foreign companies and were airlifted along with workers of other nationalities by their employers.Mission evacuationSources said immense help was provided by the US, Qatar, Tajikistan and other countries.The group of 168 included two lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa. Khalsa broke down on his arrival in Delhi. He thanked the Indian Government and PM Narendra Modi. His father Avtar Singh was killed in a 2018 terror attack in Jalalabad.However, Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, who are still in the war-torn country, slammed the two lawmakers for “secretly leaving them in the lurch”. In social media posts, they threatened to hold demonstrations. Sources said there could still be around 400 Indians in Afghanistan and the government was looking to evacuate them with the help of friendly nations.Meanwhile, seven Afghan civilians were killed in crowd crush as thousands tried to enter Kabul’s airport, the UK military claimed.Can’t trust Taliban, 20-yr work gone: Afghan Sikh MPAfghan lawmaker Narender Singh Khalsa, who was among those evacuated, said, “India is our second home. Even while living in Afghanistan, people would call us Hindustanis. I thank India and Prime Minister Modi for helping us.” On the Afghanistan situation, he said: “Can’t trust the Taliban. Everything built in the last20 years has gone. It’s all over.”Polio vaccination for all returneesIndia on Sunday vaccinated Afghanistan returnees against polio as a preventive measure, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said.400 Indians still stuck: sources Sources said there could still be about 400 Indians in Af and the govt was looking to evacuate them.Puri cites Af situation to justify CAASikhs and Hindus are going through a harrowing time, precisely why it was necessary to enact Citizenship Amendment Act. —Hardeep Puri, Union minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/afghan-sikhs-hindus-among-392-airlifted-300751
23-08-2021||Aditi Tandon||WHO panel to study Covid virus, high-threat pathogens||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 22In the first step to prepare for future pandemics, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has set up a high-level scientific group inviting experts from across the world to join it and study the origins of Sars-CoV2, besides other high-threat pathogens. The WHO Scientific Advisory Group for the Origins of Novel Pathogens (SAGO) will meet as early as late September this year to finalise the way forward.In a “Call for experts” this week, the WHO said, “It is seeking top minds to serve on the advisory group and up to 25 experts will be selected.”The world body said the rapid emergence and spread of Covid-19 causing SARS-CoV-2 had highlighted the importance of being prepared for any future event, to be able to identify novel pathogens early and to address the risk factors that contribute to their emergence and spread.“There has been an increase in the number of high-threat pathogens emerging and reemerging in recent years — SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, Lassa, Marburg, Ebola, Nipah, avian influenza, the latest being SARS-CoV-2. There is not only need for robust surveillance and early actions for rapid detection, but also a need for robust process to establish the study around the emergence of these pathogens and routes of transmission from their natural reservoirs to humans,” the WHO said.The SAGO will advise the WHO on the development of a global framework to define and guide studies into the origins of emerging and re-emerging pathogens of epidemic and pandemic potential.Fresh cases 30,948Total Deaths 4,34,367 Avtive Cases 3,53,398 National recovery rate has increased to 97.57 per cent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/who-panel-to-study-covid-virus-high-threat-pathogens-300762
23-08-2021||New Delhi||Income tax portal glitches: FM summons Infosys CEO Salil Parekh||With the income tax portal still facing problems, the Ministry of Finance has summoned Infosys CEO Salil Parekh on Monday to explain to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman why even after two and a half months since its launch, the glitches in the new portal have not been resolved, said an official release.Ever since its launch on June 7, the portal has been malfunctioning. Sitharaman had a similar interface with key officials of Infosys on June 22 in which chartered accountants, who had also been invited, highlighted the issues faced by taxpayers and tax professionals on the portal. “I wish it hadn’t turned out that way,” she had recently said. The Minister was also being provided with feedback every week by Infosys founder Nandan Nilekani.The inability of many to file I-T returns has led to some of them being slapped with late fees, which the government has attributed to yet another glitch and has promised to refund the same. It has also affected the pace of refunds.Till August 26 last year, the CBDT had issued refunds of over Rs 95,000 crore. This year, till August 16, refunds of about Rs 50,000 crore have been made, almost half the sanctions made last year, because people have been unable to file their returns due to faults in the portal.The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation website is also facing glitches. Several users have complained of long hours spent in trying to get business transacted, especially to get Aadhaar verified for e-nomination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/income-tax-portal-glitches-fm-summons-infosys-ceo-salil-parekh-300763
23-08-2021||New Delhi||37.27% turnout in DSGMC polls||With a total of 312 candidates in the fray, the elections witnessed a low turnout of 37.27%. The counting of votes will take place on August 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/37-27-turnout-in-dsgmc-polls-300707
23-08-2021||New Delhi||37.27 per cent turnout in Delhi gurdwara body polls||The polling for the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee elections witnessed a low turnout of 37.27 per cent on Sunday, officials said.The DSGMC which controls shrines in the city, including Rakabganj and Bangla Sahib Gurdwaras as well as various academic institutions and hospitals, goes to polls after every four year.       The DSGMC is a membered body, of which 46 are directly elected from 46 wards in Delhi. Rest of the members are appointed from different seats of Sikh religion and groups.The elections being conducted by the Delhi government’s Directorate of Gurdwara Elections, has 3.42 lakh voters. The voting percentage of male voters was 39.95 per cent and it was 34.95 per cent for females, officials said.The Punjabi Bagh ward recorded the highest voting percentage of 54.10 per cent while Sham Nagar recorded the lowest 25.18 per cent, according to the figures issued by the directorate.Counting of votes will take place on August 25. A total of 312 candidates, including 132 independents, are in the fray.The major players include Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) which has fielded candidates from all the 46 wards. SAD’s Manjinder Singh Sirsa is currently the president of DSGMC.Manjit Singh GK-led Jago party has fielded 41 candidates while Akali Dali (Delhi) headed by Paramjit Singh Sarna is contesting in 45 wards. Both Manjit Singh and Sarna are former presidents of DSGMC.In the previous elections held in 2017, SAD came to control the DSGMC by winning 35 wards. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/37-27-per-cent-turnout-in-delhi-gurdwara-body-polls-300689
