01-12-2021||New Delhi||Delhi reports 39 fresh Covid-19 cases, no fatality||Delhi reported 39 fresh Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, while no death was recorded due to the infection, according to data shared by the health department on Wednesday.With the fresh cases, the infection tally has increased to 14,40,973, while over 14.15 lakh people have recovered from the disease, it said.The death toll stands at 25,098, the Delhi health department’s data stated.It said 59,507 tests were conducted the previous day. The number of active cases stand at 286, of which 136 are in home isolation. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-reports-39-fresh-covid-19-cases-no-fatality-345147
01-12-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Delhi girl is being bullied and called shameless for riding Scooty with 'SEX' on number plate||Chandigarh, November 1Least did this Delhi girl know that the new Scooty that was gifted to her by her father would became such an embarrassment for her.The girl named Mansi is being bullied by her neighbours for her Scooty with the number plate bearing registration number DL 3 SEX****.  She says that people around her have started mocking her and the neighbourhood aunties called her shameless (besharam) for riding the Scooty with such a number.According to a report by DailyO, the girl is a fashion designing student and her father gifted her a scooty on Diwali so that her commute to college would become easier compared to the long hours in the metro. But when she received her vehicle’s plate number, she was subjected to mocking and bullying by  people around her.“The aunties of my neighbourhood are calling me shameless,” she told DailyO, adding that she is being bullied. Seeing her trouble, when her father requested the two-wheeler seller to change the number, the seller refused his request saying that a lot of people had received similar numbers.Currently, in Delhi, the identifiers in circulation have the first two letters ‘E’ and ‘X’ in them. Adding them to ‘S’ becomes ‘SEX.’ This also means that anyone if anyone received their two-wheeler plate number in Delhi unless the series is exhausted would end up with these letters.According to KK Dahiya, Commissioner of Delhi Transport, the allotted number could not be changed as there was no provision. “There is a set pattern that is followed during the process of generating a registered number,” Dahiya told India Today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/delhi-girl-is-being-bullied-and-called-shameless-for-riding-scooty-with-sex-on-number-plate-345096
01-12-2021||New Delhi||Petrol to be cheaper by Rs 8 per litre in Delhi as AAP govt decides to cut VAT||The Delhi government on Wednesday decided to reduce VAT on petrol, bringing down the price of the fuel in the city by about Rs 8 per litre, a move Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said will give relief to Delhiites from inflation.The petrol and diesel prices in Delhi have now become cheaper than other cities in the National Capital Region (NCR), Kejriwal said.The price of petrol after the reduction in VAT will go down from the current rate of Rs 103 per litre to Rs 95 per litre. The change will come into effect from Wednesday midnight, the officials said.According to a Delhi government statement, the city's diesel prices are already the "cheapest" in NCR at Rs 86.67 per litre while the rates of diesel in Noida and Gurgaon are Rs 87.01 and Rs 87.11 per litre, respectively.At a cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister, it was decided the Value-Added Tax (VAT) on petrol will be reduced from the present 30 per cent to 19.4 per cent, leading to a cut of around Rs 8 per litre, government officials said."We made petrol quite cheaper in Delhi today. The VAT was reduced from 30 per cent to 19.4 per cent. Petrol and diesel have become cheaper in Delhi as compared to other NCR cities. I hope this step will give relief to the people of Delhi from price rise," Kejriwal said in a tweet.The petrol price in Delhi was higher as compared to the NCR cities in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, where the state governments had announced a VAT cut following the Centre's decision to reduce the excise duty on fuel prices. Kejriwal, chairing the cabinet meeting, expressed deep concern for the people of Delhi in the current situation and was of the view that the government needs to reduce prices at this juncture to support the public, the statement said.The Delhi government had "marginally" increased the VAT rate on petrol last year. Back then there was 27 per cent VAT on petrol in Delhi, which was increased to 30 per cent later, it said.The 10.58 per cent cut in VAT now will directly benefit the public by bringing down petrol price by Rs 8, it added.Delhi Goods Transport Organisation expressed disappointment over no VAT cut on diesel and urged the Chief Minister for providing relief to transporters."We strongly oppose this disappointing announcement by the Delhi government. We will have to run a campaign to ask commercial vehicles not to refill diesel in Delhi if no relief is provided to us," said Rajendra Kapoor, president of the Delhi Goods Transport Organisation. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/petrol-to-be-cheaper-by-rs-8-per-litre-in-delhi-as-aap-govt-decides-to-cut-vat-sources-345088
01-12-2021||New Delhi||Possibility of thunder lightning in Delhi-NCR: IMD||Delhi and its adjoining areas will have a partly cloudy sky with the possibility of the development of thunder lightning on Wednesday, India Meteorological Department said.There is a possibility of rain, drizzle along with shallow fog in the morning in the coming 5-6 days. The maximum and minimum temperatures for the day have been pegged at 25 degrees Celsius and 11 degrees Celsius, respectively.The relative humidity at 8.30 a.m. was 93 per cent.According to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, winds are likely to be become slow/calm on December 1. The air quality is likely to deteriorate but remain in 'very poor' category today and November 2.The Outlook for subsequent five days: The air quality is likely to remain in the 'Very Poor' category. PM2.5 to be the predominant pollutant.Meanwhile, the farm fires count on November 30 was 186 and its share in PM2.5 is 1 per cent. "Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants," the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) stated. The level of PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollutants in the air at 9 a.m. was recorded in the 'very poor' and 'poor' category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', then 401 and between 500 is considered 'severe'.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/possibility-of-thunder-lightning-in-delhi-ncr-imd-345084
