05-12-2021||New Delhi||Delhi sees 63 new Covid cases, no death; slight rise in positivity rate||Delhi reported 63 Covid-19 cases and zero death due to the infection while the positivity rate saw a marginal increase to 0.11 per cent from 0.08 per cent the previous day, according to data shared by the Health Department here on Sunday.The number of cumulative cases of the disease rose to 14,41,358. Over 14.15 lakh patients have recovered so far. The death toll from the pandemic stands at 25,098 in Delhi.Seven deaths linked to the virus were reported in Delhi in November, the highest number of fatalities due to Covid-19 in the last three months in the national capital, according to official data. Delhi had recorded four Covid deaths in October and five in September.On Saturday, Delhi reported 51 coronavirus cases at a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent.On Friday, the national capital recorded 54 cases at a positivity rate of 0.09 per cent. On Thursday, the city recorded 41 cases with a positivity rate of 0.06 per cent while on Wednesday, it logged 39 cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent.A total of 55,711 Covid-19 tests -- 48,432 RT-PCR tests and 7,379 rapid antigen tests—were conducted in the city a day ago, the latest bulletin showed.The number of active cases now stands at 370, up from 322 on Saturday.The number of patients in home isolation rose to 144 from 121 the previous day. The city has 86 coronavirus containment zones, down from 88 on Saturday.Fifteen patients were discharged a day ago.In April and May, Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a large number of lives and led to a shortage of oxygen and essential drugs at hospitals.On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic last year. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far.The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-sees-63-new-covid-cases-no-death-slight-rise-in-positivity-rate-346596
05-12-2021||New Delhi||Delhi pollution: More than 140 number of sites inspected by flying squads, actions against non-conforming units initiated||Amid persisting high levels of air pollution in Delhi-NCR, the flying squads of the “Enforcement Task Force” (ETF) of the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) has inspected more than 140 number of sites till December 4.Based on the reports furnished by the flying squads, serious violations by various units are being identified for strict actions, including closure.Additionally, suitable actions against other non-conforming units are also being initiated by the commission, officials said.  Following the directions of the commission, 12 inspection teams each have been constituted for the NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and National Capital Territory of Delhi, while four teams have been deputed in the NCR districts of Rajasthan, to examine the units/activities in various sectors (including industrial, transport/vehicular, construction/ demolition, dust from roads and open areas and other dispersed sources) contributing to rise in levels of air pollution, they added.“The commission is daily holding exhaustive review meetings directly with the 40 inspection teams/ flying squads being constituted to inspect, continuously supervise and rigorously monitor enforcement and compliance of statutory directions issued by the commission to improve the air quality of Delhi-NCR.“These flying squads are widely covering every corner of the Delhi-NCR to track down violators and report their details to the commission for stringent actions against them,” as per a Ministry of Environment statement.“CAQM’s flying squads are leaving no stone unturned to bring into effect strict enforcement of the commission’s statutory directions by continuously making surprise visits, intensive field level incognito checks at industrial units, C&D sites, commercial/ residential units, air pollution hotspots, etc. and reporting its details to the commission on a daily basis.“CAQM’s Enforcement Task Force is holding a review meeting every day either physically or through virtual mode to take stock of the situation and assess the inspection reports of the day submitted by the flying squads to the commission.“Violations and non-compliance of the directions issued by the commission from time to time as also towards related rules/regulations are being viewed very seriously. The Enforcement Task Force in exercise of the powers conferred upon it under the Act is regularly passing preventive, closure or seizure order(s) to all such non-compliant units and other gross violations reported by the flying squads, which are over and above such other preventive, corrective and punitive actions as prescribed under the law.The CAQM has also advised the respective implementing agencies including the state government authorities, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) to also continue to ensure compliance and strict implementation of the directions issued by the commission and submit their daily action taken report to the enforcement task force on a daily basis,” it stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-pollution-more-than-140-number-of-sites-inspected-by-flying-squads-actions-against-non-conforming-units-initiated-346587
05-12-2021||New Delhi||Delhi reports 63 Covid cases, positivity rate up marginally to 0.11%||Delhi reported 63 coronavirus cases and zero deaths on Sunday, as the positivity rate rose marginally to 0.11 per cent, according to data shared by the city’s health department.With the fresh cases, the overall infection tally in the city rose to 14,41,358, while the death toll was 25,098.The number of active cases is 370, of which 144 are in home isolation.The positivity rate on Sunday rose to 0.11 per cent from 0.08 per cent the day before. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-reports-63-covid-cases-positivity-rate-up-marginally-to-0-11-346580
05-12-2021||New Delhi||Not in favour of cut-off based admission system: DU Vice Chancellor||The current cut-off based admission system puts students from the boards where the marking is “strict” at a disadvantage, Delhi University Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Singh said here and expressed the hope that this would change in a year.Singh said he has constituted a committee to look into the admission data and the recommendations of the panel will be deliberated upon in the coming Academic Council meeting on December 10.“We have many options for admission — to continue with the existing system, the second could be normalisation of marks of various boards, third could be an entrance test and the fourth can be giving 50 percent weightage to entrance test and 50 percent to (board) marks. Let the academic council and executive council take a call,” he told PTI in an interview.Talking about his personal view on the continuation of the cut-off (merit-based) system, Singh said he is “not for it”.Explaining the reasons, he said the students from the boards which have a “lenient” marking system have an advantage over others in the current system, “while those from strict boards are suffering”.“For instance, UP Board students are not getting admissions in Delhi University. Some boards are not lenient. Even students from Haryana Board and neighbouring states are not getting admission here but we are getting a large number of students from Kerala, but not from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh,” Singh said.“It is a good thing we are popular in Kerala, but we need to resolve this (the other board students not getting admission to DU),” he said.Stressing that the time has come to relook at various processes that are in place, he said things will change in a year’s time.Asked about the various admission criterion under consideration, he laid down the pros and cons of every possible system that could be implemented.“If the student has cent percent marks, what will normalisation do? Even if we take out some average, it will be high. The entrance test is also not a fool-proof system.“People say it encourages coaching and causes unnecessary stress for students. Then Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET, the union government has decided to conduct it) is also an option,” he said.Till the fifth cut-off this year, 74,667 students had secured admissions against 70,000 undergraduate seats with some colleges like Hindu College seeing over-admissions.Once a cut-off percentage is announced by a college, all applicants who fulfil the condition have to be given admission even if the number of seats for the course are less.Last year, till the fifth cut-off, 67,781 students had secured admissions against 70,000 seats.Across the student groups, there has been a demand for the reopening of campus and the varsity authorities were considering it.However, the vice-chancellor said, their confidence has gone down after the emergence of Omicron, the new variant of coronavirus, and the university will wait for a month before taking any decision.“The university is open but only Ph.D. students are coming to campus. The practicals for final year students are happening. How can I reopen campus till the time Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allows 100 per cent seating capacity,” he said.Singh said that a classroom has a capacity of 60 students but the admissions are close to 120.“The DDMA mandates that the seating capacity has to be 50 per cent of the classroom capacity, which means I can call 30 students. I will have to leave out 70-80 students. How is it possible? Then there is the issue of hostels where already there are space constraints,” he said.“We have students from various states and coronavirus is still there in other states. We had planned to reopen but the latest situation has dampened our confidence. We will wait...,” he said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/not-in-favour-of-cut-off-based-admission-system-du-vice-chancellor-346559
05-12-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Metro plans to install more anti-smog guns to curb pollution at its sites||With the national capital battling high pollution levels, the Delhi Metro has planned to install more anti-smog guns at its project sites, officials said on Sunday.As part of the various measures adopted to combat pollution at its construction sites, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has already pressed into service 14 anti-smog guns which throw fine mist at regular intervals to check dust pollution emanating from construction work.These anti-smog guns (ASGs) were installed over a period of time in the past.    Construction activities have been halted at the moment in the national capital as per instruction of authorities in view of the increasing level of pollution in Delhi and neighbouring cities."Currently, all construction work apart from those which are non-polluting in nature have been stopped in compliance with relevant directions," said Anuj Dayal, Executive Director, Corporate Communication, DMRC. "While, the DMRC is ensuring complete compliance to all the pollution-related instructions being issued from time to time, these mist guns have been installed as a permanent measure to combat pollution and are employed at the sites round the year," he said."Even when construction work is not going on, mist guns prevent the loose soil or earth stored at construction sites from being air-borne thus reducing air pollution," he added.  In a separate statement issued on Sunday, the DMRC said, "Currently, as part of its Ph-IV corridors, as well as some other construction projects, 12 civil contracts are operational across the national capital. These state-of-the-art ASGs are capable of spraying fine mist up to 70 to 100 m. One ASG is considered adequate for covering an area up to 20,000 sqm." It is ensured that the water used for sprinkling are free from coliforms, viruses and bacteria. High quality nozzles with droplet sizes of 10 to 50 micro m are used for greater impact, it said."With the gradual expansion of construction work in future, more such ASGs shall be introduced at the sites in the days ahead, as needed. DMRC's environment department is conducting regular inspections to ensure that the ASGs are regularly used at the sites by the contractors," a senior official said.Traditionally, ASGs have been used at coal and cement manufacturing sites across the world. In November, 2016, the DMRC became possibly the first construction company in the National Capital Region to use ASGs at its sites as a pilot project, the statement said.Based on the feedback received from the initial use of ASGs at the sites, their use was made "mandatory in the conditions of contract for civil contractors in DMRC's fourth phase of expansion," it added.Now, the Delhi government has also made the use of ASGs mandatory for all construction agencies in the national capital as a tool to combat pollution. Detailed guidelines regarding the use of water droplets, nozzles etc have also been issued in this regard, the DMRC said.The entire northern part of India especially the National Capital Region (NCR) grapples with severe pollution during the months of October to December.Apart from the regular use of ASGs, the DMRC takes a number of other measures to minimise the impact of pollution emanating from its sites, officials said. "To make it more effective daily barricade cleaning and toe dust cleaning is carried out. All construction materials are properly covered with tarpaulin and other materials. Wheels of vehicles leaving the sites are properly cleaned so that they do not spread dust or mud on the streets. The materials carried by them are also adequately covered," the statement said.All roads leading to major construction sites are properly black topped and the construction and demolition waste generated are recycled at specified C&D (construction and demolition) recycling facilities.  Medical care facilities are also available for workers who are involved in the loading and unloading work of such materials. The DMRC accords the highest priority to the issue of protection of the environment as an integral part of its work culture, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-metro-plans-to-install-more-anti-smog-guns-to-curb-pollution-at-its-sites-346530
05-12-2021||New Delhi||Covid: India's fifth Omicron case detected in Delhi||A 37-year-old man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania has tested positive for Omicron, making it the first case of the new Covid-19 variant in the national capital and the fifth in the country.The patient, currently admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital, has mild symptoms, hospital officials said.“So far, 17 Covid-19 patients and six of their contacts have been admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital. The Omicron variant has been found in one of the 12 samples sent for genome sequencing so far, according to a preliminary report,” Delhi’s Health Minister Satyendar Jain said.“The patient is an Indian and had returned from Tanzania. He was admitted to the hospital on December 2 with mild symptoms – sore throat, fever and body ache,” Medical Director Suresh Kumar said.“The patient’s travel history is being collated and his contacts are being traced,” he said.The Delhi health minister said banning international flights is the most effective way to contain the spread of the Omicron variant.“It is being reported that the gestational period in case of Omicron could be more than other variants. This means an infected person may go undetected at the airport… All the cases have come from affected foreign countries. The central government should take it seriously,” he said.Jain said that there is a 99 percent chance that the mask can “save people from all Covid-19 variants, be it Alpha, Beta, Delta or Omicron”.“Experts have been saying that the third wave of Covid-19 can hit the country in January-February. It can be prevented if everybody wears a mask,” he said.The minister said more than 90 percent of the eligible population has got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Sixty percent of the people have got the second dose. “We appeal to the remaining people to get vaccinated as soon as possible,” he said.Jain said more than one lakh people are being vaccinated against Covid-19 in Delhi every day. “If we continue at the same speed, everyone will be covered soon.” He pointed out that many people have not received their second dose of Covishield yet due to the large gap (84 days) between the doses.In response to a question on a booster dose, the minister said the city government will follow the notification of the central government and the recommendations of experts. The country reported the first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Thursday in Karnataka—a 66-year-old South African flyer and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men are fully vaccinated.   On Saturday, a 72-year-old NRI man from Gujarat and a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra tested positive for the new strain.    All Covid-positive international travellers are being admitted to the LNJP Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating them.   According to the Centre, the countries designated as “at-risk” are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.    Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the “at-risk” countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come.   Also, two percent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries will be subjected to the test randomly. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-first-case-of-omicron-detected-in-delhi-346512
