09-12-2021||Tribune Web Desk||'Mujhe lehanga nahi pehenna': Desi bride wears torn jeans instead on wedding day, watch video||Chandigarh, December 9Indian weddings are different in every way. In one such, a bride got ready for her wedding and wore jewellery and choli, but rather than a wearing a heavily-crafted lehanga, she decided to wear torn denim jean for the pheras.The video of the bride demanding denims has gone viral. It was shared ‘Witty Wedding,’ a page on Instagram dedicated to weddings. The caption attached with the video read, “When the bride does not want to wear her lehnga but want to go in her denim for her Pheras.”She is surrounded by her family when she says, “Mujhe lehanga nahi pehenna. mujhe aise hi jaana hai.” The people watching her burst into laughter. One person even offered to escort her to the venue.A post shared by Wedding Planning_witty Wedding (@witty_wedding)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/mujhe-lehnga-nahi-pehenna-desi-bride-wears-torn-jeans-instead-of-lehenga-on-wedding-day-watch-video-348236
09-12-2021||New Delhi||Jacqueline Fernandez skips ED probe in PMLA case||Bollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez who was once again summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to record her statement in a PMLA case, didn't appear before the probe agency on Thursday.After she failed to appear before the ED on Thursday, a fresh summon has been issued in connection with the Prevention of Money Laundering case lodged against multimillionaire conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar.Her counsel appeared before the ED to inform the agency that the actress won't be able to appear.On Wednesday, Jacqueline was grilled by an elite team of ED officials for more than six hours.On Wednesday Jacqueline came to MTNL building at around 11 a.m. in Central Delhi where ED has its office.A woman official along with five others were present in the room where her statement was recorded on Wednesday.Apart from Jacqueline, another Bollywood actress Nora Fatehi has also recorded her statement as witness recently.Jacqueline was earlier stopped at Mumbai Airport by authorities. She was quizzed there for hours and then set free. She was then summoned by the agency.Recently LOC (look out circular) was issued against the actress at the request of the ED. The agency had doubts that she might flee abroad and hence they had written letter to the concerned authorities.On Sunday evening she was about to catch a flight to come to Delhi when she was stopped at Mumbai airport.The Enforcement Directorate had on Saturday filed a charge sheet under PMLA naming few Bollywood actresses as witnesses including Jacqueline Fernandez. The court had taken cognisance of the charge sheet soon after it was filed and had asked the agency to supply the copy to all the accused.The next date in the charge sheet matter is December 13. The ED officials were tight-lipped over the matter.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/jacqueline-fernandez-skips-ed-probe-in-pmla-case-348235
09-12-2021||New Delhi||Couple killed, daughter injured after dumper truck overturns on their car in Delhi||A man and his wife were killed, while their minor daughter was injured after a dumper truck carrying gravel overturned on their car in southwest Delhi's RK Puram area, police said on Thursday.The accident took place on the Ring Road around midnight.After receiving information, police reached the spot and found that three people were stuck in the car.A fire brigade team was called, but the heavy dumper couldn't be removed. Thereafter, a hydraulic crane was ordered to rescue the injured, Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma said.Manish Sharma and wife Shipra were shifted to AIIMS hospital, where they succumbed to their injuries. Their six-year-old daughter was rescued safely, the DCP said.The driver of the dumper truck escaped from the spot. A case was registered and a police team sent to apprehend the accused, Sharma said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/couple-killed-daughter-injured-after-dumper-truck-overturns-on-their-car-in-delhi-348234
09-12-2021||New Delhi||Low-intensity explosion inside Delhi’s Rohini court, one injured||A man was injured in a low-intensity explosion that took place inside a courtroom in Rohini district court here on Thursday morning, creating panic among lawyers and the public and raising questions about security arrangements there.The incident comes months after jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi was shot dead by two members of a rival gang dressed as lawyers inside a courtroom of the district court on September 24.The explosion took place inside courtroom number 102 that belongs to Metropolitan Magistrate Prituraj, police said.Seventy-seven cases, including those related to drugs and one of the CBI, were listed for hearing on Thursday in the courtroom.“Around 10.25 am on Thursday, an incident of a low-intensity explosion in a laptop bag occurred at the Rohini court complex. The spot was cordoned off and the forensic team and the NSG team were called to the place of the incident,” Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said.Prima facie, the blast seems to have occurred in a black backpack that was found lying at the spot, he said.A Naib Court Head Constable, Rajeev, sustained minor injuries in the blast and is being treated at a hospital, the officer said.“Forensic teams have collected the evidence from the spot and taken it for examination. A case has been registered and investigation is being carried out by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police,” Biswal said.Fire officials said they received information about the explosion at 10.40 am, following which seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot.Police said they are checking the footage of CCTV cameras on the court premises.According to forensic sources, a white powder was found at the spot where the blast took place and it has been sent for examination. A black backpack was also found lying inside the courtroom with a file popping out of it.“It will only be known after the examination whether the (white) substance was an explosive. A battery and some wires were also recovered from the spot,” the source added.Dinesh Tiwari, an advocate, said, “There is a long line of cars in the morning when court proceedings start and it is not possible for the police to check every vehicle. The court has a total of nine gates. The public entry is allowed from gate numbers 5 and 7.”Another advocate Sangram Singh said the security at the court was stepped up after the September shootout but despite that, the explosion occurred.“The court has nine gates and metal detectors have been installed at each of them. Most of the lawyers enter the court from gate number 4. The security personnel check every advocate, their cars and ID cards,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/blast-reported-at-rohini-court-in-delhi-348232
