24-12-2021||New Delhi||Multi-vitamins, paracetamol were only treatment given to 40 Omicron patients at Delhi hospital||Multi-vitamins and paracetamol tablets were the only treatment provided to Omicron patients at Delhi’s Lok Nayak hospital so far, doctors said on Friday.The LNJP Hospital, which is the Delhi government’s largest healthcare facility, has reported 40 cases of the latest coronavirus variant of concern till now. Nineteen of these patients have already been discharged.A senior doctor at the hospital said around 90 per cent of the patients are “asymptotic” and the rest showed mild symptoms like “sore throat, low-grade fever and bodyache”.“The treatment included only multi-vitamins and paracetamol tablets. We didn’t feel the need to give them any other medicine,” he said.The doctor said most of the patients are those who tested COVID-19 positive at the airport upon arrival from foreign countries.Barring one, all are fully vaccinated and around two-thirds of them have taken the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. Three have even taken booster shots of the Pfizer vaccine, he added.The patients included an MP of an African country, a member of a royal family from a north Indian state, and family members of bureaucrats, a source said.According to data from the Union Health Ministry, Delhi has logged 67 Omicron cases so far, of which 23 have been discharged.Besides the LNJP Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Max Hospital Saket, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad have also set up facilities for isolating and treating suspected cases of Omicron following orders from the Delhi government.Genome sequencing of samples of all COVID-19-infected people in Delhi is being conducted since December 22 to ascertain if the new Omicron variant has spread in the community.The Delhi government-run labs at the Lok Nayak Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences can sequence 100 samples each day. Two Centre-run labs in Delhi can sequence 200-300 samples a day, according to city Health Minister Satyendar Jain.Anticipating a surge in Covid cases due to the fast-spreading Omicron variant, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said his government has made preparations to handle one lakh patients and conduct three lakh tests daily, and to ensure availability of enough manpower, medicines and oxygen.He stressed that the latest variant of the coronavirus spreads rapidly and claimed that it causes “very mild” infection, fewer hospitalisations and deaths.Therefore, the government has been focusing on strengthening its home-isolation module, and directions have been issued to hire agencies for treating patients at their homes, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/multi-vitamins-paracetamol-were-only-treatment-given-to-40-omicron-patients-at-delhi-hospital-354040
24-12-2021||New Delhi||State of affairs frightening; people flowing like river in Sarojini Nagar market, could lead to stampede: Delhi HC||The state of affairs, be it Covid or non-Covid, is “frightening” as people are “flowing like a river” which could lead to stampede and death of hundreds, the Delhi High Court said on Friday while taking note of overcrowding in Sarojini Nagar market which had witnessed a bomb blast in the past.The court said whether there is Covid or not, people have to remain alert and made it clear that if there is any death because of COVID-19 infection or stampede in the Sarojini Nagar market, then the officials of the authorities concerned, NDMC and Delhi Police, will be personally held liable for it.The court also issued contempt notice against officials of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) for not complying with its earlier orders on removal of encroachment from the market, including illegal vendors and their goods.It also asked the Delhi Police and Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to work out a movement plan for the public in the market and asked the NDMC and other authorities to ensure there is no overcrowding.It further directed the DDMA to make a visit to the market forthwith and assess the situation in view of the prevailing situation of the pandemic.“These pictures show that at night time all goods are lying there and covered with blue sheets. The state of affairs is such that, Covid or non-Covid, we see is frightening. There could be a stampede; there could be hundreds of deaths. If there is a bomb blast in that area, even if there is a single bomber just think how many people are going to die because of the blast and stampede,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.It said Sarojini Nagar market has already witnessed bomb blast in the past and God forbid if any such incident occurs, what will happen.After seeing various photos and videos of the crowded market, the bench said if the authorities are not allowing then how these encroachments are taking place and added, “don’t tell us that this is stage managed. Hundreds of people are pushing each other and hundreds of people are flowing like a river.”When the counsel for NDMC said due to Christmas festival, there are 70,000 to 80,000 people in the market daily and they need to control the head count and urged the court to pass an order for removal of encroachment, the bench said it had already directed the authorities not to allow anybody to encroach upon, be it shopkeepers or others.“If some shopkeeper is encroaching upon public land, do you need our order to remove him?  You will not remove him on your own? That is the mandate of the law. Do we have to give direction that if somebody is encroaching upon public land, the authorities should remove him... we fail to understand what is happening,” an annoyed Justice Singh said and added, “you are saying that to perform your functions you need an order from the court.”        To this, the NDMC counsel said they have been regularly removing encroachment and also illegal vendors but they again return and that they are also issuing challans and performing their duties.The bench said it cannot shut eyes by seeing the situation and asked the authorities to daily take steps for removing encroachments.“We are not saying they (shopkeepers) are holy cows and are not encroaching upon. You have to take action against everyone encroaching upon. If you think you can brazenly violate the high court’s orders, we will show you what will happen... we are not going to allow violation of our orders,” it said.The bench said the authorities have ample power under the statute to take action against the violators and they also have backing of court orders, still there is no improvement in the situation on the ground.It also said directed that whatever goods are seized from vendors and shopkeepers, who are found vending and selling goods illegally, should not be released to them without court’s orders.Additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmad Khan, representing the Delhi Police, contended that the market’s boundary wall height is very low, which poses security risk as people jump and enter the market and there are many entries and exits to the market which should be regulated.The court asked the NDMC to do proper fencing of the market’s wall so that people do not jump and cross it to enter the area.The high court was hearing a plea relating to illegal encroachments in Sarojini Nagar market and presence of unauthorised vendors and squatters there. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/state-of-affairs-frightening-people-flowing-like-river-in-sarojini-nagar-market-could-lead-to-stampede-delhi-hc-354039
24-12-2021||New Delhi||Delhi logs 180 fresh Covid cases in a day, highest since June 16; positivity rate rises to 0.29 pc||The national capital on Friday recorded 180 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since June 16, and zero death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.29 per cent, according to data shared by Delhi’s health department.On June 16, the city had logged 212 COVID-19 cases.The total number of cases reported in Delhi so far rose to 14,42,813. Over 14.16 lakh patients have recovered from the infection.The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stands at 25,103. Five deaths have been reported in December so far.Delhi has witnessed an uptick in COVID-19 infections in the last few days amid a jump in cases of the new Omicron variant.The city had on Wednesday logged 125 cases, which was then the highest daily count since June 22. The positivity rate was 0.20 per cent. On Friday, 180 fresh cases were recorded with an increased positivity rate of 0.29 per cent.On Thursday, the daily case count stood at 118 with a positivity rate of 0.19 per cent, while one death was reported.Seven COVID-19 deaths were reported here in November, four in October and five in September.A total of 62,697 tests, with 57,583 RT-PCR and 5,114 rapid antigen ones, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-logs-180-fresh-covid-cases-in-a-day-highest-since-june-16-positivity-rate-rises-to-0-29-pc-354037
24-12-2021||New Delhi||Rohini court shootout charge sheet reveals how rival gang executed plan to kill Gangster Gogi||From the execution of the plan to kill gangster Jitender Gogi from jail, roping in a law graduate with the know-how of working of courts, conducting recce of the security arrangements, a voluminous charge sheet filed in the Rohini courtroom shootout case revealed how the murder was carefully planned and carried out. Two assailants dressed as lawyers opened fire at gangster Jitender Gogi inside the courtroom where an attempt to murder case was being heard against him on September 24. The duo, who were from a rival gang, was then killed in a swift police counter-fire.The 122-page-long chargesheet, filed by the Delhi Police against seven accused including two dead assailants, revealed that the plan to kill Gogi allegedly began in August 2021 and various people were roped in to execute it.The police have named Sunil Baliyan alias Tillu, Naveen Dabas alias Balli, Umang Yadav, Vinay Yadav, Ashish Kumar as accused in the case. Abated charge sheet has also been filed against deceased assailants Rahul and Jaideep.In the chargesheet filed on December 17, the Delhi Police stated that Gogi was killed by deceased assailants under a “pre-planned deep-rooted criminal conspiracy” hatched by accused Tillu from Mandoli Jail and his associates.According to the final report, Tillu, who is the main conspirator in the case, executed the alleged murder plan over WhatsApp calls and saw the news of Gogi’s death on a TV installed in the prison cell. As per a disclosure statement of Tillu, he planned to kill Gogi due to an old rivalry. He said that Gogi had killed one of his old friends and many gang members.“Due to growing enmity, he decided to kill Gogi. In the end of August 2021, after second phase of Covid-19, hybrid system of hearing in courts had started and accused persons started getting produced in courts. He hatched a plan to kill Gogi in court,” Tillu stated during the police interrogation.Tillu then came in touch with co-accused Umang Yadav through an undertrial prisoner lodged in Rohini jail. Yadav had studied LLB and was acquainted with the practice of courts and advocates. Tillu asked Yadav to help him kill Gogi, to which he had agreed, as per the disclosure.Two shooters Rahul and Jaideep were also roped in. Tillu asked them to go to Panipat court or Rohini court dressed as advocates and kill Gogi whenever he is produced from the judicial custody.“After killing Gogi inside court, both Rahul and Jaideep would surrender before the Judge in the court,” the chargesheet stated quoting Tillu’s disclosure statement.Both the assailants then met Yadav in August 2021 and started preparations. Yadav briefed them about the working of the court and the practice of advocates. Jaideep and Umang also arranged the lawyer’s attire.The disclosure statement further read, “When he came to know that Gogi would be produced in Panipat court on September 13, he sent Umang and Jaideep to Panipat court to recee the court and assess the security of Gogi. They informed that Gogi was produced in court under high security.”On being informed about Gogi’s production before the Rohini court on September 24, Tillu directed Yadav, Rahul, and Jaideep to go to Murthal to collect firearms from one of his associates. On the morning of the shootout, he was in regular touch with the trio.“Yadav had also joined his cousin brother Vinay to help them in the execution of plan. Thereafter, they went to Rohini court, where his absconding associate Naveen Dabas @ Bhanja also reached with a shooter, who looked like a ‘Nepali’. However, he sent the boy away as his appearance as an advocate was not proper,” the statement further read.Tillu further claimed that he received a call at 1:30 PM from one of his contacts informing him that Gogi was shot in Rohini court.“He became very happy with the news. However, shortly he came to know from TV installed in their cell that both assailants, who had fired upon Gogi were shot dead in court, he became very sad and he immediately gave his mobile phone and dongle to his jail inmate Ashish Kumar and asked him to destroy the mobile and dongle,” the statement added.Meanwhile, Umang Yadav, in his disclosure statement, said that he took Rahul and Jaideep to the Rohini court, and before reaching there, they changed into lawyer’s attire at a mall. He along with one “Nepali” came out of court in a car, while Rahul and Jagga remained in court to execute the plan.“Thereafter, he came to know on Facebook that Gogi was killed and both shooters shot dead by the police. He became afraid and called Tillu’s number but his phone was switched off,” Yadav said in the statement to the police.After the shoot-out, when Yadav “removed the DVR of CCTV cameras fitted inside his house. He disclosed that he had hidden the DVR inside the “chimney” in his kitchen,” the police said.Considering the gravity of the incident of the shootout, various operational teams of Delhi Police were activated by the supervisory officers to develop intelligence behind the conspiracy to kill Gogi inside the courtroom, the police stated in the chargesheet.The incident had happened inside courtroom number 207 presided by Additional Sessions Judge Gagandeep Singh.The police filed the final report for offences under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), 353 (assault), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 120B (conspiracy) of IPC, and various sections under the Arms Act. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/rohini-court-shootout-charge-sheet-reveals-how-rival-gang-executed-plan-to-kill-gangster-gogi-354028
24-12-2021||New Delhi||Kejriwal hails Covid warriors as first dose of vaccine given to all eligible people in Delhi||First dose of Covid vaccine has been administered to all people eligible for inoculation, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday while hailing the healthcare and frontline workers who have been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic.Taking to Twitter, he shared data on the vaccination drive underway in the city.“Delhi completes first dose to 100 per cent eligible people -- 148.33 lakh. Salute to doctors, ANMs, teachers, ASHAs, CDVs and all other frontline workers. Congratulations to DMs, CDMOs, DIOs and all district functionaries,” Kejriwal tweeted.Delhi on Thursday had achieved the milestone of administering at least one dose of Covid vaccine to all above 18, government data showed.According to the CoWIN dashboard, 1,48,27,546 people in Delhi have taken at least one shot of COVID-19 vaccine by 8 pm on Thursday.As per the draft roll published on November 1, 2021, the total number of electors in Delhi stands at 1,47,95,949.Over 2,53,37,557 doses have been administered in the city since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. As many as 1,05,10,011 people have received both doses.Over 1.22 lakh people were vaccinated against coronavirus in Delhi on Thursday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/kejriwal-hails-covid-warriors-as-first-dose-of-vaccine-given-to-all-eligible-people-in-delhi-354020
24-12-2021||Jaipur||Almost half the complaints of crime against women in Rajasthan are fake: Gehlot||Almost half the complaints of crime against women in Rajasthan are fake, said Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in an email interview to IANS.As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Rajasthan recorded the highest number of rape cases in the country last year followed by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.The crime data for 2020 released by the NCRB showed Rajasthan reported the highest number of rape cases among the states. A total of 5,310 rape cases were registered in various police stations across the state.However, the CM in an exclusive interview with IANS, said, "It is a matter of concern that a lot of people are maligning this policy. 45.88 per cent of the FIRs lodged for crimes against women in 2019, 45.23 per cent in 2020 and 47.56 per cent in 2021, till June, were found to be fake. This means that almost half the complaints received for crimes against women are fake. The state is being maligned due to people misusing the law in this manner. And you already know how FIRs are lodged in other states."He further said, "It is written at the beginning of the NCRB report that crime is a result of various circumstances prevailing in the society. We should avoid comparing states solely on the basis of these figures due to various state specific policies and procedures. Some people make a mistake by assuming that increase in crime and increase in registration of crime are the same thing. The media and the Opposition are also making the same mistake.”"Our government implemented the policy of mandatory registration of FIRs in 2019. Earlier, the police used to write a report on a blank paper and lodged an FIR when they found any evidence. But the women and the marginalised communities used to face trouble a lot of times due to this and they weren't heard. Now everyone's FIR is registered due to which every case is taken to its logical end. This has provided much relief to the common man.”"Earlier, 33 per cent FIRs in rape cases were lodged through courts under CrPC section 156(3). Due to a policy of free registration, this figure is now just 15 per cent. Not just this, in 2019, our government set up a special unit for investigation of crimes against women under an officer of Deputy SP rank in every district -- this was promoted to Additional SP. Due to this, the investigation in heinous cases such as rape has decreased from 274 days in 2017-18 to 73 days. We have also appointed legal officers in courts and have made such an arrangement that the culprit isn't let off by the courts either. This is the reason why you keep reading in newspapers now that the accused is getting punishment in ten days or that a decision is being made within a month," he added.According to the NCRB data, the year 2020 was the second consecutive year when the state registered the highest number of rape cases. In 2019, around 5,997 rape cases were registered in various police stations of the state.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/almost-half-the-complaints-of-crime-against-women-in-rajasthan-are-fake-gehlot-354002
24-12-2021||New Delhi||Court pulls up Delhi police for staging dog fight in suspect's house||A court here has pulled up Delhi Police over an alleged incident of dog fight staged by police officials at the residence of a robbery suspect in Rohini area of the city, in which his pet dog was severely wounded and later succumbed to its injuries, and asked to file an FIR against the officials concerned.The suspect's family had released a video of the incident that took place on December 8 which went viral on social media. As the matter reached the higher-ups, a probe was ordered.Later, the Metropolitan Magistrate of Rohini Court also ordered an inquiry to be conducted by Joint CP, Northern range of the Delhi Police.In the latest order, Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Babru Bhan noted that the court has found truth in allegations of the complainant against the accused.Further, the Court directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) of Rohini district to lodge a First Information Report (FIR) against the concerned Station House Officer (SHO) and erring police personnel for offences under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342(Wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (intending to insult the modesty of any woman), 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle), 166 (Public servant disobeying law) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other relevant provisions."Since the FIR is directed to be registered against the concerned SHO, therefore, the concerned Joint Commissioner of Police (CP) shall ensure that investigation is conducted by such an agency and officer that fairness in the process of investigation can be ensured," the court said.The matter has been listed for filing a compliance report on January 3, 2022. In the order, it was stated that it is apparent that neither the accused was arrested at the time nor in the manner alleged by the police. "Further, the injuries are apparently a result of calculated assault after overpowering the accused," the court said.The audio-video clip shared by the wife of the accused clearly belies the theory of a stray dog entering the house of the accused and fighting their dog, the court noted and pointed out that the video shows a furious dog being incited by some persons in police uniform." Some females of the house can be heard begging for mercy. So, the explanation put forth by the police is not in consonance with the material produced by the complainant i.e. the wife of the accused and the visuals in the video and medical records," the order said."Whatever may be the argument, if police resorts to violence to apprehend the accused and adopts custodial atrocities to gather evidence, it is accountable for the violation of fundamental rights as law nowhere permits custodial atrocities for the purpose of collection of evidence during the investigation," it contended.The court noted that the bruises on parts of the accused were so serious that the same was present even on December 16. It said that such injuries cannot be caused in a free fight, as alleged by the police."Such injuries are possible only when someone is completely overpowered and blows with a blunt object are repeatedly given at the same spot, which is not possible in one-to-one fight, " the court said.According to police, on December 8, they reached the house of the suspect at around 10:11 p.m., but the family was not even answering the door to let them enter. "The robbery suspect was present inside the house but the family was repeatedly denying it," police said. Later, they entered the house after much effort and apprehended him.In the meanwhile, one stray dog also entered the house and the dogs started fighting, and thereafter, the dogs ran away. After all the efforts, the accused was apprehended at 03.00 a.m. He was brought to Police Station and arrested at 06.30 a.m.," the police stated.However, the court noted that the SHO had admitted the fact before the Duty MM during judicial proceedings that the accused was apprehended at 11.00 pm on December 8, 2021. At this juncture, this court has no reason to ignore the said judicial record, the order copy read.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/court-pulls-up-delhi-police-for-staging-dog-fight-in-suspects-house-354001
24-12-2021||---||Kapil Sangwan gang member held after exchange of fire in outer Delhi||New Delhi, December 23A 25-year-old member of the Kapil Sangwan gang was arrested with a huge cache of arms following a brief exchange of fire with the police in outer Delhi on early Thursday morning, the police said.The accused Sidharth, alias Somveer, who hails from a village in Jhajjar district of Haryana, suffered a bullet injury on his right thigh and was admitted to hospital. Cops said the accused was caught with 12 pistols and 47 live cartridges which were allegedly meant to be distributed to the gang’s operatives based in Delhi. A preliminary inquiry has revealed that the accused is part of the gang led by Kapil Sangwan who now lives abroad. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Brijindra Kumar Yadav said, “Our special staff got a tip-off about the movement of member of dreaded Kapil Sangwan, alias Nandu, and Jyoti Baba gang. A trap was laid near Nala Road in Kadipur village here wherein the accused was intercepted while he was spotted coming on a motorcycle. “The accused opened fire on seeing the police party, so to restrain his activity and to stop him from fleeing, our staff also fired four rounds aiming at his legs. One bullet hit the accused on his right thigh,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangster-held-after-exchange-of-fire-353833
24-12-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad MC's notice to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on water, sewerage connections||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 23The Faridabad Municipal Corporation has issued a notice to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and asked it to submit a reply on the issue of regularisation of water and sewerage connections and the recovery of civic charges, within a week.The water and sewerage connections to nine stations of the Metro rail in the city have not been regularised. The MC has also not recovered the property tax dues since the start of the Metro rail service in the city in 2015. The matter was taken up in a meeting held between MC Commissioner Yashpal Yadav and a senior official of the DMRC on Tuesday.A civic body official said the DMRC, which is yet to get the water and sewerage connections regularised for its stations here, has been asked to submit the details and documents regarding the exemptions, if any, for availing the civic amenities.The DMRC had rolled out the Metro rail in the city in 2015. While the DMRC has reportedly claimed that it enjoys certain exemptions regarding approvals from the local authorities, it gets water supply from borewells approved by the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB).According to Ajay Bahl, a local resident, who had moved an RTI petition in 2017, the MC had failed to take action despite a huge financial loss. In March, the State Information Commission had directed the Haryana Urban Local Bodies Department to conduct a probe into the matter in response to the RTI application. As per the sources, the city has over 2.5 lakh unauthorised water and sewerage connections.Dharam Pal Tahlan, Chief Town Planner, MC, said a final notice will be issued after the receipt of the reply to the queries raised by the civic body with the DMRC.The queries include the status of the water and sewage connections, fire NOC and submission of the property and trade licence fee for leasing out the DMRC station premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civic-bodys-notice-to-dmrc-on-water-sewerage-connections-353831
