01-03-2021||Chandigarh||69 new COVID cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh reported 69 more coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the infection tally to 21,839, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 75-year-old man took the toll to 353. The number of active cases rose from 381 on Sunday to 430 as of now, the bulletin said.A total of 19 patients were discharged, taking the number of recovered people to 21,056, it said.A total of 2,56,362 samples have been taken for testing, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore took his dose of the coronavirus vaccine on Monday.He also appealed to people to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest so that the transmission of the infection could be halted, adding that the vaccine was safe.Prominent among those who got the jab included former Punjab DGPs N P S Aulakh and P C Dogra and former chief secretary Sarvesh Kaushal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/69-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-219128
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Night temp dips by over 7°C||2 youths held under NDPS ActChandigarh: Two youths have been arrested under the NDPS Act. Suryakant (26), a resident of Mandi district in HP, was arrested from the parking outside the ISBT, Sector 43, with 8.54 gm of heroin. In another case, 19-year-old Sonu, a resident of Dhanas, was arrested by the police from Sector 38 (West) with 507 gm of ganja. TNS2 cheating cases registered in cityChandigarh: Two cases of cheating have been registered by the UT police. Complainant Mahesh Kumar, a resident of Dhanas, alleged that Avdesh Kumar duped him of Rs11.85 lakh on the pretext of providing ayurvedic products. A case has been registered at the Sarangpur police station. In the other case, a woman of Mani Majra reported that she was cheated of Rs2.13 lakh. The police said she was a private teacher. A company assigned her a project, which she could not complete. She was asked to pay money saying that the company had suffered losses due to her. She later realised that she had been cheated. TNSWrestling meet from March 4Chandigarh: The Chandigarh UT Wrestling Association will organise State Sub-Junior and Junior (Boys) Free Style, Greco Roman and State Championship (Girls) from March 4 to 6. The events will be conducted in sub-junior and junior free style, Greco Roman and sub-junior and girls’ junior free style. The winners of the state championship will be selected for the upcoming national championship in March and April. TNSAmanjot to lead UTCA teamChandigarh: Amanjot Kaur will lead the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, team in the Senior Women’s ODI Tournament, scheduled from March 11, at Jaipur. The Chandigarh team has been placed in the Elite C group and will face Goa (on March 12), Andhra Pradesh (March 14), Uttar Pradesh (March 16), Rajasthan (March 18) and Maharashtra (March 20). The squad members are Amanjot Kaur (captain), Rajini Devi (vice-captain), Kumari Shibi, Manisha Badhan, Monika Pandey, Twinkle Pathak, Kashvee Gautam, Parul Saini, Priyanka Guleria, Jyoti Kumari, Shivangi Yadav, Parushi, Rameeza, Palak Rana, Muskan, Divya Sharma, Suman, Nikita Nain, Mehak, Jyoti, Sarah and Shivani Thakur. The staff members are Nagesh Gupta (coach), Deepak Lohatia (assistant coach), Harleen Bawa (doctor) Raj Yadav (trainer) and Indu Gupta (team manager). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-temp-dips-by-over-7%C2%B0c-218923
01-03-2021||Wear face mask||Shun complacency, don’t lower guard till virus subsides||Time to go in combat modeA stitch in time saves nine. The UT Administration must enforce all preventive norms rather sternly to prevent the second Covid wave. Apparently, fed up people have started moving around without wearing face masks. The law enforcing agencies must keep track of these violations. Management of businesses and other establishments have become lax and should be fined for violations of Covid protocols on their premises. Every section of society irrespective of the age group must be vaccinated. Also misgivings about safety and efficacy of the Covid vaccines should be removed via campaigns.SC Luthra, ChandigarhMany believe Covid virus has subsidedThe public as well as the health authorities have turned lax over a period of time due to reduction in Covid cases. They believe that Covid virus has virtually died down. But, they forget that it could resurface any time. The UT Administration should ensure that all people wear masks, observe social distancing and maintain cleanliness till the year end. Defaulters should be fined and dealt with iron hand regularly.KC Rana, Chandigarh QUESTIONRepeated fire incidents at the waste dumping ground in Dadu Majra have made lives of the local residents miserable. Thick smoke that remains in the air for a few days after any fire incident affects the health of people. What steps should the Municipal Corporation take to prevent such incidents at the dumping ground?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comPenalise people not wearing maskPre-emptive measures to prevent a second surge of Covid are necessary as many people in Chandigarh are seen roaming without face mask in markets and parks. The UT Administration should not take it lightly. Such persons should be fined.AK Sharma, ChandigarhEnforce preventive norms strictlyThe UT Administration should take required precautions by stepping up testing, strict surveillance of all establishments and ensure containment in Covid affected areas. The authorities must enforce wearing of face mask and social distancing norms strictly. The health ministry should ban medicines for Covid, not been certified by the WHO.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliWhy can’t people wear masks?Cases of Covid-19 have increased manifold due to our casual approach with regard to the safety guidelines. See any social, political or religious gathering, people are without masks. They do not follow physical distancing at all. If some people wear face masks at such gatherings they too remove it out of shame. Forget about private sector, Covid-19 guidelines are not even followed in government offices. When the second wave seems to be on cards, we must not lower our guard. Time and again we are warned about it by the medical fraternity, but to no avail. There seems to be no harm in wearing face masks and following physical distancing, but I do not know why people are hesitant to do so. It is high time that we all must follow the Covid-19 norms in letter and spirit for our safety.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhSecond wave will be more infectiousReports about Covid surge are pouring in. Mind you, the second wave is going to be more infectious. So, the Chandigarh Administration must swing into action straightaway. People visiting from other states/foreign returnees should be allowed to enter city after proper screening. At this stage, it is important for the city residents to cooperate with the authorities. Moreover, UT residents must adhere to safety protocol like wearing face mask, maintaining social distance and sanitisation and avoiding large gatherings.Moti Bhateja, ChandigarhEnsure sanitisation of public placesHealth officials should ensure complete sanitisation of public places and fix price of masks and sanitisers. It is necessary to paste stickers outside residence of individuals suspected to be suffering from cronavirus in order make public aware. Teaching staff of schools, colleges and universities must work from home. In case infected people are unable to visit hospital they must call the helpline number 112 and dedicated team must go and check on them at their residence.Anita Tandon, KhararStill need to be on high alertIt’s really worrisome situation to see the increasing trend in Covid-19 positive cases. We still need to be on high alert as far as spread of the pandemic is concerned. With opening of almost all economic activities across the country, the public may have gone little carefree resulting in reverse situation, which otherwise was improving. Although we are better placed in recovery as well as vaccination in comparison to most advanced countries, yet there is no need to lower vigil. Genetic mutation of the coronavirus is a new worry. We need to be extra cautious. Wearing mask and maintaining social distance is still need of the hour. Total discipline on following Covid-19 guidelines is expected from the public. The UT Administration need to be more aggressive in Covid testing and tracing suspected patients along with pushing the vaccination drive so as to ensure that maximum citizens are inoculated in the shortest span of time.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliPrecaution is better than cureThe second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has come as a big surprise. We residents are not following the laid down guidelines issued on the subject matter. We are not taking basic precautions like maintaining social distance, wearing masks and sanitising hands and have taken up causal approach on this issue. We are not serious and hesitant to take Covid jab as per the laid down norms. The authorities should be strict on this issue and follow the norms for maintaining health of the people in general. Covid-19 vaccine should be made compulsory for every citizen like polio drops. At the same time the authorities must educate people that Covid-19 vaccine is safe and has no side effects.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliPeople must restrict their movementResidents can prevent the spread of the pandemic by taking preventive steps like wearing masks and maintaining social distance. We are taking coronavirus casually. People must restrict their movement and avoid social gatherings.Sukhpal Singh, ChandigarhTake timely and stringent measuresTo prevent the second wave of Covid pandemic, the UT Administration should take timely and stringent measures. Anybody coming from outside should be screened for the disease and quarantined. Screening teams should be stationed at railway station, airport and bus stands in such manner that nobody goes unexamined. Gathering at marriages, functions and rallies should be banned. Masks should be mandatory at public places. Business establishments should adhere to social distancing. Night curfew should be imposed for few more days.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhCompliance of norms can stem the virusReports of resurgence of Covid-19 cases should ring alarm bells warranting pre-emptive measures, which cannot be left unregulated for voluntary compliance only. Individuals are themselves to blame for hard curbs on gatherings and movement culminating into partial or complete lockdowns. The virus is not leaving us anytime. Universal vaccination will remain a work-in-progress for years’ altogether. Only foolproof compliance of frequent sanitisation, wearing face mask and social distancing can stem the spread. Upon the conduct of each one depend lives and livelihoods of all. Prevention and precaution are the best vaccination. We cannot afford to lower the guard lest the consequences should be unfathomable.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaLax attitude has led to spread of virusLife was gradually limping back to normal. But sudden surge in Covid cases must ensure that the UT takes pre-emotive measures to prevent its spread. The main reason behind the surge is lax attitude of people. People have thrown safety norms to the wind. One should not lower his/her safety guard. It’s time to take strict action against those violating safety norms. People should avoid unnecessary moment.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaTimely alertness is necessaryTo prevent the second surge of covid cases, the UT Administration needs to be alert. Testing and vaccination should be increased. Rapid Covid testing of people coming from other states is required at city borders. Moreover, precautions like reducing gatherings at functions, wearing face masks along with maintaining social distance should be priority. Most people do not wear face masks because there is no check. The UT Administration should deploy special teams for checking violations of norms and defaulters should be penalised.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliImplement health advisoriesCovid cases have been increasing from last few days. Not adhering to the guidelines issued by the health authorities has once again led to spread of virus. There is a need to reissue instructions for taking precautionary measures and check violators for stopping the second Covid wave in the city and the area around it.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliEnsure that all people wear maskThe UT Administration should ensure that all people wear mask, regularly intake immunity booster syrups, practice social distancing and older people do not travel unnecessary. Offline classes should be strictly prohibited in educational institutions. The proverb “Prevention is better than cure” should be followed. Strict punishment should be given to those, who violate Covid norms.Adish Sood, AmlohCheck unnecessary movement of peopleTo prevent the second spike in the city the UT Administration should make Covid test report mandatory to enter Chandigarh. The unnecessary movement of people to and from the city must be regulated. The Health Department should increase testing, gatherings must be restricted, standard operating procedures (SOPs) must be followed in public places, micro-containment strategy should be deployed in hotspots, senior citizens must be vaccinated and vaccination drive should be encouraged.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhBe prepared with medical facilitiesEpidemics of infectious diseases can be unpredictable. They often come in waves. History has left hard lessons showing that a virus can quickly return and with deadlier force. Now, the UT Administration has reopened from a severe lockdown. Coronavirus infection rate is rising again with increased interaction and movement of the people. The infection risk is high as people are reluctant to get vaccinated leaving large swathes of population susceptible to the virus. Hence, the UT Administration should be ready with adequate medical facilities to take care of the infected persons.Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh.Provide sanitisers, masks in marketsCases of coronavirus are increasing in Chandigarh. The Administration should focus on this issue so that lockdown is not re-imposed in the city. Otherwise, it will be setback for the business as well as service class. The authorities should provide sanitisers and face masks at public places.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhLockdown not in favour of massesThe UT should definitely take proactive measures due to surge in Covid cases. The Administration needs to get strict in following protocols and impose fines and even imprisonment in case of violation of the safety norms. Education can go online. There should be limit on the number of people in events and gatherings. Imposing lockdown or curfew is not in favour of the masses as they have already suffered financial losses in the wake of the pandemic. Rather, the Administration should spread awareness and encourage masses to get vaccinated as fear of side effects lurks in minds of the people.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliAdmn has to be more vigilantWe are witnessing increase in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh and adjoining states especially in Punjab. The UT Administration has to be more vigilant and impose some restrictions in the city to control the impending health scare. Testing should be increased in the affected areas with the appropriate split of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests and to also ensure that all symptomatic negatives of antigen tests are compulsorily tested via RT-PCR tests. The positive persons have to be isolated/hospitalised. All their close contacts be traced and tested without delay. The Administration has to carry out critical review of the emerging situation on a regular basis with officials concerned and ensure that gains in Covid-19 management are not lost.Dr. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhPeople have casual approachTo check the spread of Covid-19 protocols have to be enforced strictly. People are becoming casual towards the pandemic. One can see many people not wearing face masks. There are not many checks on visitors at shops, malls and hospitals. We have to tighten our belts to face the dreaded virus.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhDouble the fine for flouting normsThe Chandigarh Administration should double the fine for flouting Covid norms like not wearing face mask or maintaining social distance. Hotels, restaurants and marriage places in the city should close their business at 9.30 pm. Night curfew be imposed in the city from 10 pm to 5 am. There should be regular testing of potential super spreaders. PPE equipment including gowns, face shields and N-95 masks have to be provided to the people for free. Central guidelines for testing and treatment protocols have to be followed all the time.Dr Manjinder Kaur, ManaliAct tough against violatorsApparently, the surge in Covid-19 cases once again is due to complacency of residents about decreasing intensity of the pandemic. They are ignoring face masks, social distancing and other precautionary measures. Also, the Administration does not seem to be so strict with violators of the safety norms. In the given situation, the civil and police administration must ensure that safety norms are followed in letter and spirit and violators are penalised as per the law.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliRamp up testing of residentsWith relaxation in working hours there is a spike in Covid cases. Precautions like social distancing, wearing face mask and sanitising hands regularly can protect many lives. The UT Administration should deploy healthcare workers to guide people, ramp up Covid testing and isolate infected persons to suppress transmission of the virus.Charu Malhotra, MohaliPrepare for ANY unforeseen situationWith second wave seeming imminent, the Chandigarh Administration needs to buckle up and be fully prepared to handle any unforeseen situation. The reason behind increase in Covid cases is the carefree attitude of the people towards pandemic. They are complacent at public places. The Administration must increase testing, start contact tracing, limit gatherings and set up vigilance teams to ensure that appropriate precautions are taken to check the spread of the coronavirus.Mehak Taneja, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shun-complacency-dont-lower-guard-till-virus-subsides-218922
01-03-2021||Panchkula||10 more infected in Panchkula dist||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-infected-in-panchkula-dist-218794
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 51 new cases, 1 death||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-51-new-cases-1-death-218795
01-03-2021||---||Posing as Guv’s pvt secy, man lands in cops’ net||Chandigarh, February 28A 50-year-old imposter, who used to pose as the private secretary (PS) of the Punjab Governor and dupe liquor store owners, has been arrested by the UT police.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said a team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, nabbed the accused, Gurnam Singh, a resident of Mundi Kharar village, who was a property dealer.The SSP said the suspect used to pose as the private secretary of the Governor and extort costly whisky from liquor stores.Complainant Kashmir Singh of Sector 23 had complained that the suspect went to a liquor store in Sector 16 on February 27 and extorted a box of 100 Pipers and Jack Daniels. Acting on the complaint, the police nabbed the suspect from Sector 22.The police said the suspect had also extorted costly whisky from another liquor contractor.“Earlier this month, he had extorted three boxes of wine from a contractor, Tushar, of Sector 31,” said a police official.During the investigation, the police found that the suspect visited a showroom in Sector 17 on February 20 and took costly items, including a purse and belts, after posing as the Governor’s secretary. A case has been registered against him at the Sector 17 police station. The police have recovered two liquor boxes and a car used by him.He was produced in a court today and remanded in one-day police custody.The police said the car recovered from him was of an employee of a service centre in the Industrial Area. “The suspect had left his car for service and borrowed the car of the manager of that service centre to commit the crime so that he didn’t get caught,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/posing-as-guvs-pvt-secy-man-lands-in-cops-net-218796
01-03-2021||---||Covid-19 vaccination: Big day is finally here||Chandigarh, February 28The UT Health Department will conduct the third phase of the vaccination drive at 13 government healthcare sites and five private hospitals on the first day tomorrow. The number of sites will be scaled up in the next few days.The vaccination programme has now been exponentially expanded to all citizens above 60 years of age and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 with specified comorbidities.The Health Department today inspected the private hospital sites and interacted with their nodal officers. The sites where online registration is available are the GMSH (OPD Block), Sector 16, GMCH (B Block), Sector 32, Sector 45 Civil Hospital, Mani Majra Civil Hospital and the Health and Wellness Centre (HWC), Sector 49.The on-site registration will be available at all sites, including private hospitals. The government Covid vaccination centres (CVC) will provide free vaccination to the age-appropriate groups while the private hospitals will charge Rs250 per person per dose.The timings of the vaccination will be from 9 am to 4 pm. However, the walk-in registrations will close at 2 pm.The Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, has issued instructions to all hospital vaccination sites to promote on-the-spot registration, especially on the first day. For the purpose, any one of the documents — Aadhaar card, electoral photo identity card and certificate of comorbidities for citizens in the age group of 45 years to 59 years — will be required.Dr Neeraj Kumar, Managing Director of Chaitanya Hospital, said: “We are fully prepared to carry out the vaccination programme from tomorrow. We have all necessary arrangements for emergency situations such as adverse events following immunisation. Tomorrow onward, we have been directed to charge the vaccination cost from healthcare workers and frontline workers as well.”All healthcare workers and frontline workers, citizens that are aged or will attain the age of 60 or above (as of Jan 1, 2022) or will attain the age of 45 years to 59 and have any of the specified comorbidities are eligible for vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-vaccination-big-day-is-finally-here-218797
01-03-2021||---||Change of plan — Now, waste-lifting vehicles for 12 more sectors only||Chandigarh, February 28Owing to a shortage of manpower, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has changed its previous plan to launch the pan-city door-to-door garbage collection through two-bin waste-lifting vehicles from tomorrow.The civic body will now start the second phase only in 12 southern sectors. The MC will engage 70 additional garbage-collection vehicles in Sector 31 to 38, 46, 47 and 48. The MC officials concerned said they would start the new system in the remaining sectors after around two weeks.A few days ago, MC Commissioner KK Yadav claimed that they would cover other sectors in the second phase. However, due to a shortage of drivers for vehicles, it had changed its plan even as the sectors left out had not been made aware of it.In the first phase, the vehicles replaced carts in Sector 1 to 30 in December. However, due to lack of interest of collectors in working with the MC, the plan could not be extended to other sectors. Recently, an MoU in this regard was signed with the collectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/change-of-plan-%E2%80%94-now-waste-lifting-vehicles-for-12-more-sectors-only-218798
01-03-2021||---||FOSWAC flays hike in water, gas, fuel rates||Chandigarh, February 28The executive committee meeting of the Federation of Sectors’ Welfare Association (FOSWAC), Chandigarh, today raised their concerns over the rising fuel, gas and water prices.JS Gogia, general secretary, FOSWAC, triggered the discussion on the increasing rates of petrol, diesel, gas, transportation, logistics and hike in the water tariff, and their impact on the day-to-day life of citizens.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, said the hefty increase in water tariff, along with sewage cess, despite the assurances given by the municipal authorities and councillors, was condemnable.Bittu said despite tall claims by MP Kirron Kher, UTAdministration and the Municipal Corporation, the problem of garbage in Dadu Majra had not been resolved till date. Chief spokesperson Pankaj Gupta said the recent increase in gas and water bills was more than 30 per cent. RS Gill from Sector 8 said the MC intended to recover Rs500 crore from the water bills over a period of time without any value addition.Several members said if Delhi could supply free water for Rs2 crore, why cannot the MC repeat the same model in Chandigarh?In the second half, Debendra Dalai, CEO, ‘CREST’, joined the meeting along with his team. He inspired the RWAs to come forward to install solar panels on their rooftops. He said it would not only reduce the electricity bills but also contribute green energy for the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foswac-flays-hike-in-water-gas-fuel-rates-218799
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s heritage sold for Rs 38.60 lakh||Heritage furniture items from the city, designed by Pierre Jeanneret, were auctioned for Rs38.60 lakh in France yesterday.Five furniture items, including stools, tables and armchairs, were on offer at the auction. The highest price — around Rs13 lakh — was fetched by a dining table.Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, UT, wrote to the Union Minister of External Affairs,“I would like to update you that I approached our mission on February 14 to step in with the help of local law enforcing agencies and initiate an inquiry into the auction of the heritage items and probe as to how these banned items went beyond the territory of India.” “The auction has taken place. Hence, you are requested to look into the matter so that the auction of smuggled heritage items can be stalled in the future,” he added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-heritage-sold-for-rs-38-60-lakh-218800
01-03-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Two ‘maids’ seek work, make off with jewellery in Mona Greens||The police registered a case of theft against two unidentified women for allegedly stealing jewellery worth lakhs from a house in the Mona Greens housing society in Zirakpur today. Victim Swati said two unidentified women knocked at her door around 9 am, identified themselves as a mother-daughter duo, aged 45 and 22, and sought work as housemaids on February 25. She agreed to hire them and explained the work to them. After sometime, the victim left the house and went to her shop, leaving behind her elderly mother and the housemaids. An hour later, her mother called up to inform that one of the maids had left and the other too wanted to go. When the house owner reached home, both of them had gone, leaving behind ransacked almirahs with money and jewellery stolen. The police said the exact loss had not been ascertained as yet. The CCTV footage of the main entry gate of the housing society is not available. The police said they were investigating the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-two-maids-seek-work-make-off-with-jewellery-in-mona-greens-218801
01-03-2021||Mohali||‘Drunk’ SUV driver hits bike, two youths killed||Two youths died in a mishap near the Phase 7 traffic lights when an SUV hit their bike today. They have been identified as Una native Pranav Sharma (24) and Rewari native Vishal Yadav (22). The duo was living in a rented accommodation in Kharar. The SUV driver, who was allegedly drunk, and the co-passengers fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. The police found a driving licence of Eknoor Singh, a resident of Gurdaspur, in the vehicle. A case has been registered against four suspects under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC at the Mataur police station. The suspects have not been arrested till now. According to eyewitnesses, the incident happened around 4 am when the speeding SUV jumped the traffic lights and hit the motorcycle at the intersection. The eyewitnesses said the victims were tangled below the car and had to be extricated after a lot of effort. By then, a PCR vehicle arrived at the spot. The victims were rushed to the Phase 6 Civil Hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drunk-suv-driver-hits-bike-two-youths-killed-218802
01-03-2021||Mohali||1 death, 67 cases surface in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-death-67-cases-surface-in-mohali-218803
01-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Gang of looters busted in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, Feb 28 The police have busted a six-member gang of looters and recovered arms with ammunition, illicit liquor and drugs during search operations carried out under the supervision of Jagjit Singh Jalla, SP (Investigation). While addressing the media here today, Amneet Kondal, SSP, said police parties of Amloh, Fatehgarh Sahib, Mulepur, Bassi Pathana, Khamano and Kheri Naudh Singh, under the supervision of their respective DSPs, were conducting raids daily in this regard. The arrested members of the gang of looters have been identified as Ravi Khan, Yograj Singh Yogi, Gurcharan Singh, all residents of Bajheri village; Chanpreet Singh and Harpreet Singh of Khanpur vilalge; and Faiz Mohammad. The police recovered ammunition and a pistol from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-of-looters-busted-in-fatehgarh-sahib-218804
01-03-2021||---||Graduation ceremony at Delhi Public School||Patiala, February 28 Graduation ceremony for tiny tots was organised at Delhi Public School here while following all Covid norms laid down by the government.  The function started with “gayatri mantra” followed by song “Light a candle” through which the kids sought the blessings of God and urged for world peace. The next presentation was an action song through which the kids thanked everyone for the efforts which made them sail safely through this pandemic period. The last presentation was a fashion walk whereby the little ones showcased their favourite cartoon characters such as Mickey, Minnie, Cindrella, Mowgli and Chotta Bheem. The principal, Santosh Shukla, congratulated the parents and students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/graduation-ceremony-at-delhi-public-school-218805
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||PEC feted for special publication||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has been feted for the special publication, “Indian-origin Academicians Abroad”. The award was presented by Union Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan during the National Science and Technology Communication Awards to mark National Science Day today. A database of Indian academicians abroad was also released. “Indian-origin Academicians Abroad’ has been created by Professor Rajesh Bhatia and his team at the institute. “This platform will help scientists living in India and aboard to come to a single platform,” said Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC. “This database will help academicians, students, policy planners and other stakeholders to collaborate with foreign university experts. It’s a huge information base of about 23,472 Indian academicians and research scholars,” said Bhatia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-feted-for-special-publication-218806
01-03-2021||Patiala||Covid norms go for a toss at roller skating championship in Patiala||While positive cases continue to rise in the district, Covid guidelines were given the go-by at the 32nd Punjab Roller Skating Championship held at Rink Hall here today.The two-day event which started yesterday witnessed around 200 skaters from 15 districts of the state. A majority of participants were not wearing mask, nor did they follow the social-distancing norm.One of the participants said: “The meet was poorly managed as all participants reached the venue at the same time which led to chaos.”The organisers said they followed all norms during the skating championship.Simranjit Saggu, one of the organisers, said: “We made announcements for the participants to wear masks and even provided hand sanitisers to them.” Meanwhile, the district reported around 64 positive cases today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-roller-skating-championship-in-patiala-218807
01-03-2021||---||Cloudnine launches unit in Panchkula||Panchkula, February 28 Cloudnine, India’s premium birthing centre for maternal, childcare and fertility care, today announced the launch of its unit at Panchkula. It is the second dedicated boutique women and child care centre in the tricity by the group after it started its operations in Chandigarh in 2017.  Speaking at the inauguration ceremony, Dr Pawan Kumar, Regional Director (North), said: “At Cloudnine, we understand that birthing is a celebration and giving birth should be an exciting experience. We have made an attempt to listen to our customers and match their requirements at all stages of the birthing journey and created an ideal set of services to meet their needs and exceed their expectations under one roof.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cloudnine-launches-unit-in-panchkula-218808
01-03-2021||---||Mohali dist all set for round 3 of vaccination||Mohali, February 28The third round of Covid-19 vaccination for senior citizens above 60 years and persons aged 45 to 59 suffering with comorbidities will begin from March 1 as per the guidelines of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC).Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in this round, vaccine would be administered to all citizens born in 1961 and earlier. Persons aged between 45 and 59 (born in 1976 and earlier) having specified comorbidities were also eligible for vaccination. A certificate from a registered medical practitioner was mandatory for persons with comorbidities.The chargesThe vaccine will be administered free of cost at all government hospitals. Private hospitals are authorised to charge Rs150 per dose and additional Rs100 as service charge.Dayalan said preregistration for vaccination is not mandatory in this round of vaccination as was in the case of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs). Persons desirous of vaccination could pre-register at CoWIN 2.0 portal or just walk in to avail of the facility. It was advisable that senior citizens should preregister in order to avoid waiting in the health facility for vaccination.Dayalan said the vaccine would be administered free of cost at all government hospitals. Private hospitals were authorised to charge Rs150 per dose and additional Rs100 as service charge.The Deputy Commissioner said as per the World Health Organisation, Covid-19 vaccination is the single way out to deal with the pandemic. So, eligible beneficiaries should avail of maximum benefit of this opportunity.Meanwhile, vaccination for healthcare workers and frontline workers will continue along with this round of vaccination. Even if they have not registered earlier, they can walk in got onsite registration.Who gets the vaccineWhat is mandatoryA certificate from a registered medical practitioner is mandatory for persons with comorbidities.Points to remember||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dist-all-set-for-round-3-of-vaccination-218809
01-03-2021||---||Not consulted before announcing schedule, claims panel chairman||Chandigarh, February 28Former president of the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, Pardeep Chhabra has alleged that Jolly, Chairman, Cricket Advisory Committee, was not consulted by Sanjay Tandon, president of the association, before announcing the schedule for internal tournaments.Chhabra, who claims to be still heading UTCA, issued a press statement on Saturday.On February 25, the UTCA’s spokesperson issued a statement that its Cricket Advisory Committee submitted a report to the president (Tandon) about the detailed planning on possibilities of internal tournaments.However, Jolly said: “I have not signed anywhere, nor was asked by anyone about any suggestions for any tournaments. I am part of UTCA but for this particular reason, I was not approached.”Tandon said the other members of the committee should be approached. “Talk to the three members of committee and make your opinion,” said Tandon. Meanwhile, the other members, Sharanjit Singh and Daniel Banerjee, claimed that they had submitted the schedule as Jolly was unavailable for the meetings. “We (Singh and Banerjee) submitted the report. All details were submitted. Jolly ji was unavailable for the meetings as he must be busy. However, we both assessed and signed the schedule,” said Banerjee. “He (Tandon) mentioned that the internal tournaments have been planned, scheduled and approved as per the recommendations of the committee. Ironically, the chairman (Jolly) has no idea on when the meetings were held and what recommendations have been sent,” said Chhabra.“Whatsoever the Cricket Advisory Committee asked us to do, we have done as per the communication under the authority,” said Sharanjit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-consulted-before-announcing-schedule-claims-panel-chairman-218810
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kopal adjudged best gymnast||Kopal was adjudged the best gymnast of the women’s rhythmic event in the ongoing Chandigarh State Artistic and Rhythmic Gymnastics Championship at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here today. Nargis Singh claimed the second position and Tanu Guleria of Shishu Niketan School, Sector 22, claimed the third spot. In the hoop event, Kopal, Tanu and Nargis claimed the top three positions, respectively. Kopal won her second gold in the ball event, followed by Nargis at the second position and Tanu at the third. In the clubs event, Kopal claimed pole position, followed by Nargis and Tanu at the second and third spots, respectively. Aditya claims overall title Aditya Mishra won the overall men’s artistic title, followed by Aman at the second and Sanjeev Kumar Shukla at the third spot. Mishra won the floor event, while Aman finished second and Shukla clinched the third position. In rings event, Surinder Prasad clinched the first position, Aman claimed the second position and Mishra claimed the third spot. In the parallel bars event, Akash Arya, Shukla and Aman claimed the top three positions, respectively. Mishra won another gold medal in the vault table event, while Mishra claimed the second position and Aman and Shukla stood at the third spot. Kaveri shines Kaveri was named the overall best gymnast in the women’s artistic category. Bharti claimed second position and Garima finished at the third spot. Bharti won her first gold in the floor event, followed by Kaveri and Garima at the second and third positions, respectively. In the balancing beam, Kaveri, Bharti and Bhawna Dadwal claimed the top three positions, respectively, while in the uneven bars, Garima, Kaveri and Bharti bagged the top three honours, respectively. Kaveri won another gold medal in the vaulting table event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kopal-adjudged-best-gymnast-218811
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to take on Neroca FC today||RoundGlass Punjab FC (RGPFC) will face Neroca FC in its next I-League encounter at Kalyani Stadium, West Bengal, on Monday.“Like every game of the I-League, this game will also be difficult. They (Neroca FC) have some good attacking players. We take every game on its merit and are looking forward to the challenge. We will try and win it like we do in each game,” said head coach Curtis Fleming.Talking about promoting young talents such as Aphaoba Singh, Bikash Yumnam and Hormipam Ruivah, Fleming stated: “They have a long way to go. The biggest thing they need to do is to learn. The only way they will learn is by playing competitive football. I am confident enough to play with these young players.”Talking about the 10-day break since the last game against Real Kashmir, Fleming said: “It was hard to have such a long break, but the staff looked after us, especially by ensuring we get different types of food. I don’t see this period as rest, but more like recovery. We trained every day during this break to keep ourselves sharp and focused on the next game. The players are raring to get back on the field.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-to-take-on-neroca-fc-today-218812
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Manish enters main draw in tennis||Indian contender Manish Yadav overpowered Aditya Balda’s tough challenge to march into the boys’ U-18 main draw in the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-4) at the Sector 10 Complex here today. Yadav went down in the first set 4-6. However, he bounced back strongly in the tie-break to log a 7-6(2), [10-8] win. Rushil Khosla also moved into the main draw by logging an easy 6-4, 6-2 win over Vishal Gautam. Saheb Sodhi defeated Aryan Arora 6-1, 6-1 and Deep Munim outplayed Lakshya Batwara 7-6(2), 6-3 in other matches. In the girls’ U-18 category, fifth seeded USA’s Navya Vadlamudi ousted Indian challenger Pari Singh 7-6(3), 6-4. Second seeded Pavitra Parikh also moved ahead by defeating sixth seeded Naga Roshne Arunkumar 6-3, 7-6(3) and eighth seeded Nandini Dixit outplayed Indian Steisha Buddhala 6-7(2), 6-4[10-4]. In the last match, Deepshika Sriram outplayed Sanjivani Kutwal 6-2, 6-2. The main draw matches will start on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manish-enters-main-draw-in-tennis-218813
01-03-2021||---||Parents protest against offline examinations||Panchkula, February 28 With a rise in Covid-19 cases, parents of Class IX students of Little Flower Convent School, Sector 14, have raised objections against the offline exams. They staged a protest outside the main gate of the school today.  A group of parents reportedly met Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, seeking his intervention in the matter. But the school authorities were ‘’adamant’’ on conducting the exams offline, and tomorrow will be the first exam of “English grammar”, the parents told The Tribune. In their letter to the Principal that contained the signatures of at least 22 parents, they have requested the school authorities to conduct examinations in the online mode in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. “We are not willing to give our consent for the offline exams as sought by the school,” the letter says. “Since both my parents go out for work, they can’t drop me to the school. I have also apprehensions about using public transport. If classes can be conducted online, why can’t exams?” asked a student of Class IX of the school. The school had earlier decided to conduct exams in the offline mode for Classes VI to IX but changed the decision except for Class IX after parents’ protest. Sister Archana, principal, couldn’t be contacted for her remarks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-offline-examinations-218814
01-03-2021||---||Panchkula residents mark potholes in protest||Panchkula, February 28Residents’ associations, under the banner of the Panchkula Vikas Manch, today brought to the attention of the authorities the dilapidated condition of roads in the city by encircling potholes with lime power at the housing board entrance.Members of the manch have alleged that material of poor quality was used in the construction of roads. These potholed roads put the lives of commuters at risk.The associations included the Apeksha Welfare Society, Lok Saravahitkari Society and the Human Rights Organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-residents-mark-potholes-in-protest-218815
01-03-2021||---||Three centres to offer jab in Panchkula district||Panchkula, February 28The Panchkula Health Department will launch the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the district from tomorrow for senior citizens above 60 years and persons aged between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities.The drive will be held at three centres - Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Sub-Divisional Hospital, Kalka, and Sector 26 Polyclinic. More government and private vaccination centres will be involved in the drive later.“The vaccination drive will only take place at these three centres in the first few days. Necessary formalities, including training of staff, at private centres need to be done,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer.The exercise would be conducted between 10 am and 5 pm. The vaccine will be given free of cost at public health facilities, while people need to pay charges fixed by the Centre at private hospitals.“To facilitate the beneficiaries, the Central Government will soon launch CoWIN 2.0 portal for online registration. After this, the beneficiaries will be able to register themselves on this portal,” said Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.He said beneficiaries would be able to register a maximum of four persons for the vaccination through their registered mobile number.In case, any beneficiary fails to get his/her registration done on the portal, they could visit the nearest vaccination centre along with Aadhaar card or any other identity card for registration.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said at the time of administering the first dose, the beneficiary would be informed about the next date of vaccination.“Persons above 45 with comorbidities will have to carry a document duly verified by the doctor along with them at the time of vaccination,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-centres-to-offer-jab-in-panchkula-district-218816
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Frontline warriors honoured at fest||City Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and MC Commissioner KK Yadav honoured Covid frontline warriors during the concluding ceremony of the Rose Festival at Rose Garden in Sector 16 here today. Representatives of 82 resident welfare associations, 36 NGOs, 37 individuals, including officials of the UT Administration and social workers of the city, and 230 MCemployees were honoured. The Commissioner said the civic body had decided to honour all RWAs, MWAs, NGOs and councillors for rendering their best services during the Covid-19 period. The Mayor said the MC could not organise various competitions during the Rose Festival this year due to the Covid-19 guidelines.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/frontline-warriors-honoured-at-fest-218817
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer, trade and student unions stage protest in Chandigarh, burn PM Modi's effigy||A protest march from Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Gurdwara Sahib in Sector 34 to the BJP office in Sector 33, a call for which was given by members of civil society and various organisations, including the All-India Students Association, Revolutionary Youth Association, Punjab Kisan Union, All-India Central Council of Trade Union and the Nojawan Kisan Ekta, was not allowed by the Chandigarh police today.The Sector 34 SHO, Rajiv Kumar, said: “We have put up barricades here because there is possibility of clash if protesters agitate outside the BJP office.”The protesters burnt PM Narendra Modi’s effigy on the street. “We do not want to fight the police. We just want to be heard. On the one hand farmers’ demands are not being addressed, but on the other inflation’s skyrocketed,” said Aman Ratia of AISA.Sukhdeep Singh, grandson of BKU leader Ruldu Singh Mansa, said: “My brother Navreet Singh was shot dead and more than 200 people have died at the protest site. Yet, not a word of remorse from the PM, which is shameful.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmer-trade-and-student-unions-stage-protest-in-chandigarh-burn-pm-modis-effigy-218818
01-03-2021||---||Congress holds march against water tariff hike||Chandigarh, February 28 To protest the water tariff hike, leaders of the city Congress today tried to lay siege to the houses of BJP councillors in Sector 37. However, they were stopped on their way by the police.  The police told them the BJP leaders had also gathered at a nearby park and it could lead to a clash. The Congress leaders submitted a memorandum to the SHO. The Opposition party leaders, led by its president Subhash Chawla, had started a march towards the houses of Arun Sood, councillor and BJP president; Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor; and Sunita Dhawan, councillor.  The protesters were carrying party flags and beating utensils. They also distributed pamphlets to residents highlighting the need for rollback of the water tariff hike. Chawla said the BJP had cheated the residents by making such a huge hike in water tariff.  The common man was already suffering due to increase in price of almost all commodities of daily use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-holds-march-against-water-tariff-hike-218819
