02-03-2021||Chandigarh||67 new Covid cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported 67 more coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 21,906, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 70-year-old woman took the toll to 354, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 430 on Monday to 472 on Tuesday, it said.A total of 24 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 21,080, it said.A total of 2,58,184 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,35,319 tested negative while reports of 117 were awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/67-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-219571
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Between tales of wartime flying, course mates of Air Force’s sole Param Vir Chakra recipient go down memory lane||Between tales of wartime flying and unforgettable personal anecdotes, members of the Indian Air Force’s 97th pilots course and 36th navigators course took a boisterous trip down the memory lane as they got together for a three-day reunion on Tuesday here.On the outset, tributes were paid to Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, the IAF’s sole recipient of Param Vir Chakra, the nation’s highest award for gallantry, who belonged to this course.He was serving with No.18 Squadron and had taken on four intruding Pakistani Sabre jets over Srinagar in the 1971 war.Group Capt Balraj Rathee, who was present at the airfield on the day the air duel had taken place, recalled the sequence of events, and Sekhon’s action in shooting down two Sabres before his aircraft got hit.Air Vice Marshal JS Grewal, a former Commanding Officer of No.102 Squadron, the only unit to have operated the trisonic Mig-25 Foxbat high altitude reconnaissance aircraft reminiscenced the surreal experience of flying on the edge of the atmosphere at heights of over 90,000 and an average cruising speed of Mach 2.5.The aircraft had undertaken many secret and strategically critical missions during its service with the IAF from 1981 to 2006.A navigator with the Canberra bomber during the 1971 Indo-Pak war, Gp Capt PS Cheema had the opportunity of flying missions both on the eastern as well as the western front, carrying out bombing raids deep into enemy territory.At the age of 75, Wg Cdr Kamal Nath is still an active flier and has a record logging 29,000 flying hours, both with the IAF and later in civil aviation.A certified examiner, he is happy that he will continue to remain in the cockpit for some more time. Starting off with the propeller engine DC-3, he moved on to fly the IL-76 strategic freighter, then the largest aircraft in the IAF’s inventory.Squadron Leader GS Jawandha said that the course had passed out in June 1967, with 168 pilots and 27 navigators along with three foreign officers, two from Yemen and one from Nigeria. Two course members made it to the highest level of the IAF, becoming Air Officers Commanding-in-Chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/between-tales-of-wartime-flying-course-mates-of-air-forces-sole-param-vir-chakra-recipient-go-down-memory-lane-219557
02-03-2021|| Mohali||Covid vaccine: Confusion, registration glitches in Mohali on Day 1||The first day of covid vaccination for persons with comorbidities and senior citizens was marked by confusion on many accounts in Mohali on Monday. “If you are a senior citizen and facing a problem with online registration for vaccination, the easiest way to get jabbed is walk-in at the designated hospitals with a PAN card and an identity card. Everything will be taken care of,” said Adarshpal Kaur, Mohali Civil Surgeon. The most common problem faced was the glitches with the official app meant for hospital authorities, followed by the senior citizens’ inability to cope up with self-registration and then the confusion regarding the available hospitals where vaccination/registration was actually taking place. By the end of the day, the district health officials could only authenticate three facilities—District Hospital, Mohali, Fortis and Max Hospital—where the vaccine was administered. But there were reports of the vaccine being administered at other private hospitals as well. Two government hospitals in the Mohali district could not begin the vaccination programme on the first day due to various reasons.Sub Divisional Hospital Dera Bassi, Indus Hospital and Mehar Hospital are likely to begin vaccination/registration from Tuesday, said Sangeeta Jain, SMO Dera Bassi.Doctors said the pace of persons willing to get vaccinated will pick up gradually once the process is streamlined. “It is such a paradox, everyone was waiting for the vaccine so eagerly but now it is here nobody is willing to get it,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-vaccine-confusion-registration-glitches-in-mohali-on-day-1-219442
02-03-2021||Amit Bathla||Covid Vaccination: Glitches mark Day 1 in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 1The third phase of the Covid vaccination began at three public centres in the district – the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, Sub-Divisional Hospital in Kalka and Polyclinic in Sector 26 – for those above 60 years and between 45 and 59 with comorbidities.The first day was marked by technical glitches at all centres due to which several elderly were compelled to return home without getting the jab.Only 139 people were vaccinated against the target of 300, registering a coverage rate of 46.7 per cent. PD Gupta, a 78-year-old man from Sector 4, who turned up at the Civil\\\Hospital with enthusiasm around 10.30 am, was left high and dry as servers remained down at the centre for a long time. He left the centre at 3.15 pm without getting vaccinated.The elderly man, who is suffering from diabetes and hypertension, said: “It’s sad that on the first day of the vaccination for us, the system was down. Hope the authorities get things resolved and running soon. Senior citizens face a lot of problems in reaching the sites — we pay for travel and have to bear with the physical exhaustion. Now, I have been told to visit tomorrow.”Col JS Kandah (retd), who is 84 years old, was another intended beneficiary who was part of the disappointed lot that couldn’t get the jab on the first day.He showed up at 9.30 am, much before the scheduled time of 10 am, but was full of resentment. “I was looking forward to this day. I came to the Civil Hospital early and waited for six hours, but the server remained down,” he said.“I left the centre around 4 pm. They (authorities) told us to come tomorrow at 9.30 am,” he said.Dr Rameshwar Jha (76), who turned up at the centre with his wife Moorti around 11 am, was among the fortunate ones to get the jab.Sitting at the observation centre after getting his first jab, he said: “I was looking forward to this day. I am feeling perfectly fine.”Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, confirmed that technical glitches were witnessed at all three centres throughout the day. “As it was the first day, hurdles were expected. We are hopeful to address the glitches to make the process seamless for the elderly,” she said.As many as 203 healthcare workers and frontline workers were vaccinated along with the general public.Drive at 10 sitesOn Tuesday, the vaccination drive will take place at 10 public and private health centres — Civil Hospital in Sec 6, Sub-Divisional Hospital (Kalka), Surajpur Primary Health Centre (PHC), Pinjore PHC, Old Panchkula PHC, Kot PHC, Nanakpur PHC, Alchemist Hospital, Paras Hospital and Sec 26 Polyclinic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-vaccination-glitches-mark-day-1-in-panchkula-219246
02-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||In Mohali, long wait, little guidance||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 1Confusion prevailed among senior citizens as they had to wait for over 40 minutes for getting the vaccine at the Mohali Civil Hospital.Some of them were seen waiting outside the two halls for the vaccination. They were cautious of not breaking the social distancing norms as a large number of Punjab policemen had visited the hospital for the jab.Kin of the elderly were time and again being told to wait by the health authorities and no one was guiding the senior citizens, who were waiting.They were taken inside the hall for the vaccination soon after Principal Secretary Hussan Lal arrived at the hospital to see the arrangements. Lal said lack of information and awareness about the new location in the hospital had caused confusion among visitors. He said things would be streamlined in a day or two.Lal said at least 245 people — healthcare workers, frontline workers, senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities — were vaccinated till 12.30 pm.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 79 senior citizens and four persons with comorbidities were administered the vaccine at the Phase 6 Civil Hospital.Meanwhile, 60 senior citizens, including Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur, an MP, got the jab at Fortis Hospital.Preneet Kaur gets inoculatedSixty senior citizens, including Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur, an MP, got the jab at Fortis Hospital. About 100 persons were administered the vaccine at Sri Guru Har Krishan Sahib Super Specialty Charitable Hospital at Sohana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-long-wait-little-guidance-219249
02-03-2021||---||Hope floats as elderly get a shot in the arm||Chandigarh, March 1On the first day of the vaccination drive for senior citizens and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities, at least 556 persons turned up at 15 vaccination sites in the city today.Of the 1,721 beneficiaries who got the jab, 1,534 got the first dose and the remaining received the second. A total of 493 residents aged 60 and above received the first dose.However, the beneficiaries with comorbid conditions were in less number — only 63 — as it took time for the portal to upload the necessary documents. At the GMSH, Sector 16, no beneficiary from this group received the vaccine.Portal slowAt the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, the vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers has picked up pace. “Although there were some hiccups as the new CoWIN 2.0 was rolled out, the process ran smoothly throughout the day. Due to the prevailing rush, the hospital advises willing citizens to be aware that there is a waiting time of 30-60 minutes before getting vaccinated,” read an official statement from the GMCH.The official statement of the UT Administration also stated that there were a few glitches in the portal, which were duly rectified at the backend and the process got smoother as the day progressed. As it was the first day of the portal launch, the beneficiaries got themselves registered at the vaccination site itself.Dr Neeraj Kumar, managing director of Chaitanya Hospital, where 96 persons, aged 60 and above, turned up for the vaccination, said: “The first day witnessed a good response as beneficiaries started coming 9 am onwards. Initially, the portal was slow and took time to register the citizens. Another problem was that those who had registered themselves at home were not accepted by the portal. We had to cancel their registration and do it again.”Badnore gets inoculatedPunjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore also received the jab. He appealed to the citizens to get vaccinated at the earliest as it was safe and the way to break the Covid transmission chain.Some of the renowned citizens above 60 years of age who received the jab included NPS Aulakh (former DGP, Punjab), Harmol Singh Gill (former DGP, UP), Amarjot Singh Gill (former DGP, Rajasthan), PC Dogra (former DGP, Punjab), Sarvesh Kaushal (former Chief Secretary, Punjab) and Krishan Mohan (former Home Secretary, Chandigarh).The number of private hospitals will be increased to nine from Tuesday. The government facilities will remain the same as before.Pvt hospitals for jab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hope-floats-as-elderly-get-a-shot-in-the-arm-219251
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 1 death, 69 fresh cases||60 new cases, no death in MohaliMohali: Sixty Covid-19 cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 20,375. However, no new death was reported in the district. — TNS8 more infected in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Monday reported eight fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 10,844. The toll remained at 149. While 10,571 patients have recovered from the disease, 124 cases are active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-1-death-69-fresh-cases-219252
02-03-2021||---||Gurpreet Ghuggi cheers protesting farmers at Chandigarh's Sector 19/27 traffic lights||Chandigarh, March 1The protest against farm laws in City Beautiful has spread from Matka Chowk to various other roundabouts and traffic light points like the one at Sector 19/27 where actor-politician Gurpreet Ghuggi turned up today.Along with civil society members, local Congress, AAP and SAD workers stage a protest at the Sector 19/27 traffic lights almost every evening.With farmer union flags and posters of “No farmer, no food” around 100 people gathered at the light point today. As Gurpreet Ghuggi came and cheered the crowd, he raised slogans hailing ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta’ while demanding revocation of the three agro-market laws passed by the Centre in September.“It’s good to see people of an urban space like Chandigarh protesting and reacting against these three farm laws. Chandigarh, being a UT, falls directly under the Centre. I hope the Central Government will listen to the voice of the people,” said Ghuggi.Stating that he will also visit the Matka Chowk and other such protest sites, Ghuggi shared, “The protest at Matka Chowk is going strong. It’s important to cheer people at other places too. So, I’ll try to visit each and every place where people are protesting against these farm laws and boost their morale.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurpreet-ghuggi-cheers-protesting-farmers-at-chandigarhs-sector-19-27-traffic-lights-219253
02-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Administrators’ Advisory Council missing deadlines?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 1Awaiting cash awards since 2015, local sportsperson were once again given assurance of getting their dues, this time by the Administrators’ Advisory Council Sports Committee.The committee, which met recently, made some changes in the sub-committee to follow the process. However, the same committee had announced that it would solve the problem within 30 days on July 24 last year. A communication issued back then claimed: “Discussed about pending scholarship/cash awards to be paid to the players, which have been pending for the past three years and told officials of the Sports Department to clear the same within 30 days.”Sports policyAt the recent meeting, the Administrators’ Advisory Council Sports Committee ensured that Chandigarh’s sports policy will be ready by May 30. However, a draft policy for the same was submitted in April 2, 2016, by the former Joint Director, Sports, KS Bharti.“As per Ministry of Sports, suggestions must be taken from eminent sports personalities. While submitting the draft policy, we had included Arjuna Awardee and other eminent sports personalities for their suggestions. While finalising the policy, eminent sportspersons should be included. I don’t know about its current status,” said Bharti.A press note issued in July said: “The UT Administration was in the process of drafting a sports policy, hence open suggestions should be taken from residents, eminent sports personalities, associations, schools, etc, by giving advertisements in newspapers, and the policy should be made within a particular time frame of not more than three months.”At the latest meeting, Director Sports Tejdeep Singh Saini said apart from Haryana and Punjab, the sports policy of Delhi had been reviewed and the services of sports experts of Panjab University had also been taken. It will be ready by the end of May. Cash awards in sports policy, reservation in government jobs and coaching, etc, will be focused so that players of Chandigarh do not migrate to other states.“The Covid pandemic may have delayed the process. Online meetings and regular interactions would have been the best way to deal with it. Nevertheless, we are hopeful of getting some kind of updates since the limited public gatherings have been started,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administrators-advisory-council-missing-deadlines-219254
02-03-2021||Naina Mishra||At 90, his advice — Nothing to be scared of, take the jab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 1Om Prakash Sharma (90) sat fearlessly on the chair as health workers inoculated him with the Covid vaccine. He sat unwearyingly for half an hour after the jab as he was advised by doctors at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.“I am following the advice of Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS Director. He held an open talk to address the concerns of the public. I am feeling normal after the vaccination and there is nothing to be scared of. I am putting up alone and take care of myself,” said Sharma, who has no comorbid condition. “Every citizen of the country should get vaccinated,” he added.Senior citizens of the tricity lead by example by voluntarily turning up at healthcare facilities for receiving the jab today. This lot was enthusiastic about the vaccine unlike the hesitancy witnessed among healthcare and frontline workers.Satnam Singh (70) said he was shocked to learn that around 60 per cent of the healthcare workers did not come forward for the vaccination. “It is our moral responsibility to get vaccinated as the nation is dealing with the pandemic. By taking this vaccine, I will attain immunity against the disease. I am responsible for my safety; everyone must understand this and come forward for the vaccination. I shot videos of the programme and plan to show these to people in my locality and urge them to get vaccinated.”Rajesh Handa (75) said she came on her own to get vaccinated after she read about in newspapers that the programme for the elderly would take off on March 1. Asked what propelled her to take the vaccine, she said, “To be safe”.“Everyone should take the vaccine so that the country can get rid of this deadly disease. Covid-19 fear is for real and cases have started increasing in Chandigarh too,” she said.“Prevention is better than cure,” said Raghbir Singh (82), who was accompanied by his wife to receive the jab at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. The couple had worn a face shield and mask to stay protected.Singh said he hadn’t planned to get the vaccine so early, but came after his wife insisted on getting the jab on the first day without any delay.“This vaccine will protect us from the deadly disease. Besides, we will not be carriers of the infection,” said Shamsher Kaur, his wife.Satinderjit Singh Gill (64) from Mohali said there were no proper signboards at the hospital for the people to guide them to the vaccination zone on the third floor. However, he was satisfied with the arrangements made by the health authorities. His mother Joginder Kaur Gill (84) said she wanted to avail of the facility of getting vaccinated to protect her life from the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-90-his-advice-%E2%80%94-nothing-to-be-scared-of-take-the-jab-219256
02-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Rahul Gandhi’s morphed video: Chandigarh Police fail to furnish report before court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 1The Chandigarh police have failed to furnish a report in a local court on a complaint against alleged defamation of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.The court sought the report from the police on the complaint filed by former Chandigarh Congress president Pradeep Chhabra on February 4 seeking directions to the police to register an FIR against the owners of the PlayBoy club.In the application filed under Section 156(3) of the criminal procedure code, the counsel of the petitioner contended that no action had been taken by the Chandigarh Police so far against the club owners despite lodging a complaint with the Director-General of Police and the Senior Superintendent of Police.It has been alleged in the complaint that a party was organised at the PlayBoy club on January 30 with a gathering of more than 200 people. At the party, a “morphed” video with objectionable images was allegedly played on a screen. In one of the images, there was a picture of a girl wearing a saree and the face of the girl was replaced with that of Rahul Gandhi.When the police failed to furnish the report at today’s hearing, the court gave another opportunity to the police to furnish the report by April 1.Chhbara has demanded the registration of an FIR under Section 153, 154, 294, 500, 503 of IPC read with Section 120-B of the IPC and Section 67 of the IT Act.He alleged that the act of the accused not only made defamatory remarks on Rahul Gandhi but also insulted the whole Congress and people believing in the party’s ideology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rahul-gandhis-morphed-video-chandigarh-police-fail-to-furnish-report-before-court-219257
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Livewire Coaching Centre log victory||Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) defeated Panthers Cricket Club (PCC) by six runs in the Bhagat Singh Ki Yaad Karo Kurbaani T20 Cricket Tournament. Batting first, LWCC posted 166/4 in 20 overs with the help of Gurpreet Singh (47), Pankaj Kumar (44) and Dr Luthra (34). Narinder claimed two wickets for the bowling side, while Kamal and Harman claimed one wicket each.In reply, PCC lads posted 160 runs before getting all out in 19.5 overs. Arshveer Singh (87) and Chetan (21) were the two main scores for the side. Prateek claimed three wickets each for the bowling side, while Anand and Pankaj Kumar took two wickets each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/livewire-coaching-centre-log-victory-219258
02-03-2021||---||Chandigarh Adviser felicitates artists||Chandigarh, March 1The 49th Rose Festival, organised by the Department of Tourism, UT, and Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi, culminated at the Government Museum & Art Gallery in Sector 10 here today.During the four-day festival, which began on February 26, several events such as art installation workshop, wooden sculpture installation, paint art studio, print media workshop and photography exhibition were held. The light and sound show on a wall of the museum was the most eye catching event. UT Adviser Manoj Parida, who was the chief guest, honoured the artists who depicted their work in various categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-felicitates-artists-219259
02-03-2021||---||Nishant, Sarah enter pre-quarters||Chandigarh, March 1Top seed Nishant Dabas made his way to the boys’ U-18 pre-quarterfinals by registering an easy 6-4, 6-4 win over Sarthak Gandhi in the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-4) at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) Complex in Sector 10 here today.Second seeded Aman Dahiya also moved into the next round by defeating Bushan Haobam 6-0, 6-2, while third seeded Chirag Duhan edge past Kartik Saxena 6-1, 6-2 in another exciting tie.Maanav Jain defeated Albert Ochintohenko Segura of Spain 6-1, 6-2, while Belgium’s Sebastien Cauhape ousted Indian qualifier Manish Yadav 6-2, 6-3. Fourth seeded Sanjith Devineni of the USA defeated Daksh Ashok Agarwal 6-1, 6-0 and fifth seeded Dhruv Tangri ousted Nithilan Eric 6-3, 6-4.Indian challenger Saheb Sodhi registered a comeback 2-6, 7-6(3), 6-2 victory over seventh seeded Anargha Ganguly. Kartik Parhar defeated Navya Verma 6-2, 6-3, Deep Munim outplayed Aarav Samrat Hada 7-5, 6-2 and Denim Yadav ousted Sarthak Arora 6-4, 6-2 in other one-sided matches.Another Indian contender Torus Rawat won a tough tie against Devaharshith Neelam of the USA 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 and Belgium’s Nyo Van Dyck also logged a comeback win over Rushil Khosla 2-6, 6-1, 6-1.Yuvan Nandal defeated Nepal’s Aki Zuben Rawat 6-0, 7-5, Aayush P Bhat of the USA defeated Aditya Chauhan 6-0, 6-1 and Indian player Agriya Yadav outplayed Yashvardhan Singh 6-2, 6-4.In the girls’ U-18 event, top seeded Indian player Sarah Dev defeated Belgium’s Flo Helsen 6-4, 7-5. Second seeded Sanjana Sirimalla had to struggle hard before defeating Kanika Sivaraman 3-6, 6-3, 6-1, while Sanvi Ahluwalia defeated Naga Roshne Arunkumar 6-2, 6-4, Vaishnavi Adkar defeated Saina Deshpande 6-2, 6-4, Shruti Ahlawat ousted Radhika Vasudeva 6-1, 6-1 and France’s Camilia Samel Druz overpowered Indian Diva Bhatia 6-0, 6-4 in some easy matches.After going down in the opening set, Nandini Dixit logged a 1-6, 6-3, 6-1 win over Lakshmi Gowda. Navya Vadlamudi of the USA defeated Arunkumar Lakshmi Prabha 6-0, 6-3 and eighth seeded Suhitha Maruri outplayed Kavya Khirwar 6-7(6), 6-2, 6-3. Fifth seeded Rutuja Chaphalkar defeated Lakshanya Vishwanath 6-1, 7-5, Anjali Rathi outplayed Maitree Diksha Rout 6-3, 6-4 and Gargi Pawar ousted Aami Reddy Yellu 6-1, 6-1. Reshma Maruri defeated Sanjana Devineni 6-1, 6-0, Riya Uboveja ousted Belgium’s Mirthe Moens 6-2, 6-4, Hetvee Chaudhari defeated Vanya Arora 6-4, 6-1 and Deepshika Sriram outplayed Amina Salibayeva 6-1, 6-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nishant-sarah-enter-pre-quarters-219260
02-03-2021||Mohali||Collection box, valuables stolen from gurdwara in Kumbhra||Two miscreants stole the collection box and other valuables from a gurdwara in Kumbhra on Sunday night. The incident came to light at 4 am today when the priest of the gurdwara found the locks near the collection box broken.The miscreants took away the collection box, DVR of CCTV cameras and other valuables from the gurdwara. They were captured in another CCTV installed nearby.SI Bhupinder Singh said the police got information about the incident in the morning. A forensic team collected samples from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/collection-box-valuables-stolen-from-gurdwara-in-kumbhra-219261
02-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Domestic water rate in third slab expected to come down||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 1With the UT Administration asking the Municipal Corporation (MC) to reconsider its water tariff hike decision, the latter is going to propose reduction in rate of the third domestic slab, sewerage cess charges and pitch for commercial rates on an actual basis in its House meeting this month.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said the third domestic tariff slab (31kl-60kl usage) in which rates were increased from Rs6/kl to Rs12/kl was affecting residents most. “We will consider reducing its rate to Rs9/kl,” he said.The Mayor, however, said the fourth slab (over 60/kl usage) had higher rates as many people were using it as commercial and there were issues of water misusage as well.“Use of over 60/kl water in a house is too much. Thus it will remain as it is,” he added. “We will also request people to install floor-wise water meters if different families were living separately in the same house,” he said.MC’s Water Supply and Sewerage Disposal Committee member Shakti Prakash Devshali said, “Most households fall in the third slab and are affected by its hike only. Earlier, we had kept the rate at Rs9/kl, but when notified by the Administration it was revised to Rs12/kl. We will ratify it.”Besides, councillors said the 30 per cent sewerage cess on the total bill was too much and they would surely cut it.They will also bring down the commercial, industrial and institutional rates. “We will propose to bring down all commercial water rates and if possible actual water meter charges be taken from consumers. It will also save water. The rates will be decided in the House,” Devshali added.The MC House meeting is expected next week. Once the House passes an agenda, it will go to the UT Administration for the final approval. Previously, the House resolution of reducing the water rates was sent to the Administration, which asked the MC to reconsider it.This will be the third agenda to be sent to the Administration by the BJP-ruled MC. Residents and opposition leaders have already been criticising the hike as “too much”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/domestic-water-rate-in-third-slab-expected-to-come-down-219262
02-03-2021||---||Insurance firm penalised for reducing car accident claim||Chandigarh, March 1  The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has penalised an insurance firm for reducing car accident claim. Finding the excuses given by the company unsubstantiated, the commission has directed it to pay Rs57,192 to a consumer, along with interest @ 8 per cent per annum. The commission also directed the firm to pay Rs15,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs10,000 as cost of litigation to the consumer. Krishna Verma, a Panchkula resident, approached the commission after he was denied the full car accident claim. Krishna said he purchased a Ford Figo Aspire car on August 17, 2015, from a dealer in Chandigarh. He got the car insured from United India Insurance Company Limited from August 17, 2016 to August 16, 2017. His car met with an accident on March 10, 2017, and the matter was reported to the insurance firm. There was a delay in deputing the surveyor on one pretext or the other. The final bill of Rs3,10,281 was raised. However, the insurance firm did not pay the entire bill. The complainant said he had to pay Rs57,192 to the dealer from his own pocket. He filed a complaint before the commission for directing the company to pay Rs57,192, along with a compensation of Rs1 lakh, and Rs25,000 as litigation expenses. The firm denied the charges on pleas that the complainant got some parts replaced that were actually not damaged in the accident. Therefore, the amount had to be reduced as the work was done by the complainant beyond the damage caused. After hearing the arguments, the commission said in order to substantiate the claim by the insurance company, an affidavit of the service centre was not obtained that extra parts were replaced on the complainant’s request that were in fact not damaged. Even the written statement of the insurance company itself was vague one and no description of those parts had been mentioned. In view of the discussion, the complaint succeeds and the company is directed to pay Rs57,192 to the complainant, along with interest @ 8 per cent per annum from the date of making such payment by him i.e. June 19, 2017 till realisation. The company is also directed to pay Rs15,000 as compensation and Rs10,000 as costs of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insurance-firm-penalised-for-reducing-car-accident-claim-219263
02-03-2021||---||Elderly arrested for sexually assaulting boy||Panchkula, March 1A four-year-old boy was allegedly sexually assaulted by an elderly man, who was known to the victim, in Sector 20 on Sunday afternoon.The incident reportedly took place between 2 pm and 4 pm. The victim was playing nearby his house when the suspect took him to a secluded green area and assaulted him.The victim confided in his mother upon returning home. She then approached the police station to report the incident. The matter was subsequently forwarded to the women police station.A case under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered.The suspect was arrested, but his identity had not been revealed. “The statement of the victim was recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. He is under medical observation and CCTV cameras installed near the crime spot are being inspected,” said a senior police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-boy-219264
02-03-2021||---||Carts continue to lift waste from most houses in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 1Though the second phase of the household garbage collection through MC’s two-bin vehicles started today, yet old practice of lifting waste through carts also continued at many places.Baring Sectors 24 and 38, most residents in other sectors said carts lifted waste from their houses. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “These are teething problems. Gradually all area will be covered in a phased manner through two-bin vehicles.”The Sector 48 RWA president, JJ Singh, said, “Carts lifted waste from houses today, but the area councillor has told us that vehicles will start coming soon for collecting waste.”From today onwards, the Municipal Corporation (MC) claimed to have deployed 70 more vehicles in southern sectors, including Sectors 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 38 West, 46, 47 and 48. But, these vehicles were not seen in all areas.“In the third phase, remaining sectors will be covered in a week or so,” said MC officials.Earlier, Mayor Ravi Kant today flagged off the second phase of the door-to-door waste collection through MC vehicles near Mahila Bhawan, Sector 38.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carts-continue-to-lift-waste-from-most-houses-in-chandigarh-219265
02-03-2021||Panchkula||TGT (Eng) aspirants protest||Candidates selected in the TGT (English) recruitment, which has been cancelled by the state government, staged a protest today. They demanded their recruitment.While they were marching to lay siege to the Vidhan Sabha secretariat in Chandigarh, they were stopped by the police at Yavnika Garden here.Talking to the protesters, a police official said: “You don’t have the required permission. First apply for it with the local police.”Sandeep Das, state president of the TGT/PGT Patra Adhyapak Sangh, Haryana, said: “We are protesting the oppressive policies of the government. This is just a beginning. We will intensify our protest during the upcoming budget session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha. The Khattar government should withdraw its decision of cancellation of TGT English recruitment (9/2015) after six years.’’Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU, Chaduni) also joined in the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tgt-eng-aspirants-protest-219266
02-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Post-privilege motion threat, IAS officers regret, apologise||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 1After a Haryana Assembly Committee on Public Undertakings (COPU) threatened to move privilege motion against two IAS officers over giving “misleading” information, one IAS expressed “regret” and another “apologised”.The issue pertained to a complaint regarding installing old transformers in a new 66 KVA substation at Taprian village in Panchkula district.When the members of COPU visited Taprian village on September 30, 2020, then Managing Director (MD), Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL), Mohammed Shayin, told them that as per their “policy” old transformers were used again if they were working to their capacity.During proceedings before the COPU, dated October 12, 2020, which was chaired by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, then Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Power, TC Gupta said as per a “policy”, spare items were being used at places where there was lesser load, instead of selling them in scrap.The Speaker told him to verify the facts before giving any statement before the committee and asked him to submit a copy of the “policy”. Shayin said they would place the copy before the COPU.When no copy of the “policy” came, the COPU wrote to HVPNL on November 12, 2020, to submit it within seven days. However, on December 14, 2020, HVPNL wrote, “No specific policy for utilisation of spare 12.5/16MVA, 66/11KVT/Fs at new HVPNL substation is available on record. However, a policy for utilisation of spare transformers at new substations will be put up in next BoDs (Board of Directors) meeting at HVPNL.”During a meeting on January 28 this year, chairperson of COPU Aseem Goyal said that a committee of the Assembly was like a “mini-House” and top officials of the Power Department gave wrong statements in the name of transformers policy when the Speaker was himself chairing the meeting. Member MLAs Mohan Lal Badoli, Chiranjeevi Rao and Kuldeep Vats, called for sending the matter to the Privilege Committee.The matter was referred to the Speaker for taking action. He called for a personal hearing of both the IAS officers.On February 11, expressing “regret”, TC Gupta told the COPU that the situation had arisen due to inadvertent use of the word “policy” instead of “practice”. “The word ‘Policy’ was used by me on the briefing and written communications of the officers of HVPNL which was personally explained to your good self during the meeting. It is humbly submitted that a ‘practice’ repeatedly used may also be called a ‘Policy’,” said his letter to Speaker, dated February 11.Shayin apologised and in a letter dated February 22 to Speaker he said the use of the word “Policy” vis-a-vis “Practice” was a common practice in HVPNL. He assured that attention would be paid to such “minute details”.Powers of Assembly committeeThe issue pertained to a complaint regarding installing old transformers in a new 66 kVA substation at Taprian village in Panchkula district. During a meeting on January 28, chairperson of COPU Aseem Goyal said a committee of the Assembly was like a “mini-House” and top officials of the Power Department gave wrong statements in the name of transformers policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/post-privilege-motion-threat-ias-officers-regret-apologise-219277
02-03-2021||Mohali||Nigerian among 2 held with heroin||Tree Branches catch firePatiala: Discarded tree branches and twigs lying near Malwa Cinema caught fire on Monday afternoon. No one was hurt in the incident. Fire officials said they received information about the fire around 2.25 pm after which a fire engine was sent to the site. The blaze was doused in time.City rly station gets New supdtChandigarh: JP Singh took over as new Station Superintendent of Chandigarh Railway Station on Monday. Before joining as Station Superintendent, he worked as Traffic Inspector, Chandigarh, and was looking after the Ambala-Kalka section. He has 31 years of working experience in the Railways. TNS2 theft incidents in chandigarhChandigarh: Two theft incidents were reported from the city. In an incident, complainant Sandeep Duhan, a resident of Nayagaon, reported that an unknown person stole eight mobile phones from the dicky of an Activa scooter parked outside Chandigarh Club, Sector 1. In another incident, a woman reported that someone broke the windowpane of her car parked at the Leisure Valley parking in Sector 10 and stole her handbag containing Rs1,500, ATM cards and documents. The police have registered cases. TNSMobile phone, cash snatchedChandigarh: Three scooter-borne miscreants snatched a mobile phone and cash from a man at Maloya. Complainant Brijesh, a resident of Mohali, reported that three unknown persons sped away after snatching his cellphone and Rs1,200 near Snehalaya. The police have registered a case. TNSRohtak native held with pistolLalru: The police have nabbed a Rohtak resident with a country-made pistol and two live rounds on February 26. The suspect, identified as Vijay Kundu, has been booked under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Lalru police station. The suspect was produced before a court, which remanded him in three-day police custody. TNSShooting: Harsh brings laurelsChandigarh: Harsh Singla, a student of St Anne’s Convent School, Sector 32, claimed six gold, five silver and two bronze medals in the 10m and 50m rifle events during the 45th Chandigarh State Shooting Championship at Patiala Ki Rao Shooting Range. TNSMP lead medal tally in WushuChandigarh: Madhya Pradesh led the medal tally with 16 medals, while SSCB stood at the second position with nine medals in the ongoing 29th Senior National Wushu Championship at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. Team Madhya Pradesh continued to dominate the medal tally in the taolu event with a total of 16 medals - six gold, five silver and five bronze medals. In the women’s sanda category, Priyanka from the ITBP beat Ekta Rosa Tirkey 2-0 in the 45kg weight category, while Savita from Haryana beat Maulikta 2-0 in the 65kg weight category. In the men’s category, Parveen from the SSCB defeated Kushal Kumar from Air Force 2-1 in the 48kg weight group and Sandeep Kundu from Chandigarh beat Sapam Sanahal Singh from the BSF 1-0 in the 90kg weight category. TNSGovt school in virtual toy fairChandigarh: Government Girls Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 18, here, is taking part in the first-ever virtual toy fair. The school is proud participant for the first time as an exhibitor in the virtual Indian Toy Fair - 2021 being held from February 27 to March 2, said Principal Raj Bala. She said the school was participating in several following categories. To clear concepts of science and maths such as force, pressure, gravity and different arithmetic operations, these toys were helpful in making children learn in a fun way. In all, 25 toys from the school were being showcased during the virtual toy fair. TNSShiv Sena Hind chief ‘assaulted’Mohali: National president of Shiv Sena Hind Nishant Sharma on Monday alleged that a few hardliners and supporters of the Khalistan movement attacked him and raised slogans in support of Jagtar Hawara near the Mohali SSP’s office. Sharma lodged a complaint with Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh. The police said they were looking into the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nigerian-among-2-held-with-heroin-219282
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sandhu takes over as NCC Addl Director General||Major-General JS Sandhu took over as the 8th Additional Director-General (ADG) of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate here today.In his 36 years of service, he has carried out staff and command assignments, including tenures in active operational areas. He holds multiple military academic qualifications, including command of a Rashtriya Rifles Battalion, an Infantry Brigade in Jammu and Kashmir and an Infantry Division along the western borders. He has been awarded with the Ati Vishist Seva Medal for distinguished service. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sandhu-takes-over-as-ncc-addl-director-general-219359
