03-03-2021||Chandigarh||12 more coronavirus deaths in Punjab, 778 new cases; Haryana reports zero COVID-related deaths||The COVID-19 infection tally in Punjab climbed to 1,84,310 with 778 new cases reported on Wednesday while 12 more deaths pushed the toll to 5,872, according to a medical bulletin.Punjab has been seeing an upswing in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases for the past three weeks. The number of active cases also jumped from 5,198 on Tuesday to 5,593 as of now.Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar reported the maximum of 108 cases followed by Jalandhar with 96, Patiala with 80, among new cases that surfaced in the state.A total of 365 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,72,845, as per the bulletin.There are 14 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 99 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 50,69,381 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.In neighbouring Haryana, the state recorded 240 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,71,365, a health department bulletin said.With no coronavirus related fatality during the past 24 hours, the total COVID-19 deaths in the state remained at 3,052, according to the bulletin.Fresh cases were reported from districts, including Gurugram and Karnal, with 44 infections each.The number of active cases in the state were 1,470. The recovery rate was 98.33 percent, it stated.Meanwhile, the Union territory of Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 56 more coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 21,962, a medical bulletin stated.The death of a 79-year-old woman took the toll in the UT to 355, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 472 on Tuesday to 503 as of now, as per the bulletin.A total of 24 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 21,104, as per the bulletin.A total of 2,59,793 samples have been taken for testing so far and 2,36,870 of them tested negative while reports of 108 samples were still awaited, the bulletin stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-more-coronavirus-deaths-in-punjab-778-new-cases-haryana-reports-zero-covid-related-deaths-220098
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Online workshop on immunity||Seasia Group honours staffChandigarh: The Seasia Group of Companies, having presence in Mohali, hosted an event here to appreciate its top leaders who led the organisation to gain exceptional business revenues last year. The top five leaders were gifted luxury cars. Seasia, one of the North's software development company, has its offices in six countries and serves its clients globally. The event was headed by RP Singh, CEO, Seasia Group of Companies. TNSCRA secretary felicitatedChandigarh: Rajiv Sharma, Secretary, Chandigarh Rowing Association (CRA), was honoured at the concluding ceremony of 32 National Road Safety Month by DIG Omvir Singh Bishnoi. The function was organised by the traffic police at Chitkara Auditorium, Sector 25. TNSWoman arrested with poppy huskMohali: The police have arrested a woman with 7-kg poppy husk near the sports complex in Sohana. The suspect, Suman Kumari, has been booked under the NDPS Act. She was produced before a court, which sent her to one-day police custody. The police said the woman was nabbed while she was on her way to deliver the contraband to her customers. TNSHoligans Chanalo win football titleChandigarh: Holigans Chanalo FC defeated IFC, Sector 38, by a solitary goal to win the Open Football Tournament at Wunder School, New Chandigarh. Earlier in the semi-finals, IFC-38 defeated 56FC by 1-0 and Holigans Chanalo FC defeated 24FC by 1-0. Doon Academy won the U-14 title by defeating BBFS 3-0. BBFS defeated Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22, by 1-0 and Doon Academy logged 1-0 win over Youth United in the semi-finals. TNSJashan shines in YJR victoryMohali: Jashan Beniwal scored a quick-fire 78 off 34 balls, including 16 boundaries and one six, and also claimed three wickets to help YJR Cricket Academy defeat Kalsi Cricket Academy, Mohali, by nine wickets in the 1st DP Azad U-17 Cup in Dera Bassi. Batting first, Kalsi Cricket Academy posted 141/9 in 40 overs. In reply, YJR Cricket Academy won the match with the help of Beniwal’s unbeaten 78 runs and Saksham’s unbeaten innings of 56 runs. TNSPradhuman gets charge of RLAChandigarh: In a minor reshuffle, the UT Administration has appointed Pradhuman Singh, an HCS officer who recently joined the UT, as the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) officer, Project Director of Beant Singh Memorial and Joint Secretary, Agriculture. HCS officers Virat and Radhika Singh, who were earlier holding the additional charges, have been relieved of the said responsibilities. Rakesh Kumar Popli has also been relieved of the charge of Chief General Manager, CITCO. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-workshop-on-immunity-219953
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination: Beneficiary count doubles on Day 2, but glitches continue||Technical glitches and increased waiting time marred the second day of the vaccination programme for citizens above 60 years of age and those aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities. Despite the technical issues, the vaccination numbers of the new priority group shot up to 1,119, registering an increase of over 100 per cent.Neeta, a city resident, said, “I went to Dharma Hospital and there was a long waiting with 25 people in the queue. Registration is a major problem on the portal.”Another resident, Nayantara, said, “I had gone to the Civil Hospital, Sector 45, for my parents. Since the server was down, the vaccination centre was crowded. Having CoWIN-generated IDs in your phone makes no difference. Elderly are made to sit for hours for the vaccination.”Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “There is still some portal issue due to which the vaccination is slow and the elderly have to wait for hours, which is leading to crowding at centres. We have decided not to proceed further with the inoculation of the beneficiary if the portal stops to function because we cannot generate offline data.”“The response is quite good, but I would urge the citizens to be a little patient till the portal issues are resolved,” she said.For the ease and benefit of citizens, the PGI is starting one more Covid vaccination centre from tomorrow at its Covid hospital (Nehru Hospital Extension). This vaccination centre will cater to the eligible citizen beneficiaries having appointments through the CoWIN portal.For the initial few days, walk-ins will be allowed till the appointment slots on the portal become functional.The vaccination centre timings are from 10 am to 4 pm on working weekdays and from 10 am to 1 pm on working Saturdays. The other two Covid vaccination centres at the PGI (APC and Lecture Theatre) will continue to serve healthcare workers only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-beneficiary-count-doubles-on-day-2-but-glitches-continue-219628
03-03-2021||Panchkula||Elderly return home without jab in Panchkula||The slow pace of vaccination irked senior citizens, some of whom could be seen returning home without getting the jab due to the intermittent closure of the CoWIN portal at the Civil Hospital here today.Many senior citizens, who did not get the jab yesterday and had come to the hospital this morning, had to return home again without getting the vaccine as the portal closed in the afternoon.Will fix portal issue, says Civil SurgeonThe Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said the CoWIN portal was slowing down at times due to a huge rush for registration for the vaccination. She said there was only one portal across the country and added that the issue would be resolved in the next few days.A total of 11 centres had been set up in Panchkula district today and 581 persons, including 266 senior citizens and five aged 45 to 60 with comorbidities, were vaccinated.No social distancing was maintained as a large number of people could be seen standing in long queues. Senior citizens said the Health Department should have made proper arrangements for seating of the elderly keeping in view the huge rush.Rakesh Agarwal, a resident of Sector 12, said he, along with his family, had been visiting the hospital for the past two days, but had to return without getting the vaccine due to an issue with the CoWIN portal. He said he informed the Civil Surgeon as well as the Deputy Commissioner in this regard.The Health Department had set a target of giving the jab to 1,100 persons. A total of 581 workers were vaccinated today of whom 238 were healthcare workers (HCWs). As many as 210 HCWs got the second dose, while 28 got the jab for the first time. Of the 72 frontline workers (FLWs), 50 got the first dose, while 22 got the second dose.A total of 12,048 workers have been given the jab in the district so far. Of the 6,462 HCWs, 4,402 had been given the first dose, while 2,060 have got the second jab. Similarly, 5,586 FLWs have got the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-return-home-without-jab-in-panchkula-219629
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh witnesses one death, 67 cases||1 more succumbs in Mohali districtMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the toll in the Mohali district to 386. Meanwhile, 48 fresh cases surfaced in the district till Tuesday evening while 18 more patients recovered from the virus. While 46 cases came from Mohali (urban), two cases were reported from Dera Bassi. — TNS17 more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: Seventeen fresh cases of Covid have surfaced in the district. However, no new death was reported till Tuesday evening. A case each was reported from Sector 11, 12-A, 14 and 15, two each from DLF Valley and Sector 17 and 21, three from Sector 2 and four from Sector 8. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-one-death-67-cases-219652
03-03-2021||Mohali||397 take the shot in Mohali||About 397 persons — 344 senior citizens and 53 persons aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities — were administered Covid vaccine at seven government hospitals and 29 private hospitals of the district today.Vaccination of senior citizens and persons with comorbidity was carried out in all seven hospitals today. Yesterday, only 79 senior citizens and four persons with comorbidity had received the jab at the Civil Hospital. Reviewing the status of the third round of vaccination, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said a total of 480 persons, include 423 senior citizens and 57 persons with comorbidity, had been vaccinated in the district. To contain the virus, it was imperative that people come forward for vaccination without believing in rumours, he added.Dayalan said Major KS Dhillon (Retd), an octogenarian, came forward voluntarily for inoculation at Fortis Hospital and received the jab. He also appreciated Dhillon’s gesture via a tweet. He said Dhillon was in good health and encouraging others to get vaccinated.Major Dhillon had fought a war against Pakistan in 1965. He had then led a detachment of tanks and was badly wounded in the combat. He has braved stage 4 cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma.The DC said 5,633 healthcare workers and 3,816 frontline workers have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district. He said there was no need to hesitate from getting jabbed.Meanwhile, senior citizens have started approaching the Civil Hospital, Kharar, for vaccination. Manohar Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Kharar, said 10 citizens came to the hospital after getting themselves registered online and they were given shots of Covashield. They were kept under observation for an hour in the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/397-take-the-shot-in-mohali-219664
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Nine booked in property grab case, two arrested||Nine persons, including liquor baron Arvind Singla, a brother of a UT DSP and a journalist, have been booked by the UT police on several charges, including property grab. Two of the accused, including the journalist, have been arrested in the case.A case under Sections 452, 331, 344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 473, 474, 477 and 120-B of IPC has been registered against Singla, Satpal Dagar (brother of the DSP), Khalendra Singh Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh Gupta, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar, Daljit Singh, Sanjeev Mahajan (journalist) and others, on the basis of an inquiry conducted by DSP Devinder Kumar Sharma. According to the police, a 338 sq yard house in Sector 37 belongs to Rahul Mehta. Rahul’s parents and brother have passed away and he is the legal heir and owner of the house.One of the accused, a bouncer, was shotOne of the accused named in the FIR, Surjit Singh, a resident of Sector 38 (West), was returning home when he was shot dead near his house in March last year. Surjit, who was a bouncer for almost 15 years, had turned into a financier.The police claimed that Rahul’s health condition was not good following which the accused took advantage of his ailment and hatched a conspiracy to grab his house.Liquor baron was in news last yearArvind Singla was in the news last year when five assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at his brother Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33. The assailants had come looking for Arvind, who is an established liquor contractor.The police said Rahul, who is at present at Apna Ghar Ashram in Bharatpur, Rajashthan, joined the inquiry and stated that in April/May 2017, Surjit, Sukhbir, alias Bittu, Khalli, Sanjeev and others forcibly entered his house and occupied the upper floor of his house. The police claimed that the accused allegedly confined Rahul to a room of his house, tortured him and got the General Power of Attorney (GPA) of the house executed in favour of Arvind Singla and Khalendra Singh Kadiyan.Meeting on deal held at DSP’s officeAs per the FIR, a meeting regarding the deal of the house was also held at the DSP’s office, whose brother is an accused in the case.They also got his signatures forcibly on blank papers and blank cheques.The police said that during the inquiry, it was found that in June/July 2017, Surjit and the others took Rahul to Bhuj in Gujarat and confined him to a stud farm, owned by Abdul Karim, for over a month.Later, Abdul Karim got Rahul admitted to Shri Ramdev Seva Ashram, Bhuj. After that, he was shifted to Shraddha Foundation, Karjat, Maharashtra, and further to Apna Ghar Ashram, Delhi. Thereafter, he was shifted to Apna Ghar Ashram, Rajasthan.The police said Rahul stated that he had never sold his house. According to the police, it was found that the accused prepared fake documents and executed a sale deed on March 1, 2019, in favour of Saurabh Gupta by presenting Rahul’s proxy before the Sub-Registrar, Estate Office, Chandigarh, whereas on the date of the sale deed, Rahul was at Apna Ghar in Rajasthan and he never came to Chandigarh for the purpose of cancellation of the GPA or execution of the sale deed.During the course of the investigation, Sanjeev and Manish, a builder, were arrested and produced before a court today, which remanded them in three-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-booked-in-property-grab-case-two-arrested-219680
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||GST collection dips 14% in Chandigarh||Despite the opening up of the economy post-pandemic, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection dipped 14 per cent in the UT in February.According to the Finance Ministry, the GST collection in the UT stood at Rs148.5 crore in February, which was 14 per cent less in comparison to the revenue of Rs172.37 crore received during the corresponding period last year.However, the neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab clocked 6 per cent growth in the gross GST collection in February this year.The Finance Ministry did not release the state-wise data of GST revenue during January 2021.The gross GST collection in the UT stood at Rs158 crore in December 2020, which was 6 per cent less in comparison to Rs168 crore, the revenue received during the corresponding period in 2019.An official said in December 2020, the Excise and Taxation Department had received Rs17 crore more than the previous month of November 2020. In November last year, the tax collection stood at Rs141 crore, which was 14 per cent less in comparison to Rs165 crore, the revenue received during the same month in 2019. In October last year, the UT had collected tax to the tune of Rs151.98 crore, which was 3.21 per cent less in comparison to Rs157.02 crore, the collection made in the same month in 2019.In September 2020, the gross GST collection was 10 per cent lower than what was collected during the corresponding period in 2019.The gross tax collection in September 2020 stood at Rs141.48 crore, whereas the same month in 2019, the UT had seen GST collections of Rs156.51 crore.The UT got nearly 8 per cent more revenue in the form of gross GST collected in September 2020 in comparison to the amount received in August 2020.The gross GST collection in August last year was Rs138.52 crore, which was nearly 13 per cent less than the previous year of 2019 when Rs160.08 crore tax was collected.The official said the GST collection in July was Rs137.33 crore. Due to the imposition of the lockdown, the UT had collected a meagre revenue of Rs40.34 crore in April, which increased to Rs103.44 crore in May. However, with selective opening of various business establishments in Unlock 1.0, the revenue collection witnessed a sharp increase and the UT recorded a collection of Rs158.69 crore in June, the highest in this financial year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gst-collection-dips-14-in-chandigarh-219696
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||MC waste-lifting drive struggles to find its feet||With most collectors not willing to work as drivers in waste-lifting vehicles of the Municipal Corporation, the civic body’s garbage segregation at source and collection campaign is struggling to find its feet.Earlier, the MC had to limit its second phase launch to 12 southern sectors (Sector 31 to 38 and 46 to 48) rather than pan-city. Even in these sectors where the campaign was launched yesterday, carts are still picking waste at several places.“No vehicle came today to lift garbage. However, private garbage collectors performed this job as usual,” said Kidar Nath Sharma, president, Residents’ Welfare Federation, Sector 46-D.“Waste was picked through carts as usual. I have come to know that drivers working in MC vehicles deployed for collecting domestic waste went on a strike due to non-payment of their salary for the last month. The issue, it is learnt, now stands resolved and the vehicles will be on the job from tomorrow,” said JP Yadav, president, RWS, Sector 37-A. Similar was the feedback in Sector 35.RS Kaura, president, RWA, Sector 32, said both private waste collectors and vehicles came separately to collect waste. Sunita Sharma, MC waste-lifting drive struggles to find its feet president, RWA, Sector 47, added that no vehicle came to collect waste and it was done by old private workers only.Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said, “To avoid teething troubles, area councillors and area sanitary inspectors should interact with sector RWAs for day-to-day planning and dissemination of information.”In the first phase launched in Sectors 1-30, a total of 97 wet and dry waste two-bin vehicles were deployed by the civic body. In the second phase, 70 more vehicles were pressed into service. The existing collectors were supposed to work as drivers and collectors in the MC vehicles. With most collectors not knowing driving and others not willing to work as drivers, the corporation had to hire drivers from outside. Now, about 240 more drivers are being hired through outsourcing in the middle of the second phase and ahead of the starting of the final phase.MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora, said, “Our vehicles are lifting waste. If there are some teething problems in some sectors, these will gradually be removed. We have already floated a tender to hire more drivers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-waste-lifting-drive-struggles-to-find-its-feet-219697
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Spell out charter of duties of Vigilance office, High Court tells Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the UT Administration to come out with a charter of duties and functions of the Vigilance office. The direction came after the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh was told that the Adviser to the Administrator was currently functioning as the Chief Vigilance Officer.The submission came just over a fortnight after the Bench asked the UT Administration to elaborate whether a regular Chief Vigilance Officer was functioning in Chandigarh. The Bench had also asked the Administration and other respondents to come out with the details of a Vigilance inquiry, if pending, on a representation filed by the Marble Arch Residents Welfare Association.As the case came up for resumed hearing, UT standing counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that the inquiry was instituted in the instant case, was kept in abeyance due to a civil suit preferred before a court. He also prayed for additional time to file a detailed reply.The Bench, on the previous date of hearing, was told that that the site for M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited was auctioned for approximately Rs108 crore. In the brochure issued thereafter, it was promised that 168 flats of three/four bedrooms would be constructed in nine towers.Believing the representation, the petitioner-association purchased the flats. Possession was, thereafter, handed over to the allottees and sale deeds were also executed. As the matter was being dealt with by the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, the petitioner-association was confident that the civic body would act in a transparent manner.The petitioner’s counsel added M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited did not undertake any activity for raising flats for the economical weaker section (EWS) category. In March 2016, however, they decided to raise another tower for the construction of flats for the EWS. Even permission for this construction was granted by the authority concerned. Thereafter, the petitioner-association made representations and a Vigilance inquiry was also instituted. However, the petitioner-association had no inkling about the fate of the Vigilance inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spell-out-charter-of-duties-of-vigilance-office-high-court-tells-chandigarh-219698
03-03-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Pensioners on hunger strike||The Punjab UT Employees Pensioners Sanjha staged a dharna and started a hunger strike in front of the Deputy Commissioner office in support of their demands here on Tuesday.They said the government had promised to implement the pay commission report by December 31, 2020, which was later extended to February 28, but was still not implemented. They said if the government did not meet their demands in the current Budget session, then on March 5, the employees would hold a demonstration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pensioners-on-hunger-strike-219699
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Is order prohibiting hookah illegal?||The Punjab and Haryana High Court will adjudicate whether the order passed by the UT District Magistrate against the serving of hookah for smoking in hotels, restaurants, taverns and bars is illegal, without jurisdiction, against the principle of natural justice, unconstitutional and not binding.What petitioner saysThe Bench was told that the action of the respondent-District Magistrate was creating impediment in carrying out without hindrance occupation/trade, which was a right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India.The Bench will also decide whether the order is violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution dealing with right to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. The matter was raised before the High Court by Leela Verma through counsel Raj Kumar Gupta, Ashish Gupta, BS Bajwa and Abhishek Kharab challenging the order passed by the UT District Magistrate against the serving of hookah.The Bench was told that the action of the respondent-District Magistrate was creating impediment in carrying out without hindrance occupation/trade, which was a right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India.“The petitioner, who after obtaining the requisite permissions and paying hefty charges to the administration for such licences, are having full right to carry on their business as per the law, without any hindrance,” the Bench was told.Taking up the matter, the Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri issued a notice of motion to the UT Administration and other respondents. The Bench also fixed the case for further hearing in May first week.The Bench was told during the course of proceedings that the order was not only contrary to the provisions of Section 144 of the CrPC, but also in contravention to the guidelines as issued by the Union Ministry of Home affairs from time to time.Going into the details, the petitioner submitted hookahs were having a “long historical background”. Reliable theories suggested it was invented in medieval India. Since then, it was being used not only in India, but other parts of world.The natural tobacco hardly having 0.05 per cent nicotine was being used in a traditional hookah, which had no content of tar. Instead of lighting the tobacco directly, the hookah was fitted with a cup holding water which took away the harmful elements from the smoke so produced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/is-order-prohibiting-hookah-illegal-219700
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Cultural evening at Chandigarh's PGI Chowk in support of farmers||Members of civil society, student organisations and local farmer unions today held a cultural evening at PGI Chowk in support of farmers. Many from the crowd and students of Panjab University sang songs and recited poems in solidarity with the protesting farmers.More than 100 people joined in the cultural evening. Manheer, Jagjeet Kaur Nikki, Antarpreet Singh, Sukhwinder Sukhi, Ammy Singh, Rajwant Kaur, Parmveer Singh, Ammy Gill recited their respective progressive and revolutionary poems and songs. Slogans were raised in favour of protest and against the brutality of the Modi government on farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cultural-evening-at-chandigarhs-pgi-chowk-in-support-of-farmers-219701
03-03-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Samples taken to check road material quality||A team of the Mohali Vigilance Bureau investigated newly constructed roads with interlock tiles in the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council.The team collected the samples of interlock tiles and checked the material. The investigation was initiated after the complaint of Darshan Modi, a resident of Sirhind.He had alleged that a sewerage pipeline was laid from the BDPO office, Sirhind, to the Nagar Council office. A reinforced cement concrete road was to be constructed on it, but sewerage board officials allegedly constructed the road of interlock tiles. Not only this, the material used in the road was of very poor quality, he said.The technical team said tiles at several places were inspected and the samples would be sent to a lab for examination and action would be initiated only after getting the report. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samples-taken-to-check-road-material-quality-219702
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amid wartime tales, a trip down memory lane||Between tales of wartime flying and unforgettable personal anecdotes, for members of the Indian Air Force’s 97th pilots course and 36th navigators course, it was a boisterous trip down the memory lane as they got together for a three-day reunion here today.On the outset, tributes were paid to Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, the IAF’s sole recipient of Param Vir Chakra, the nation’s highest award for gallantry, who belonged to this course. He was serving with No. 18 Squadron and had taken on four intruding Pakistani Sabre jets over Srinagar in the 1971 war.Flying on the edge of atmosphereAir Vice-Marshal JS Grewal, a former Commanding Officer of No.102 Squadron, the only unit to have operated the trisonic MiG-25 Foxbat high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft, reminisced the surreal experience of flying on the edge of the atmosphere at the heights of over 90,000 feet and an average cruising speed of Mach 2.5.Group Capt Balraj Rathee, who was present at the airfield on the day the air duel had taken place, recalled the sequence of events and Sekhon’s action in shooting down two Pakistani jets before his aircraft got hit.Air Vice-Marshal JS Grewal, a former Commanding Officer of No.102 Squadron, the only unit to have operated the trisonic MiG-25 Foxbat high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft, reminisced the surreal experience of flying on the edge of the atmosphere at the heights of over 90,000 feet and an average cruising speed of Mach 2.5. The aircraft had undertaken many secret and strategically critical missions during its service with the IAF from 1981 to 2006.A navigator with the Canberra bomber during the 1971 Indo-Pak war, Gp Capt PS Cheema had the opportunity of flying missions both on the eastern as well as the western front, carrying out bombing raids deep into enemy territory.At the age of 75, Wg Cdr Kamal Nath is still an active flier and has a record logging 29,000 flying hours, both with the IAF and later in civil aviation. A certified examiner, he is happy that he will continue to remain in the cockpit for some more time. Starting off with the propeller engine DC-3, he moved on to fly the IL-76 strategic freighter, then the largest aircraft in the IAF’s inventory.Squadron Leader GS Jawandha said the course had passed out in June 1967, with 168 pilots and 27 navigators along with three foreign officers, two from Yemen and one from Nigeria. Two course members made it to the highest level of the IAF, becoming Air Officers Commanding-in-Chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-wartime-tales-a-trip-down-memory-lane-219703
03-03-2021||Dera Bassi||PSPCL cuts Dera Bassi Sewa Kendra connection||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) today cut off the electricity connection of Sewa Kendra situated near the tehsil complex here. Officials have snapped the electricity connections of more than 200 defaulting consumers in the past 10 days.The list of defaulters includes the office of Dera Bassi SDM that has an outstanding amount of nearly Rs 60 lakh.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said: ‘’Owing to some load division matter in the complex, there is a slight problem. We cleared Rs 20-lakh bill sometime back. This will be resolved shortly.’’A PSPCL official said the Sewa Kendra’s bill for the past one and a half years had not been paid and the arrears had piled up to about Rs 2.5 lakh. Hundreds of local residents visit the centre daily for various services as well as online payment facility.The PSPCL officials said despite repeated reminders, the Sewa Kendra officials were not paying the bill following which their power connection was cut today. It will be restored once the bill is paid, they said.For the last 10 days, the department has launched a special campaign against the defaulters. It will continue in March as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pspcl-cuts-dera-bassi-sewa-kendra-connection-219704
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University honours Covid warriors||Sanjay Beniwal, Director General of Police (DGP), Chandigarh, interacted with students on the occasion of International Women’s Day, organised by Florence Nightingale Girls Hostel No. 8 in collaboration with the National Service Scheme, Panjab University, here.Beniwal said the day was significant more for males than for females. Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, said women played a pivotal role in shaping society. Dr Gaurav Gaur, NSS, PU, conducted the programme for honouring Covid-19 warriors, 20 women and two men, and each one was given a plaque of recognition for their work during the lockdown period by Beniwal and the Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-honours-covid-warriors-219705
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Reflectors to be fixed on 3K rehris, rickshaws in Chandigarh||ArriveSAFE, an NGO, and the Chandigarh Traffic Police started a three-day awareness campaign to make users of non-motorised vehicles (NMVs) such as cycles, rickshaws and rehris aware about the consequences of drunken driving and to increase their visibility. High quality reflectors will be put on 3,000 NMVs.Harman Singh Sidhu, president of ArriveSAFE, said: “Most awareness campaigns and enforcement drives target drivers of motorised vehicles leaving this segment of road users to fend for themselves. Though drunk cyclists are not challaned under the Motor Vehicle Act, they are at a greater risk of losing life or getting life altering injury in case of a crash, hence this campaign.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reflectors-to-be-fixed-on-3k-rehris-rickshaws-in-chandigarh-219706
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||PGI doctors remove screw from 4-year-old||A team of doctors of the PGI here retrieved a piece of almond and a metallic screw from two toddlers.A two-year-old boy was referred to the paediatric emergency on February 22 from Panipat with a sudden onset of coughing and difficulty in breathing after eating almonds five days ago. He was immediately taken up for rigid bronchoscopy under general anaesthesia where an endoscope is passed into the airway and the foreign body (almond piece) was retrieved from the left bronchus (windpipe).Prof Ram Samujh, Head of Department of Paediatric Surgery, PGI, and his team of Dr Nitin J Peters, Dr Manasa Reddy and Dr Amit K Rai performed the procedure.Anaesthesia was administered by Dr Anudeep Jafra and her team. Another four-year-old boy was referred the next day with a screw in the right main bronchus, which, too, was retrieved using the same procedure by Dr Nitin J Peters, Assistant Professor, Department of Paediatric Surgery. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-doctors-remove-screw-from-4-year-old-219707
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh plans to improve telecom service quality||With a view to strengthening the quality of telecom services, the UT Administration has notified its right of way (RoW) policy - 2021 to regulate underground and overhead (mobile tower) infrastructure.This policy intends to promote installation of in-build solution (IBS) in areas with poor connectivity in terms of weak signal strength inside offices, shopping malls, hospitals, multi- storey buildings and education institutions. Policy at a glanceThe policy also intends to promote installation of micro communication equipment or pole where installation of mobile towers may not be feasible.To ease out the process of obtaining permission for installation of telecom infrastructure, the Additional District Magistrate has been designated as the empowered authority.Further, the Department of Information Technology will develop a single-window electronic application process within a period of six months from the date of coming into force of this policy for submission of all applications relating to right of way.Other departments/local authorities or agencies involved in the present policy will appoint a nodal officer within a period of seven days from the date of notification of this policy to receive and process the applications in this regard. The particulars and contact details of such nodal officers will be published on the website of such department/local authority or agency.The licensee/applicant will submit application with all relevant information and documents to the appropriate authority, which will issue permit/permission to the licensee/applicant.Mobile communication tower being a critical infrastructure, the Energy Department will give a priority in providing power connection to mobile towers and telecom equipment installations. It will be provided within 14 days from the date of submission of application and relevant documents. Power distribution companies should ensure that disconnection of power, if required, is executed with prior written notice of at least 30 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-plans-to-improve-telecom-service-quality-219708
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||CHB to decide on waiving rent for pre-fab shelter occupants||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will take a decision on waiving off outstanding rent from residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 who were later allotted houses in Maloya under the Affordable Rental Housing Scheme of the Centre.The decision will be taken in a meeting of the Board of Directors of the CHB scheduled to be held on March 8.An official said the issue to recover outstanding dues on account of rent and interest at the rate of 12 per cent on the outstanding payment of rent in respect of pre-fab shelters allotted in Sector 52 and 56 would come up for discussion in the meeting among other issues.The official said if the Board decides against waiving off the rent, then it would have to suggest ways on how to recover the outstanding amount from nearly 1,700 families that have been relocated to two-room flats with kitchen, bath and toilet and balcony in Maloya on monthly rent of Rs3,000.The Board would also take a decision on extending the penalty scheme for need-based changes in CHB dwelling units. The issue of fixing the reserve price and terms and conditions of vacant commercial and residential properties to be put up for auction would be placed before the Board. The CHB has proposed to auction 270 properties, including 109 residential units on freehold basis, 11 residential units on leasehold basis and 150 commercial units on leasehold basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-decide-on-waiving-rent-for-pre-fab-shelter-occupants-219709
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Development charges, taxes reduced in Panchkula||To woo potential real estate investors, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced that various developmental charges and taxes had been reduced by almost one-third in Panchkula district, bringing them on a par with Mohali and Zirakpur.Khattar, while addressing a press conference here, said: “The decision to bring down the external development charges (EDC) and infrastructure development charges (IDC) on a par with Mohali and Zirakpur has been taken to ensure overall development of Panchkula and to develop it as a Smart City, tourist destination and an education hub.”The EDC/IDC rates for the residential-plot colony have now been reduced from Rs1.24 crore per acre to Rs43.72 lakh per acre. Likewise, EDC/IDC rates for the residential group housing colony have been reduced from Rs3.46 crore per acre to Rs1.17 crore per acre.The Chief Minister announced that the rates for the commercial colonies had been reduced from Rs5.88 crore per acre to Rs1.52 crore per acre.The Chief Minister further announced that the rates for the affordable group housing colony had been reduced from Rs89.11 lakh per acre to Rs38.87 lakh per acre.“The EDC/IDC rates for warehouse/ cold storage have now been fixed at Rs14.30 lakh per acre, while earlier the same were Rs2.96 crore per acre. Similarly, the rates for the industry have been fixed at Rs 14.30 lakh per acre,” said the Chief Minister.“The rates for institutions have been reduced to Rs8.68 lakh per acre and for marriage palaces/banquet halls/ hotels, they have been reduced to Rs25.26 lakh per acre,” said he.The EDC/IDC rates for petrol pumps have been reduced from Rs3.42 crore per acre to Rs43.29 lakh per acre. The rates for hospitals have been fixed at Rs17.31 lakh per acre, while earlier the same was Rs77 lakh per acre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/development-charges-taxes-reduced-in-panchkula-219710
03-03-2021||Panchkula||Plant saplings around dumping ground, says NGT panel chairman||Retired Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and chairman of the NGT Executive Committee Justice Pritam Pal (retd) inspected the garbage dumping ground in Sector 23 here today. He directed the authorities concerned to plant trees around the dumping ground to keep its surroundings clean.Justice Pritam Pal (retd) was accompanied by NGT committee member Urvashi Gulati, MC Commissioner RK Singh, Kalka SDM Rakesh Sandhu and officials of various departments. Justice Pal (retd) also instructed officials concerned to plant trees to keep the area around the dumping ground clean and involve Forest Department officials for the same.The officials concerned informed the NGT Executive Committee chairman that the work of waste management at the dumping ground was being done by the MC and IND Sanitation Solutions Private Limited. They briefed him about the process of separating other items from the waste by machines. The officials informed him that a machine had been ordered from Japan to carry out waste management work more effectively and it would arrive soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plant-saplings-around-dumping-ground-says-ngt-panel-chairman-219712
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Two parallel COA bodies on the cards||In a major embarrassment, the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) may end up having two parallel bodies, for the first time in the past two decades, as power-hungry office-bearers are in no mood to pass on the baton to anyone.After COA president Amarinder Singh Bazaz called the House for elections on March 17, COA general secretary Maha Singh is now planning to go for separate elections with his supporters. In the past two days, series of meetings were held by both groups to decide on future course of action. Sources claimed that both elections may get conducted on the same day, but on different venues to stop cross-voting. Both groups have already threatened to move to court, in case they don’t get COA power.The groups, which were united till the recent fallout, have their own flaws. However, the only thing common emerged between them is their dedication to grab the power. The brazen office-bearers have perhaps never met so frequently to conduct any championship in the past 14 years.Nepotism in associationSources claimed that Maha Singh, who previously remained the general secretary, treasurer and executive member of the COA, now wanted to become its president. His group will nominate Ragumit Singh Sodhi, son of Rana Gurmit Singh, Sports Minister (Punjab) and life president (COA), as the general secretary, confirmed sources privy to the matter.Rana Gurmit, who served as the president (COA), for the longest term, had his son, Anumit Singh Sodhi, appointed as the treasurer (COA) for the past four-year term. The nepotism doesn’t end here. Notably, Maha Singh’s son Vikram Singh is the general secretary, Chandigarh Archery Association, which is headed by Bazaz. Former Patiala Mayor Bazaz, who headed the COA for four years, also wanted to re-contest for the post. In addition, there are other members who have their relatives of sons placed in one or other associations to ensure voting power. There are many office-bearers, who have members of two different associations.Who has the authority?In this swindle, questions have been raised on who has authority to call for elections — president or secretary? The COA office-bearers claim to follow their own constitution and the National Sports Development Code (2011). While the Bazaz group appointed its returning officer, the group lead by Maha Singh is yet to take some action on this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-parallel-coa-bodies-on-the-cards-219713
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Expect hotter March, April, May: IMD||The city on Tuesday recorded a maximum temperature of 27.2°C, one degree above normal, while the minimum temperature was 13.2°C, two degrees above normal. As per the forecast of the IMD released for three months, the temperature are expected to remain above normal in Chandigarh. Thus, March, April and May are expected to be hotter here. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-hotter-march-april-may-imd-219717
