04-03-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 78 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 78 more coronavirus cases which took the infection tally to 22,040, according to a medical bulletin.No COVID-19-related death was reported on Thursday. The toll stands at 355, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 503 on Wednesday to 545, it said.A total of 36 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 21,140, as per the bulletin.A total of 2,61,609 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,38,605 tested negative while reports of 113 samples are awaited, it said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-78-new-cases-in-chandigarh-220535
04-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||‘No My Lord’, says Justice Tyagi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 3“No My Lord,” says Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi. The Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge has requested advocates not to address him as “Your Lordship” or “My Lord”.A note in the list of urgent or fresh cases to be heard by Justice Tyagi makes it clear that he wants the advocates to dispense with the archaic system of addressing judges. The note says: “It is for the information of respected members of the Bar that hon’ble Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi has requested that they may avoid addressing him as `Your Lordship’ or `My Lord’ and also saying obliged and grateful”.“What else can be a better indicator of equality before the law,” says a former Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge in context of Justice Tyagi’s request to become independent from the colonial legacy so deeply engrained in the Indian justice delivery mechanism.To address or not to address the judges as “My Lords” has always been a contentious question among the advocates. Describing it as a relic of the Raj, some lawyers have all along been arguing that “My Lord” is an expression of submission. They have, rather, been demanding that the judges should honour the mandate of equality enshrined in the Constitution by doing away to with the colonial practice of addressing the judges as “My Lord” or “Your Lordship”.Available information suggests that the then Chief Justice of India, Justice HL Dattu, in 2014, had made it clear that addressing the judges as ‘Your Lordship’ was not mandatory. “When did we say it is compulsory? You can only call us in a dignified manner...Don’t address us as ‘lordship’. We don’t say anything. We only say address us respectfully,” Justice Dattu had asserted.Even before that, the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association passed a resolution to address the judges as “sir” instead of “My Lord”. The association, in April 2011, had unanimously resolved “to drop the long-pending symbol of slavery of the British rule and colonial legacy to address the honourable judges as My Lord or My Lordship or Your Lord or Your Lordship”. It was also resolved to address the judges “in accordance with the values of our Republican Constitution as sir”. The members were also asked to comply with the resolution in letter and spirit and were warned of “strict action” in case of non-compliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-my-lord-says-justice-tyagi-220103
04-03-2021||---||Police carry out search at scribe’s house in Sector 37||Chandigarh, March 3The UT police today carried out a search at the house of Sanjeev Mahajan, a journalist, who was arrested on a charge of land grab.A team, led by the ASP (South), searched Sanjeev’s house in Sector 37 in the evening.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said they were also investigating the money trail. “We have found six bank accounts of Sanjeev, which are being scrutinised”, the SSP said.The SSP said investments made by Sanjeev in the past would also be probed. Sources said the police were also gathering information about properties, if any, owned by him.Nine persons — liquor baron Arvind Singla, Satpal Dagar (brother of the DSP), Khalendra Singh Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh Gupta, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar, Daljit Singh and Sanjeev — have been booked by the police.Singla, who is yet to he arrested, had earlier joined the investigation on February 20 this year. In his statement to the police, Singla had stated that in April 2017, Ashok Arora, alias Mannu, had told him that Sanjeev had a deal regarding a house in Sector 37. Singla and Arora then met Sanjeev, who told them that his associates have the possession of the second floor of the house and they would vacate it if Singla wanted to buy it. According to Singla, he had refused to purchase the property. However, a few days later, Ashok visited his office in Sector 40 and told him that Sanjeev had sold the house to Satpal Daggar, brother of a UT DSP, for Rs2.40 crore. Singla, along with Ashok, then met Satpal and Singla offered to buy 50 per cent share of the house. However, Satpal agreed on a 33 per cent share.After finalising the deal and paying a certain amount of money, on April 27, 2017, a GPA was executed in the name of Singla and Kadiyan. Singla, in his statement to the police, claimed that he later asked for the registry to the house. However, it was not done following which he demanded his money back.After that, he arranged a meeting of Ashok and Satpal with his friend Manish Gupta, who agreed to purchase the house.The GPA was cancelled and later, the sale deed was executed in the name of Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta. According to Saurabh, who had recorded his statement with the police on February 18 this year, they had purchased the house for Rs2.90 crore.Liquor baron among 9 bookedNine persons — liquor baron Arvind Singla, Satpal Dagar (brother of the DSP), Khalendra Singh Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh Gupta, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar, Daljit Singh and Sanjeev — have been booked by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-carry-out-search-at-scribes-house-in-sector-37-220104
04-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Come April 1, pay 3% more for water in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 3Already burdened with up to a three-fold hike in the water tariff, along with 30 per cent sewerage cess, city residents will receive another blow as they will have to shell out 3 per cent more from April 1.As per a notification issued by the UT Administration, “All charges shall be automatically hiked by 3 per cent on the basis rate on the first day of every financial year, beginning April 2021.”A senior MC official said the annual hike in the rates would be implemented.Not even one year has passed since the new rates were brought into effect and now they are again going to impose the annual hike. —Baljinder Singh Bittu, Chaiarman, FOSWACOn the other hand, there has already been a hue and cry over the three-fold hike in the water rates. The Administration and the MC are yet to come up with a decision on reducing the rates. While residents have been hoping for some relaxation, yet another increase in the tariff will come as a big shock to them.“It shows the authorities are insensitive to the voice of the people,” said RK Garg, president of a city-based senior citizens’ body.After the approval by the MC House, the new increased rates had become effective from September last year following a notification by the UT Administration.“Not even one year has passed since the new rates were brought into effect and they are again going to implement the annual hike. They should have avoided it for at least the coming fiscal. They are looting people and residents are feeling harassed,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC.After facing a flak, the civic body had passed an agenda on reducing the water rates and sent it to the UT Administration for approval. However, to the dismay of city residents, the Administration, a few days ago, asked the corporation to reconsider its recent rate revision resolution. The civic body is now bringing an agenda in the House meeting on March 9 to revise the rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/come-april-1-pay-3-more-for-water-in-chandigarh-220106
04-03-2021||---||Chandigarh heritage item goes for Rs 12.58 lakh Down Under||Chandigarh, March 3In yet another auction of a city artifact, a cabinet was sold for Rs12.58 lakh at an auction at Chippendale in Australia yesterday.The cabinet, with three doors and two drawers and open shelving to the reverse, originally belonged to the High Court, said Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh.Five heritage items, including a pair of stools, a pair of chairs, easy chairs, a desk with a rectangular top upholstered in green leather and a dining table designed by Pierre Jeanneret, were auctioned for Rs38.60 lakh in Paris on February 27, he said.In 2020, in Australia, two Mughal-era gold coins were auctioned for Rs43.5 lakh, which were in the possession of the administration of the Nizam of Hyderabad, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-item-goes-for-rs-12-58-lakh-down-under-220108
04-03-2021||---||Security on mind, CHB adopts Chandigarh’s PG policy||Chandigarh, March 3In order to provide secure accommodation to students from other states, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has adopted the paying guest (PG) policy of the UT Administration.“The PG policy of the UT Administration is now applicable to residential areas or dwelling units of the CHB, subject to the fulfilment of the requisite conditions,” said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, and Chairman, CHB, said it would add to the available accommodation, especially for students coming to Chandigarh from neighboring states.“The Administration is making efforts to provide a safe and secure accommodation, especially to girl students and working women, in the city,” said Parida.Garg said the owner of a PG accommodation needed to ensure that no front office system was maintained and the house should appear a normal residential unit. It also needed to be ensured that the use of the PG accommodation shall not adversely affect the privacy and rights of neighbouring residents of the locality.He said all those who fulfilled the required terms and conditions as per the policy of the UT Administration could get themselves registered with the CHB. The format of the application form, affidavit and indemnity bond was available on the website of the CHB, www.chbonline.in.What’s in it that you need to know||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/security-on-mind-chb-adopts-chandigarhs-pg-policy-220110
04-03-2021||---||893 elderly persons take shot in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 3In all, 893 senior citizens were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Mohali district today. Seventy eight persons in the age group of 45 to 60 years were inoculated today.Meanwhile, 267 healthcare and 183 frontline workers received their first and second dose of the vaccination today.Till now, 5,706 healthcare workers have received their first shot while 2,506 workers have received their second shot. In the frontline workers category, 3,990 persons have received their first shot while 11 got their second shot.In the 45 to less than 60 years age group, 135 persons have received their first shot till now. In the sixty years category 1,316 persons have been jabbed against coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/893-elderly-persons-take-shot-in-mohali-220112
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh witnesses 56 cases, 1 death||67 more found +ve in MohaliMohali: Sixty-seven new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. Twenty-one patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 52 were reported from Mohali (urban), five each from Kharar and Dhakoli, three from Dera Bassi and two from Kurali. The district has so far seen 20,490 cases, while 19,393 patients have been cured. The active case tally now stands at 711. With no new death, the toll stands at 386. TNS22 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported 22 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,883. The Covid toll remained at 149. While 10,606 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 128 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 97.45 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-56-cases-1-death-220114
04-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Token system at centres surprises CoWIN-registered beneficiaries||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 3As many as 1,418 beneficiaries from the new priority group got inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccine in the city today. Many city hospitals have started token system for the elderly coming for vaccination to streamline the walk-in and self-registered beneficiaries, which has irked the latter.Dr Neeraj Kumar from Chaitanya Hospital said, “Those coming with self-registration from home are made to sit with those coming to the hospital through walk-in. The booking shows two slots – forenoon and afternoon from 9 am to 3 pm. There are no specific time slots for them and hence, we have started issuing tokens to everyone. Everyone coming for the vaccination, either through self-registration or walk-in, will have to wait for their turn. We have also started issuing time slots for those who are depositing vaccination fees a day in advance so that they can be covered within a timeframe.”At the Sector 49 Civil Dispensary also, there is a token system for the elderly. Residents coming with self-registration through the CoWIN application are disappointed on being turned away. “I registered myself on the CoWIN application and was given a time slot between 9 am and 3 pm. I visited the Sector 49 dispensary at 9.15 am but the staff refused to acknowledge the registration on the pretext that they had already issued tokens to 120 beneficiaries,” said Brij Bhushan Mahajan, a senior citizen.Sunny Thakur, a city resident, said, “I got my parents registered for the vaccination scheduled today at a private hospital. They visited the infirmary but were not vaccinated due to the crowd. They have been told to visit on March 5 now.”Another resident, Vineet, said Healing Hospital informed them to call a day before the vaccination.4 more vaccination centres to open todayCivil Dispensary, Dadu MajraCivil Dispensary, Sector 8Jindal Hospital, Sector 20Global Hospital, Sector 21Vaccination statusHCW first dose 298HCW second dose 193FLW 81745 to 60 years 80Above 60 years 1,338Total 2,726||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/token-system-at-centres-surprises-cowin-registered-beneficiaries-220115
04-03-2021||Lalru||1 held with countrymade pistol at Lalru, remanded||The police have arrested a man with one countrymade pistol, one live round and one magazine here today.The suspect has been identified as Aman, alias Gopu, 22, a resident of Ambala. He has been booked under the Arms Act. The police produced Aman before the court that sent him to three-day police remand. Aman’s two accomplices, Arun Sarwan and Harmanjit Singh, both residents of Moga, were arrested in a case on January 30. The police said the two accomplices supplied weapons to Aman who was released from the Ambala jail on February 26. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-held-with-countrymade-pistol-at-lalru-remanded-220117
04-03-2021||Mohali||Champions Academy beat YJR by 5 wkts||Champions Cricket Academy, Kharar, registered a five-wicket win over YJR Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, in the ongoing 1st DP Azad U-17 Cricket Cup at IVCA, Dera Bassi, today.Batting first, YJR Cricket Academy posted 162 runs before getting all out in 39.1 overs. Ansh Khosla (53), Gyan Singh (31), Paras (19) and Ivraj Ranauta (17) were the main run scorers for the side.Daman claimed a five-wicket haul for the bowling side while Bharat (3/22), Sumit Rana (1/40) and Abhay Sharma (1/45) were the other main wicket takers for the side.In reply, the Kharar team posted 166/5 in 30.1 overs with the help of Bharat’s unbeaten innings of 89 runs. Manveer Singh (30) and Manjinder Jit Singh (23) also played well. Ansh Khosla claimed two wickets for the bowling side while Gyan Singh, Paras and Jashan Beniwal claimed one wicket each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/champions-academy-beat-yjr-by-5-wkts-220119
04-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh witnesses surge in weekly Covid-19 cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 3After almost seven weeks, Chandigarh recorded the highest number of weekly Covid-19 cases at 345 in the week ending February 28. The month ended with 845 positive cases and 18 deaths.However, the number of cases recorded in February is 25 per cent less than the cases seen in January. This is because the city started to witness a sudden surge in cases in the last week of February.The city witnessed 414 cases of Covid in the week ending January 10. It started recording a declining trend with a daily number of cases from 25 to 40.The cases shot up by 84 per cent from the week ending February 21. The number of daily cases being recorded these days is above 60. In the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.3 per cent every day.It is after December 20, the active cases in Chandigarh have crossed 450. For every 100 confirmed cases in Chandigarh, two are currently infected.The UT Administrator stated that amid a surge in active cases of Covid-19, the administration would consider reimposing restrictions in the city to contain further spread of the virus. Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, said: “We are keeping a close watch on the rise in cases. The surge is not worrisome as of now and thus there are no plans for any sort of restrictions now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-surge-in-weekly-covid-19-cases-220121
04-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Former SSC official among 2 guilty in examination irregularities case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 3Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI court, held two persons guilty in a nine-year-old exam irregularities case and acquitted all students named in the FIR.Those found guilty include Naveen Sehgal, former Deputy Regional Director of Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Kendriya Sadan, Sector 9, Chandigarh.The court will pronounce the quantum of sentence on March 5. The other accused is Satish Ahlawat, the then senior auditor of the PCDA Western Command, Sector 9, Chandigarh.The court has convicted them under sections 120-B, 420 read with 511, 468 read with sections 471 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code, Section 15 read Section 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The convicts have been taken into custody.The CBI had booked Sehgal and others in April 2012 for allegedly committing forgery, cheating and other irregularities during a written examination for sub-inspector-level posts in police organisations such as the CRPF, ITBP, NCB and other paramilitary forces.The written examination was held in Ambala in September 2011. After receiving the complaints, the investigation agency became suspicious about the role of then senior SSC officials when it learned that nine candidates were selected from one room of the examination centre.Two candidates, who failed to clear the written examination, also filed a written complaint with the CBI in this regard. Different teams of the CBI conducted searches in the houses of the accused and students who had cleared the written examination. After the investigation, the CBI registered a case against officials and candidates for forgery and cheating under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, on the complaint of the Chairman, SSC, Delhi.He alleged that the accused SSC officer abused his position and committed a criminal misconduct in connivance with others and 16 candidates thereby attempting to cheat the government/ SSC by manipulating the conduct of the examination.Out of 16 candidates whose seating plan was adjusted, so as to enable them to appear from the same room, seven came out as all-India toppers in the examination. The appointment of nine candidates was also withheld by the Centre after the case was registered. The CBI filed the chargesheet against the accused in October 2013 in the CBI court. The CBI court framed charges against the accused in 2014. The two accused then became approvers in the case during the trial.Terminder Singh, counsel of one of the accused students, said before court that there was no evidence found against the accused during the investigation.After the pronouncement of the Judgment, convict Naveen Sehgal was perplexed and a doctor from the Civil Dispensary, District Courts, Sector 43, and Chandigarh were called to the spot, who found him stable and normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-ssc-official-among-2-guilty-in-examination-irregularities-case-220124
04-03-2021||---||FIR over fake Instagram account||Panchkula, March 3An unknown person has been booked on a charge of creating a fake Instagram account of a minor girl.According to the FIR, the victim’s father told the police that the suspect had also shared her thirteen-and-a-half-year-old daughter’s mobile number through the Instagram ID to various men, who were now sending objectionable photos and porn videos to her on WhatsApp.“Someone probably from her school or a classmate has created a fake and objectionable Instagram profile,” the victim’s father suspected.“Kindly investigate the matter and find out who has created the fake Instagram ID to defame and demoralise my daughter,” reads the FIR. A case has been filed under Sections 66C and 67A of the Information Technology Act at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fir-over-fake-instagram-account-220126
04-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Road recarpeting starts today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 3In what will bring a respite to commuters, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation will start the recarpeting of various roads in the city from tomorrow.The work was stopped in the winter season as it is a non-conducive weather for recarpeting. With appropriate weather setting in, the MC will restart the job and works worth Rs46 crore will be carried out in the coming months.According to the information, Rs35-crore recarpeting is the pending for 2020-21 while Rs13-crore work is pending for 2019-20. Due to a shortage of funds and apparent mismanagement, the works had been delayed. These jobs are already allotted to different contractors. The civic body will now float a tender for the new road recarpeting works worth Rs78 crore.Pending worksMC officials said work regarding recarpeting roads would be a priority as it was not completed due to weather conditions.Shailender Singh, MC’s Chief Engineer, told the Chandigarh Tribune: “The road recarpeting will start tomorrow. We will start it from scratched roads in Sector 9. The machines have already started coming.”The MC has been facing flak for the past few years for the potholed and broken roads. Earlier, it kept blaming the shortage of funds. It was after a long time that the UT Administration woke up from its slumber and released dedicated funds for recarpeting.“It only shows poor coordination between the two. We have not seen such a pathetic condition of roads of this well-planned city. The MC must prioritise road works as it irks the residents the most,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, Chairman, FOSWAC.In a random check it was seen that the roads dividing Sector 53 and 54 and Sector 51 and 52 were broken. In some other parts of city also, the roads are crying for attention, but MC vehicles were seen managing with patchwork only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-recarpeting-starts-today-220128
04-03-2021||---||HC seeks inquiry details in property issue between man and his wife||Chandigarh, March 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the submission of an affidavit on the outcome of an inquiry conducted so far in a property dispute between a city resident and his wife and daughter.The directions by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition filed by the resident for issuance of the directions to UT Senior Superintendent of Police to transfer the complaints given by his wife and daughter regarding a family property to the Economic Offence Wing.After going through the contents of the petition as well as the complaints filed by the petitioner against his wife and daughter and their complaints against him, Justice Sangwan asserted it appeared that the local police of Sector 17 was conducting an inquiry.“On the face of it, it is a family dispute which needs to be decided by the Civil Court. However, once a complaint has been given by the parties, it has to be dealt with by the police authorities,” Justice Sangwan observed.The Bench also took note of the petitioner’s reliance upon a standing order issued by the UT Inspector-General of Police, stating that forgery above Rs50 lakh would be inquired into by the Economic Offence Wing. Justice Sangwan added the wing was having limited staff and resources. As a matter of fact, the officers/officials in the wing were also from the Chandigarh Police. Mere administrative instructions issued in this regard could not divest the powers of the local police to investigate the matter when the complaints and counter-complaints were filed by the husband and wife against each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-seeks-inquiry-details-in-property-issue-between-man-and-his-wife-220130
04-03-2021||Panchkula||464 citizens get jabbed in P’kula on Day 3||With 464 senior citizens and those aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities getting their first Covid-19 shot today, the third day of the vaccine campaign for the eligible general public witnessed a further improvement.From only 139 such beneficiaries on the first day (Monday) of the drive to 271 on the second day (Tuesday), the number went up to 464 today, though the target was 600.A total of 874 — 839 (above 60 years) and 35 (aged 45 to 59 years with comorbidities) — have received the first dose of the vaccine in the district so far.Meanwhile, 86 healthcare workers and 40 frontline workers also received the shot. The vaccination drive was held at seven centres — the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, the Sector 26 Polyclinic, Raffels Hospital, Paras Hospital, Dhawan Hospital and Alchemist Hospital.The Health Department had a target to vaccinate a total of 700 beneficiaries — 100 per centre.As a result of vaccination centres witnessing disorder and long wait (resulting in hardships for senior citizens), the local Health Department on Tuesday had announced that now healthcare workers, frontline workers and eligible citizens can get the Covid-19 vaccine at any designated site.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said they would further scale up vaccination for eligible citizens.She said vaccination would be held at 19 sites tomorrow. These were the Surajpur Primary Health Centre (PHC), the PHC Pinjore, the PHC Nanakpur, the Old Panchkula PHC, the Kalka Subdivisional Hospital, the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, the Sector 16 Urban Health Centre, the Sector 26 Polyclinic, the Sector 19 Urban Dispensary, the PHC Kot, the PHC Barwala, the PHC Hangola, the Raipur Rani Community Health Centre, Alchemist Hospital, Ojas Hospital, Paras Hospital, Raffels Hospital, Dhawan Hospital and Radha Devi Amravati Polyclinic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/464-citizens-get-jabbed-in-pkula-on-day-3-220132
04-03-2021||---||7 shanties reduced to ashes in Kakrali||Dera Bassi, March 3Seven families in Kakrali village were bereft of shelter when a major fire burnt their shanties near Barwala road today evening.Residents rushed out of their homes as soon as the panic gripped the area. The raging fire gave no time to residents to salvage their belongings. No loss of life was reported in the incident.Locals pulled out two gas cylinders from the fire to prevent a major accident.Residents said their savings amounting to thousands of rupees and a motorcycle was burnt to ashes in the fire.Mubarikpur police and fire brigade personnel reached the spot and brought the fire under control with the help of villagers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-shanties-reduced-to-ashes-in-kakrali-220133
04-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||New Excise Policy to hit Bacchus lovers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 3Tipplers will have to shell out more as the UT Administration has increased the excise duty on the India-made foreign liquor (IMFL). However, the excise duty on beer and wine has not been increased for the financial year 2021-22.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today approved the new Excise Policy for 2021-22, which aims to earn a revenue of nearly Rs700 crore.Although the increase in the excise duty on the IMFL was 6 per cent, the effective hike would be nearly 10 per 12 per cent, said a liquor contractor. Apart from excise duty, the market prices of liquor would depend on the rates at which the tenders were allotted, he added.To promote low-alcoholic content, a new category of beer — super mild beer — containing alcoholic content up to 3.5 per cent has been introduced in the policy.Salient featuresIn the new policy, the allotment of licensing units will continue to be made through e-tendering system for issuance of permit. To curb the menace of cartelisation and monopolistic practices, a single entity of firms, companies and individuals will be entitled to allotment of the maximum 10 vends only.To boost the hospitality industry and tourism in Chandigarh, there will be no increase in the licence fee of the hotels, bars and restaurants.Meanwhile, the Administration has allowed the facility of mini bar in 3-star and 4-star hotels in addition to 5-star or above category of hotels.The licence fee and excise duty on beverages with low alcoholic content such as beer and wine has not been increased. The excise duty on country liquor has also not been increased.The basic quota of the IMFL has been increased from 100 lakh proof litre (LPL) to 110 LPL while that of country liquor has been increased from 8 LPL to 12 LPL and foreign liquor from 3.30 LPL to 3.50 LPL.Cow cess has been retained in the new policy. It is being levied at the rate of Rs5 per 750 ml bottle of country liquor, Rs5 per 650ml bottle of beer and Rs10 per 700ml/750 ml bottle of whisky.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-excise-policy-to-hit-bacchus-lovers-220135
04-03-2021|| Fatehgarh Sahib||Two killed, two injured as lintel of house collapses in Fatehgarh Sahib||Two Class XII students’ died while their friends were seriously injured when the lintel of a dilapidated old house at Raipur Chobdaran village, which they were demolishing, collapsed. The victims, who were residents of Salana Doola Singh Wala village, were buried under the debris of the lintel. The injured were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Amloh.Gurpreet Singh Guri, sarpanch of Salana Doola Singh Wala village, said Malkiat Singh, a resident of village, took contract from the owner to demolish lintel of his house at nearby Raipur Chobdaran village. Malkiat engaged Gursimran Preet Singh, Jashanpreet Singh and Gursewak Singh for the job.Both Gursimran and Jashanpreet were close friends and had taken a Class XII exam yesterday. They went to Raipur Chobdaran, along with Malkiat and Gursewak, today and started demolishing lintel of the house, which was in a dilapidated condition. The lintel collapsed and the four were buried under its debris. Gursimran and Jashanpreet died on the spot while Malkiat and Gursewak were injured. The injured were referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-killed-two-injured-as-lintel-of-house-collapses-in-fatehgarh-sahib-220137
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||DC reviews digitisation||Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer Mandip Singh Brar today reviewed the progress of digitisation of the Estate Office files.Assistant Estate Officer Manish Lohan said data from nearly 52 per cent files was captured and uploaded.Verification of 15 per cent data uploaded had also been done, he added.Brar emphasised that the sanctity of the data was important and utmost care should be taken while verifying it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dc-reviews-digitisation-220139
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Top seed Nishant in semis of tennis tournament||Top seed Nishant Dabas outplayed Belgium’s Sebastien Cauhape 6-0 6-4 in straight sets to reach the boys’ U-18 semifinals in the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-4) being organised at Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) courts here today.Second seed Aman Dahiya logged a returning win over eighth seed Aayush P Bhat of the US 3-6 7-5 7-6(5). Fifth seed Dhruv Tangri defeated fourth seed Sanjith Devineni of the US 6-4 4-6 6-3 whereasYuvan Nandal outplayed sixth seed Denim Yadav in a tough outing 4-6 6-3 6-4.Meanwhile, in the girls’ U-18 category, top seed Sarah Dev was trailing 0-6 4-5 against Vaishnavi Adkar when the latter conceded the match. Seventh seed Riya Uboveja logged a 4-6 6-4 6-4 win over second seed Sanjana Sirimalla whereas third seed Reshma Maruri defeated Rutuja Chaphalkar of the US 7-6(5) 6-4. Eighth seed Indian contender Suhitha Maruri ousted Shruti Ahlawat 1-6 7-5 7-5.Nishant-Chirag pair shinesTop seed Nishant Dabas and Chirag Duhan outplayed Devaharshith Neelam and Saheb Sodhi 6-1 6-4. Aayush P Bhat and Anargha Ganguly ousted Segastien Cauhape and Nyo Van Dyck 5-7 6-0 [10-4]. Daksh Ashok Agrawral and Albert Onichtchenko Segura defeated Torus Rawat and Denim Yadav 1-6 6-3 [10-8] and Bushan Haobam and Yuvan Nandal beat Sanjith Devineni and Maanav Jain 6-3 6-3. Meanwhile, in the girls’ U-18 event, Sarah Dev and Riya Uboveja recovered on time to log a 1-6, 6-3 [10-1] win over Kashmira Manohar and Lakshanya Vishwanath. Flo Helsen and Mirthe Moens ousted Deepshika Sriram and Aami Reddy Yellu 6-4 6-2, Hetvee Chaudhari and Pavitra Parikh defeated Riya and Navya 6-3 2-6 [10-7]. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-nishant-in-semis-of-tennis-tournament-220140
04-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||IOA observer not necessary for poll||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 3In a setback to one of the factions of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA), who were planning to conduct secret elections by calling the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) observer, a letter has now surfaced wherein the IOA chief has stated that this exercise is not mandatory.“...It has also been time and again alleged that sometimes observers are appointed with an agenda to settle scores with the NSFs/SOAs during the elections. As such, in order to bring transparency and good governance in the IOA in respect of appointment of observers, the committee faced initial hindrances from some quarters. However, it is now working independently without any interference,” stated a circular by IOA chief Narinder Dhruv Batra.It further adds: “I have also examined the IOA Constitution and National Sports Development Code, 2011 (Sports Code) and found there is no provision in these documents except in the Sports Code in Annexure No.XXXVII – relating to Model Election Guidelines to be followed by all National Sports Federation at Form 14 & 15, signatures of an IOA Observer have been mentioned.”“As such it is proposed that the above Sports Code Committee may look into this aspect and suggest future course of action in the matter. Accordingly, the Chairman, Sports Code Committee is requested to take further necessary action in the matter.”The letter was shot by the group lead by COA President Amarinder Singh Bazaz. “As per this circular, calling IOA observer is not mandatory for conducting elections. The latter was sent by the IOA president,” said Chander Mukhi Sharma, Secretary, Basketball Federation of India, and member of COA.Recent developmentsIn some recent developments, both parties, Bazaz and Maha Singh, were running from pillar to post for claiming their stake in the next four-year term. Fearing cross voting, both parties were keeping all cards close to their chest, and sources also claimed that the matter could be resolved mutually in order to avoid an ad hoc committee, which may be formed by the IOA in case of extension in existing conflict.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ioa-observer-not-necessary-for-poll-220144
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Pedestrian hit by tempo, dies||Fraudsters dupe youth of Rs99,350Chandigarh: An 18-year-old youth, who was looking for some work during the lockdown, was allegedly duped of Rs99,350 by fraudsters. Complainant Kunal Rana had applied for a job of a data entry operator through a website in June. The victim received a call from a woman, who gave him 1,200 forms to fill in eight days. Later, he received an email regarding an 11-month contract of a company. The victim, who was unaware of any such contract, was then asked by the fraudsters to deposit some money. A person, who claimed that he was a lawyer, also called the victim and asked for fee for cancelling the agreement. The police said the victim was made to transfer Rs99,350 after threatening him of a legal case. The matter was investigated by the police. A case against an unknown person was registered at the Mani Majra police station on March 2. TNSThieves strike at two housesChandigarh: Thefts have been reported from two houses in Sector 49. According to the police, complainant Anil Kumar Tuteja reported that Rs5,000 and jewellery were stolen from his house on March 2. The thieves also struck at a neighbour’s house. A case has been registered. TNSStolen jewellery recoveredMohali: The police have recovered jewellery worth Rs 9 lakh and a scooter from a suspect involved in thefts reported in the Kharar area. The suspect, Sunil Kumar, a resident of Haibowal, Ludhiana, allegedly confessed that he had committed thefts in the area on January 1 and 4. A case under sections 457, 380 and 411 of the IPC was registered on January 4. TNSSFS submits memorandumChandigarh: The Students for Society, Panjab University, submitted a memorandum to the authorities concerned seeking the opening of canteen, Student's Centre and the restoration of the original timings of AC Joshi Library. "The SFS had launched a signature campaign to solicit response of scholars and students who are continuously facing severe problems due to the restricted timings of AC Joshi Library. Almost all academic institutions have already been opened and everything is getting normalised," said a note. TNSBodybuilding trials on March 6Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Body Building Association will organise trials to select bodybuilders for the coming Mr North India Bodybuilding Championship. The trials will be held at Bon Sante Gym, SCO 62-63, Sector 17, on March 6 from 3 pm to 5 pm. The championship will be held on March 7. TNSInitiative under Project UdayChandigarh: The Enactus team of Panjab University, in an initiative to help rural women in menstrual hygiene management, under their Project Uday, is making cotton/bamboo fabric-based reusable sanitary napkins, which are not only good for the body but also for the earth, said Prof Seema Kapoor, faculty adviser of Enactus and coordinator of Social Review Committee of Dr SSB University Institute of Chemical Engineering & Technology. This project will also help the underprivileged women community to become economically independent, she added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pedestrian-hit-by-tempo-dies-220157
