05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Video of Chandigarh cop holding baby while on duty goes viral||A video of a UT traffic police woman constable, who is purportedly performing duty at the Sector 15/16/23/34 roundabout with her child in her arms, went viral on Friday.The video was reportedly made by a commuter crossing the intersection. The woman cop can be seen regulating the traffic while holding her child.Police officials said the woman constable and another cop were supposed to be on duty at the intersection at 8 am. However, an official found them missing from the duty after which she was asked to report there.She came to the Traffic Line, Sector 29, along with the child. The staff at the office asked her to go home if she wanted leave, however, she went to her duty, along with the child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/video-of-chandigarh-cop-holding-baby-while-on-duty-goes-viral-221032
05-03-2021||---||School director to adopt players||Chandigarh, March 4For the first time in the history of the city, 70 women players from 35 different affiliated associations of Chandigarh will be adopted by Ranjan Sethi, Director, The British School, Sector 44, to look after their education and sports career. Under ‘Supporting the Talent’ scheme, these players will be given free education at the choice of their own from the school to the university level or till the time these players get settled, claimed Sethi. He also announced that the 1st British School Games for all Olympic events will be organised within three months in order to promote local talent by the means of conducting tournaments. “I wanted to provide local players a platform to perform. These games will be conducted in a phased manner throughout the year and annually,” said Sethi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-director-to-adopt-players-220959
05-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Active cases in Mohali jump 220% in fortnight||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 4The district witnessed more than 220 per cent increase in the active Covid cases in the past two weeks. The number of active cases has gone up from 360 to 801 in the district.People visit markets sans face maskDuring a random survey of the markets in the city and other places in the district, people were seen moving without masks, thus exposing themselves to the deadly virus even as the health authorities have been warning people against moving out without a mask.2,850 vaccinated in cityChandigarh: As many as 2,850 beneficiaries, including 1,643 eligible citizens (those above 60 years of age and those aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities), were inoculated on Thursday. Among those jabbed were 502 health workers and 705 frontline workers. So far, 4,736 eligible citizens have got their first dose of the vaccine. TNS1,453 get jabbed at 20 P’kula centresPanchkula: With the vaccination drive taking place at 20 centres across the district, 1,453 beneficiaries, including 1,184 “qualified citizens” (aged above 60 or between 45 and 59 with comorbidities), were vaccinated on Thursday. The coverage rate for qualified citizens stood at 63.2 per cent.The Health Department had an overall target to vaccinate 2,100 beneficiaries. The vaccination centres included the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, all PHCs and CHCs and corporate hospitals. On Monday (the first day), 139 people had taken the vaccination and 271 received the vaccine on Tuesday. The number went up to 464 on Wednesday.As many as 2,058 qualified citizens have received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the district so far. TNSOn February 17, there were 19,839 positive cases, which have now gone up to 20,601. Similarly, the number of recoveries rose from 19,099 to 19,412 till Thursday. The recovery rate in the district has declined from 99.2 per cent to 94.2 per cent in the same period, compounding the problem.Today, the district reported 111 fresh infections, including 80 from Mohali (urban) and 17 from Dera Bassi. The district also recorded two deaths taking the toll to 388.During a random survey of the markets in the city and other places in the district, people were seen moving without masks thus exposing themselves to the deadly virus even as the health authorities have been warning people against moving out without a mask.Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said the sudden spurt in Covid cases in the district was due to the testing of employees of the state Assembly as the session was in progress. She said all employees were asymptomatic. She said a large number of cases from schools were also coming up as teachers and students tested positive for the virus. She said in view of the increase in the number of active cases, they had set a target of taking 1,000 samples daily. The district administration had already doubled the penalty from Rs500 to Rs1,000 for not wearing a mask and spitting in public places for each violation. Any violation also invites criminal proceedings under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the IPC, 1860.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/active-cases-in-mohali-jump-220-in-fortnight-220794
05-03-2021||Mohali||In Mohali, 829 more take the shot||As many as 829 persons — 672 senior citizens and 157 aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities — were administered the Covid vaccine at seven government hospitals and 29 private hospitals in the district today.A total of 1,988 senior citizens and 292 persons aged 45 to 59 have been jabbed so far.Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said 128 and 190 healthcare workers (HCWs) were given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively. She said similarly, 202 and 26 frontline workers (FLWs) were given the first and second dose of the vaccine. So far, 5,834 and 2,896 HCWs and 4,192 and 37 FLWs have got the first and second dose of vaccine, respectively.She said people must come forward for the vaccination without letting rumours cloud their thinking. She said the pandemic had claimed millions of lives worldwide and some people were “messing up” with the public perception of the vaccine. It was completely safe and people should not have any hesitation regarding the vaccination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-829-more-take-the-shot-220795
05-03-2021||Amit Sharma||Annual package Rs 7 lakh, scribe owns properties worth crores||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4Sanjeev Mahajan, a journalist who is an accused in a case of property grab, owns several properties worth crores of rupees across the tricity. The police have found at least four such properties, including a hotel in Attawa, Sector 42.Property grab caseThey didn’t return Rs 11L premium: Singla According to a statement of liquor contractor Arvind Singla, which was recorded by the police last month, the accused, including Mahajan, did not return the premium of Rs11 lakh paid by him after the GPA in his name was cancelled. Fiscal transactions run into croresThe police said they had information about some other properties, including booths in the city, the ownership of which was being verified. His financial transactions run into crores.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said as of now, the police had found four properties owned by Mahajan, while the details of some other properties were being verified.Besides a house in Sector 37 where Mahajan lives, the other properties that have been identified so far include a hotel in Attawa, land in Kaimbwala and two flats, including one in Sector 38 (West).The police said they had information about some other properties, including booths in the city, the ownership of which was being verified. Mahajan, as per records, had an annual package of around Rs7 lakh during the past few years. However, his financial transactions run into crores, said a police official.The police claimed that Mahajan allegedly earned huge money by getting disputed properties sold. “He used to look for buyers and get his share after getting disputed properties sold,” said a police official.Police investigations have revealed that a Ford Endeavour was purchased by Mahajan on loan. However, within a few months, he cleared the loan.DSP’s brother surrendersThe police on Thursday arrested Satpal Daggar, brother of UT DSP Ram Gopal, after he surrendered. Daggar is the third accused to have been arrested in the case. He will be produced in a court on Friday.Accused to be produced in court today Sanjeev Mahajan and Manish Gupta, who were on three-day police remand, will be produced in the court on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/annual-package-rs-7-lakh-scribe-owns-properties-worth-crores-220796
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||MC starts cleaning road gullies||To prevent waterlogging during the coming monsoon season, the local Municipal Corporation has started a special drive to clean all road gullies.There are about 32,000 road gullies in the city. MC officials said the drive started on March 1 and would continue till April 30.“We clean road gullies throughout the year, but it is a special drive ahead of the monsoon. With clean gullies, water will not accumulate on roads, near rotaries and parking lots when it rains heavily,” said an official tasked with the responsibility.MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh said, “We have started the work of cleaning road gullies. Before the start of the monsoon, all road gullies will be cleaned.”It is an annual activity held before the rainy season. Despite claims of the corporation, waterlogging is witnessed in different parts of the city every monsoon.Last year, the MC had started the work late and even during the rainy season, road gully cleaning job was on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-starts-cleaning-road-gullies-220797
05-03-2021||---||Online dog adoption facility in Panchkula soon||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 4The Panchkula Municipal Corporation will soon begin the online dog adoption facility.“Whichever dog gives birth to pups will be reared at the Sukhdarshanpur dog pound and all kinds of dog food, drink and other facilities will be provided to the pups there. After this, the facility of online adoption will also be available for the pups,’’ said MC Commissioner RK Singh.The civic body had recently constituted a monitoring and implementation committee for the management of stray dogs.It was decided at its first meeting that captured stray dogs will be brought to the Sukhdarshanpur dog pound only for medical treatment, vaccination and sterilisation purposes and returned to their original locations thereafter.Relocating them is illegal as per the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001, enacted under the Indian Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and rulings of the Supreme Court and other courts and guidelines of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-dog-adoption-facility-in-panchkula-soon-220799
05-03-2021||---||CHB issues show-cause notices for cancellation of allotment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has started issuing show-cause notices for the cancellation of allotment over non-payment of pending rent.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said in February, special efforts were made to recover the pending amount from allottees of small flats. As part of these efforts, lists of dues were uploaded on the website, public notices were issued, appeals were made through the print media and FM Radio, special collection counters were set up at Dhanas, Mauli Jagran, Maloya and the CHB premises, online payment facility was made available and the payment facility was also introduced at all Sampark centers. “Though these efforts have resulted in the recovery of over Rs6 crore in February, most of the allottees have not yet cleared their dues,” he said. At present, over Rs30 crore is yet to be recovered from these allottees. The special collection counters at Mauli Jagran had been closed and others would be closed in the next few days, he said, adding that the online payment facility and the facility at Sampark centres would remain available.“The CHB is now left with no alternative but to cancel the allotment of units which have failed to clear their dues despite repeated opportunities,” said Garg.The board has started issuing show-cause notices for the cancellation of allotment against whom dues are pending. Cancellation notices were today issued to over 100 allottees, he said, adding that many more notices would be issued in the next few days and in case they failed to justify the delay, their allotment might be cancelled.The CEO said, “Once a unit is cancelled, the allottee is required to vacate it and if the appellate authority allows its restoration, then the allottee is required to pay all pending dues, interest and revival charges also.”In case the allottee has already paid some of the amount, he/she may deposit the dues after deducting the payments they have already made and for the balance may submit an application for reconciliation with a photocopy of the payment proof.After the required verification, the CHB records will be corrected and the dues lists will be rectified by the corresponding payments. Interest charges will also be reduced as the credit will be given from the date when it was actually paid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-issues-show-cause-notices-for-cancellation-of-allotment-220800
05-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Ease of Living Index-2020: Chandigarh slips to 29th spot from fifth two years ago||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4The well-planned city of Chandigarh fell from fifth rank of 2018 to 29th in the Ease of Living Index-2020. It also stood distant 23rd in the Municipal Performance Index (MPI)-2020. The ranking of 111 cities was released by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs today. This was the second edition of the survey in which the MPI category was introduced.In what came as a surprise for many, the City Beautiful could not find a place in the top 20 cities of the country in both categories.Out of the total 100 marks, the city scored overall 54.40 in the Ease of Living Index. While in 2018, it had got a marginally less marks (53.16). Of its four components, the city performed badly in ‘Citizen Perception (35th rank)’ and ‘Economic Ability (34th rank)’.The first round of the survey, which was conducted in 2018, comprised four components, namely institutional, social, economic and physical, and Chandigarh was among the top 10 cities with the overall rank of five. Under various components of the survey, the city had stood first in the economic, fourth in social and physical and 40th in the institutional sub-indices.“In the Ease of Living Index, the city’s national ranking is far below than the residents’ expectations. In north India, under 1 million plus cities category, Ludhiana, Delhi, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Lucknow, Varanasi and Kanpur scored more than Chandigarh,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations.“With the score of 54.40, the effective ranking of Chandigarh is 45th in the country in the combined list of below million and million plus cities. In the last ranking, Chandigarh was overall fifth. It is a matter of serious introspection for Chandigarh Smart City Ltd and the UT Administration,” he added.“It is very unfortunate that the city is placed so below. It is due to the misgovernance of the BJP-ruled MC,” alleged city Congress chief spokesperson HS Lucky.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ease-of-living-index-2020-chandigarh-slips-to-29th-spot-from-fifth-two-years-ago-220802
05-03-2021||Mohali||Bikers snatch woman’s gold chain in Mohali||Two unidentified youths allegedly snatched a gold chain of a woman in Sector 68, Mohali, in broad daylight today.Jasbir Singh, husband of victim Baljeet Kaur, in a complaint to the police, said she and her sister Jarnail Kaur were returning home from the Sector 68 market around 12 when the snatchers, wearing helmets and waiting on motorcycles, snatched her chain, valued around Rs1 lakh, and sped away.She said some passersby tried to chase the motorcyclists after she raised the alarm, but the snatchers managed to escape.A case has been registered against unknown persons at the Phase 8 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bikers-snatch-womans-gold-chain-in-mohali-220803
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 78 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-78-fresh-cases-220805
05-03-2021||Mohali||Two deaths, 111 cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-111-cases-in-mohali-220807
05-03-2021||Panchkula||44 cases, biggest jump in Panchkula since Dec 17||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/44-cases-biggest-jump-in-panchkula-since-dec-17-220808
05-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Revised proposal awaits Railways nod||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4Residents continue to suffer as the proposed underpass between Chandigarh and Baltana is yet to see the light of day.Earlier inspectionIn June last year, a joint team of officials from the UT, Punjab and the Railways had inspected the site of the proposed underpass at the railway-level crossing near Harmilap Nagar in Baltana. However, the land earmarked for the underpass was found to be insufficient and Punjab officials had expressed helplessness in providing adequate land due to encroachments.“The redesigned proposal of the underpass still awaits approval of the Railways,” said an official of the UT Engineering Department.In June last year, a joint team of officials from the UT, Punjab and Railways had inspected the site of the proposed underpass at the railway-level crossing near Harmilap Nagar in Baltana. However, the land earmarked for the underpass was found to be insufficient and Punjab officials had expressed helplessness in providing adequate land due to encroachments.Later, a revised plan was prepared and it was proposed that a major part of the underpass would pass through the UT, as the land required for the project under modified plan was available on the Chandigarh side, said the official.The official said the revised proposal was sent to the Railways and they were still waiting for their response. He said the Railways had already studied the feasibility of the project.As the Chandigarh-Ambala double railway line passes through the crossing, residents of Baltana and Raipur Kalan in Chandigarh have been demanding an underpass at the site for a long time due to long traffic jams.Around five years ago, the UT, Punjab and Railways had agreed on the need for an underpass at the level crossing. Several residents of Baltana, Raipur Kalan and Mauli Jagran have been adversely affected due to regular chaos and traffic jams, as the frequency of the trains passing through the crossing has been very high, resulting in frequent closing of railway crossing gates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/revised-proposal-awaits-railways-nod-220809
05-03-2021||---||Rs 80L autopsy tables lying unused at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 4The Department of Forensic Medicine at Government Rajindra Hospital and Government Medical College has already received three post-mortem tables with ultramodern facilities, but these have been lying unused for the past three weeks. The reason is the manufacturing company failure to install tables at the hospital.The forensic medicine faculty said tables were not installed despite repeated reminders and verbal requests to the company concerned. The three autopsy tables have reportedly cost more than Rs80 lakh.According to doctors of the department, the new autopsy tables were not available at any medical college in North India, including the GMCH and the PGI in Chandigarh and AIIMS in New Delhi.The Rajindra Hospital mortuary in-charge, Dr DS Bhullar, said, “Delay in the installation of tables has been brought to the notice of the higher authorities. Hopefully, tables will be operational by next week.”The mortuary setup at Rajindra Hospital, once in dilapidated and neglected state, is currently one of the best with a large room and facilities to conduct post-mortem examination on five bodies at one go.Beside, there is a cold room to store more than 20 cadavers at a time and a separate hall with cold chambers to keep bodies of those, who died due to Covid, at the mortuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-80l-autopsy-tables-lying-unused-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-220810
05-03-2021||---||AAP councillors, workers protest at Fatehgarh Sahib-Sirhind MC office||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, March 4Activists of the district unit of the Aam Admi Party (AAP) along with three newly elected councillors today held a sit-in front of the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council (MC) office. Party workers alleged that cleanliness and development projects in wards of the newly elected councillors owing allegiance to the AAP were stopped by the civic body authorities.Addressing protesters, AAP leader Pardeep Malhotra, Lakhveer Singh Rai and NS Tiwana said during the MC elections three candidates of their party had won in Ward Nos. 3, 9 and 13.They alleged that the ruling party could not digest its defeat and started adopting unfair means to teach a lesson to voters in these three wards.On the behest of the ruling party, MC officials stopped the cleanliness work in these three wards whereas the cleaning work was going on in other wards of the city, they said.Due to lack of cleanliness, filth had accumulated in the three wards and there was a possibility of the disease outbreak, they added.They warned that if the cleanliness drive did not resume immediately in the three wards, AAP activists would be forced to throw waste in front of the MC office. Gurvinder Singh Dhillon, Rachpal Singh, Amarinder Singh, Jitendra Kumar, Vijay, Darshan Singh and Rahul also addressed protesters on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-councillors-workers-protest-at-fatehgarh-sahib-sirhind-mc-office-220811
05-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University officials, students block highway, halt traffic for an hour||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 4The city today witnessed protests by Punjabi University teaching and non-teaching staff, students and pensioners. Students blocked traffic on the Patiala-Chandigarh highway for over an hour during a demonstration in the afternoon while the teachers association PUTA led a protest march towards the CM residence in the evening.Classes and administrative work at the university were yet again affected as students blocked university main gates during demonstration. Led by Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), they raised slogans against the state government and the university administration over deteriorating fiscal health of the institution and held a sit-in at the Phase 3 light point. As a result, traffic on the national highway came to complete halt for over an hour. The protesters were joined by women farmers from the area.During sit-in, students demanded financial grants for the university from the state government.The Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) along with non-teaching employees and students held a protest march in the city. The protesters walked from Omaxe Mall toward the YPS Chowk, near the CM residence.The PUTA president, Dr Nishan Singh Deol, said, “Employees are protesting as the university administration has not paid salaries to them for a long time. The university is facing financial slump. We have been protesting on the campus for over 150 days. The present situation has raised questions over the existence of the university while there are apprehensions of its privatisation.”Talking about the meeting held with the Governor today, Dr Deol said, “We submitted our representation at his office. He was not aware of the university’s condition.”“Acting Vice-Chancellor Ravneet Kaur has not once visited the university in the last two months. The VC should resign from the post if she is not interested in managing its affairs. The gap has left the university matters unresolved,” Dr Deol added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-officials-students-block-highway-halt-traffic-for-an-hour-220812
05-03-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||SAD (B) seeks rollback of fuel price hike||The Shiromani Akali Dal-Badal today organised a protest at Sirhind against the increase in fuel prices. Party workers burnt effigies of the Prime Minister and the Punjab Chief Minister during the protest. They raised slogans against the union and state governments and demanded roll back of the fuel price hike.  Addressing the gathering former zila parishad chairman Baljit Singh Bhutta said the Centre and the state governments were earning huge profits by imposing heavy taxes on fuel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-b-seeks-rollback-of-fuel-price-hike-220813
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers protest decision to delink pay scales||A large number of teachers from Panjab University, GND University, Amritsar, Punjabi University, Patiala, PAU, Ludhiana, GADVASU, Ludhiana, government colleges of Punjab and non-government colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh staged a dharna, under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO), at Panjab University here on Thursday.They were protesting the decision of the Punjab Government to delink their pay scales from the seventh CPC-UGC pay scales. Earlier, the teachers proceeded on mass casual leave and boycotted the university examinations and evaluation duties scheduled for the day, forcing universities to postpone the exam. Principals extended their support to the protest call given by the PFUCTO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-protest-decision-to-delink-pay-scales-220814
05-03-2021||---||Register for World Skill Competition 2022 on website||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 4The youngsters desirous of participating in the World Skill Competition 2022 to be held at Shanghai, China, will have to register themselves on the Punjab Skill Development Mission website.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the Punjab Skill Competition 2022 would be conducted for those interested in participating in the World Skill Competition. He said the competition would initially be conducted at the district level followed by a state-level competition and the winners would then be eligible for the national-level competition. The national-level winners would subsequently be eligible to participate in the world Competition, he added.Dayalan said candidates could participate in 44 trades such as bricklaying, carpentry, landscape, gardening, painting and decorating, plumbing and heating, refrigeration and air conditioning and aircraft maintenance.The aspirants can get more information from Room no 453, District Administrative Complex, Sector 76, Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/register-for-world-skill-competition-2022-on-website-220815
05-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Schools concerned over parents ‘instigating’ others not to pay fee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4The Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) has raised concerns over audio clips circulated on the social media, wherein a group of parents were purportedly caught instigating others not to pay their wards’ fee.At least three such audios are in the public domain. The conversations are believed to have taken place during an online meeting of parents. Participants of the meeting are heard saying that the DPI office, UT Administration, has told them that schools would shut down again due to the rising Covid cases. So, parents should not pay the fee.Besides this, some messages have been doing rounds, wherein a group is asking parents to contact them in case they want a ‘discount on the fee’. They were also being asked to wait for the Supreme Court’s verdict on charging fee and till then, stay ‘united’ to not to pay the fee.“No such assurance or discussion over shutting down the schools took place. The UT Education Department and all private schools are ready to help the needy and deserving parents. Parents are advised to contact the schools concerned or the DEO directly,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, DPI (Schools).Meanwhile, HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh, said most of the schools had started receiving the fee. “I have checked with major schools and most of them have received 90 per cent of the fee. We have to start the new session and are bound to ask for the fee,” said Mamik.On Supreme Court’s verdict, he said: “The case pertains to charging fee during the pandemic and not for the next session. Parents have the right to choose the best option for their kids and no one is forcing them.”On the audio clips that went viral, he said: “Some people are trying to make news out of nothing. They just wanted a platform to fulfil their aim of politicising the issues. Parents cannot compare schools charging high fee or low fee as different schools have different plans. Parents should not listen to troublemakers.”In audio clips, the group is claiming that over 60 per cent parents have deposited the fee and schools can trouble students if asked for school leaving certificates. “There have been concerns but there are certain schools that are ready to give certificates to students, who don’t wish to continue. There’s a fear among parents which can be only solved if they talk to the authorities,” said a parent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schools-concerned-over-parents-instigating-others-not-to-pay-fee-220816
05-03-2021||---||This weekend, GMADA to keep its offices open||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 4In order to facilitate owners to file applications for land pooling for land acquired to develop the Aerotropolis project in Mohali, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has decided to keep offices open on weekend.Special counters at PUDA BhawanA spokesperson said as the last date for submitting applications to avail of land pooling for this project was March 9, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority had decided to set up special counters at the PUDA Bhawan on March 6 and 7 i.e. Saturday and Sunday to accept applications.A spokesperson said GMADA had acquired land of Bakarpur, Rurka, Safipur, Matran, Siun, Patton, Manauli, Saini Majra and Chau Majra villages to develop Aerotropolis project in the vicinity of the international airport in Mohali.He said as the last date for submitting applications to avail of land pooling for this project is March 9, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority had decided to set up special counters at the PUDA Bhawan on March 6 and 7 i.e. Saturday and Sunday to accept the applications.The spokesperson said the last date to accept the applications would not be extended beyond the stipulated date and land owners, who would fail to submit applications up to this date, would not be considered for land pooling and would be given only cash compensation. The unpaid compensation would be deposited in the Reference Court as per the provisions of the Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-weekend-gmada-to-keep-its-offices-open-220817
05-03-2021||---||Labourer beaten up,  abused; one booked||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 4A labourer, who works at an under-construction crushing plant in Bar village, was allegedly abused, beaten up and even threatened with ‘katta’, a country-made pistol.As per the FIR filed at the Kalka police station, Rashid Mohammed of Godam village alleged that the owner of the land at Bar village, on which the crushing plant was being constructed, arrived there on March 2 evening and harassed him.The land owner, identified as Kuldeep Singh, had given his land to the plant owner, Sandeep Sharma, on lease for 20 years for the construction of a crushing plant.“Around 8 pm, while we were working at the site, Kuldeep came there. Kuldeep first told us that he won’t allow me and my father Gafoor Mohammed to work on his land due to an old animosity and later, he started beating us. My father begged him to spare me. He then left from the site,” reads the FIR read while quoting complainant.The next morning, the suspect once again turned up at the site with a country-made pistol, the complainant added.“When he started kicking me, I tried to run away. But he pulled the collar of my shirt and stopped me. Kuldeep then said he won’t allow construction of the crushing plant on his land and would come to the site with hooligans. Before leaving, Kuldeep threatened to kill me if I showed up here again,” the complainant alleged.A case has been registered under Section 25 of the Arms Act, 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful), and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), of the IPC against the suspect at the Kalka police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labourer-beaten-up-abused-one-booked-220818
05-03-2021||---||Hubby, father-in-law booked in dowry case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 4The Panchkula police have registered a dowry harassment case on the complaint of a woman from Pinjore. The complainant alleged that her husband and father-in-law mentally and physically tortured her for dowry and even threatened to kill her.The victim, identified as Amandeep Singh, was married to Ishwar Singh, a resident of Ropar, Punjab, in 2017.Amandeep told the police that after she became pregnant, her in-laws started torturing her for dowry and sent her to her paternal home.“Even after I delivered the baby in 2018, they refused to take me back. It was only after my mother-in-law fell sick, they took me back home. I took care of my mother-in-law for four months after which she passed away. They blamed me for her death,” the FIR read.“They continued to beat and abuse me even after the intervention of a panchayat initiated by my family. When I got pregnant with second child, my husband asked me to abort it. Upon refusal, they dropped me back home and threatened to kill me,” the victim said.A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Pinjore police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hubby-father-in-law-booked-in-dowry-case-220820
05-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Centre fined for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed Richfeel Trichology Centre, UT, to refund the cost of hair fall treatment to a consumer who allegedly developed allergy during the process. The commission also directed the centre to pay Rs25,000 for deficiency in service, causing harassment to the consumer and litigation expenses.Sanjivini Kumar, a resident, approached the commission after the centre refused to refund the cost of treatment despite she suffered allergy during the process. Sanjivini said she was having hair fall and hair thinning problems. She visited the clinic to get the treatment in February, 2020.After consultation, persons concerned at the centre told her to undergo Anagrow treatment costing Rs51,195 for 21 sittings, along with medicines, for around one year.They assured her that hair fall and hair thinning problems would be solved after the treatment. She agreed to go for the treatment and paid Rs51,962 to the centre on February 17, 2020. She alleged that the centre started the treatment without conducting any medical tests.The woman alleged that after getting the first sitting, she developed allergy and itching started on her entire body. The entire matter was reported to the manager over the phone. The manager told her to come for the second sitting and the problem would be resolved on that day. Accordingly, she visited the clinic for the second sitting. On that day, she met the doctor, who informed her that allergy and itching would subside with time. The doctor gave her various products and told that allergy would subside.She alleged that even after taking medicines, the problem was not cured, rather it increased. When she sought the refund of the treatment cost, the centre refused and intimated that they were ready to give the credit note of the same value. The woman said she had to spend a huge amount on tests and treatment of allergy from hospitals.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that nobody appeared on behalf of the centre. Therefore, they preceded ex-parte. In the order, the commission noted that one person who had suffered another problem of allergy and itching due to the treatment provided by the centre cannot by any stretch of imagination be forced to buy its products/medicines in future for an amount of more than Rs51,962. Hence, the act of the centre to not to refund the money to the complainant despite requests, not giving proper treatment, not conducting any medical tests prior to the treatment amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-fined-for-deficiency-in-service-unfair-trade-practice-220821
05-03-2021||---||Suhitha stuns top seed, enters final||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 4Eighth seed Indian contender Suhitha Maruri stunned top seed Sarah Dev in straight sets to face third seed Reshma Maruri in the girls’ U-18 final of the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-4) today.In the first semi-finals played at the Sector 10 CLTA Complex, Suhitha outplayed Sarah 6-3, 6-2. Third seed Reshma also reached the final by defeating seventh seed Riya Uboveja 6-2, 6-4.Meanwhile, in the boys’ U-18 semi-finals, top seed Nishant Dabas had an easy run over fifth seed Dhruv Tangri. Dabas won the match without conceding a single game 6-0, 6-0. He will be taking up second seed Aman Dahiya, who defeated Yuvan Nandal 6-2 6-0, in the title clash.Doubles semisIn the boys’ doubles semis, the top seed team of Dabas and Chirag Duhan overpowered Aayush P Bhat and Anargha Ganguly 6-3, 6-2. Bushan Haobam and Yuvan Nandal defeated Daksh Ashok Agrawal and Albert Onichtchenko Segura 6-4, 7-5 in another semi-finals. In the girls’ doubles, Flo Helsen and Mirthe Moens of Belgium defeated top seed pair of Sarah and Riya Uboveja 6-2, 6-4, whereas Maruri sisters - Reshma and Suhitha - logged a comeback 4-6, 6-3 (10-5) win over Hetvee Chaudhari and Pavitra Parikh to set up the title clash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suhitha-stuns-top-seed-enters-final-220822
05-03-2021||---||‘Institute on Wheels’ at Patiala hospital to hone surgeons’ skills||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 4The Department of Surgery, Government Rajindra Hospital, is organising a three-day workshop for advanced training in surgery. The workshop is being organised under the guidance of Dr Ashwani Kumar, Head, Department of Surgery.The aim of holding workshops is to teach surgeons basic and advanced laparoscopic along with bowel and vascular anastomosis skills. The Institute on Wheels is one of its kinds in the country wherein equipment to train surgeons is available in a bus.Dr Ashwani Kumar, said, “This workshop will help both seasoned and budding surgeons in learning and imbibing new skills as well as improving old ones.”“Normally, such advanced training is available in New Delhi. We have tried to make it possible for surgeons to learn and improve their skills on the hospital premises itself,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/institute-on-wheels-at-patiala-hospital-to-hone-surgeons-skills-220823
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab FC to take on Kerala today||Having back-to-back wins in their kitty, RoundGlass Punjab FC lads are now eager to take on Gokulam Kerala FC in the championship stage of the Hero I-League on Friday.The club is aiming at reducing the gap with Churchill Brothers, which is on the top of the points table. The Punjab-based club is four points behind at the second position after bagging 13 points from its last five matches. The side is unbeaten in the past seven matches.“Gokulam is a team that plays possession-based football. It is going to be a difficult game. These are the games you need to go in and win,” said Head Coach Curtis Fleming.“We are focusing on our natural style of playing. Chencho will be available from this game onwards. We have now settled down well as a team. Everyone is very professional. We are confident,” Curtis Fleming said.Midfielder Rupert Nongrum said: “We have been working hard to be in the position we are in. We still have a good chance of winning the league. We have five matches and 15 points up for grabs. Churchill is only four points ahead of us. But, at this moment, the focus is on the next match.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-fc-to-take-on-kerala-today-220824
05-03-2021||---||Ex-national volleyball coach dead||Chandigarh, March 4Former national volleyball coach Gurmukh Singh (77) died after a brief illness in Mohali this evening. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa expressed condolences to the bereaved family. Chief Minister’s media adviser Raveen Thukral mourned the death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-national-volleyball-coach-dead-220825
05-03-2021||---||UTCA’s internal tourney in April||Chandigarh, March 4The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, will conduct its internal tournament in April. The tournament will be conducted at five grounds.According to officials, the UTCA will provide an opportunity to 360 players in the men’s category. Six teams will be formed in each category (men’s senior, U¬- 23, 19 and 16) comprising of 15 players each. The tournament will be played on an inter-zone basis and 30 players from each category will be selected for a preparation camp. The Union Territory Cricket Association will also plan to play friendly matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/utcas-internal-tourney-in-april-220826
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Protest against fuel price hike||Youth arrested with heroinChandigarh: A 25-year-old youth has been arrested by the local police with heroin. Manik, a resident of Jammu, was arrested from Sector 22. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him at the Sector 17 police station. TNSKabaddi coaching centre champChandigarh: Maloya Kabaddi Coaching Centre defeated SAI Kabaddi Club, Sector 50, to win the girls’ junior final of the State Kabaddi Championship that concluded on Thursday. Mahima (14 points) bagged the maximum points for the side. Kiran (10 points) was the best raider, while Jyoti Sai (17 points) was the best catcher. In the semi-finals, Maloya Kabaddi Coaching Centre defeated Burail Kabaddi Club 33-15, whereas SAI Kabaddi Club defeated Rana Kabaddi Club, Sector 47, by 47-30. In the boys’ junior final, Maloya Kabaddi Coaching Centre defeated SAI Kabaddi Club 29 -16. Babblu, Rakesh and Ankush performed for the winning side. Maloya Kabaddi Coaching Centre defeated Raipur Kabaddi Club 45-30, whereas SAI Kabaddi Club defeated Dhanas Kabaddi 32-26. TNSSchool director to adopt playersChandigarh: For the first time in the history of the city, 70 women players from 35 different affiliated associations of Chandigarh will be adopted by Ranjan Sethi, Director, The British School, Sector 44, to look after their education and sports career. Under ‘Supporting the Talent’ scheme, these players will be given free education at the choice of their own from the school to the university level or till the time these players get settled, claimed Sethi. He also announced that the 1st British School Games for all Olympic events will be organised within three months in order to promote local talent by the means of conducting tournaments. “I wanted to provide local players a platform to perform. These games will be conducted in a phased manner throughout the year and annually,” said Sethi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-against-fuel-price-hike-220827
