06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 122 new cases; largest single-day rise in three months||Chandigarh reported 122 new cases—the largest single-day spike in the city in three months.The city had last seen over 100 cases on December 8, when it reported 126 new cases.The development echoes a similar trend of rising cases in Punjab, which is also witnessing a second wave of the pandemic.  Chandigarh has recorded 468 new COVID-19 cases since February 28.The city now has 675 active cases—a 177 per cent rise since the end of February. Chandigarh’s COVID toll rises to 22,238.However, the city reported no new deaths.Chandigarh COVID-19  statusNew cases: 122Total: 22,238Active: 675Deaths: 355||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-122-new-cases-largest-single-day-rise-in-three-months-221521
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||12-year-old boy held for 6-year-old’s murder in Chandigarh’s Hallo Majra||Chandigarh Police detained a 12-year-old boy on Saturday evening for the murder of a 6-year-old girl who went missing a day ago, police sources said---a development that came hours after the latter’s body was found in a wooded area near Hallo Majra light point.Chandigarh Police also suspect rape, but there’s been no confirmation of this yet.The child went missing on Friday after she stepped out to play in the afternoon. After frantically looking for her, the victim’s parents approached the police.  The victim’s father works in a factory.  Police looked for the child until late on Friday. When search resumed on Saturday morning, police found the victim’s half-clothed body near the cremation ground, sources said. The face was smashed in, likely with a rock, sources said.The child’s body has been taken to a mortuary at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32. Police are still awaiting an autopsy report.Investigators detained the boy on the basis of images captured in close-circuit cameras in the area, sources said. The boy is neighbour, the sources said, and was captured on camera riding a bicycle with the victim.Police said that he would be brought before a magistrate on Sunday.Hours before the arrest, the victim’s enraged family and Hallo Majra residents took to the streets to demand immediate police action, leading to heavy traffic snarls on the Chandigarh-Ambala road that took almost four hours to resolve.Traffic heading towards Zirakpur had to be diverted toward the Transport light point at Tribune Chowk and towards Industrial Area, Phase-I, from Poultry Farm Chowk. Similarly, the traffic heading from Panchkula towards the Hallo Majra light point had to take a U-turn and head towards Mauli Jagran to take the Housing Board light point route to Chandigarh.These routes also witnessed snarls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-year-old-boy-held-for-6-year-olds-murder-in-chandigarhs-hallo-majra-221472
06-03-2021||Chandigarh/Delhi||Was just a trial, says Rakesh Tikait as farmers' blockade of KMP Expressway ends||As farmers' blockade of the six-lane Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway came to an end on Saturday evening, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait warned of intensifying such measures unless the Centre heeded to their demands of repealing the controversial agriculture laws.  "Like Delhi borders, KMP can also be blocked completely. Today was a trial for five hours," he said. Farmers blocked some parts of the highway as a mark of 100 days of their protest at Delhi's borders on Sunday.  The road blockade began at 11 am and continued till 4 pm.Farmers have pitched tents at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, since November in an attempt to pressure the central government into repealing three laws ---the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesters have held several rounds of talks with the central government with no headway. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a joint front of 32 farmers' unions that have been spearheading the protests, had called a 5-hour blockade of the 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway,  also known as the western peripheral Expressway, on Saturday. Protesters said they would only allow emergency vehicles to pass during those five hours. Released from Sonepat jail, Dalit activist Shiv Kumar says was thrashed by cops dailyThe 53-km Manesar-Palwal section was inaugurated by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 and the 83-km Kundli-Manesar section was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018.Won’t hesitate to take produce to Parliament: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitFarmers holding black flags and wearing black armbands and some women protesters with black ‘dupattas’ shouted slogans against the BJP-led government for not acceding to their demands.Protesters in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts and some other places brought their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles and parked them in the middle of the KMP Expressway in some stretches.The Haryana Police had made arrangements for traffic diversions and deployed adequate personnel.Protesting farmers squatted on the expressway and criticised the Narendra Modi government for not withdrawing the farm legislation, which they called “black laws”.“Our agitation against the three farm laws will continue unless the Centre withdraws these laws. We will not step back,” said a protester in Sonipat.Farmers held a protest at the KMP Expressway near Mandothi village in Jhajjar district. Some people from nearby villages joined them.“We are holding our protest in a peaceful manner,” said a farmer, adding that they were also observing “black day” on Saturday.Protesting farmers said the government should withdraw these laws.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, while addressing a gathering on the KMP Expressway, asked the Modi government to withdraw these laws.This agitation will certainly put pressure on the central government, he said.Farmers claimed that their five-hour protest remained peaceful.Sonipat Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said arrangements were made for traffic diversions.Heavy vehicles were diverted from Panipat and others from Ganaur to Delhi, said officials.Traffic was also diverted from Murthal via Sonipat city to Narela and Bawana and from Bahadurgarh to Baghpat, they said.Officials said traffic resumed at KMP expressway after famers lifted their blockade at 4 pm.In Palwal district also, farmers staged a ‘dharna’.At some places in Haryana, farmers even put up black flags atop roof of their houses as a mark of their protest against the government for not withdrawing the farm laws.Also read:The KMP Expressway was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution.It provides a high-speed link between northern and southern Haryana districts and gives an uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the three laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.What next?As plains of North India brace for scorching summers and the harvesting season begins, farmers made it clear that they would not turn back until their demands are met.“After completing 100 days of an unparalleled sit-in at the Delhi’ borders, unions will unveil the next agenda and programme for coming days on March 11,” Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunada), said. The aim is to expand the movement to other parts of the country, including poll-bound West Bengal and, also States like Madhya Pradesh Karnataka and Odisha, added BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh.Senior leaders say despite “many hurdles posed by the government and its agencies, the movement is going strong and is set to become bigger”. However, the underlying message for BJP’s political rivals is that this does not mean all support for them.  Patiala said the organisations will coordinate with BJP’s rival parties to make this clear to them.“We are apolitical, we want to make it clear to the Opposition parties as well,” he said. Rajewal said the protest is a “symbolic” and will become “bigger”.“We are ready for talks if government invites us (farmer leaders). But our demand remains the same. We want the withdrawal of the three farm laws. We will not accept the modification in the laws,” said Rajewal, president of BKU Rajewal,  who has been leading the talks of farmer unions with the central government.    Unions are also planning meetings, panchayats and mahapanchayats in other states and other areas, but at a distance from the current dharna sites at the Delhi borders. Yudhvir Singh said the movement has got tremendous support from across the country and it is now timefor farmers in other states like Odisha and Karnataka to register it physically.“For 100 days farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders in bitter cold, many have also died. But the government’s attitude has not just been disappointing but also shameful. We have no other option but to take the movement to other states and ensure our physical presence there. We will do whatever it takes to show our ‘nararzgi’ (anger),” he said. Singh said the movement has got a very good response from Rajasthan and they are considering a panchayat in Jaipur on the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh.“We will hold meetings/panchayats in Bengal on March 12, 13, and 14, Madhya Pradesh on March 14 and 15, Odisha on March 19, and Karnataka on March 20, 21, and 22. The movement is no longer limited to dharnas. If we want, we can collect a huge crowd on Delhi borders in one hour, but that is not the only aim now,” he said. — With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/was-just-a-trial-says-rakesh-tikait-as-farmers-blockade-of-kmp-expressway-ends-221437
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Three booked for assault||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-booked-for-assault-221418
06-03-2021||Panchkula||41 fresh cases  in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/41-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-221417
06-03-2021||Mohali||80 new cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-new-cases-in-mohali-221416
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 76 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-76-cases-221415
06-03-2021||Mohali||Oakridge International School||Shivalik Public SchoolChandigarh: Students of Shivalik Public School, Sector 41-B, participated in the state level science, mathematics and environment exhibition (SLSMEE 2020-21) for children under five different themes. Two themes were selected for the elementary level in the preliminary round. Under the second theme on health, hygiene and cleanliness, an exhibit “ Robid 19” prepared by Kanika (Class VI-B) was selected while in fifth theme on mathematical modelling the exhibit “Magic summation dice” prepared by Manjot (Class VIII-B) and Amanjot Singh (Class VI-A) was also selected. School Principal Gurkiranjeet Nalwa appreciated efforts of students and teachers. TNSAKSIPS-41 Smart SchoolChandigarh: An international Hindi Olympiad was organised by Hindi Vikas Sansthan for promoting the new education policy and empowering mother tongue in which Class V student Aaryav Bhardwaj of AKSIPS, Sector 41, bagged a gold medal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oakridge-international-school-221414
06-03-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Two car-borne men kidnap 15-year-old girl||A 15-year-old girl on her way to deliver tea to her mother, who was grazing goats on a vacant land in Virat Nagar, was kidnapped by two men in a car on Thursday.In her complaint to the police, the victim’s mother, Reena, stated that Pooja used to bring tea for her daily. On March 4, around 5.15 pm, she saw her daughter being forcibly taken away in a car. “She was screaming for help. I chased the white-coloured car that went towards the DLF and subsequently went out of sight,” the FIR read, while quoting the complainant.The victim studies in Class IX at a government school in Bhoria village.A case has been registered under Sections 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 366-A (procuration of minor girl) of the Indian Penal Code at the Pinjore police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-two-car-borne-men-kidnap-15-year-old-girl-221330
06-03-2021||---||Krishna Enclave in Zirakpur to get park||Zirakpur, March 5 Plans are afoot to make a park near Krishna Enclave in Ward No. 14 of Zirakpur. The demarcation of the park area has been done and the proposal has been sent to the higher authorities for approval. A park in the area was a longstanding demand of residents as no such facility is available in the vicinity. At present, the residents are forced to go to Nature Park near Green Society in Dhakoli, 2 km away. Area councillor Harjit Singh Minta said, “Around Rs50 lakh has been estimated for the project. A proposal has already been sent to the Municipal Council.” Residents said close to 5,000 persons lived in the society area and during the recently held MC elections, it was one of their major demands. Zirakpur Executive Officer Sandeep Tewari said the plan had been sent to the higher authorities. The demarcation of the park has been completed. The work will start when all approvals are recieved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/krishna-enclave-in-zirakpur-to-get-park-221331
06-03-2021||Panchkula||Ensure compliance with Covid norms: Panchkula DC||In view of the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has directed officials to ensure strict compliance of the guidelines and the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the District Disaster Management Authority from time to time. The Panchkula Civil Surgeon was directed to depute medical teams for sampling, tracing and strict containment measures. While the SDM, Panchkula, and the SDM, Kalka, would ensure coordination with “incident commanders” and teams of the Health Department, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) would deploy adequate police personnel for strict adherence to the Covid guidelines. “It is critical to keep a watch, not only on the number of new cases but also on the testing level and the positive rate in the district to identify local deviations and a surge in the cases,” Ahuja said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-compliance-with-covid-norms-panchkula-dc-221332
06-03-2021||Lalru||Six thieves nabbed||The police have arrested six persons and recovered two stolen motorcycles, two mobile phones, two gas cylinders and an LED screen near Handesra village.The suspects have been identified as Hrithik, Rahul, Rajesh Pandit, Rajesh Sharma, Nikhil Singh and Yasin, all residents of Lalru village.A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC was registered at the Handesra police station on March 4. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-thieves-nabbed-221350
06-03-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Released from Sonepat jail, Dalit activist Shiv Kumar says was thrashed by cops daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5After the sessions court at Sonepat granted bail to labour rights activist Shiv Kumar (24) on Thursday in an attempt-to-murder case on the “grounds of parity”, he arrived at the PGI today after his release from the jail. He was earlier granted bail in two cases of rioting and extortion on Wednesday.Also read: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail bedsAt the hospital, after doctor’s consultation, an X-ray was performed on him, the reports of which will be out on Saturday, said his friend Jasminder, who accompanied Shiv’s father Rajbir and another friend Ankit. Joined by some members of the Students for Society (SFS), Panjab University’s student organisation, the trio marched straight to Panjab University, outside the VC’s office where members of PURSA staged a hunger protest.Of police ‘brutality’Shiv Kumar, president of the Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan, sat on a chair, with plaster on his right leg, and narrated the tales of brutality meted out to him at the Kundli Police Station. “From January 16 to January 23, I was beaten up every day at least three times daily for a minimum of one hour. The cops would ask me where the organisation’s getting funds from,” he said.Shiv tailed the memories of his arrest from the Kundli border. “I was at the washroom near a KFC outlet at Kundli. Safai karamchaaris asked me to get out. Some four or five people, dressed as civils, put a cloth on my face, pointed two pistols at me and asked me to walk with them. I screamed for help, but in vain. After walking a while, they asked me to sit me in a car. At that time, I got to know they were police,” he said.“They drove me to a police station, Staff One behind Purani Kachairi near Gur Mandi in Sonipat. There, they removed my clothes, at beat me up brutally, like an animal. My hands were tied. They hit my feet. My toes were bleeding. Then, they hit my hands in the same way. Cops would get tired, but the beating wouldn’t stop. Pattey maarey hai, stretch khol dena, koladi pherna, chappal maarna.... one of the cops even spit on my face. This is how they tortured me for three hours. Then I was asked to walk, while my feet bled,” he said.The police, said Shiv, would not allow him to talk to his parents despite repeated requests. “I gained strength from Bhagat Singh. He was beaten up too. Also, a comrade’s words gave me support, he would say: ‘pair toot jaye, honsala nahi tootna chahiye’,” Said Shiv.The police has slapped charges of extortion on Shiv, but that, says, Shiv is absolutely baseless. “I feel it was a backlash of labourers siding with farmers on the ground level. We maintain a diary and have helped a minimum of 300 labourers with their salaries amounting to some Rs5 Lakh. I’ve been part of the sangathan and its founding member since 2018,” he adds.‘Sleepless nights’Shiv still gets sleepless nights thinking about the days he spent in jail. “I was presented in court on January 23 at night, somewhere between 10 pm and midnight, while others were presented during daytime. I was locked up in the car and the IO and another police officer spoke to the judge. They came with remand orders. I was then left at the Kundli police station for 10 days. There, I was mentally harassed and verbally abused even though they didn’t beat me up during the remand time,” he said.Shiv still wonders why other people who were jailed with him, one arrested for peddling heroine, other for theft or robbery, weren’t beaten up as much as he was?. “They we’re asking me the same question. But I didn’t have any answer. On knowing about me even they’d support me,” He said. Kumar said, he would be leaving for Tikri and then Singhu tomorrow. Today, he also visited protesters at Matka Chownk and Sector 37 traffic lights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/released-from-sonepat-jail-dalit-activist-shiv-kumar-says-was-thrashed-by-cops-daily-221321
06-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Developer told to refund Rs 32.84 lakh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5Not giving actual possession of a plot with all facilities and mandatory approvals in a fixed time frame has cost a builder dearly.The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has not only directed the builder, TDI Infratech Limited, to refund Rs32,84,560 to a consumer with interest but also told him to pay Rs50,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and litigation costs. Requests went in vainArora said he made a number of requests to builder to deliver actual physical possession of the plot after completing the project, getting clearances and approvals, but to no avail.Rajesh Arora approached the commission after the builder failed to deliver actual physical possession of a plot purchased by him in “TDI City”, Sector 111, SAS Nagar, for want of approvals/sanctions, development activities and basic amenities despite the victim paying almost full amount.Arora said he booked the plot in May 2008. He had paid Rs32,84,560 against total sale consideration of Rs34,12,500 from May, 2008, to January, 2012. However, only symbolic possession was offered vide letter dated April 9, 2012. It was offered without necessary approvals/sanctions and also without development at the project site.Arora said he made a number of requests to builder to deliver actual physical possession of the plot after completing the project and getting clearances/approvals, but to no avail.After over five years, he was told to get the sale deed executed of the plot vide letter dated December 15, 2017, and also to make the remaining payment. In the absence of delivery of valid possession, the company started charging maintenance charges also.Stating that the conduct of the builder amounts to deficiency in service and adoption of unfair trade practice, he filed a complaint before the commission seeking possession of the plot, or in the alternative refund of the amount paid along with interest and compensation. After hearing the argument, the commission held that the project was launched in complete violation of the mandatory requirements. The complainant is therefore held entitled to get a refund of the amount actually paid by him along with interest at the rate 12 per cent per annum from the respective dates of deposits.The commission directed the builder to refund Rs32,84,560 and also Rs46,456 received towards maintenance charges to the complainant, along with interest at the rate 12% per annum from the respective dates of deposit onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/developer-told-to-refund-rs-32-84-lakh-221322
06-03-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula MC gives away home composters||The Municipal Corporation has introduced a home composting scheme so that wet waste can be managed at source.Under the scheme, the civic body has started distributing home composters to citizens.Municipal Commissioner RK Singh said: “We are among the first among civic bodies to introduce such an initiative in affordable subsidised rates.”For sale and promotion of these innovative eco solutions, the MC has tied up with a local NGO, Haryana Nav Yuvak Kala Sangam, which will sensitise citizens to the scheme.Dr Parveen, CEO of the NGO, said they would run “ECO Mart Shoppee” where sustainable solutions will be made available to the general public under the ‘Let us Go Green’ initiative of their NGO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-gives-away-home-composters-221324
06-03-2021||---||Physical hearing at Panchkula consumer forum from Monday||Panchkula, March 5 Physical hearing at the Haryana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here will start from Monday with strict Covid-19 guidelines. In-person hearings had been shut since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  A notice by the commission says there shall be strict adherence to all the directions/guidelines/SOPs/advisories issued by the health authorities from time to time. “Only one advocate along with his clerk and party in person in each case shall be permitted to enter the court concerned,” the notice says. Advocates/litigants have been asked to ensure that they enter the court premises only for arguing their cases and leave the court premises as soon as the hearing for the day is over. “Advocates appearing in more than one case may wait at the bar room area or outside the commission premises,” it adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/physical-hearing-at-panchkula-consumer-forum-from-monday-221325
06-03-2021||---||Railways recovers Rs 17.3L fine from passengers||Chandigarh, March 5 A ticket-checking drive of 20 days was carried out by Ambala Division of Northern Railway during which around 3,477 passengers travelling without ticket were caught by staff. Fine amounting to Rs 17,37,485 was recovered from them by the ticket-checking teams.  In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Northern Railway is running a limited number of special and festival special trains for passengers. Hari Mohan, Senior DCM, Coaching, said: “As directed by the headquarters, a ticket-checking drive was conducted from February 5 to 25 with focus on detecting unauthorised travelling, misuse of senior citizen quota, transfer of ticket cases, touts/unscrupulous elements and misuse of emergency quota. It was monitored at the officer level.” He shares, all trains, which passed through Ambala Cantt, including train no. 01078, 04217, 04673, 02716, 02408, 04521 and 02925, were checked by 26 TTEs. “A total of 3,477 cases of travel without ticket were found and Rs 17,37,485 was recovered. This includes 43 cases of transfer of ticket and fine of Rs 26,010 in 3,477 cases,” he added.  The Ambala Division authorities have appealed to passengers to travel with proper and valid railway tickets and to purchase their tickets from authorised agents, from computerised reservation centres or to book them on website www.irctc.co.in in order to avoid inconvenience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-recovers-rs-17-3l-fine-from-passengers-221326
06-03-2021||---||Chandigarh MC House to take up water tariff issue||Chandigarh, March 5 General House of the Municipal Corporation (MC) will again take up the issue of rollback in water tariff at a meeting to be held on March 9. Facing criticism from different sections of society and Opposition parties, the BJP-led MC in October had passed a resolution calling for a rollback in the water tariff, and sent it to the UT Administration for approval.  However, the Administration had asked the MC to reconsider its resolution last month. The MC would also take up the issue of imposing the cow cess on beer cans. The cow cess of Rs 5 per bottle on the sale of country-made liquor, beer and Indian-made foreign liquor was imposed in the Excise Policy of 2020-21 which would continue in the Excise Policy of 2021-22. Now, the House would take a decision on imposing it on the beer can too. The House would also take a decision on the proposal to amend water bylaws to allow provisory connections in villages even outside the lal dora land. There are 22 villages under the MC jurisdiction with 17,705 connections within the lal dora and 3,837 connections outside. No water bills are generated for about 2,128 illegal connections outside the lal dora.  The construction of multi-level parking near Rana Ki Haveli in Mani Majra, entrusting the management of sports stadium in Maloya to the UT Sports Department, creation of a mechanical division in the MC, etc, are also part of the agenda of the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-to-take-up-water-tariff-issue-221327
06-03-2021||---||New security chief of Panjab University||Chandigarh, March 5 Vikram Singh, Security Officer, Panjab University, Chandigarh, took over charge of Chief of University Security from Professor Ashwani Kaul here today till further orders.  Vikram Singh has served Panjab University as Security Officer for 12 years. Prior to this, he had served the Indian Air Force for more than 20 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-security-chief-of-panjab-university-221328
06-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Poor show on economic front to blame||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5Poor performance on the economic front is one of the key reasons for pushing Chandigarh to 29th rank in the Ease of Living Index (ELI) -2020 from 5th rank in 2018, in the ranking of 111 cities released by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs yesterday. It was the second edition of the survey in which the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) category was introduced and in this category, too, the UT stood at 23rd position.Of 100 marks, the city scored overall 54.40 in the ELI. In 2018, it had got a marginally less marks (53.16). Of its four components - Quality of Life, Economic Ability, Sustainability and Citizen Perception - the city performed badly in Economic Ability (34th rank) and Citizen Perception (35th rank).The ELI is an assessment tool that evaluates the quality of life and the impact of various initiatives for urban development. The MPI was launched as an accompaniment to ELI. It seeks to examine local government practice in municipalities across areas of services, finance, policy, technology and governance."It appears that transparency and accountability is missing and that is why the UT ranking slipped in the index, but it can be improved next year if apt steps are taken," said Ajay Jagga, an advocate.The authorities could not provide adequate business and employment opportunities. Also, due to a shortage of funds, the Administration could not develop economic infrastructure in the city, as no new industry was established and many existing ones had migrated to neighbouring states, said experts.The income disparity between the poor and the rich has also increased in the recent times, they added.Meanwhile, an industrialist said the Administration had notified the Chandigarh Industrial Policy in 2015, but it still remained only on paper. It focused on boosting ease of doing business, ease of transfer of property, promoting industry at the national and international levels, development of infrastructure in the industrial area, and a preferential procurement policy for the city's industry.Two phases of industrial area have 1,884 plots spread over 150 acres. In the past five years, the number of micro, small and medium enterprises has decreased by nearly 35 per cent in the city, he added.Meanwhile, the local Aam Aadmi Party slammed the UT Administrator and the local MP Kirron Kher for their lackadaisical attitude, which has led to Chandigarh slipping to 29th position in ELI 2020. AAP senior leader Chander Mukhi Sharma said: "There is no coordination between the Administration and the MC."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-show-on-economic-front-to-blame-221329
06-03-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board gives Rs 1K prize for online payment of Rs 7||Chandigarh, March 5 To encourage online payments, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to continue with monthly reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions during the whole year of 2021. A computerised draw to decide 10 winners for January was held today. Among the winners, the lowest online payment was of Rs7 only and four winners are from Maloya, three from Dhanas, two from Sector-38 (W) and one from Sector 41. These 10 winners included nine allottees of small flats and one commercial unit allottee. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said the board had introduced the facility of online payment of all kinds of dues and now the allottees are not required to visit the office. They can pay their dues online by visiting the website of the housing board: www.chbonline.in. Online payments can be made through net banking, debit cards and credit cards, without any extra charge. In February, a total of Rs1.32 crore was deposited through 1,630 online transactions, he said, and added that it was the highest ever collection through the online payment system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-gives-rs-1k-prize-for-online-payment-of-rs-7-221323
06-03-2021||---||National symposium on chemistry conducted at Panjab University||Chandigarh, March 5The Department of Chemistry, Panjab University, conducted the Professor Ram Chand Paul National Symposium in the virtual mode today.The theme of the symposium was “Chemistry and interdisciplinary sciences”.The symposium began with an inaugural function. Prof VR Sinha, Dean University Instruction, was the guest of honour, Prof Kavirayani R Prasad, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, was the chief guest and key speaker.The technical sessions comprised talks and oral-cum-poster presentations. The invited talks (30-35 min) were delivered by eminent/experienced scientists from India and abroad and presentations (3-5 min) were presented by young researchers/budding researchers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-symposium-on-chemistry-conducted-at-panjab-university-221316
06-03-2021||---||Woman cop performs duty with child, video goes viral||Chandigarh, March 5A video of a UT traffic police woman constable, who is purportedly performing duty at the Sector 15/16/23/24 roundabout with her child in her arms, went viral today.The video was reportedly made by a commuter crossing the intersection. The woman, identified as Priyanka, can be seen regulating the traffic while holding her child.Police officials said Priyanka and another cop were supposed to be on duty at the intersection at 8 am.However, an official found them missing from the duty after which she was asked to report there.She came to the Traffic Line, Sector 29, along with the child.The staff at the office asked her to go home if she wanted leave, however, she went to her duty, along with the child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-cop-performs-duty-with-child-video-goes-viral-221317
06-03-2021||---||‘Digital library will help mitigate divide’||Chandigarh, March 5UT Adviser Manoj Parida today inaugurated the 5th Digital Library at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Karsan, Ram Darbar, Chandigarh.Parida said: “Digital library is a great endeavor by the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR). It can open a pool of growth opportunities for children. When I was studying, it was difficult to even find relevant books. Initiatives undertaken by the CCPCR will help mitigate the digital divide that the world has witnessed during Covid times. We hope children utilise the digital library to the optimum and it brings a positive and significant changes to children’s life.”The commission provided the entire infrastructure required for setting up the digital library, which is equipped with the latest computers, a projector with a screen, audio system, almirahs, chairs and tables.Commission chairperson Harjinder Kaur said: “Digital Library is an effort to towards creating an equitable society where all children get equal opportunity for growth and development. Last year, the commission had undertaken online contest on mental health, Covid, drug abuse and POCSO, in which more than 45,000 children had participated.”The commission had undertaken rural games in two government schools, she said.The inauguration ceremony was attended by Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, School Education, UT, CCPCR members Prof Monica M Singh, Pooja Punchhi, Varun Beniwal, Sunil Bedi, Deputy Director, Neena Kalia, DEO, and Sukhraj Sandhu, District Nodal Officer, Education Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/digital-library-will-help-mitigate-divide-221318
06-03-2021||---||CBI court awards 3-yr RI to ex-SSC official||Chandigarh, March 5While stating that corruption by public servants has reached a monstrous dimension in India, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI court, awarded three years’ rigorous imprisonment to Naveen Sehgal, former Deputy Regional Director of the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Chandigarh, and Satish Ahlawat, the then senior auditor of the PCDA Western Command, in an examination irregularities case.The court pronounced the judgment after finding them guilty under Sections 120-B, 420 read with 511, 468 read with Sections 471 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 15 read Section 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs4.50 lakh on Naveen Sehgal and Rs2 lakh on Satish Ahlawat.The CBI had booked Sehgal and others in April 2012 for allegedly committing forgery, cheating and other irregularities during a written examination conducted by the SSC for the sub-inspector-level officer posts in police organisations such as the CRPF, ITBP, NCB and other paramilitary forces. The CBI had registered the case on the complaint of the then Chairman SSC, Delhi. The written examination was held in Ambala in September 2011.Out of 16 candidates whose seating plan was adjusted, so as to enable them to appear from the same room, seven came out as all-India toppers in the examination. The appointment of nine candidates was also withheld by the Centre after the case was registered. The CBI filed the chargesheet against the accused in October 2013 in the CBI court. The CBI court framed charges against the accused in 2014.While the counsels of the accused prayed for leniency in awarding the sentence, Public Prosecutor KP Singh opposed it vehemently. He argued that corruption was a monster and eating into vitals of the country. “It is the strongest force which is pulling us down and if we do not eradicate corruption from our system, it will not only swallow us but also push our country into oblivion and a point of no return,” he said.After hearing the arguments, the court said: “Corruption in a civilized society was a disease like cancer, which, if not detected in time, is sure to affect every walk of life leading to disastrous consequences.” The court further stated that corruption was like a plague that was not only contagious but spreads like a fire in the jungle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-awards-3-yr-ri-to-ex-ssc-official-221319
06-03-2021||---||Medical officers booked for irregularities||Panchkula, March 5The Panchkula police have booked two medical officers of the local Health Department on charges of cheating, forgery and irregularities in reporting for duty on time under several sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act on a complaint filed by a journalist.The medical officers are Dr Sarita and Dr Meenal Gahlawat, who are deployed at the ESI Dispensary in Sector 19.The complaintThe complainant said the medical officers were allegedly not attending to patients, especially during Covid-19, and remained absent during their working hours. They referred patients to various hospitals. He said the medical officers also stamped blank OPD tickets.The complainant, Chander Shekhar Dharni, said he visited the dispensary on a tip-off on December 11, 2020, about the misdeed and irregularities prevalent. He said medical officers were allegedly not attending patients, especially during Covid 19, and remained absent during their working hours and referred patients to various hospitals. He said medical officers also stamped blank OPD tickets.It was revealed after questioning a few patients and driver of Dr Meenal, a medical officer, that Dr Meenal reached hospital at 9 am, not following her duty hours.“As per the information received by me, the official duty hours are 7 am to 1 pm and 1 pm to 7 pm. Thereafter, to verify the facts stated by the driver, I went inside the dispensary to take the recorded versions of Medical Officer and Senior Medical Officer where I met with Dr Sarita and Dr Meenal. Dr Sarita, when confronted with some facts and bogus referral OPD tickets, refused to comment. Dr Meenal kept intervening in the support of Dr Sarita,” said Dharni.“Thereafter, I recorded the version of the Senior Medical Officer Dr Aradhana who disclosed the misdeeds, irregularities and in-disciplinary behaviour of Dr Sarita. She said Dr Sarita is supposed to join her duty in the evening shift but she used to come in the morning shift and does not even sign the duty roster. She also disclosed that whenever she wanted to take any disciplinary action against Dr Sarita, she was given the threats of transfer by Dr Sarita with influence of her VIP status,” states the FIR.“The complainant comprehends that since the above named medical officers are politically influential, they can implicate the complainant in a false case just to save their skin and may also cause harm to the complainant. It is therefore requested that the life and liberty of the complainant and his freedom as a journalist be protected,” the FIR further read.The FIR has been filed under Sections 420 (cheating), 464, 465 466, 467, 468, 471 (forgery) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 51, 56 of the Disaster Management Act at the Sector 20 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/medical-officers-booked-for-irregularities-221320
06-03-2021||Rupinder Singh Brar||Remembering ‘Father of Sikh Encyclopedia’ — Prof Harbans Singh||Popular perceptions being what they are, scholarship is not something that comes easily to mind when one considers the Sikh community. Yet, the community has produced some notable historians who not only left behind rich literary legacies, but exemplified in their personal lives what it meant to be a scholar sage. For example, in the 17th century, it was Bhai Gurdas, in the 18th Bhai Mani Singh, in the 19th it was Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha and Bhai Vir Singh and in the 20th, several names come to mind. Prominent among them is Professor Harbans Singh, whose birth centenary falls on March 6.Born in the village of Kotha Guru in Bathinda district, Prof Harbans Singh rubbed shoulders with intellectual giants like Wilfred Cantwell Smith of Harvard, yet carried himself with such casual grace that he left a lasting impression on all whom he met. Said a Canadian scholar once, "To know such a person is to emerge a bigger, better person oneself.”An embodiment of Nanakian virtue, his best lessons were delivered not through seminars or books but through example. When SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, together with Parkash Singh Badal, honoured him with a cheque for Rs 25,000, not a small amount in those days, he refused to accept any money, insisting that it be used for promoting Sikh studies instead.A prodigious mind, his first major university appointment came as head of the department even before he was quite 23. His heart, however, lay in scholarship, not administration. In 1966, he produced his first major work in English, a definitive biography of Guru Gobind Singh. Not only was the book translated into most Indian languages, its Sanskrit translation won the coveted Sahitya Akademi award. Three years later, he produced a biography of Guru Nanak. It was another major achievement. The Times Literary Supplement, London, called the book, ‘Guru Nanak and the Origins of the Sikh Faith’, “the best short study of Guru Nanak’s life, and an outstanding example of modern Sikh scholarship”.More similar works followed. He travelled extensively, lecturing in Japan, Belgium, the Netherlands, England, Ireland, and the USA. Most men would rest comfortably upon such laurels, but not him. In 1972, he set out to produce an encyclopedia of Sikhism. It was an unbelievably ambitious goal, even for him. There were many sceptics. Wrote Khushwant Singh, “I do not know where he will find 4,000 contributors who have the discipline required to write factual, accurate and unbiased pieces in the exact number of words prescribed.”Undaunted, Harbans Singh created a team of writers and researchers around him. He painstakingly collected and reviewed every paper, artifact, and bit of data, then edited and reduced all information into concise entries. Months turned to years and years to decades as the work stretched into the late 1990s, and yet he toiled away doggedly. Impressed, the academic and the lay communities finally took notice. Guru Nanak Dev University awarded him an honorary doctorate. The SGPC bestowed upon him a special award. By now, even Khushwant Singh had become an admirer. “A start has been made at Patiala to produce the Encyclopedia of Sikhism,” he wrote. “Harbans Singh… its editor-in-chief, is the right man for the job. How many professors are there who turn down offers of Vice-Chancellorships? Harbans Singh refused one that was offered to him on a platter.”It was true, but by then the Professor had sacrificed much more than a prestigious post in his magnificent obsession. Despite suffering a paralytic stroke and losing his loving wife, he slogge d on relentlessly. He breathed his last on May 30, 1998, literally days after completing his monumental work. He was gone but his legacy was secure. Later that year, the Prime Minister himself would release four volumes.Recognitions continued posthumously. In 1999, he was awarded the ‘Order of the Khalsa’ by the community and later still Punjabi University created a full-fledged Department in his name. However, the highest homage came from another, more familiar source. In 2019, another historian, Prof Nikky Guninder Kaur Singh, his daughter, came out with a book on Guru Nanak — a fitting tribute to a worthy father.The writer is a practising physician in Yuba City, California||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remembering-father-of-sikh-encyclopedia-%E2%80%94-prof-harbans-singh-221091
06-03-2021||---||911 elderly jabbed in Mohali||Mohali, March 5As many as 911 senior citizens and 178 in the 45 to 59 age group with comorbidities were administered the Covishield vaccine here today.A total of 2,899 senior citizens and 470 persons aged 45 to 59 have been jabbed so far. As many as 131 and 114 healthcare workers were given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively.Similarly, 128 and 32 frontline workers were given the first and second dose of the vaccine. So far, 5,965 and 2,810 healthcare workers and 4,320 and 69 frontline workers have got the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “The vaccination is being conducted at seven government health institutions and 29 private hospitals in the district. So far, no adverse effect of the vaccination has been seen in any of the health workers.”Punjab Health Minister inoculatedPunjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu got his first Covid vaccine shot at the district hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, on Friday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/911-elderly-jabbed-in-mohali-221309
06-03-2021||---||Property grab case: Scribe made a killing in the deal?||Chandigarh, March 5Three accused in the property grab case were produced before a local court today and remanded in four-day police custody. The remand application stated that Sanjeev Mahajan, a journalist, had purchased property worth crores after the execution of the General Power of Attorney (GPA) between house owner Rahul Mehta and Arvind Singla and Kalendra Singh Kadiyan, suggesting that he received a share in the deal. The police suspect more properties were grabbed by the accused, which need to be investigated.Accused Sanjeev Mahajan and Manish Gupta’s three-day police remand, which ended today, was extended by four days, while Satpal Dagar, brother of DSP Ram Gopal, who was arrested yesterday, was also sent to four-day police remand.In the remand application, the police said they needed to conduct indepth investigations into the properties worth crores and a luxury car purchased by Mahajan after the execution of the GPA between house owner Rahul Mehta and Arvind Singla and Kalendra Singh Kadiyan. The police said the properties were purchased in Mahajan and his wife’s name, which showed that he had taken his share in cash instead of a bank transaction after selling the property.The police said a proxy of Rahul Mehta was presented before the Sub-Registrar, Estate Office, for the registration of the sale deed.The remand application also mentions that the agreement to sell the house, executed between victim Rahul and two accused, is yet to be recovered. The original agreement executed between Rahul and Saurabh Gupta is also to be recovered.The police said Satpal was arrested last night and he needed to be “confronted” with the other two accused to ascertain the exact amount shared between them.The police said during Satpal’s interrogation, his brother’s role in the case would also be verified. According to the statement of liquor contractor Arvind Singla, recorded last month, he, along with Satpal and Ashok Arora, had met the DSP at his office to discuss the property deal. Singla had also claimed that the DSP had arranged the documents to get the property registered in the name of Manish Gupta.Pharma firm owner grilledThe police questioned the owner of Ind Swift Pharmaceutical Company on Friday at the Sector 31 police station. Mahajan’s wife was drawing a salary from the company. The company’s owner was arrested by the UT crime branch in 2018 for tax evasion. The firm had a liability of around Rs5 crore. However, it had paid only Rs5,000 VAT. Cops suspect that Mahajan’s wife used to get a salary in return for some favour.Fire at SHO’s office, case files safeA fire was reported from the office of the SHO Sector 31 police station on Thursday night due to a short circuit. The files pertaining to the case were also kept there. The incident came to notice on time, which saved the files from getting burnt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-scribe-made-a-killing-in-the-deal-221310
06-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Punjab patients occupy most Covid beds at PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5The Covid beds at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) are once again occupied mostly by patients from Punjab as the virus spreads its tentacles in the state.Punjab reported 1,074 cases and 15 deaths in the past 24 hours. The state’s active caseload has reached over 6,000. It has witnessed a three-fold increase as compared to the cases in January, when it came down to 2,000.Covid bed occupancyA majority of Covid patients (29) currently admitted to the PGI are in the age group of 40 to 60. A total of 77 patients are admitted to the hospital’s Covid block.PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram said, “Covid patients referred to our institute are those suffering from moderate to severe disease. This indicates that the severity of the disease has also increased in the region as more patients are being hospitalised. Even in the Emergency block, at least seven to eight patients test positive daily. The number had reduced to one to two when the cases had plateaued.”“The patient load in the hospitals has once again increased. It is very important that we all follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and opt for vaccination to break the chain of transmission. Many schoolchildren have also reported cases of late. Hence, it is advised to strictly follow social distancing in schools as well,” said Dr Jagat Ram.The active cases in the UT have also crossed the 500-mark with 587 patients currently infected with the virus. In the last week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.3 per cent every day whereas the national growth rate is 0.14 per cent. After Punjab and Maharashtra, Chandigarh’s growth rate is the third highest in the country.1,835 residents jabbedChandigarh: As many as 1,835 residents got inoculated in the city on Friday. As many as 1,718 residents above 60 years of age and 117 with comorbidity and aged 45 to 59 were among those jabbed. With this, 6,148 senior citizens and 423 people above 45 and under 60 years of age got the first dose in the past four days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-patients-occupy-most-covid-beds-at-pgi-221311
06-03-2021||---||1,814 take the shot in Panchkula||Panchkula, March 5 As many as 1,814 beneficiaries, including 1,537 eligible citizens, were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on Friday. Among the qualified citizens, 1,458 were those above 60 years and 79 were in the age group of 45 to 59 with comorbidities.  The Panchkula Health Department had a target to vaccine 2,400 beneficiaries, including 2,100 citizens. The vaccination sites included the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 and all PHC/CHCs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-814-take-the-shot-in-panchkula-221312
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Expect light rain today||Residents are likely to enjoy pleasant weather conditions for some days as a fresh spell of light rain may lash the city tomorrow evening or at night. According to the Meteorological Department, light to moderate rain is likely to commence from March 6 evening and could continue for the subsequent 24 to 36 hours. The department warned that a thunderstorm, accompanied by lightning and gusty winds, was likely to occur during this spell of rain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-light-rain-today-221313
06-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration to go ahead with privatisation of Power Dept||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5After getting the green light from the Centre, the UT Administration has decided to go ahead with the privatization of the Electricity Department.Earlier, the Administration had put the process on hold as it was awaiting a uniform policy for privatisation of the Electricity Department of all UTs from the Centre.During an inter-ministerial meeting held in Delhi on February 26, it was decided that the UTs where the privatisation process was in the last phase would continue with the procedure.As many as 20 intended bidders purchased the tenders, but only six companies, namely Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power, had submitted their bids to take part in the privatisation of the power wing of the Engineering Department, UT. “We will open the bids within 10 days and send the name of the highest bidder to the Cabinet for the final approval,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.6 companies in fray for Chandigarh Power Department privatisationOn November 9 last year, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the Electricity Department.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1 stayed the tendering process regarding privatisation of the Electricity Department of the UT Administration. The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government, in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation of the wing could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-go-ahead-with-privatisation-of-power-dept-221314
06-03-2021||---||8 teachers of Phase 3B1 school found +ve||Mohali, March 5Eight teachers of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Phase 3B1 tested positive for Covid, giving a major scare to the staff and parents of close to 2,200 students enrolled in the institution. As a precautionary measure, the administration has ordered an aggressive testing of students with 300 tests being ordered to be conducted in the school on Monday.Six teachers had tested positive on Wednesday while two more were found to have contracted the virus on Thursday. The school had been closed for four days, said an official. “Each and every student, teacher and staff member will be tested from Monday onwards. We are working out the modalities,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur.At New Sunny Enclave, Kharar, five members of a family were found infected. The area has been declared a micro-containment zone. There are guidelines that if five or more members are found positive in a cluster, it has to be declared a micro-containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-teachers-of-phase-3b1-school-found-ve-221315
06-03-2021||New Delhi||Supreme Court Collegium for Vikas Bahl as Punjab & Haryana High Court Judge||The Supreme Court Collegium has recommended elevation of advocate Vikas Bahl as Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.In a meeting held on March 2, the Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde also decided to recommend advocate Rahul Bharti for appointment as a Judge of the Jammu and Kashmir HC. The Collegium has recommended elevation of three lawyers — Dr Vivek Sharan, Nidhi Patankar and Pranay Verma — as judges of the Madhya Pradesh HC.The Collegium, which also includes Justice NV Ramana and Justice RF Nariman, reiterated its earlier recommendation for elevation of Satyen Vaidya as a judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court. It also reiterated its recommendation to elevate advocates Viju Abraham Mohammed Nias CP and Paul KK for Kerala HC and Nagendra Ramachandra Naik for Karnataka HC. It approved the proposal for appointment of 10 Additional Judges of Allahabad High Court as Permanent Judges.They are Justices Ali Zamin, Vipin Chandra Dixit, Shekhar Kumar Yadav, Ravi Nath Tilhari, Deepak Verma, Gautam Chowdhary, Shamim Ahmed, Dinesh Pathak, Manish Kumar and Samit Gopal. It also cleared elevation of judicial officer A Badharudeen as Kerala HC Judge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/supreme-court-collegium-for-vikas-bahl-as-punjab-haryana-high-court-judge-221195
