07-03-2021||Chandigarh||80 fresh virus cases in Chandigarh; total count 22,318||Eighty more coronavirus cases surfaced in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the infection count to 22,318 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, according to a medical bulletin.No coronavirus death was reported in the union territory, where the disease has claimed 355 lives so far. The number of active cases has risen to 710 on Sunday, the bulletin said, adding that 45 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 21,253. A total of 2,66,685 samples have been taken for testing till now in the union territory, of which 2,43,399 tested negative while reports of 79 samples are awaited, as per the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-fresh-virus-cases-in-chandigarh-total-count-22-318-221978
07-03-2021||Amit Bathla---||In Ist week, Panchkula sees 5,322 citizens getting jabbed||Tribune News Service Panchkula, March 6 The Covid-19 vaccination campaign accelerated further in the district with as many as 1,727 eligible citizens (those above 60 years of age and in the age group of 45 to 59 with comorbidities) taking their first dose of the vaccine at 24 vaccination sites today.  So far, 5,322 citizens have been inoculated in the district. No vaccination session is planned for tomorrow on account of Sunday. The vaccination drive for citizens, which began with technical glitches on the first day (Monday), eventually picked up pace with the issues being resolved and more vaccination sites being included, allowing senior citizens to take vaccine in proximity to their residence. As many as 139 eligible citizens had taken the shot on Monday while 271 were administered the vaccine on Tuesday, 464 on Wednesday, 1,184 on Thursday and 1,537 on Friday. Vaccination sites The drive for eligible citizens had started on Monday with just three vaccination sites. The number of sites was increased to 11 the next day. It came down to seven on Wednesday and rose again to 20 on Thursday. It was further scaled up to 24 yesterday. Healthcare, frontline workers Meanwhile, at least 7,155 healthcare workers and 5,797 frontline workers have been vaccinated in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-ist-week-panchkula-sees-5-322-citizens-getting-jabbed-221644
07-03-2021||---||PU governing reforms panel to meet on March 10||Chandigarh, March 6The Panjab University (PU) governing reforms committee will take up various issues at its first meeting on March 10. Panel members will discuss various issues pertaining to the governance reforms in the PU.As per the meeting’s agenda, members will discuss how to move forward and meet mandate of the committee within the stipulated time-frame of two months.The issues to be discussed at the meeting include, existing governance structure of the PU, chronology of events, re-initiation of governance reforms in the university, mandate of the 11-member committee as abstracted from the backdrop note appended by the PU Chancellor, salient views of the governing structure and mode of appointment of deans of faculties in other prominent universities/institutes in India (with reference to NAAC report of on quality enhancement of the PU).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-governing-reforms-panel-to-meet-on-march-10-221645
07-03-2021||---||Congress protests water tariff hike in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 6  The local unit of the Congress today carried out a protest march in Sector 45 over water tariff hike. Congress activists had planned to march to the houses of BJP councillors Chandrawati Shukla and Kanwarjit Rana, who live in Sector 45. However, to avoid any untoward incident, the police had put up barricades on the road to stop them.  When Congressmen led by local party chief Subhash Chawla tried to cross barricades cops used water cannons to stop them. Congress spokesperson Harmail Kesari said, “We were protesting peacefully, but water cannons were used on us.”  Congress leaders and workers then sat near Ajit Karam Singh International Public School, Sector 45. They protested against BJP leaders for hiking water rates threefold to burden local residents.   Meanwhile, BJP leaders termed the plan to gherao its councillors as a political stunt. “We are already bringing the revision agenda in the House, then why protest?” said a BJP leader. Last week, when as per its plan the Opposition party tried to gherao residences of BJP chief Arun Sood and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, who are also elected councillors, the Saffron party had also taken to roads. The police had a tough time in controlling them.  The Congress said the plan to gherao the ruling party councillors would continue as per weekly schedule to “open their eyes” over the water tariff hike issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-protests-water-tariff-hike-in-chandigarh-221646
07-03-2021||Panchkula||Youth killed in hit-and-run||A 19-year-old youth was killed in an accident near Trilokpur turn in Raipur Rani on Thursday evening. The victim, identified as Pramod Sahni, along with his cousin, was on his way to buy groceries from a shop when a rashly driven car coming from the Trilokpur side hit him from the rear around 8 pm. The victim was tossed into the air. The car driver fled from the spot after the mishap.  Meanwhile, a passer-by noted down the registration number of the offending vehicle. With the help of passers-by, the victim was taken to the community health centre in Raipur Rani, where doctors declared him brought dead. In his complaint to the police, the victim’s cousin, Ankit, who works in a screening plant and lives at the site, stated that Pramod had been looking for a job and arrived at his place a few days ago. A case under Section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death by negligence), IPC, has been registered at the Raipur Rani police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-killed-in-hit-and-run-221647
07-03-2021||Mohali||1,169 beneficiaries vaccinated in Mohali district||Around 1,169 persons, including 1,000 senior citizens and 169 aged between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities, were administered vaccine against Covid in seven government and 29 private hospitals of Mohali district today.In all, 3,899 senior citizens have been given the vaccine while 639 persons aged between 45 to 60 and suffering from co-morbidities have got the shot.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said 136 and 153 health care workers (HCWs) were given the first and second doses of the vaccine, respectively. Seventy and 50 front line workers (FLWs) had been given the first and second dose of vaccine, respectively, she added.“Till now, 6,101 and 2,963 HCWs have been given the first and second dose, respectively, while 4,390 and 119 FLWs have been given the first and second dose of vaccine, respectively,” she said.“To curb the menace of coronavirus people must come forward for vaccination. Some miscreants are messing up with public perception on the vaccine. It is completely safe. There is no need to hesitate from vaccination,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-169-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-mohali-district-221648
07-03-2021||---||Association seeks reduction in VAT on petrol, diesel||Tribune News Service  Mohali, March 6  The Petrol Pump Dealers Association Punjab (PPDAP) has lamented the negative impact of the rising prices of petrol and diesel on its business as well as increased burden on farmers, industry and common man in the state. The PPDAP president, Paramjit Singh Doaba, said, “Petrol and diesel is high-priced in Mohali as compared to cities of the neighbouring states in North India. The reason for petrol and diesel being costly in Punjab is higher state taxes (VAT and cess).”  “Higher VAT in Punjab has stifled the growth. The PPDAP has since 2017 continuously sought parity in VAT with the neighboring states and the UT. Though the present government decreased VAT in 2019, it did not wait for results to come and increased the tax again, which throttled growth in the state,” he added. “Haryana and Chandigarh have gained at the expense of Punjab by reducing VAT on both the products since 2000. However, petrol and diesel consumption grew in Himachal, which increased VAT collections for the state,” he said.  “As the Finance Minister prepares to present the Budget, we demand a reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel and bring it at par with the neighbouring states and the UT. Such a step is needed for the consumers in Punjab, who have been struggling in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, tax reduction on fuel will encourage industry, business and transport in the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-seeks-reduction-in-vat-on-petrol-diesel-221649
07-03-2021||Mohali||PRCI inks pact with Rayat Bahra University||The Chandigarh chapter of the Public Relations Council of India (PRCI) here today signed an MoU with Rayat Bahra University (RBU) to strengthen the industry-academia partnership and set up a Young Communicators Club (YCC).The MoU was signed by the Rayat Bahra University Vice-Chancellor, Dr Parvinder Singh, the PRCI national vice-president, CJ Singh, and the PRCI north zone head, Renuka Salwan.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Parvinder said, “Communication is an essential skill for the new generation of business managers and entrepreneurs.”CJ Singh said, “Communication plays a significant part in managing any organisation.” Renuka Salwan said, “The PRCI has set up YCC in various institutions to prepare youth for the challenges of life.”The RBU Chancellor, Gurvinder Singh Bahra, said, “The YCC will help in honing students’ communication skills.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prci-inks-pact-with-rayat-bahra-university-221650
07-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||92-yr-old ex-Army Captain to raise funds for Galwan martyrs’ families||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 6It appears that Captain Parshottam Singh (retd) is the hero India so desperately needs right now.The 92-year-old veteran set himself a goal to raise money for the families of martyrs of the Galwan Valley in Ladhakh. He has set up a fund raising page and decided to walk the 50-km stretch in various parts of the Mohali city with his walker for support.He has split the journey into chunks of 3 km in the morning and evening and achieve the target to raise funds using social media platform for the families of martyrs’in 10 to 15 days.Disclosing this Captain Parshottam Singh (retd) said as a soldier he decided to collect funds for the families of the martyrs of Galwan Valley in Ladakh (Jammu and Kashmir) through social media.Even though he could not walk due to his poor health, but he would cover the distance of 50 km with the help of a walker, Captain Parshottam added.He had joined the Sikh Regiment in 1945 and retired in 1978, Captain Parshottam said. He was winner in the shooting competition of the Western Command Championship and had served as trainer at the weapon training centre of the Army, Captain Parshottam added. “I was also a boxer,” Captain Parshottam said.Nonagenarian’s son Tarsem Singh Sodha said they were living in England for the past 40 years. The funds collected through Facebook and other social media platforms would directly be handed over to the families of the martyrs, who laid down their lives to protect the sovereignty of the country, Sodha added.His father would contribute Rs5,000 for the fund, Sodha said. Besides, he would also donate Rs5,000 in the memory of his wife, Sodha added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/92-yr-old-ex-army-captain-to-raise-funds-for-galwan-martyrs-families-221651
07-03-2021||---||4-hour ordeal for commuters||Chandigarh, March 6A protest staged by residents of Hallo Majra at the nearby light point led to long traffic jams on the Chandigarh-Ambala road in the city. The traffic mess could be contained after almost four hours.The traffic heading towards Zirakpur was diverted towards the Transport light point at Tribune Chowk and towards Industrial Area, Phase-I, from the Poultry Farm chowk. Similarly, the traffic heading from Panchkula towards the Hallo Majra light point had to take a U-turn and head towards Mauli Jagran to take the Housing Board light point route to Chandigarh.As the traffic spilled on to the alternative routes, it led to long jams there as well.Raman, a resident of Zirakpur, who was heading towards Chandigarh, said there was a long queue of vehicles. Commuters had to take a U-turn at the Hallo Majra light point and take the Makhan Majra-Mauli Jagran route to reach their destinations in Chandigarh and further. “I had to drive towards Housing Board light point. It took me two hours to reach Sector 29,” he added.Similarly, commuters heading towards Zirakpur were at the receiving end. They had to take long alternative routes to reach their destinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-hour-ordeal-for-commuters-221653
07-03-2021||---||6-year-old missing girl found murdered near Hallo Majra||Chandigarh, March 6A 12-year-old boy has been apprehended by the police on a charge of murdering a six-year-old girl whose semi-naked body was found dumped in the forest area near the Hallo Majra light point this morning.The victim went missing on Friday evening. The police suspect that she was raped before being murdered. However, her mother said the girl went for tuition in the morning and returned around 1 pm. “She had her lunch and after watching TV, she went to play near the house,” she said.She looked for her in the area around 5.30 pm but couldn’t trace her. She started searching for her in the neighbourhood.The victim’s father, who works at a factory, got to know about the incident from his wife around 7 pm, following which he rushed home. “I also searched for her at various places and later informed the police,” he added.The police reached the spot and launched a search operation at Hallo Majra. It continued till late night but the girl couldn’t be traced.The search was resumed in the morning and the police started combing the forest area across the road near the Hallo Majra light point. Soon, the semi-naked body of the victim was found near the cremation ground.The victim’s face was smashed with a stone. The spot was video-graphed and a forensics team also visited the spot.The body was shifted to the mortuary of the GMCH-32. Autopsy was conducted. However, the post-mortem detail was not released till the reports last came in.The police scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area and found that the girl was with a boy, later identified as one of the victim’s neighbours, on a bicycle. Based on the CCTV footage, the boy was apprehended. Meanwhile, a case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station.Victim was a bright child“My daughter was a very bright child. She was learning English very quickly. Although her school was closed due to Covid, I arranged tuitions for her so that her education didn’t suffer,” said the victim’s father.CCTV footage nails suspectThe footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area led to the identification of the suspect who was seen taking the girl towards the Hallo Majra light point on a bicycle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-year-old-missing-girl-found-murdered-near-hallo-majra-221654
07-03-2021||---||Accused gave me intoxicants: Victim||Chandigarh, March 6The statement of Rahul Mehta, victim in the property grab case, was recorded before a Magistrate under Section 164, CrPC. Rahul has alleged that he was given intoxicants and tortured by the accused. The police are now considering adding relevant sections to the case.Mehta, who was admitted to Apna Ghar Ashram, Bharatpur, Rajasthan, was brought to the city by the police to get his statements recorded.A police official said Rahul had alleged that he was given intoxicants by the accused and also made to sign on blank papers and blank cheques. “We will investigate the statement given by the victim and accordingly, relevant Sections, including 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc, with intent to commit an offence) of the IPC will be added to the case,” said a police official.A total of nine persons have been booked in the case of whom three, including Sanjeev Mahajan, Manish Gupta and Satpal Dagar, have been arrested.The police said the victim had supported his previous statement given to them. Rahul had told the police that the accused forcibly occupied the upper floor of his house and he was tortured to get the general power of attorney (GPA) of the house executed in favour of Arvind Singla and Khalendra Singh Kadiyan.Later, the accused took Rahul to Bhuj in Gujarat and confined him to a stud farm, owned by Abdul Karim, for over a month. Later, Abdul Karim got Rahul admitted to Shri Ramdev Seva Ashram, Bhuj. After that, he was shifted to Shraddha Foundation, Karjat, Maharashtra, and further to Apna Ghar Ashram, Delhi. Thereafter, he was shifted to Apna Ghar Ashram, Rajasthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-gave-me-intoxicants-victim-221655
07-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Spurt in cases, Chandigarh daily count hits 122||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 6The city today reported 122 cases of Covid-19, the highest since December 8 when 126 city residents had tested positive for the virus.The Centre today also raised concerns over the increased number of cases being reported from the city daily and directed the UT Administration to increase the ratio of RT-PCR tests. Of late, Chandigarh and eight states have seen increased positivity rate and a rise in the daily case count.The rising cases continue to be matter of concern as the UT is seeing a decrease in total tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity rate and less contact tracing of the Covid positive cases, the Centre has pointed out.Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT, said, “We are going to increase the share of RT-PCR tests as directed by the Centre. We are going to test symptomatic patients with RT-PCR and those who were previously tested with antigen. The current ratio of antigen tests and RT-PCR in Chandigarh is 60:40.”“We have already increased our weekly tests to 12,000 from 8,000 conducted in the first week of February. The rising positivity rate is also a matter of concern. The Centre has also asked to improve the vaccination coverage so that more people are immunised against the disease,” added Gupta.The Centre reviewed the ongoing public health measures of surveillance, containment and management of Covid cases in the wake of a rise in the daily infection count and a high active caseload.32,288 given first dose in ChandigarhAs many as 32,288 beneficiaries have been given the first dose of the Covid vaccine in the city so far. A total of 2,731 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday. Among them 1,615 were above 60 years of age and 179 were in the age group of 45-59 with comorbidities. The total vaccine coverage among health workers has reached 48.9 per cent. It is 49.72 per cent in the case of frontline workers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spurt-in-cases-chandigarh-daily-count-hits-122-221656
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Obliged scribe by giving his wife job, claims firm owner||The owner of Ind-Swift Limited, a pharmaceutical company, from where journalist Sanjeev Mahajan’s wife was drawing a salary, during his questioning by the police, claimed that he had obliged Mahajan. However, he didn’t reveal the reason for the same.The company owner, NR Munjal, was grilled at the Sector 31 police station last night, and again today.A police official said Munjal was not co-operating with the police following which he was questioned again.“Munjal has claimed that he had obliged Mahajan. However, he didn’t reveal why he obliged Mahajan by giving his wife a job in the company,” said a police official.Munjal’s company was earlier accused of evading tax. The company had a liability of about Rs5 crore but it had paid only Rs5,000 as VAT. The matter was initially probed by the Vigilance Department and later transferred to the crime branch. In December 2018, Munjal was arrested by the crime branch.The police suspect that Mahajan did some favour to Munjal and in return, the former’s wife started getting salary from the firm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/obliged-scribe-by-giving-his-wife-job-claims-firm-owner-221657
07-03-2021||---||Aman, Suhitha excel||Chandigarh, March 6In a day of upsets, second seed Aman Dahiya and eighth seed Suhitha Maruri won the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-4) for boys and girls, respectively.In the boys’ U-18 final, second seed Dahiya stunned top seed Nishant Dabas in straight sets 6-0, 6-4. In the girls’ U-18 title clash, Suhitha returned from one set down to defeat third seeded Reshma Maruri. Suhitha logged a 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 victory to lift the title.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aman-suhitha-excel-221658
07-03-2021||---||Shanties gutted in Zirakpur fire||Mohali, March 6  About 10 shanties were gutted after a fire broke out in the Gajipur area of Zirakpur on Saturday morning, rendering the families shelterless.  No loss of life was reported in the incident. Residents managed to take out gas cylinders out of their jhuggis, preventing a major accident. Jhuggi dwellers said their savings, household goods and electronic products were reduced to ashes. Fire officer Rajeev Kumar said though the exact cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, it seemed that it broke out due to a short circuit. He said on getting a call about the incident around 9 am, they rushed two fire tenders to the spot, one from Zirakpur and the other from Dera Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shanties-gutted-in-zirakpur-fire-221659
07-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda---||COA heading towards two elections!||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 6 Weeks after the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) president announced to conduct elections on March 12, sources have confirmed that another faction is also planning to organise parallel elections on March 8. Sources, privy to matter, confirmed that one of the elections is likely to take place at the Punjab Bhawan at 4 pm. However, no official circular in this regard has been made public yet. Even the participating associations/units are waiting for an official circular regarding these elections. After completing the four-year term, the president and the general secretary of the COA fell apart on issues pertaining to giving bogus affiliations, financial bungling among others. The March 8 elections are said to be conducted under the authority of Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, life president of the COA. The sources also confirmed that his younger son is likely to contest for the general secretary’s post. Sodhi’s elder son is already the treasurer of the association. If two separate elections take place, the matter is likely to go to the Indian Olympic Association. “There should be an open announcement to conduct the elections, a returning officer should be appointed and objections/approvers should be made. The elections should be held in an open manner,” said a source. Election information fabricated? The sources maintained that a faction had sent duplicate (photocopy) copies of a circular (signed by the COA president for conducting the elections on March 12) through a registered post to all affiliated units on February 27. As per rules, a 10-day prior notice is needed to hold the elections. “This has been done to cover the goof-ups. The letters were dispatched through registered post from different post offices, Chandigarh, to avoid any track record. The letter inside the envelope was just a duplicate copy of a previous circular issued by the COA president. This has been done to show that notices were sent to all members. However, in reality no one would reveal that it was just an old circular in these envelopes. The letters have been sent by the group contesting the elections under the COA’s general secretary,” said the source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coa-heading-towards-two-elections-221660
07-03-2021||---||Check status of pending CHB application online||Chandigarh, March 6 Residents need not to make frequent rounds of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) office. Now, they can check the status of their pending application (paper under consideration) at the click of a mouse. To save the precious time of residents, the CHB has started uploading details of applications with reason behind pendency on its website. An official said the board had started the facility so that  people need not visit the office during the pandemic. Now, they could check the reason behind the pendency online and also know the department with which the application was pending. The board had so far uploaded the details of 70 applications regarding outstanding ground rent, no-due certificate, transfer of dwelling units, conversion cases, conveyance deed, outstanding dues, etc, pending till December 31, 2020, he said. To bring in transparency, the board has stated providing most of its services online. To encourage online payments, the CHB had recently decided to give monthly reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions. The board had introduced the facility of online payment of all kind of dues by visiting website www.chbonline.in. Online payments can be made through net banking, debit cards and credit cards without any extra charge. In February, a total of Rs1.32 crore was deposited through 1,630 online transactions, which was the highest-ever collection through online payment system. Till March 2019, the CHB has constructed a total of 67,565 houses of various categories. It has been estimated that about 25 per cent of the population of Chandigarh is living in CHB houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/check-status-of-pending-chb-application-online-221661
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||UTCA releases list of 66 probables||The UT Cricket Association, Chandigarh, has released a list of 66 probable players selected after four-day U-19 trials. A total of 248 players have said to be appeared in the trials. The UTCA will divide these 66 players into four teams and hold four matches from Monday wherein selectors will select the final squad for the U-19 Cooch Behar Trophy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/utca-releases-list-of-66-probables-221662
07-03-2021||---||Rs 13L, jewellery stolen from Sector 8 house||Chandigarh, March 6 About Rs13 lakh in cash and jewellery, including a gold biscuit, four diamond bangles, three gold necklaces, worth several lakhs were stolen from a house in Sector 8 here.  The house owner and his family had tested positive for Covid following which they were admitted to a hospital. On returning home, they found that cash and jewellery had been stolen from the house.  The police were informed about the incident. A case was registered at the Sector 3 police station on March 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-13l-jewellery-stolen-from-sector-8-house-221663
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||2 killed in road mishaps||A cyclist and an ice-cream vendor have lost their lives in road accidents in the city. A motorcyclist, Anuj, a resident of Mauli Jagran, hit a cyclist, Parbha (50) of Sector 26, near the Sukhna bridge on Thursday. The victim was admitted to the GMCH-32, where she succumbed to the injuries. The police have registered a case against the motorcyclist at the Sector 26 police station. He was arrested and later released on bail.  In the other incident, an Army vehicle, driven by KV Ranga Reddy, hit an ice-cream vendor near the Hallo Majra light point yesterday. The 26-year-old victim, identified as Sidharth, was rushed to the GMCH-32 where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. The police have registered a case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-killed-in-road-mishaps-221664
07-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC panel okays 2,128 water connections outside ‘lal dora’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 6A panel appointed by the Municipal Corporation House has recommended provisory water connections to 2,128 consumers, who are currently using the water supply illegally outside “lal dora” in all 22 villages in the UT.The committee, however, has set a condition that no water supply/sewer line will be laid by the MC. The corporation will provide water supply as per availability and no separate network will be laid.Though it will be a provisory water connection, it will be akin to a regular water connection and hence, consumers will be charged the domestic tariff. Sewerage and other maintenance charges will also be collected from them.The provisory connection cannot be used as a proof of ownership or any other legal proof. To obtain the connection, a proof of ownership or registry of the house will be required.The committee’s recommendations will be tabled before the MC House for its approval during a meeting on March 9. If the House approved the recommendations, it will be sent to the Administration for the final nod.If the temporary connections are issued by the civic body outside ‘Lal Dora’/’phirni’ for these 2,128 consumers, the corporation will earn an estimated revenue of Rs4.01 crore in the first year. If the water charges for the past two years are included, the amount goes up to a whopping Rs6.87 crore.“These consumers are already using MC water without permission. By giving them temporary connections, we will be able to earn huge revenue without any additional cost to the corporation,” said a senior MC official.MC to hire 30 vehicles to lift horticultural wasteThe MC has proposed to spend over Rs 1 crore on 30 tractor-trailers to be hired from two private firms for lifting horticultural waste for two months. These will be hired for Rs5,999 per tractor-trailer per day for three trips. The MC will bring an agenda in the House meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-panel-okays-2-128-water-connections-outside-lal-dora-221665
07-03-2021||Mohali||One death, 87 cases in Mohali||Panchkula tally goes past 11KPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 35 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 11,003. The toll remained 149. While 10,645 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 209 cases are active. The recovery rate stands at 96.74 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-87-cases-in-mohali-221675
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Gate No. 1 to open today||13,500 PU students appear in examChandigarh: As many as 13,500 students appeared in various online examinations for undergraduate/postgraduate/other professional courses, including USOL/private of Panjab University. Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, said in all 56 examinations were conducted by Panjab University. TNSABVP to meet PU reforms panelChandigarh: A delegation of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) will meet the committee set up for Panjab University (PU) governing reforms. ABVP’s north zone organisation secretary Vikrant Khandelwal said, “The party has sought suggestions in this regard from students, teachers, non-teaching employees and other academics of Panjab University, which will be shared with members of the reforms committee.” TNSOnline Symposium on chemistryChandigarh: The Department of Chemistry organised Professor Ram Chand Paul National Symposium (RCPNS-2021) in virtual mode on “Chemistry and interdisciplinary sciences”. The department has been organising this symposium every year for the last 29 years. The symposium was titled “Prof Ram Chand Paul National Annual Symposium” in 2005 in the memory of former Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Paul. TNSYouth arrested with pistolChandigarh: A 22-year-old youth has been arrested with a pistol and two cartridges. The suspect, identified as Monu, a native of Jind district in Haryana, was nabbed by a team of the Sector 17 police station on Saturday. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against him. The police said a case of attempt to murder was earlier registered against Monu in Fatehabad district. TNS62 volunteers donate bloodChandigarh: As many as 62 volunteers donated blood at a camp organised at Dhavan’s Jeevandeep Nursing Home in Sector 16 here on Sunday. Dr Sandeep Dhavan said: “It was encouraging to see a respectable number of donors during the Covid-19 times”. TNSBodybuilders selectedChandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Bodybuilding Association has selected bodybuilders to participate in the North India Bodybuilding Championship to be held in Ludhiana on March 7. The squad members are Gopal Boru (below 60kg), Lalit (below 65kg), Rishab (below 80kg), Divyank Gupta (below 85kg) and Manoj (best physique). TNSInter-media football tourney concludesChandigarh: Defending champions Chandigarh Tribune lifted the inter-media five-a-side football tournament for the fourth time in a row on Saturday. In the final, Chandigarh Tribune defeated Chandigarh Press Club team ‘A’ by 4-3. After the match was tied goal less in the stipulated time, Chandigarh Tribune won it in a tie-breaker. In the semi-final, Chandigarh Tribune defeated Chandigarh Press Club team ‘B’ by 4-0. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-gate-no-1-to-open-today-221678
07-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Ferozepur-Chandigarh Express back on track from March 9||Ferozepur, March 6The Ferozepur-Chandigarh Express Special will resume operations almost a year after it was discontinued due to the Covid pandemic.Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal said: “The train will resume operations from March 9 between Ferozepur Cantonment and Mohali railway stations. It will leave Ferozepur at 5 am and reach Chandigarh at 9.45 am. On its return journey, the train will leave Chandigarh at 5.35 pm and reach Ferozepur at 10.25 pm.”Timings revisedOn the way, the train would halt at Talwandi, Moga, Jagraon, Ludhiana, Samrala and New Morinda, he added.Residents of this border town had been demanding a change in timings of the train. Earlier, it used to leave Ferozepur at 7 am and reach Chandigarh at 11.45 am.“It was difficult for those who wanted to return the same day after completing their work. Hundreds of people have to visit the state capital regularly, but due to late timings, they had to opt for the road transport, which was very costly. With the revision of timings, the demand of border residents has been fulfilled,” said MLA Parminder Singh Pinki, claiming he had taken up the matter with the higher authorities of the Railways. The train was formally flagged off in February 2015 on the demand of residents of the border region. The train was sanctioned in the 2014 Railway Budget.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ferozepur-chandigarh-express-back-on-track-from-march-9-221619
