08-03-2021||Chandigarh||14 more Covid deaths, 1,239 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Monday reported 1,239 new cases, the highest since January, pushing the infection tally to 189,620, while 14 more deaths pushed the toll to 5,941 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases also increased from 7,497 on Sunday to 8,020 on Monday, it said.SBS Nagar reported a maximum of 217 fresh cases, Hoshiarpur 200, Jalandhar 191 and Mohali 107.The COVID-19 recovery count rose to 1,75,659 after 692 more patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, according to the bulletin.Eighteen critical novel coronavirus patients are on ventilator support while 127 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 52,05,020 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said.The Union Territory of Chandigarh on Monday witnessed 79 more cases, taking the infection count to 22,397, according to another medical bulletin.A 70-year-old woman succumbed to COVID-19 in the last 24-hours. The toll now stands at 356, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 710 on Sunday to 725 on Monday, it said.Sixty-three more patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 21,316, according to the bulletin.A total of 2,68,392 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far and 2,45,027 of them have tested negative while reports of 129 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-more-covid-deaths-1-239-new-cases-in-punjab-222433
08-03-2021||London||NASA’s Vandi Verma hopes latest Mars mission will inspire new generation to pursue careers in aeronautics||With “one of the coolest jobs in the world”, NASA rover operator Vandi Verma hopes women’s high profile in the latest Mars mission will inspire a new generation to pursue careers in a sector traditionally dominated by men.Verma’s colleague Swati Mohan made headlines around the world when she narrated the nail-biting landing of the Perseverance rover on the Red Planet following its perilous descent through the Martian atmosphere.“It’s definitely inspired girls everywhere. It’s opened people’s perceptions of who can be a space engineer,” Verma told Reuters ahead of International Women’s Day on Monday.The space roboticist is operating the Perseverance — the most advanced astrobiology lab ever sent to another world — as it roams Mars looking for signs of ancient microbial life.“I really think I have one of the coolest jobs in the world,” said Verma, whose interest in space — like Mohan’s — was fuelled by a childhood love of the TV series Star Trek.“When Mars is visible in the sky, you look at that little dot and you think right now there’s a robot out there doing commands that I told it to do. That’s pretty wild.” Verma, who has been driving rovers on Mars since 2008, said the latest mission would help answer questions “that change what we know about our place in the universe”.Born in India, Verma studied electrical engineering at Punjab Engineering College in Chandigarh before moving to the United States, where she gaining a PhD in robotics from Carnegie Mellon University.When she joined NASA in 2004, female engineers often found themselves the only woman in the room, she said. But things are changing.NASA, which aims to land the first woman on the moon by 2024, is on a mission to boost diversity. Women made up 34 per cent of the workforce in 2019, holding 18 per cent of senior scientific posts, about treble the figure for 2009, according to the agency.Verma said it was very exciting to see an increasing number of applications from women, adding that diverse teams led to more “creative, out-of-the-box thinking”.But she said there was a long way to go to encourage more women into the STEM professions — science, technology, engineering and mathematics.ROLE MODELSBritish space engineer Vinita Marwaha Madill, founder of Rocket Women — which aims to inspire women to choose STEM careers — said role models were vital.“You can’t be what you can’t see,” she said, quoting astronaut Sally Ride, the first US woman in space.“Seeing someone that looks like you allows you to believe that it’s possible to achieve your goals,” said Marwaha Madill, whose own passion took flight after watching Helen Sharman become the first British astronaut in space in 1991.Women like Mohan, the Mars mission’s guidance and operations lead, will “inspire the next generation to reach for the stars”, she said.In Britain, women make up about a quarter of people working in STEM subjects, excluding medicine and related fields where women outnumber men, according to WISE, an organisation campaigning to increase the number of women in STEM professions.For engineering, the ratio is even more skewed with women accounting for just over 10 per cent of the workforce.Marwaha Madill, a project manager at a space exploration and robotics company in Ottawa, Canada, said it was crucial to change stereotypes as many girls decided to move away from science as young as 11 years of age.One way to get more girls into STEM subjects was to tap into their desire to change the world for the better.“There seems to be a disconnect between young women...wanting to make a difference in the world, and knowing that they could make a really big positive impact through a career in science and engineering,” she added.WISE spokeswoman Ruth Blanco said images of “men in hard hats and high-visibility clothing” may be putting some girls off engineering and did not reflect the breadth of jobs out there.NASA’s Verma, who juggles driving the rover with raising one-year-old twins — a boy and a girl — said unconscious bias was also a factor in shaping aspirations.“Don’t make assumptions about what a child may be interested in because of their gender or race,” she said. “Don’t buy the Lego just for the boy.” Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nasas-vandi-verma-hopes-latest-mars-mission-will-inspire-new-generation-to-pursue-careers-in-aeronautics-222336
08-03-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Firing at Singhu border; 4 men came in car with Chandigarh number||Chandigarh, March 8There was an incident of alleged firing at the Singhu border on Sunday night.Four men came in a car and fled after firing three rounds on farmers. There was no casualty.Those who fired drove a white-coloured Audi with a Chandigarh number.The incident took place near the TDI mall when langar was being served.Police suspect the men to be from Punjab.Farm Laws: Half-baked policies can be counterproductiveThe farmers complained to the Kundli police.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said a case was registered against unidentified men and they were investigating the matter.Hisar farmer ends life at Tikri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firing-at-singhu-border-4-men-came-in-car-with-chandigarh-number-222296
08-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Heli-taxi sought for Shimla, Chandigarh||Chamba, March 7The Chamba Welfare Association, an NGO, has demanded heli-taxi service at least once a week from Chamba to Shimla, Chandigarh and Amritsar.Association president AK Bhardwaj and general secretary SK Kashmiri in a statement to the media apprised the government that Chamba was the farthest place from Shimla, Chandigarh and Amritsar and the journey to these faraway cities was an arduous task.They said people of this far-flung terrain had to visit Shimla, Chandigarh and Amritsar frequently, especially for the purpose of medical treatment of referred emergency patients at the IGMC and PGI.The association office-bearers requested Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to concede to their demand.Moreover, the heli-taxi service would be a much-needed fillip to “Chalo Chamba” campaign of the government promoting tourism activities in the region, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heli-taxi-sought-for-shimla-chandigarh-222166
08-03-2021||---||Cases rise, GMCH-32 halts walk-in OPD registrations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7Three weeks after the outpatient departments (OPDs) at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, reopened, these have been shut again in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the city.Yesterday, the UT had recorded as many as 122 cases, the highest in the past three months. The number of cases has seen an upward trend since mid-February. In view of this, an emergency meeting of the authorities was held at the GMCH today.An official spokesperson said to tackle the situation of the rapid increase in the infection incidence, the Director-Principal, Dr Jasbinder Kaur, along with the department heads, decided to suspend the walk-in OPDs and provide only teleconsultation.“It has been unanimously decided to stop the offline registration of the OPD patients. Patients will be consulted only through telemedicine and eSanjeevani platforms. They will be seen physically, if required,” Anil Moudgil, an official spokesperson, said.Another major hospital in the city, the PGI, has not resumed walk-in OPDs since these were shut in March last year when the first case of the infection was reported.However, OPDs at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, will continue to function. “A decision to stop or continue OPDs will be taken tomorrow. So, the OPDs will continue to function normally tomorrow,” the GMSH authorities said.At 0.34 per cent, Chandigarh has the third-highest growth rate in the country preceded by Maharashtra (0.41 per cent) and Punjab (0.45 per cent). The positivity rate in the city has also increased to 4 per cent (February 27 to March 6) from 1.2 per cent (February 6 to 13).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-rise-gmch-32-halts-walk-in-opd-registrations-222116
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 80 cases||1 death in MohaliMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 390. As many as 96 fresh cases surfaced in the district, while 26 patients recovered from the virus. There are 996 active cases. — TNS30 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported 30 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 11,033. The Covid toll remained at 149. While 10,660 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 224 cases are active. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-80-cases-222118
08-03-2021||---||Property grab case: Cops to probe role of DSP, inspector||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7The UT police will summon two policemen — DSP Ram Gopal and Inspector Rajdeep Singh — to question them regarding the property grab case.The FIR lodged by the police against nine persons mentions the names of the two policemen whose role has come under the scanner.A police official said they would soon summon both policemen whose names had cropped up during the investigation. Their role in the case, if any, would be investigated.According to the statement of liquor baron Arvind Singla, who is an accused in the case, a meeting regarding the deal was held at the DSP’s office and later, the other accused, including Ashok Arora, Satpal Dagar (brother of DSP), Khalendra Singh Kadiyan and Sanjeev Mahajan, managed the documents through the DSP to get the house registered in the name of Manish Gupta.The FIR also mentions the name of Inspector Rajdeep Singh, who was then the SHO of the Sector 39 police station for not taking action on a complaint filed against Sanjeev Mahajan, Surjit Singh and Shehkar, who had forcibly occupied the house. A case against Singla, Satpal, Kadiyan, Ashok, Saurabh Gupta, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar, Daljit Singh, Mahajan and others was registered on March 2 at the Sector 39 police station on the basis of an inquiry conducted by DSP Devinder Kumar Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-cops-to-probe-role-of-dsp-inspector-222120
08-03-2021||---||4 youths thrash 2 cops at Zirakpur, booked||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 7Four youths have been booked by the Zirakpur police for allegedly attacking two police officials and injuring them late last night.The injured policemen are Head Constable Ram Kumar and Constable Amandeep Singh.According to the police, the Police Control Room at the Zirakpur police station received a call around 11 pm that some people were fighting at Himachal Hotel in Zirakpur. After this, both policemen went to the spot and found a motorcycle parked outside the hotel.Soon, a youth came out and told the police that he owned the bike and left the spot immediately. After this, four youths came out of the hotel and started thrashing the policemen alleging that they had helped the biker flee. They allegedly attacked them with rods and sticks, and after leaving them seriously injured, fled from the spot. The four suspects have been identified as Nurshad, Dilkash, Gulshad and Nazim, but the police are yet to verify their residence. A case under Sections 307, 323, 506, 186 and 34, IPC, has been registered against them at the Zirakpur police station. Onkar Singh Brar, SHO, Zirakpur, said they had identified all four suspects and they would be arrested soon. The victims are undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital in Dhakoli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-youths-thrash-2-cops-at-zirakpur-booked-222122
08-03-2021||Panchkula||On the run for eight years, PO arrested by Panchkula police||The local police have arrested a proclaimed offender (PO), who was on the run for the past eight years, in a theft and cheating case.The accused, Harpreet Singh, a resident of Vikaspuri in Delhi, was produced in a local court and sent to judicial custody.He was wanted by the police in a 2012 case registered against him at the Sector 5 police station under Sections 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forging documents), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. He was arrested by the police and subsequently granted bail in the case. He was declared a PO by the court after jumping bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-the-run-for-eight-years-po-arrested-by-panchkula-police-222124
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||3 youths arrested for blocking road at Hallo Majra light point||Three youths belonging to student outfits have been arrested for blocking the road at the Hallo Majra light point and allegedly pelting a police team with stones, leaving three cops injured, on Saturday. The incident had led to a long traffic jam on the Chandigarh-Ambala road and various other alternative routes for almost four hours.Police action against protesters condemnedCondemning the alleged lathicharge by the UT police on protesters and the arrest of three youths, civil society members, including social activists and artists, gathered at Shri Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan in Sector 28 on Sunday. “The police restored to lathicharge on protesters. They did not even spare women, who had joined the protest,” said Manav, general secretary, Naujawan Bharat Sabha.According to the police, Amandeep Singh (25) of the PSU (Lalkar), a native of Ludhiana, Vaibhav Dhabda (25) of Naujawan Bharat Sabha and resident of Hanumangarh, Rajasthan, Gopal (28), a resident of Hallo Majra, and others had blocked the road, hurled stones at cops and obstructed the police from discharging their duty on March 6.The police said a case under Sections 147, 149, 332, 353, 341 and 323 of the IPC had been registered at the Sector 31 police station. Amandeep, Vaibhav and Gopal have been arrested.A large number of people had gathered at the light point to protest against the murder of a six-year-old girl, who had gone missing on March 5. The protesters had blocked the road leaving commuters at the receiving end. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-youths-arrested-for-blocking-road-at-hallo-majra-light-point-222125
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hallo Majra case: Day after, Chandigarh police add rape charge to case||A day after a six-year-old girl was found murdered near the Hallo Majra light point, the UT police today added the rape charge to the case. A protest was also staged at Hallo Majra by residents demanding that the suspect should be booked for rape too.A police official said although the postmortem report was yet to be received, Section 376 (rape) of the IPC was added to the case.The semi-naked body of the victim was founded dumped in the forest area on Saturday morning, around 15 hours after she had gone missing. Her face was smashed with a stone.The footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area led to the identification of the 12-year-old suspect, who was seen taking the girl on a bicycle.The suspect was later apprehended by the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hallo-majra-case-day-after-chandigarh-police-add-rape-charge-to-case-222126
08-03-2021||---||Dhanas liquor vend has highest reserve price||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7A liquor vend in Dhanas has the highest reserve price of Rs7.95 crore for the e-auction of 96 liquor vends under the Chandigarh Excise Policy 2021-2022.The Dhanas liquor vend has been one of the most sought-after vends by the bidders due to the high sales there. For the financial year 2019-2020, the vend had fetched the highest bid at Rs10.78 crore. In 2018-19, it had been auctioned for Rs7.05 crore.A liquor vend in the Sector 9 internal market fetched the highest bid of Rs7.56 crore against the reserve price of Rs4.12 crore in 2020-21. The allotment of liquor vends will start on March 10. Bidders can submit their bids till March 18. The financial bids will be opened on March 19. Reserve price of a liquor vend in Khuda Lahora/Khuda Jassu village on Madhya Marg is Rs6.75 crore and that of a vend in Sector 30 Rs6.4 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanas-liquor-vend-has-highest-reserve-price-222127
08-03-2021||---||Rs 30,000, liquor robbed from vend in Raipur Rani||Panchkula, March 7A group of miscreants allegedly attacked a liquor vend worker and robbed him of Rs30,000 at Rator village in Raipur Rani last evening.Complainant Avdesh Kumar, a native of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, told the police that he had been working at the liquor vend, MS Vikram Wine, for the past nine months.Last evening, a young man, who appeared to be in his early twenties, approached him around 7.40 pm and asked him to lend a box of country-made liquor.“I asked him to pay Rs1,250 for it. He requested me to charge Rs1,200. I agreed to it. After collecting the money, when I was about to hand over the liquor box, he punched me on the head. I pulled his collar and dragged him inside the vend. Then, five-six men standing nearby rushed to us and started thrashing me. One of them pointed a country-made pistol on my chest, while another took out Rs30,000 from the cash box. In the meantime, yet another one picked up four bottles of English liquor,” the FIR reads, quoting the complainant.While escaping, the suspects also locked the victim inside the liquor vend.They then fled towards Hangola village on three motorcycles parked outside.A case has been registered under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act and 395 (punishment for dacoity) of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-30-000-liquor-robbed-from-vend-in-raipur-rani-222128
08-03-2021||What steps should the MC take to prevent fire incidents at Dadu Majra dumping ground?||Ensure 100 per cent processing of garbage in Chandigarh||Keep vigil on dump through dronesGarbage is a hazard because it produces bio-gases on catching fire. The best way to prevent fire incidents at the Dadu Majra dumping ground is to keep a vigil through drones. The UT Administration should provide enough firefighting equipment at the dumping ground. The authorities can also use helicopters to spray water on fire at the dumping ground and extinguish it quickly. It will protect the environment and save lives of the people.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliDon’t waste garbage, recycle and reuse itMountains of waste at the Dadu Majra dumping ground give our City Beautiful a bad look and also spread nauseating smell, which resident are forced to inhale. Why waste garbage? Segregate dry and wet garbage at source. Dry waste should be collected separately and reused to make tiles, benches, and other items. Bio degradable waste should be used for making organic manure in rectangular bins set up in each sector. Aim should be to ensure that no waste is dumped at Dadu Majra. Rather it should be recycled and reused. City resident should follow the policy of reduce, reuse and recycle waste.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliFire at waste dumping ground is intentionalBarring some accidental fire incidents, the waste at the Dadu Majra dumping ground is ignited by sanitary workers, who find ways and means to reduce/avoid proper waste handling/disposal. Such incidents, which are common on roadsides, parks and gardens, irritate lungs of passersby and cause accidents as smoke reduces visibility. The solution lies in regular education and penalisation of the ‘evil-doer’ staff. That what burns never returns, but pollutes ground, air and water.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaShows height of incompetenceThere is no denying the fact, that it’s the Municipal Corporation’s failure to get the waste treatment plant at Dadu Majra run to its full capacity to treat the city’s daily waste. This has piled up waste at the dumping ground. Untreated waste not only spreads foul smell, but also catches fire. Poisonous smoke billows from the waste on fire, which makes breathing difficult. Using lakhs of litres of water douse flames is an uphill task. The remedy, therefore, lies in reducing and recycling waste.SC Luthra, ChandigarhMC should Provide fire suppression techPrevention is key to managing landfill fires. This can be achieved by engineering the landfill site with fire suppression technology. It should focus on monitoring potential fire sources and have readily available tools to manage the blaze. Although the awareness of fires in waste facilities and their consequences has increased in recent years, significant safety challenges remain. Fires in waste can lead to large effects on the environment or severe health effects.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhShift dumping site to faraway placeFirstly, the dumping site in Dadu Majra should be shifted to some place far away from human settlements. Already the dumping ground is a health hazard for residents of the area and repeated fire incidents add to their woes. For the time being, the Administration must not let garbage pile up at the dumping ground. Proper waste disposal is the need of the hour. Dry waste must be dumped in such a way that it does not catch fire easily. From time to time the dumping site should be levelled. The problem will aggravate in summer months due to excessive heat. So, timely arrangements to solve the issue are must to safeguard the lives as well as the environment.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhGive processing to reliable contractorFor many years waste disposal/treatment has raised one or the other controversy. The Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities should handover waste disposal/treatment to dependable contractor with a proven track record of completing the job on time. The MC must ensure regular check on waste disposal at the Dadu Majra dumping ground on weekly basis and remove bottlenecks without wasting time.KC Rana, ChandigarhFind and remove cause of sparkThe massive fire at the dumping ground is nothing new because the authorities have failed to find a feasible solution for the problem. The thermax furnace and solid waste incinerator at the Dadu Majra dumping ground must be made functional at the earliest. It will ensure more processing of the toxic solid waste rather than dumping in the open. Methane gas produced from the dumped garbage is a catalyst for the fire. The cause of the spark must be found and removed to prevent massive fire at the dumping ground.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhEstablish fire station near dumpCops can be deployed to check if any miscreant are involved in lighting waste at the dumping ground. A fire station can also be established nearby dumping ground to handle blaze as soon as possible. More trees can be planted around dumping ground so to check air pollution and lower the intensity of foul smell in the area. The last option is to either move dumping ground or nearby residential area to some other place.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliTake immediate steps to prevent fireThe fire at the garbage dump in Dadu Majra is a cause of concern. People living around the dump are facing inconvenience and health issues due to fire incidents followed by dense smoke. The Administration must initiate immediate steps to prevent fire incidents at dumping ground. Garbage should be disposed of through incinerators. The dumping ground must be shifted to some other place away from residential area for residents’ safety.Wg Cdr Jasbir singh Minhas (retd), MohaliKeep track of proper garbage disposalRecurring fire incidents at the Dadu Majra dumping ground proves failure of the Chandigarh Administration. For long the Administration could not come on terms with companies, which managed garbage processing plant. How can the Administration manage piles of garbage at the dump? The most affected people are residents of Dadu Majra, Dhanas and adjoining villages of Punjab. As pandemic curse bothers the population the smoke of burning garbage lowers immunity of residents living near dumping ground. The UT Fire Department pours water on burning garbage instead of sand, which can extinguish the blaze sooner. The Administration must tie up with an expert company to oversee that minimum garbage is dumped at the Dadu Majra ground. Officials concerned must check that garbage is processed and disposed of regularly.MR Bhateja, NayagaonGet the plant repairedThermax furnace is out of order at the Dadu Majra dumping ground.The Municipal Corporation should get the plant repaired on a war footing and make it run to fullest capacity so that non-recyclable and inert waste go to the dump site and the remaining is processed.Anita Tandon, KhararCover waste with sandThe landfill at the Dadu Majra dump produces methane. So, there is frequent fire at the dumping ground. The waste should be covered with sand. Firefighting equipment must be deployed near dumping ground. Experts opinions can be sought to evolve a mechanism to control and prevent fire at the dumping ground. The authorities must check if fire incident is an act of mischief.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaNeed for High-capacity processing unitThe Dadu Majra dumping ground has always been an eyesore for visitors and nearby residents. A better and higher capacity waste processing plant is required, but it seems the Municipal Corporation is not serious about resolving the issue of frequent fire at the dumping ground. The result is mountain of waste at the dumping ground. Bio-mining contract has been given, but the time frame is not clear.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhActivists should take help of judiciaryThe garbage dumping ground at Dadu Majra needs immediate attention of the Administration. The frequent fire at the dumping site is a serious health hazard to city residents. The smoke emanating from burning garbage has toxic elements, which can damage skin, eyes and lungs. Most vulnerable sections of the population such as children, sick and the elderly are more prone to harm by toxic air. Either the Dadu Majra dumping site should immediately be shifted out of Chandigarh or a state-of-the art solid waste management plant be set up. Social activists may also take help of the judiciary to deal with the issue.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhEffective landfill mgmt necessaryIt’s shocking to see yet another fire at Dadu Majra solid waste dumping site in Chandigarh causing lot of health issues for the people residing nearby. A similar fire occurred last year also. Landfill fires are usually caused deliberately or by spontaneous combustion of decomposing waste involving methane from landfill gas. Of particular health concern are the tyre fires, which burn for a long time. Burning tyre are known to emit dioxin and benzene derivatives, which have been linked with reproductive impairment and cancer in humans. Effective landfill management by the MC and operators is necessary to prevent the occurrence of harmful fires. It calls for constructing and operating well-engineered municipal solid waste landfills.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliCan landfill make fire disappear?The byproducts of solid waste in a landfill have adverse effects on the surrounding environment and humans living closer to dumping sites. The greatest health risk from the open burning of garbage at a waste disposal ground is for those closest to the fire, who may inhale smoke. Other individuals on-site and off-site may also be affected. Population residing and working in the vicinity of solid waste processing plant are exposed to health risks due to emission of toxic gases and air pollutants. The health risk shows that proper landfill management is essential. Landfill should be located far away from residential houses and institutions to avoid health and environmental related risks.Dr Manjinder Kaur, ManaliKeep 24x7 vigil at dumping groundRepeated fires at the garbage dumping ground are not only dangerous for human lives, but also affect all living creatures in the vicinity as well as polluting atmosphere. In the present digital era 24x7 vigil should be kept through electronic gadgets to prevent fires at the dumping ground. Further, sufficient arrangements should be made to extinguish fire in time when detected.JS Jassal, PanchkulaStart solid waste incinerationNot only residents of Dadu Majra, but those living in the vicinity too face breathing problems due to smoke emanating from burning garbage. Covid-19 has further aggravated their woes. Even after the fire is doused, residents remain sick. Thus, it becomes imperative to check such fire incidents at the dumping ground. The Municipal Corporation should take appropriate measures to prevent fire incidents. Various processes like solid waste incineration, which require high temperature, should be made available.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONKeeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, should schools proceed with the offline examination or continue with the online mode.Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-100-per-cent-processing-of-garbage-in-chandigarh-222131
08-03-2021||---||Police canecharge protesters in Patiala||Patiala, March 7The police canecharged members of the Punjab and UT Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, including women, near the Chief Minister’s residence today evening.Many union leaders were also detained by the police. After holding a sit-in outside the PSPCL office, the protesters tried to march toward the CM’s residence. However, they were stopped by cops deployed at YPS Chowk.After a minor scuffle broke out between the police and the protesters and the police resorted to lathicharge. Over a dozen protesters received injuries. One of the union members also reportedly suffered a fracture on his hand.Major demands of the protesters included, disbursement of DA installments, introduction of old pension scheme, regularisation of contractual employees, implementation of Sixth Pay Commission report and minimum wages for ASHA facilitators and mid-day meal workers.Davinder Punia, convener, Punjab and UT Mulazam Sangarsh Morcha, said, “Lathicharge on women is government’s gift to them on International Women’s Day. The government has backtracked almost on all their pre-poll promises.”Another protester, Hardeep Toderpur, said, “Instead of provideing jobs to youth, the government is trying to abolish already existing posts in various departments, including the Department of Education.”Later, detained protesters were released by the police in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-canecharge-protesters-in-patiala-222132
08-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Parents worried as schools conduct offline exams in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7Parents of students are in panic as many city schools are conducting offline examination in the midst of spurt in Covid cases.“Many schools are unreasonably adamant on holding offline exams. Covid positive cases are on a steep rise across the city and the country. We are afraid that these schools may not become super-spreader hotspots,” said Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents Association.Chandigarh sees 80 cases“To avoid a citywide lockdown in the near future, the Administration must immediately close all schools. Even Panjab University is holding its exams online and the CBSE has postponed the board examinations till May-June,” he added.14 teachers, 7 students test positive for Covid in PatialaAlthough incidences of children testing positive in schools are less in Chandigarh, parents are quite worried seeing the rising number of students contracting virus in nearby districts like Patiala.“My daughter goes to a school in Sector 9, Chandigarh. A Class XI student, who went to school for giving exams tested positive and yet the principal is adamant on taking offline exams. We have no online option,” said Sheetal, a parent from the city.“In Punjab, the local health authorities are conducting Covid tests in schools. However, such measures are not being undertaken by the health authorities in Chandigarh. This is why not many cases of school going children testing positive are highlighted here,” said a government school teacher requesting anonymity.For Classes III to VIII, online exams are being conducted in government schools. However, offline tests will be held for students studying in Classes IX to XII. The exams will start from March 15 and continue till March 31. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has allowed all its affiliated schools to conduct in-person annual examinations for Classes IX and XI.“For Classes IX and XI, schools should conduct examinations by strictly following Covid-19 protocols as per by-laws,” read the notification issued by the CBSE controller of examinations, Sanyam Bhardwaj.“We will ensure strict compliance of the Covid protocol as per the CBSE guidelines. However, we are equally concerned about recent Covid spike and review the decision if need be in best interests of our students,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, Higher Education, on being asked to conduct offline exams amidst spurt in cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-worried-as-schools-conduct-offline-exams-in-chandigarh-222133
08-03-2021||Mohali||Mohali: Strengthen farmers’ struggle, urges Gurnam Singh Chaduni||The fight for farmers and their rights has to be fought by the youth as the three farm laws have been passed by the Centre “under a conspiracy to grab the land of farmers”, said Gurnam Singh Chaduni, leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, while addressing a huge gathering at a kisan mahasabha organised by the Naujawan Kishan Ekta, Mohali, near Chappar Chiri today. He said this was not a fight of Punjab alone, but the entire country.Speaking on the occasion, Jagjit Singh Dallowal, Baldev Singh Sirsa and Gurpreet Ghuggi said the time had come for the people in the country to “dethrone the BJP from power”. They exhorted the youth to strengthen the farmers’ struggle to take the fight to its logical conclusion. Punjab University student leader Kanupriya said people of Chandigarh were also supporting the farmers’ cause. Mehar Singh Thedi, vice-president, BKU Ekta (Sidhupur), said farmers patience should not be tested further. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-strengthen-farmers-struggle-urges-gurnam-singh-chaduni-222134
08-03-2021||---||Despite increase in Covid cases, mortality rate low in Patiala dist||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 7The spike in coronavirus cases continued as the district reported 84 positive cases today, thereby, taking the total count to 17, 699 since the pandemic outbreak last year.The cases include eight government teachers and two students. Besides, six staff members of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) also tested Covid positive today. Six positive cases were contacts of the RGNUL Registrar, who tested positive a few days ago.Of 84 positive cases, Patiala city reported 45, Samana one, Rajpura eight, Kauli five and four came from Nabha. Besides, six positive cases were reported from Bhadson and four from Dhudhan Sadhan block.Majority of positive cases reported over the past one week are those persons, who were home quarantined.Despite surge in coronavirus cases the mortality rate in the district is still below two per cent. Over the past one week, Patiala reported around 627 cases. However, only 10 Covid related deaths were recorded.As per the Health Department, mortality rate is hovering around 1.60 per cent, which is comparatively less from the rate of the first wave in August last year. Of 693 active cases, maximum were home isolated while only 53 positive patients were hospitalised. Health experts said patients now preferred home isolation.Commenting on the apprehension of virus mutation, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “It is too early to comment on any mutation in the coronavirus. However, we are closely monitoring the sudden rise in cases.”The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said, “Though it is too early to comment on the severity of the virus, however, spread during this wave is faster than the previous one.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-increase-in-covid-cases-mortality-rate-low-in-patiala-dist-222136
08-03-2021||---||Mullanpur residents move HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, MArch 7Residents of New Chandigarh, Mullanpur, have moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the proposed amendments to the Master Plan of New Chandigarh. Counsel for the petitioners said on a civil writ petition filed before a Division Bench of the High Court, the matter had been adjourned with directions to the state counsel to explain the basis of the proposed amendments to the Master Plan of New Chandigarh.Pray for quashing proposed amendmentsIn the civil writ petition, the residents have prayed for quashing of the proposed amendments whereby the Directorate of the Town and Country Planning, Punjab, had initiated the process, which was in complete contravention of the vision statement of the existing Master Plan having principles/concepts of development of large eco-friendly, diverse, green, smart and connected city with low carbon impact and with a futuristic vision.In the civil writ petition, the residents have prayed for quashing of the proposed amendments whereby the Directorate of the Town and Country Planning, Punjab, had initiated the process, which was in complete contravention of the vision statement of the existing Master Plan having principles/concepts of development of large eco-friendly, diverse, green, smart and connected city with low carbon impact and with a futuristic vision.It is submitted that amendments to the Master Plan of New Chandigarh have been initiated so as to decrease the minimum area requirement for setting up of plotted colony, which is in gross contravention of the concepts of the existing Master Plan 2008-2031 of New Chandigarh prepared by Singapore-based Jurong Consultants Private Limited.It was stated by the petitioners that the proposed amendment in the Master Plan of New Chandigarh for affordable housing projects in between the existing mega projects would create pockets of small areas of affordable housing projects with inferior infrastructure, having less wide roads/internal roads in affordable housing project areas, leading to bottlenecks in the connecting roads leading from one mega project to another mega project going through the area of affordable housing project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mullanpur-residents-move-hc-222137
08-03-2021||---||Congress protests rising inflation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7The local Congress today held a sit-in against the rising inflation in Sector 19.Speaking on this occasion, Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said prices of petrol, diesel and gas had gone out of reach of the common man.Congress leader Pawan Sharma said the Modi government had become the government of the rich only.Congress spokesperson Harmail Kesri said after wrong decisions such as demonetisation, people would respond to this pernicious government.He claimed that when the crude oil prices were $144 per barrel in the international market during the UPA regime, petrol prices never exceeded Rs70 per litre. When crude oil prices were $70 per barrel during the BJP government, petrol prices were touching Rs100 per litre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-protests-rising-inflation-222138
08-03-2021||---||Rohit re-elected CAT Bar Assn president||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7Rohit Seth has been re-elected as the president of the Central Administrative Tribunal Bar Association. The General House meeting of the Central Administrative Tribunal Bar Association, Chandigarh, was held recently under the chairmanship of Election Commissioner GS Sathi.The General House unanimously elected the executive committee for year 2020-21. Those elected include Rohit Seth, president; KK Thakur, vice-president; Jagdish Ram Syal, secretary; Monika Kondal, joint secretary 1; Preeti Kalia, joint secretary 2; and Sukhwinder Singh, treasurer. Rohit Seth has been elected as the president for the seventh consecutive term.The senior executive members are Sanjay Goyal, Senior Central Government Standing Counsel (CGSC), RK Sharma, Vinay Gupta, Lakhinderbir Singh, Rakesh Verma, Senior DAG, Punjab, Rohit Sharma, Vinod Arya, Aseem Rai and Jagdeep Jaswal. The executive members are Ram Pyare Lobana, Sanjay Kaul and Anil Kumar Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rohit-re-elected-cat-bar-assn-president-222139
08-03-2021||---||Officials leaving for poll duty get jab in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 7A special vaccination drive was held at the Civil Hospital here today for officers who would be going for election duty to various states.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said administrative officers of the district took jab before leaving for election duty. 47 vaccinated in MohaliCivil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said 47 persons — 44 senior citizens and three aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities — were administered Covid vaccine on Sunday. A total of 3,943 senior citizens and 642 persons aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities have been vaccinated so far. Two healthcare workers were given the first dose and two were administered the second dose of the vaccine. As many as seven and three frontline workers were given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively.Though there was low turnout of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), senior citizens maintained the momentum of getting the Covid vaccine.The vaccination is being conducted at seven government health institutions and 29 private hospitals of the district. So far, no adverse event after vaccination has been reported from any health worker.Dr Adarshpal said 47 persons - 44 senior citizens and three aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities - were administered Covid vaccine today. A total of 3,943 senior citizens and 642 persons aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities have been vaccinated so far. Two healthcare workers were given the first dose and two were administered the second dose of the vaccine. As many as seven and three frontline workers were given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively.So far, 6,103 and 2,965 healthcare workers and 4,397 and 122 frontline workers have got the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively.According to information the Election Commission of India has appointed 38 IAS and 12 IPS observers from Punjab for the forthcoming Assembly elections in five states - Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala. As these officers have been declared frontline workers, it has been made mandatory to get them vaccinated before reporting for their duty. Among these, nine officers were vaccinated against Covid today. The vaccination of these observers began at District Hospital, Phase 6, here and it would be completed in the next few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/officials-leaving-for-poll-duty-get-jab-in-mohali-222140
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Livewire Coaching Centre log win||Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) defeated Mapple Society, Zirakpur, by nine runs in the ongoing Bhagat Singh T20 Cricket Tournament.Batting first, LWCC posted 144/7 in 20 overs. Anand (38), Dr Luthra (25) and Harvinder Nain (12) were the major scorers for the side. Sanket claimed three wickets for the bowling side, while Rajesh Kalkal and Vicky claimed one wicket each.In reply, Mapple lads scored 135 runs before getting all out in 19.5 overs. Rajesh Kalkal (74), Ravinder Pandey (21) and Ateet (18) were the main run getters for the side. Pankaj Joshi claimed three wickets, while Prateek and Luthra claimed two wickets each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/livewire-coaching-centre-log-win-222142
08-03-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||100 units of blood collected at camp||The local unit of the Bharat Vikas Parishad, Sirhind, organised a blood donation camp at Ashoka School Sirhind complex here today. A team of doctors from the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, collected approximately 100 units of blood.Puran Sehgal and Nitin Sood, president of Bharat Vikas Parishad, said: “Every drop of blood is precious. Blood is a natural gift from God and it can only be collected through donation”. They called upon people to come forward to donate blood. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-units-of-blood-collected-at-camp-222144
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid warriors awarded in Chandigarh||“Ahrisha Iconic Awards 2021 – Corona Warriors Edition-1” was held at Nimantran Resorts in the virtual presence of Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey as the chief guest.The awards, presented by Ahrisha Films and Cake Uncle, aimed at felicitating and recognising the selfless service rendered by Covid warriors belonging to different sectors of society hailing from the City Beautiful.Over 60 Covid warriors, including doctors, nursing officers, frontline and health workers, police and paramilitary personnel, media personnel, sanitation officers and municipal workers, were felicitated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-warriors-awarded-in-chandigarh-222145
08-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Commission fines insurance company for denying claim||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7While criticising an insurance company for not releasing the claim, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has said it was not the business of an insurance company to question the type of treatment given by a doctor. The insurance company is required to simply see the genuineness of the claim preferred.The commission has directed the company to pay Rs57,293 to a consumer spent on the treatment. It also directed the firm to pay Rs15,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs10,000 as cost of litigation.The complainant, Sukrita Goyal, approached the commission after the company denied the claim of Rs57,293 spent on her treatment. In the complaint, Sukrita said she took a health insurance policy from Religare Health Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh, in December 2015. She developed rashes on her skin, following which she consulted a hospital. She was hospitalised in Bathinda, being a permanent resident of the city. She was found suffering from idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). She remained hospitalised from October 17, 2018, to October 24, 2018. After recovery, she filed the claim as per the policy document. The claim was raised for 57,293. However, the insurance company rejected the claim.During the hearing, the company argued that the consumer had not supplied the original final bill and complete indoor case papers with admission notes. The complainant denied the charges and claimed that all documents were submitted to the company.The commission, in its order, said: “By putting in queries, the company started examining and questioning what treatment suited the complainant and what not and assumed the role of a physician or a doctor, which was not their business at all. They were simply to see the genuineness of the claim preferred.”The commission said: “The documents of the treatment and the payment provided by the complainant were not at all forged. We find no reasons to discard the claim of the complainant, which seems to be reasonable, just and genuine one. Repudiation of the claim by the company is totally unjust, unfair and tantamount to unfair trade practice and deficiency in service. In view of this, the company is directed to pay Rs57,293 to the complainant along with interest @ 8 per cent per annum from the date of repudiation i.e. December 18, 2018 till realisation, pay Rs15,000 as compensation for mental agony and harassment and Rs10,000 as cost of litigation”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-fines-insurance-company-for-denying-claim-222146
08-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Archery Assn temporarily suspends city unit’s general secretary, treasurer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7The Archery Association of India (AAI) has temporarily suspended the general secretary and the treasurer of the Chandigarh Archery Association on allegations of financial bungling.The decision was taken during the annual general meeting of the Archery Association of India held today. An inquiry has been marked against the two officials.Chandigarh unit’s general secretary Vikram Singh and treasurer Sanket Sharma have been temporarily suspended from the national association. They have failed to submit bill details and an inquiry has been marked against them. The apex disciplinary committee of the national association will investigate the matter before taking any final call. Till then, both officials will remain suspended. — Pramod Chandurkar, General Secretary, Archery Association of India“Chandigarh unit’s general secretary Vikram Singh and treasurer Sanket Sharma have been temporarily suspended from the national association. They have failed to submit bill details and an inquiry has been marked against them. The apex disciplinary committee of the national association will investigate the matter before taking any final call. Till then, both officials will remain suspended,” said Pramod Chandurkar, General Secretary, Archery Association of India.Earlier, in January, the national association has sent a legal notice to Vikram after the local association failed to submit bill against advance payment of approximately Rs18 lakh despite repeated notices, claimed sources.As per the legal notice, the Chandigarh Archery Association failed to submit utilisation certificate/supporting bill/voucher against the advance payment for conducting the 1st National Ranking Archery Tournament in Chandigarh during April 2019.The local association (Chandigarh Archery Association) is headed by Amarinder Singh Bazaz, who is also president of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA), along with Vikram, son of Maha Singh, general secretary of the COA.Bazaz is said to have attended the today’s meeting of the Archery Association of India.“Both officials will be asked to join the inquiry. The minutes of the meeting will be sent to all affiliated units. We have been waiting to hear from them for the past few years. However, after failing to hear any positive response, we have to take this step. The advance payment comes down to nearly Rs18 lakh, which is not a nominal amount. We have been under pressure from the Ministry to submit all bills. These officials should have acted responsibly. If we find any kind of financial bungling, suitable action will be surely taken by all means,” said an official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/archery-assn-temporarily-suspends-city-units-general-secretary-treasurer-222148
08-03-2021||---||Two women booked for snatching bid||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 7The Zirakpur police booked two unidentified women for trying to snatch a bag containing cash in the Baltana area here yesterday evening.Balwinder Kaur, a resident of Nangla Mohalla, Mani Majra, in her complaint to the police, stated that she was working as a nurse at a hospital. She withdrew Rs20,000 from Bandhan Bank in Ravindra Enclave, Baltana, and kept a packet containing the cash in a bag.The complainant said she boarded an auto. Two unidentified women, who also boarded the same auto, tried to remove the packet from her bag. When she noticed the same, she raised an alarm. The auto driver stopped the vehicle. The women threw the packet in the auto and fled from the spot immediately. The passersby tried to chase the women, but their efforts went in vain.The police have registered a case against the two unidentified women under Sections 379, 379-B and 511 of the IPC and initiated investigations into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-women-booked-for-snatching-bid-222149
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Two held for vehicle thefts||Expect Light rain on March 10Chandigarh: The Met Department has predicted light rain on Wednesday. Light showers accompanied by wind were witnessed in the city on Sunday. The sky is expected to be mainly clear on Monday and partly cloudy on Tuesday. The maximum temperature in the city was 30.7°C, four degrees above normal, on Sunday, while the minimum temperature was 17.6°C, six notches above normal. TNSMohali resident held with charasChandigarh: The crime branch of the UT police has arrested a 38-year-old Mohali resident for possessing charas. The accused, identified as Malkit Singh, was arrested from near the Maloya bus stand while possessing 1.16-kg charas on March 6. A case has been registered at the Maloya police station. TNSBag stolen from bus at ISBT-43Chandigarh: A bag containing two laptops, a mobile phone and other valuables was stolen from a bus at the ISBT, Sector 43, on March 6. The police have registered a case at the Sector 36 police station on the complaint of a girl, a resident of Sonipat, Haryana. The girl was returning from Jammu and Kashmir. TNSBodybuilding assn chief electedChandigarh: Kulwinder Singh was elected as the president of the Chandigarh Bodybuilding & Physique Sports Association. Pradeep Singh was elected as the general secretary and Arvind Singh as the treasurer. The officials also announced that various championships such as Chandigarh State Championship, National Federation Cup (Lucknow), Mr India and Junior Championships (Ludhiana) will be held next month. TNSKhyati claims karate goldChandigarh: Khyati Raghav claimed gold medal in the below six-year category on the concluding day of the 29th State Karate Championship at SGGS College, Sector 26. Akshita claimed second position, while Amaya and Saanvi Sharma claimed the joint third position. In the below nine-year (30kg) category, Kanishka and Vidhi Raghav claimed the first and second position, respectively. Suhina and Mannat claimed the joint third position. In the 35-kg category, Anshika claimed first position, followed by Sweety at the second position. In the U-12 (40kg) category, Raveena claimed the first position and Charvi bagged the second spot. Taniya and Priyanshi claimed the joint third position. TNSRahul shines in pencak silat c’shipChandigarh: Rahul Sharma, CSE of the Sri Sukhmani Institute of Engineering & Technology, Dera Bassi, set a new record by winning a gold medal in the 3rd Pencak Silat State Championship at Faridkot. Sharma won the gold in the open class category in the championship, which was organised by the Pencak Silat Sports Association of Punjab and recognised by the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports. TNSPU conducts entrance testsChandigarh: Panjab University conducted entrance tests for MPhil and PhD on Sunday. Two papers - paper I (objective type) and paper ii (subjective type) were conducted. A total of 11 centres were set up on the Panjab University Campus in Sector 14 and 25. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-vehicle-thefts-222152
