09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 20 more Covid fatalities, 1,036 new cases||Punjab reported 1,036 new COVID-19 cases and 20 more fatalities on Tuesday, pushing the state’s caseload to 1,90,647 and the death toll to 5,961, while the Union Territory of Chandigarh recorded 105 fresh infections.The number of active cases of the disease in Punjab increased to 8,522 from 8,020 on Monday, according to a medical bulletin.Among the new cases, SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur reported 145 each, Ludhiana 125 and Patiala 120.A total of 505 more patients were discharged from hospitals in Punjab after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons in the state to 1,76,164, according to the bulletin.Twenty-five patients are critical and on ventilator support, while 157 others are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 52,36,903 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh’s COVID-19 infection tally jumped to 22,502 on Tuesday as 105 more people tested positive for the disease, according to a medical bulletin issued by the administration.The death toll in the union territory stands at 356, and the number of active cases rose to 778 from 725 on Monday, the bulletin showed.Fifty-two patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 21,368, according to the bulletin.A total of 2,70,350 samples have been taken for testing so far and of these, 2,46,880 tested negative, while reports of 146 were awaited, it showed. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-records-20-more-covid-fatalities-1-036-new-cases-222888
09-03-2021||Sheetal||The josh for stand-up comedy acts in City Beautiful has been high in the past few months||Who dof fun and laughter? And when it is right at the doorstep of Chandigarh folks, what can be better? From Chandigarh’s very own Abhishek Upamanyu, to Comicstaan-fame Rahul Dua to Punjabi paaji Jaspreet Singh, to Jeeveshu Ahluwalia to Anubhav Singh Bassi’s observational genius; weekends were no less than a laugh riot. Mark your dates as many sensational and popular comics of the likes of Harsh Gujral, Aakash Gupta and Azeem Banatwalla, Gaurav Kapoor and Vijay Yadav are set to perform in the coming months, promising a heavy dose of fun.Sudden surgeThe opening of city’s very own comedy club, ‘The Laugh Club’, seems to be the reason behind residents’ new-found love for comedy shows. “But things have been tough since the pandemic hit us,” says Dhruv Bakshi, CEO and Founder of The Laugh Club, Sector 26. He adds, “At one point, we were almost down to the thought of closing it. In July, with precautions in place, we managed to get Abhishek Upmanyu on board, but yet again a few Covid-19 cases in the vicinity made us refund the money for all the sold-out shows. Things turned around for good from October onwards with comedians Jaspreet Singh and Upmanyu stepping up. Not a single weekend has witnessed a dive in numbers since October. There’s an audience for stand-up comics in tricity. Whosoever is coming to Delhi for their shows has come down to Chandigarh to perform.” The Finch and The Jungle Bar has also been hosting comedy shows in tricity.Hope for the bestJaspreet Singh, whose stand-up video Stupid Log, Alcohol Aur Gaaliyan has crossed 14-million mark, opines, “If the pandemic has affected comedians’ livelihood, it has, on the other hand, also helped the art form as more number of people have discovered stand-up acts during their stay at home during the past one year. It is evident from the sudden increase in views, on old as well as fresh acts, on our YouTube channels. I hope that Covid-19 situation stays under control and we get to entertain new audiences.”Get liveStand-up comic Gurleen Pannu has spread smiles with her ‘rant’ videos and reels on her Instagram handle. Now busy with shows and opening acts for other visitor-comedians, she says, “Live scene is better than online for sure. I am planning to record my gigs as well, hopefully in Chandigarh. Last year did not go as planned, but it helped to take a step back and reflect on my content. Nothing beats the feeling of being busy like we are now. The energy on-stage is a different high and not easy to explain in words.”Take notesComedian and YouTuber Harry Verma stresses on his love for the city as an artiste, “Chandigarh has got my back. I have always felt like I have upgraded myself as a comedian in this city although I have lived in Mumbai for many years. I have utilised the lockdown period to an optimum level and now we can finally put those jokes to test.”Fan mailRaghav Jaiswal, businessman, recalls his experience of recent stand-up acts as rewarding, “I had gone to Rahul Dua’s show in November and recently when he was here, I went again. I know many feel that watching a show again wouldn’t be fun, but when you like somebody it does not matter. So, every penny that I have spent on stand-up shows was worth it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-josh-for-stand-up-comedy-acts-in-city-beautiful-has-been-high-in-the-past-few-months-222732
09-03-2021||---||Book rooms in Himachal Bhawan in New Delhi and Chandigarh online||Shimla, March 8People can now reserve rooms in the Himachal Bhawan and the Himachal Sadan in New Delhi, Himachal Bhawan in Chandigarh and the Circuit House Willy’s Park in Shimla online at a website developed by the General Administrative Department with the assistance of the NIC, a spokesperson for the state government said here today.He said that the applicants could reserve rooms at https://himatithi.nic.in website and they would receive SMS regarding reservation on their mobile phones.In case, a government employee does not get room reservation, the non-availability certificate can also be availed of online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-rooms-in-himachal-bhawan-in-new-delhi-and-chandigarh-online-222508
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore releases booklet||Women’s Day celebratedChandigarh: A virtual celebration was organised by Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, Chandigarh, on the occasion of International Women's Day on Monday. The celebrations began with opening remarks from the Principal, Ms Sarabjeet Kaur, highlighting the importance of women in leadership roles and the importance of women's education. This was followed by some interactive activities, based on women empowerment and celebrating their achievements. A virtual talk on "Healthcare Precautions and Nutrition Needs for Women" was conducted by Dr Seema Sharma, a nutrition expert. TNSMarkfed gives away cash prizesChandigarh: Saluting the spirit of women on Women's Day, Markfed on Monday organised a prize-distribution function for the winners of "Har Tyohar Markfed Sohna Ke Saath". Ms Amrit Singh, AMD (G), Markfed, handed over a cheque for Rs9,900 to the first winner, Jyoti Chawla of Panchkula. The participants had to use any Markfed product to cook their favourite dish and post a selfie along with complete recipe on Facebook. The second prize was won by Neha Malhotra of Jalandhar and the third prize by Ashu Soni. TNSWomen’s day at Model JailChandigarh: Women's day was celebrated with 47 female inmates of the Model Jail in collaboration with the District Legal Services Authority wherein interaction-cum-awareness sessions were conducted to sensitise residents on various issues. The female residents enthusiastically participated in Rangoli competition and cultural activities organised by the jail authorities. TNSWebinar on Guru Nanak’s teachingsPatiala: Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University reflected upon Guru Nanak Dev's teachings on women and equality during a webinar organised on the occasion of Women's Day here on Monday. The theme of the webinar was, "Guru Nanak Bani: Nari pravachan". The university Vice-Chancellor, Dr Karamjit Singh, said Guru Nanak had advocated equality for women with verses like 'So kyun manda aakhiye, jitt jamme rajaan' (Why call as inferior, those who give birth to rulers). TNSVarsity honours women achieversMohali: Chandigarh University honoured eminent women achievers with Women Icon of the Year 2021 award for being a role model in their respective field. The recipients were Kaana Singh, writer; Gauri Sheoran, Indian shooter; Meenakshi Vashishth, Deputy News Editor, Dainik Tribune; Pankhuri Gidwani, Miss Grand International; Lalita Choudhary, fashion designer and social worker, Megha, radio jockey; and Supreet Dhiman, entrepreneur. TNSTheft at house in Mauli JagranChandigarh: A theft was reported from a house at Railway Colony, Mauli Jagran. Complainant Hardev Singh reported that Rs10,000 and gold jewellery, including a mangal sutra, a chain, a pair of earrings and two bangles were stolen from his house on March 2. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-governor-vp-singh-badnore-releases-booklet-222624
09-03-2021||Patiala||Preneet Kaur felicitates women||Women are the backbone of our society and their contribution towards nation building is immeasurable. These sentiments were expressed by the Patiala MP, Preneet Kaur, today during a Women’s Day function held at her residence. She honoured 33 women by presenting them with a special letter of appreciation.“The contribution of these women towards society is exemplary and the work they did, especially during Covid, has to be recognised and appreciated,” Preneet said. She honoured 13 women doctors, six police officers, four anganwadi workers, two teachers, two sanitation workers and six women members of the SHGs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/preneet-kaur-felicitates-women-222617
09-03-2021||Patiala||All-woman clinic inaugurated at Patiala hospital||To alleviate hesitancy among women, the Surgery Department of the Government Rajindra Hospital started a breast clinic, exclusively run by the women staff, on the occasion of Women’s Day today. The clinic was inaugurated by a women staff member of the department.Dr Ashwani Kumar, head of the Surgery Department, and the man behind the initiative, said the breast clinic would be run by the female staff only.Three women surgeons – Dr Reetinder Chahal, Dr Manisha Aggarwal and Dr Kamakshi – have been given the responsibility of the breast clinic along with a junior resident, Dr Akanksha, who is doing a research project on mastalgia (breast pain).Dr Ashwani said the aim of the clinic was to provide hesitation free guidance and treatment to women, who were suffering from the breast cancer.Meanwhile, Dr Manisha Aggarwal said, “We will counsel patients about self examination and give them leaflets, which will teach the same.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-woman-clinic-inaugurated-at-patiala-hospital-222615
09-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Rs 90-cr debt waiver for Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 8After Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal announced special debt waiver for Punjabi University, its professors said the allocation of Rs90 crore for the university was a partial relief.A university official said, “The government has provided as much funds as the university claimed it was falling short of during the new financial year. It is a step towards right direction.”University acting Vice-Chancellor (VC) Ravneet Kaur said, “The government had asked the university to provide in writing its deficit for the current fiscal, which came out to be Rs90.10 crore as per our calculations. We demanded the same amount, which was provided by the government.”“The university has a small deficit to pay-off the outstanding amount in the present year and has asked for a grant for it too,” she added.The university PUTA president, Dr Nishan Singh Deol, said, “It is a meager amount. The university will remain in bad fiscal condition as it has not been able to completely pay off the bank loan. It is relatively the same situation still.”The university joint action committee (JAC) of the teaching, non-teaching Class A officials and pensioners today said, “The university has to pay debt of Rs150 crore and financial liabilities of Rs400 crore while the monthly expenditure of pensions and salaries is Rs31 crore. The government’s special grant of Rs90 crore is minimum to improve its financial state of affairs. The government should allocate Rs400 crore special and Rs30 crore monthly grant for the university.”Former MLA Surjit Singh Rakhra said, “The university needs more grants and a Vice-Chancellor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-90-cr-debt-waiver-for-punjabi-university-222614
09-03-2021||---||3-yr-old girl mauled to death by stray dogs in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 8In a shocking incident, a three-year-old girl was mauled to death by stray dogs at Tarkhan Majra village in Samana block of the district this afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Jasmine Kaur, daughter of a labourer.A pack of stray dogs reportedly attacked the minor girl when she was on her way to the fields with her elder sister. The victim’s elder sister reportedly ran away out of fear.The stray dogs brutally attacked the minor girl. After some time, an elderly woman came to her rescue. Till then, the stray dogs had already mauled her to death. The girl was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Samana, where she was declared brought dead on arrival. The doctors at the hospital said the girl’s body was mutilated. The victim’s postmortem would be conducted tomorrow.Gurmeet Singh, father of the deceased, said: “I was not in the village when the incident took place. I can’t believe my daughter is no more. The administration should take action against officials who were entrusted with the task of sterilising stray dogs.”Meanwhile, villagers said stray dogs had attacked several people in the past few months. According to the Patiala Health Department, the average count of dog-bite cases is between 900 and 1,100 a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-yr-old-girl-mauled-to-death-by-stray-dogs-in-patiala-district-222611
09-03-2021||Zirakpur||Fire in hutments||Ten hutments were reduced to ashes near Vishranti City in Gazipur yesterday. Two fire engines were rushed to the spot and brought the fire under control. Most inhabitants of the hutments had left the place for work when the fire went out of control.The cause of the fire is not known, but a short circuit may have caused it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-in-hutments-222610
09-03-2021||Zirakpur||Biker dies in hit-and-run||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-dies-in-hit-and-run-222608
09-03-2021||Dera Bassi||Man held with 4 pistols||The police have arrested Mukesh Kumar, an aide of Karnal gangster Ankush Kamalpur gang, near Sarsini, near Lalru, and recovered four pistols, six magazines and 24 live rounds from him after interrogation. He was booked under the Arms Act at the Lalru police station. The suspect was produced in Dera Bassi court and remanded in police custody for four days. The suspect was living in a rented accommodation in Mataur and operating under the instructions of Ankush, who is in jail for various crimes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-4-pistols-222607
09-03-2021||Zirakpur||Night sweeping on VIP Road in Zirakpur||The Municipal Council (MC) has begun night sweeping in selective areas of the city following the guidelines of National Green Tribunal. On Sunday night, the sanitation staff of the council cleaned public places in Ward No. 5 around 10 pm during a trial. Chief sanitation inspector Rajinder Singh said: “VIP Road, Sector 19, and a stretch below the flyover have been selected to begin the exercise.” The MC sanitation staff begins night sweeping around 9:30 to 10 pm.Pardeep Kumar Sood, an MC employee, said, ''Thirty-five sanitation workers are on the job. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-sweeping-on-vip-road-in-zirakpur-222606
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bakery worker found murdered at Sec 53 park||A 51-year-old man was found murdered at a park in Sector 53 this morning. The victim, identified as Kedar Yadav, a resident of Kajheri, Sector 52, had injury marks on his head.A passerby saw the body lying in the park following which the police were informed. His bicycle was lying near the spot. The police reached the spot and the body was shifted to a mortuary at the GMSH-16.The police said the victim worked at a bakery. Yesterday, he had gone to stay at a relative’s place in Mohali and was returning to Kajheri when the incident took place. The police said the victim was last seen around 6 am. The police have registered a murder case. “We are working on various theories to crack the case,” said a police official. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bakery-worker-found-murdered-at-sec-53-park-222604
09-03-2021||---||Accounts officer held guilty in bribery case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 8A special CBI court in Panchkula today held a senior accounts officer with the Agriculture Ministry, Rajeev Kumar Gupta, guilty of demanding and taking a bribe of Rs55,000 from government counsel for clearing her pending bills in 2016.Special CBI Judge Jagdeep Singh held the accused guilty of offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1) (d) read with 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The quantum of the sentence will be pronounced on March 12.The CBI had received a complaint from Ranjana Shahi, a senior panel counsel to the Central Government in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, alleging that the accused was demanding a bribe for clearing pending bills.“The complainant’s bills, amounting to approximately Rs25 lakh, on account of legal fee for representing the Ministry of Agriculture before the Punjab and Haryana High Court in various matters were pending for payment in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (Ministry of Agriculture’s office in Faridabad). The accused asked the complainant to pay a bribe of Rs55,000 for clearing these bills,” the FIR said.Gupta, a resident of Faridabad, had asked the advocate to pay the bribe at the Punjab Bhawan in New Delhi. The CBI had laid a trap and caught the accused red-handed while taking the money on May 21, 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accounts-officer-held-guilty-in-bribery-case-222603
09-03-2021||---||Property grab case: Victim kept at an undisclosed location in city by police||Chandigarh, March 8The victim in the property grab case, Rahul Mehta, was taken back to Rajasthan by the Chandigarh Police after getting his statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. However, citing security reasons, the management at the ashram refused to admit him following which Mehta was brought back to the city.DSP, Inspector summonedSources said he had been kept at an undisclosed place under police security.In June/July 2017, Surjit and others took Rahul to Bhuj in Gujarat and confined him to a stud farm, owned by Abdul Karim, for over a month.Later, Abdul Karim got Rahul admitted to Shri Ramdev Seva Ashram, Bhuj. After that, he was shifted to Shraddha Foundation, Karjat, Maharashtra, and further to Apna Ghar Ashram, Delhi. Thereafter, he was shifted to Apna Ghar Ashram at Bharatpur in Rajasthan.The police have, meanwhile, also identified the proxy of Rahul, who had appeared before the Sub-Registrar, Estate Office, Chandigarh, on March 1, 2019, to execute the sale deed in the name or Saurabh Gupta.The sources said the person was at large.Meanwhile, the three accused in the property grab case will be produced in the court tomorrow. Sanjeev Mahajan, Manish Gupta and Satpal Dagar (brother of DSP Ram Gopal) were on four-day police remand.Nine persons — liquor baron Arvind Singla, Satpal, Khalendra Singh Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh Gupta, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar, Daljit Singh, Sanjeev and others — have been booked by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-victim-kept-at-an-undisclosed-location-in-city-by-police-222602
09-03-2021||Panchkula||23 more infected in Panchkula||The district on Monday reported 23 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 11,056. The Covid toll remained at 149. While 10,670 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 237 cases are still active. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-more-infected-in-panchkula-222601
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||79 cases, one fatality in Chandigarh||The number of active Covid-19 cases in the city reached 725 with 79 fresh infections reported on Monday. The city also witnessed one death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 356. The UT case tally stands at 22,397. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/79-cases-one-fatality-in-chandigarh-222600
09-03-2021||Mohali||Mohali sees 107 cases||A total of 107 fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 20,971. However, no death was reported from the district due to Covid till Monday evening. Among the fresh cases, 87 were from Mohali (urban), one from Banur, two each from Dera Bassi, Gharuan, Kharar, three from Kurali and five each from Dhakoli and Lalru. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-107-cases-222598
09-03-2021||Panchkula||1,657 get first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Panchkula||As many as 1,657 persons - senior citizens and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities - were administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at 18 sites here today.The Health Department surpassed the vaccination target of 1,400 persons, registering the coverage rate of 118.36 per cent.As many as 359 healthcare and frontline workers were also vaccinated.The vaccination centres included Civil Hospital, Sector 6; Government Dispensary, Sector 19; Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Polyclinic, Sector 26; Primary Health Centre, Pinjore; MLA Hostel, Police Headquarters, Alchemist Hospital, Dhawan Hospital, Raffels Hospital, Paras Hospital, Ojas Hospital and Malik Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-657-get-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-panchkula-222597
09-03-2021||Mohali||1,224 vaccinated in Mohali||As many as 1,224 persons – 1,099 senior citizens and 125 persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities - were administered Covid vaccine at seven government hospitals and 29 private hospitals in the district today.3,435 jabbed in ChandigarhCivil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said 5,042 senior citizens and 767 persons with comorbidities had been vaccinated so far. A total of 117 healthcare workers, including 120 first-timers, and 223 frontline workers, including 118 first-timers, got the jab today.Dr Adarshpal said so far 6,223 and 3,062 healthcare workers had got the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively. Similarly, 4,515 and 227 frontline workers had got the first and second dose, respectively. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-224-vaccinated-in-mohali-222596
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali boy Guramrit secures 100 percentile in JEE (Main)||Mohali boy Guramrit Singh became the national topper by securing 100 percentile in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main). The results were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) today.Guramrit (18) is a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27. At present, he is pursuing Class XII (non-medical).100 percentileSuccess Mantra: Keep your concepts clear, listen to teacherGuramrit drew inspiration to excel from his father Gurudarshan Singh, who is a businessman. “My father has worked hard to raise us. He used to drop me off at school ever since I was a child. I wanted to fulfil his dreams while growing up,” he said.Guramrit said he studied for six to eight hours and took a one-and-a-half-hour break every day for sports.He aspires to get admission to the IIT-Bombay and pursue software engineering. The only mantra to crack JEE, according to Guramrit, is to get hold of NCERT and listen to your teacher. “Keep your concepts clear and revise daily,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-boy-guramrit-secures-100-percentile-in-jee-main-222594
09-03-2021||---||Workshop marks Women’s Day at TBRL, Ramgarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8To mark International Women’s Day, a workshop, Women Innovators in Education and Research - 2021, was organised by the Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) at its Ramgarh Range near here today.Nabanita Radhakrishnan, Director General at Defence Research and Development Organisation Headquarters, New Delhi, was the chief guest for the occasion. She highlighted the achievements of women in various scientific disciplines and motivated the scientists, technical and administrative staff to work with renewed vigour.A senior TBRL scientist and Nari Shakti Award winner, Ipsita Biswas, presented the narrative of a women scientist. Rakesh Bhalla, talked about the emerging feminine leadership while Sonima Satya, motivational speaker and writer, talked about the role of society in empowering women.The TBRL Director, Prateek Kishore, highlighted the role of women at different positions across the world.The event also included cultural performances and anart exhibition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/workshop-marks-womens-day-at-tbrl-ramgarh-222593
09-03-2021||---||GM inspects Amb Andaura-Chandigarh railway section||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8At Chandigarh railway station, General Manager (GM) Ashutosh Gangal conducted extensive inspection of the Amb Andaura-Chandigarh section today.“A new inter-city train from Ferozepur to Chandigarh has also been started today. The train will halt at the city station. In the coming week, we will start more trains. We have been getting demand for starting trains from many communities,” Gangal said.Accompanied by Divisional Railway Manager, GM Singh, and Senior Divisional Officers of the Ambala Division, Gangal inspected Amb Andaura Railway Station.“No discrepancies have been found so far. We have also received a demand for Kochi train from Malyali community and are considering it too,” Gangal added.Gangal also inspected yards at Chandigarh railway station after there was a speedy trial run at 130 kmph between Chandigarh to Ambala Cantt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gm-inspects-amb-andaura-chandigarh-railway-section-222592
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Nitin Kumar Yadav tipped for Home Secretary post||The UT Administration has recommended the names of Nitin Kumar Yadav for the post of Home Secretary and Anindita Mitra for the post of Commissioner, Municipal Corporation (MC), to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for approval.The three-year tenure of incumbent Home Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer, and Municipal Corporation Commissioner KK Yadav, a Punjab cadre IAS officer, will end in May this year.The Haryana Government had sent a panel of three IAS officers, Nitin Kumar Yadav (2000 batch), Ravi Pankaj Agarwal (2000 batch) and Vinay Singh (2003 batch), to succeed Gupta as Home Secretary of Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the Punjab Government had sent a panel of three IAS officers, Anindita Mitra (2007 batch), Amit Kumar and Rajiv Prashar (both 2008 batch), to succeed Yadav as MC Commissioner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nitin-kumar-yadav-tipped-for-home-secretary-post-222579
09-03-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Hallo Majra case: Arrest of 2 students condemned||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8In the backdrop of Hallo Majra rape and murder of a six-year-old girl, and subsequent arrest of two students, Amandeep and Vaibhav, who were protesting police inaction in the case on Saturday, a pall of gloom marked Woman’s Day in City Beautiful. Students and members of civil society gathered at Sector 17 Plaza to condemn the deteriorating woman security in the city and the police’s attempts to quell dissent.Aman, a member of AISA, Panjab University student organisation, said: “UP’s rape model is being replicated in Chandigarh too. The police are going after those raising their voice against such horrific incidents, and especially youngsters who are raising their voice against the police or local leaders are being targeted, arrested and beaten up.”Manav, a member of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha, said: “If a six-year-old girl is raped and murdered, people will get angry. That’s what happened on Saturday, but the cops arrested those who were protesting against the police for not transparently investigating the case. They were lathi-charged. Is staging a protest a bigger crime than rape and murder?”Kanupriya, first woman president of PU, said: “Women have always had to fight for their rights, history is testimony to their struggle. It seems the fight against sexual abuse, rape is a long one, especially when those meant to protect women are the ones beating up, arresting those fighting for woman rights.”From AICCTU, Satish, said: “Would the police react in a similar way if the six-year-old girl raped and murdered wouldn’t have been a Dalit or a labourer’s daughter?”In a video, Aman, one of the protesters demanding justice for the Hallo Majra rape victim, states that the residents of Hallo Majra were angered by the police’s inaction.A lawyer, Charanjit, said: “There’s nothing worth celebrating about Woman’s Day in the city where a six-year-old is raped, murdered, but those arrested are protesters fighting for the victim.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hallo-majra-case-arrest-of-2-students-condemned-222570
09-03-2021||---||Reopen campus: NSUI, ABVP||Chandigarh, March 8Members of the NSUI and the ABVP today staged a protest demanding the reopening of the Panjab University campus.“The campus has been closed for nearly a year now and Covid is no longer an excuse for keeping the university closed further,” said Rahul Kumar, vice-president, NSUI.The ABVP went on indefinite strike. “The ABVP has demanded the resumption of educational activities and fulfilment of other demands. Despite a lot of sloganeering, Professor Raj Kumar, VC, did not come to meet us,” said a press note by the ABVP.“Physical classes should be started as soon as possible for final year students, students should be given both online and offline options for examinations and all libraries should be opened on the university campus,” said PU ABVP president Paras Ratan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reopen-campus-nsui-abvp-222567
09-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||‘Suspended’ office-bearer elected president of  Chandigarh Olympic Association||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8In a bizarre move, one of the factions of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) elected Vikram Singh, who was temporarily suspended by the Archery Association of India (AAI) yesterday, as its new president.In what seems to be a perfect example of nepotism, Vikram is son of outgoing COA general secretary Maha Singh.Besides, the house elected Raghumit Singh Sodhi as its general secretary. Raghumit is son of Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who is also life president the COA, which is not a sanctioned post as per the election circular.Gurmit’s elder son Anumit Singh Sodhi was the COA treasure in the last four-year term.These elections will be challenged by another group at the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) platform. A parallel election is already scheduled to be held on March 17.Was observer unaware of the happenings?In a most embarrassing moment for the IOA, one of its members Kuldip Vats claimed to have been appointed as observer for these elections. However, no written evidence was produced either by Vats or by the IOA in this regard.VD Nanavati, Chairman, IOA (Com), said, “Vats should provide details.”When contacted Vats, he said, “I cannot comment anything on this. I am not aware what happened in the meeting. I only know that some people were elected unanimously. I have no knowledge in this regard as I had to leave for Amritsar. I need to see documents before confirming anything.”When asked if he can show the IOA’s permission, he replied, “It must be with the Chandigarh unit.”Sources claimed that Vats attended the full meeting and also clicked photographs with Gurmit.Represented sham associations?Sources claimed that a day after getting temporarily suspended from the AAI, Vikram was nominated by the Chandigarh Rowing and Sweep Association for the elections.Notably, the Chandigarh Rowing and Sweep Association is not affiliated either to the IOA, the Rowing Federation of India or even the Chandigarh Sports Department.Meanwhile, Raghumit was nominated by the Chandigarh Bowling Federation, the unit which has not conducted even a single championship in the city.Was Sports Dept informed on Monday?Meanwhile, the UT Sports Department refused to send their observer after learning that the COA is holding two elections. “...one letter received today (March 8) around 1.30 pm by Maha Singh to depute observer for the elections. It has been observed that the two elections are being held and the competent authority decided not to depute observer in both elections,” stated a circular.The department has also decided to conduct an inquiry.All for IOA vote?Today’s meeting was presided by Gurmit. Shockingly, the minister’s office released a press statement claiming to get vote for the IOA.“In a meeting under the leadership of Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, members of the COA presented a motion to authorise him to represent the COA in the IOA,” the press release stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-office-bearer-elected-president-of-chandigarh-olympic-association-222564
09-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC serves Rs 13.61-cr dues notice on PU||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8The local Municipal Corporation has served a Rs13.61-crore notice on Panjab University for non-payment of service charges/property tax in respect of its various buildings.The tax branch of the corporation has asked the varsity to pay the amount within 15 days at any Sampark Centre of Chandigarh, failing which, further action to recover the dues will be initiated under Section 138 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, as extended to the UT without any further notice.According to the notice issued on the name of PU’s Deputy Director, it has been said that four PIDs referred in the earlier letter have been raised on the basis of area detail submitted by the university. But after going through a survey conducted by Punjab Engineering College, it has been found that the PU has not submitted the detail of full area.Thus, reconciliation of the area was done and two new PIDs have been created for the leftout area. The amount of all six PIDs has been generated up to March 31 this year. The total amount stands at Rs 13,61,90,220.Meanwhile, PU’s official spokesperson Renuka B Salwan said: “The PU has been paying property tax regularly. But if there is any discrepancy, we will take it up with the MC.”The civic body has been issuing notices to various government departments for non-payment of property tax. While many have cleared their dues, some have failed to make payments despite repeated notices.The corporation recently served a notice of Rs48.33 cr on the UT Administration for not clearing the pending property tax of its various departments.The UT Secretariat, the Haryana Raj Bhawan, the Punjab Raj Bhawan, the UT Guest House, the ISBT, several police posts, hospitals and other buildings under the UT are yet to clear their tax dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-serves-rs-13-61-cr-dues-notice-on-pu-222550
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Man stabs wife to death||A 24-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her husband at Dhanas last night. Victim Purnima had married Sunny around a year and a half ago. It was a love-cum-arranged marriage. The police said the couple had an argument at home following which the suspect stabbed the victim near the stomach that turned fatal for her.She was taken to the GMSH-16, where doctors declared her brought dead.Her father Ram Lal, a resident of Mauli Jagran, lodged a complaint following which a murder case was registered against the victim’s husband. He has been arrested. Sunny works as a salesman in Sector 19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-stabs-wife-to-death-222548
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Leftover vanity numbers: RLA to hold  e-auction from March 17 to 19||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will hold an e-auction of leftover vanity/special registration numbers of the previous series from March 17 to 19.The registration for participation in the e-auction will start on March 10 and continue till March 16.The re-auction will be held for the leftover vanity/special registration numbers of the previous series — CH01-CD, CH01-CC, CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS.The owner of the vehicle, who has purchased the vehicle on a Chandigarh address only will be allowed to participate in the e-auction.The owner of the vehicle can register himself/herself on the national transport website: https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link of the same is available on the Chandigarh Administration, Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leftover-vanity-numbers-rla-to-hold-e-auction-from-march-17-to-19-222547
09-03-2021||---||CHB extends its penalty scheme till December 31||Chandigarh, March 8In a major relief to thousands of allottees, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has extended the penalty scheme up to December 31, 2021, to remove, rectify or regularise building violations (need-based changes) after paying the applicable charges. The scheme had expired on December 31, 2020.The decision was taken after detailed deliberations during a meeting of the Board of Directors of the CHB held here today under the chairmanship of Manoj Parida, UT Adviser-cum-chairman, CHB.Nod to reserve price of 270 propertiesThe CHB has approved the reserve prices of 270 vacant properties — 11 residential (leasehold), 109 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (leasehold) — to be auctioned after reducing the reserve price by 10 per cent.Cancelled allotment to be restoredAllotment of all those, whose units were cancelled due to building violations, will be restored on removal of all violations by June 30 & payment of applicable restoration charges.Retirement benefitsFor CHB employees, who joined after January 1, 2004, the board will make arrangements for retirement-cum-death gratuity similar to those who have joined prior to January 1, 2004.The board has also decided to restore the allotment of all those whose units were cancelled due to building violations and their appeals are pending before the board, on removal of all those building violations by June 30, 2021, because of which the allotment was cancelled and payment of applicable revival/ restoration charges.Earlier, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had advised that immediate relief should be provided to the CHB allottees.“The decisions taken today, especially about the restoration of cancelled allotments on removal of violations by June 30 and extension of the penalty scheme up to December 31, 2021, are in the same direction as advised by the Administrator,” Parida said.The board has also approved the reserve price of 270 vacant commercial and residential properties, situated in various sectors of the city, to be sold through an e-auction.To get a good response, the CHB has prepared a list of 270 properties — 11 residential (leasehold), 109 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (leasehold) — to be auctioned after reducing the reserve price by 10 per cent. Not even a single bidder expressed interest in the auction of CHB properties as the reserve price was too high for both residential and commercial properties last year.The residential properties to be put up for sale are in Sector 51, 63, 38 (West), 39 and Mani Majra. The commercial properties to go under the hammer are in Mani Majra, Sector 51, 61 and Maloya.The board has also decided against recovering outstanding dues from occupants of prefab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 which were occupied in an unauthorised manner and all of these have already been demolished. Nearly 1,700 families from prefab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 were recently relocated to two-room flats in Maloya on monthly rent of Rs3,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-extends-its-penalty-scheme-till-december-31-222543
09-03-2021||---||Mohali's boy secures 100 percentile in JEE (Main)||Chandigarh, March 8Mohali's Guramrit Singh became the national topper by securing 100 percentile in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main results which were announced by National Testing Agency (NTA).The 18-year-old is a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, and is currently pursuing Class XII (Non Medical).Also read: 6 students get perfect score in JEE Mains Paper 1Five cadets from Mohali institute selected for NDASingh drew the inspiration to excel from his father, Gurudarshan Singh, who is a businessman. "My father has worked hard to raise us. He used to drop me off to school ever since I was a child. I wanted to fulfill his dreams while growing up," he said.Singh said that he studied for 6 to 8 hours and took one-and-half hour break every day, during which he played sports.He aspires to get admission in IIT, Bombay, and pursue Software Engineer as a carrier.The only mantra to crack JEE, according to Singh is to get hold of NCERT and listen to teacher. "Keep your concepts clear and revise daily," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohalis-boy-secures-100-percentile-in-jee-main-222432
09-03-2021||---||Five cadets from Mohali institute selected for NDA||Chandigarh, March 8Five cadets of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI) have been selected for the National Defence Academy (NDA), Kharakvasla, with one of them, Bharat Sharma, bagging the ninth position in the all India merit list. They will be joining the 145th Course at that commences this summer.Also readMohali's boy secures 100 percentile in JEE (Main)They are from the eighth AFPI Course which underwent training at Mohali from 2018 to 2020. So far, 162 boys from AFPI have qualified to join the NDA or other service academies.Bharat belongs to Amritsar, where his father Raman Kumar and mother Vanita are both government teachers. He had secured 93.4 per cent marks in Class 12 board exams in the non-medical stream.Other cadets of this course who will be joining NDA shortly are Sahilpreet Singh, Shiv Kumar, Utam Malik and Sahildeep Singh. Fourteen cadets of the eighth course have already joined NDA as part of the 144th NDA Course last year.Currently the ninth AFPI course is preparing for its board exams. Cadets of this course are aspirants for the 146th NDA Course for which the selection process is currently in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-cadets-from-mohali-institute-selected-for-nda-222369
