10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Water tariff: Chandigarh MC for suspending hike till Covid-19 situation eases||Making a U-turn, the Municipal Corporation House today resolved to roll back the hike in the water tariff till the Covid situation eases.Cong stages walkoutCongress councillors demanded a complete rollback of the water tariff hike. They later walked out of the House meeting in protest.After the Covid period, the House approved to slash two domestic water tariff slabs and cut sewerage cess from 30 per cent to 5 per cent on the tariff. The House also gave approval to adjusting the increased water tariff charges, which were effective from September last year.Former Mayor denied entry to meeting hallCity Congress president and former Mayor Subhash Chawla sat on the floor outside the media gallery as he was not allowed to enter the hall where the House meeting was being held. Chawla, along with three other leaders, sat on the floor from morning till evening. Councillor Satish Kainth raised the issue in the MC House. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said due to Covid, no visitor was allowed. BJP councillors were also against his entry. Chawla said, “Being a two-time Mayor, I had requested the MC to issue me a visitor’s pass but I was denied the same.”It was resolved that rather than 3 per cent annual increase, one-time 5 per cent increase should be allowed after every three years. It also okayed that commercial units should be charged at the rate of Rs25 per kl on actual consumption basis rather than fixed charges.MC House also wants…The House decisions will be sent to the UT Administration for the final approval.Also approvedIn its October meeting, the civic body had okayed revising the water tariff hike and sent the recommendation to the Administration. The latter wrote back, “The MC Commissioner has already pointed out the possible loss in revenue if the civic body revises the water tariff hike. All aspects of revenue loss, including meeting the gap of expenditure and revenue, need to be examined by the MC while reconsidering its decision.”Following this, the BJP-ruled corporation again tabled an agenda in the House meeting today. Though the revision agenda has been passed, residents will have to wait and watch what the Administration orders.The House had passed the hike in water tariff after 2011 on December 30, 2019, and the Administration notified it on September 11 last year.Prior to this, the MC had stated that it spent Rs214.81 crore annually on the maintenance of water supply system and sewerage while it earned only Rs86.53 crore as water charges. After the hike, its own receipts were expected to grow to Rs147 crore.The hike was also necessitated as the civic body got burdened with about Rs14 crore after afternoon water supply was started in the city. The MC claimed that even after the hike, the rates were less than Panchkula and Mohali.Politics over tariff hikeDuring the MC House meeting, BJP and Congress councillors kept blaming each other for the hike. Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla blamed the ruling party for ‘imposing cow cess, increasing property tax, parking rates and now water prices’. To this, BJP councillor Arun Sood said it was the Congress that introduced property tax. The Congress was responsible for not increasing the water tariff after 2011 and burdening the MC, he added.“Had the Congress brought gradual increase in the tariff, there would not have been a need to raise the rates today. And times of freebies are gone. If we are providing best facilities like the afternoon water supply, we also have to meet the expenditure,” added Sood.Congress councillors showed black flags and offered bangles to the BJP councillors, the latter showed placard targeting the Congress for boycotting the discussion when the rates were raised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-tariff-chandigarh-mc-for-suspending-hike-till-covid-19-situation-eases-222978
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Scribe Sanjeev Mahajan offered Rs 25L to take back case: Victim’s cousin||The UT police have contacted victim Rahul Mehta’s cousin in the UK, who has sent his statement regarding the case in which he said Sanjeev Mahajan, a journalist, allegedly offered him Rs25 lakh to withdraw the case regarding the house in Sector 37 he had filed in the High Court.Section 328 added to FIRThe UT police have added Section 328 (causing hurt by means of poison with intent to commit an offence) of the IPC to the FIR after victim Rahul Mehta, in his statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC, alleged that he was intoxicated by the accused. Earlier, a case against nine persons — liquor baron Arvind Singla, Satpal, Khalendra Singh Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh Gupta, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar, Daljit Singh, Sanjeev and others — was registered under 15 Sections of IPC at the Sector 39 police station.DSP’s statement recordedDSP Ram Gopal was questioned on Tuesday with regard to the property grab case. His statement has been recorded by the SIT.The police said Rahul Mehta’s mother had transferred her property in her sister’s name, who passed away later. Later, there was a dispute between Rahul and his cousin, who approached the High Court.The victim’s cousin, in his statement to the police, said in 2017, he visited Chandigarh and went to the house in Sector 37 to meet Rahul to discuss the issue regarding the house, which was pending in the court.The victim’s cousin said he met Surjit Singh there, who said Rahul was not at home.He then left his phone number with Surjit and asked him to tell Rahul to give him a call since he was in the city for a few days.Police sources said a couple of days later, he was asked by Surjit to come and meet him.The victim’s cousin said he met Surjit and Sanjeev at a public place. He said Sanjeev told him that Rahul was safe at some place and they were taking care of him. Sanjeev further told him that Rahul had signed his share of the house in Sanjeev’s name.In his statement to the police, the victim’s cousin said Sanjeev offered Rs25 lakh in cash to withdraw the case.The victim’s cousin said Sanjeev told him that if he did not withdraw the case, then also they would take over the property. The victim’s cousin then left for the UK.The police said the victim’s cousin later visited India twice. However, he could not trace Rahul. According to him, the matter is still pending in the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scribe-sanjeev-mahajan-offered-rs-25l-to-take-back-case-victims-cousin-222980
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||1 dead, 3 hurt as SUV hits auto||A man was killed while three others were injured after a Scorpio hit a carriage auto on Madhya Marg at the Sector 8/9/17/18 light point last night and sped away.The deceased has been identified as Kishan Pal, a native of Uttar Pradesh. He was staying at Hoshiarpur with his family.Case of Hit-&-runManish Kumar, an eyewitness, said the SUV was coming from the road separating Sector 17 and 18. “The SUV didn't stop after hitting the auto and sped away towards the road separating Sector 8 and 9,” he said.Sources said he was a father of five. Gopal, Krishan and Sonu were injured in the incident.The auto was coming from the Matka Chowk side and was heading towards the Sector 26 grain market.The police were informed following which PCR vehicles reached the spot and shifted the injured to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared Kishan Pal as brought dead.The registration plate of the SUV fell on the spot, which was handed over to the police.The police said the victims had arrived from Hoshiarpur to purchase fruits from Sector 26.The police said a case had been registered at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-dead-3-hurt-as-suv-hits-auto-222981
10-03-2021||Mohali||Back from rehab, youth found dead in hotel room||A 24-year-old youth from Lakhnaur was found dead in a hotel room at Sector 70 here. The victim has been identified as Kamalpreet Singh, who had checked into the hotel with his friend Rajvir Singh of Mandi Gobindgarh on Saturday night.The duo had left a de-addiction centre and did not go home. The police said the victim was found lying on his stomach and froth was coming out of his mouth.The police have initiated inquest proceedings after recording the statements of the victim’s family members under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The body was handed over to the aggrieved family after post-mortem examination on Monday. The exact cause of the death would be known after receiving the autopsy report, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/back-from-rehab-youth-found-dead-in-hotel-room-222982
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Remand of DSP’s brother extended||A local court today sent the two accused in the property grab case including Sanjeev Mahajan and Manish Gupta to judicial custody, while the police remand of the third accused, 35-year-old Satpal Dagar (brother of DSP Ram Gopal) has been extended by two days.In the remand application, the police said during interrogation, Satpal revealed the name of the proxy of Rahul Mehta who had appeared before the Sub-Registrar, Estate Office, Chandigarh, on March 1, 2019, to execute the sale deed in the name of Saurabh Gupta and Satpal.The remand application mentions that Satpal disclosed that he knew that the proxy of Rahul Mehta was hiding at a farmhouse in Manesar and he could help the police arrest him.The police, meanwhile, are also investigating the deal of a house each in Sector 21 and 46, in which the involvement of Sanjeev has been found.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remand-of-dsps-brother-extended-222984
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Robbery bid by two at house in Sector 8 Chandigarh||Two armed assailants allegedly attempted a daylight gunpoint robbery at a house in Sector 8 yesterday. The caretaker of the house received injuries after he was attacked with a sharp weapon.One of the Assailants pulled out a gunThe police said the caretaker, Satpal, told them that the owners were not in the house following which one of them pulled out a gun and asked him where the cash and jewellery had been kept in the house. The complainant refused after which the other assailant attacked him with a knife. He received an injury on his arm.According to the police, complainant Satpal (52), who works as the caretaker, reported that he, along with another worker Himanshu, was present in the house when two unknown persons arrived at the gate. The suspects stated that they had come to check the water meter and tank.The complainant allowed them in the house. The suspects, however, started questioning him about the owners.The police said the complainant told them that the owners were not in the house following which they pulled out a gun and asked him where the cash and jewellery had been kept in the house. The complainant refused after which the other suspect attacked him with a knife. He received an injury on his arm.The suspects then snatched the mobile phones of both workers and tied the complainant and locked him in a room. The police said the complainant told the suspects that all valuables were kept on the first floor.They asked Himanshu to take them to the room on the first floor and while the suspects were searching the house, Himanshu jumped from the first floor and raised the alarm. Fearing that they will be caught, the suspects escaped from the spot. The police were informed, who reached the spot and initiated an investigation. The injured was taken to the hospital for treatment.The police scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area. A team of the technical cell was scrutinising the mobile dump of the area, said a police official.Meanwhile, a case under Sections 452, 394, 342, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 24, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robbery-bid-by-two-at-house-in-sector-8-chandigarh-222985
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 to have trauma block||To provide specialised healthcare facilities, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today laid the foundation stone of a new Emergency and Trauma Block at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, here in the presence of Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, and the Director-Principal, GMCH. The building, to come up in front of the existing Emergency, will have two basements and three upper storeys. The emergency block will add 259 beds to the hospital having clinical labs, X-ray, CT scan, MRI, chemist shop, two emergency operation theatres and a minor operation theatre, post-operative wards, an isolation ward and parking facilities in the twin basement. It will also have provision for central air-conditioning, firefighting and fire sensing. The building will have parking facilities for 59 cars and 144 two-wheelers.An official spokesperson said it would take about 18 months to complete the building at a cost of Rs30 crore.The spokesperson said the new Emergency and Trauma Block was the need of the hour and would be highly beneficial to the public.In September 2019, the UT Administration had approved the construction of the Emergency and Trauma Block and Mother and Child Care Centre at the GMCH.However, the work on the long-pending 348-bed Mother and Child Care Centre could not be started as the GMCH had some objection to the design of the centre. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, GMCH, had suggested some changes in the design of the centre. After getting approval, the Engineering Department would start the process of the construction of the centre.With the construction of the twin projects, the GMCH will get a major healthcare boost, which will benefit patients from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and other states.The new Emergency and Trauma Block will come up in Block A, replacing the earlier Emergency, which will have to be demolished. The 348-bed Mother and Child Care Centre will come up in the K Block area of the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-to-have-trauma-block-222987
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid hits High Court work as two Judges test positive||The Punjab and Haryana High Court is staring at crisis of sorts — this time because of Covid resurgence in the judiciary. Just about a month after the High Court resumed partial physical functioning, six of its Judges are virtually out of action because of the virus from Wuhan, reducing the working strength to less than half.The High Court currently has 47 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. In the absence of six Judges, the working strength has practically gone down to 41. High Court Registrar (Vigilance)-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal confirmed that the High Court was experiencing a spurt, as Covid cases were on a rise in Chandigarh. “In the last couple of days, two Judges have tested positive for Covid and four more Judges have been quarantined. The families of all these Judges have also been quarantined. Many officials have also tested positive. The next few days seem to be crucial as Covid cases are steadily increasing,” Registrar Aggarwal said.The High Court went into restrictive functioning mode almost a year ago following the apprehensions of Covid outbreak. It initially started hearing a limited number of cases through videoconferencing. But the number of cases listed for hearing and the Judges hearing the matters on a virtual platform rose steadily over a period of time till the High Court started functioning with full force by the beginning of this year.As the situation started to improve, the High Court resumed physical functioning to some extent. Available information suggests the move to shift from virtual to physical platform is likely to be delayed following the re-explosion in Covid cases.As of now, the Allahabad High Court has the highest number of pending cases at 7,89,545. It is followed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which is facing a pendency of 6,60,644 cases, including 2,78,948 criminal matters involving life and liberty. No less than 2,31,637 or 35.06 per cent of the pending cases are one to three years old. Another 10,519 or 1.59 per cent of the cases are 20 to 30 years old. The problem of plenty is expected to worsen in the coming months in the absence of new appointments of Judges and four more retirements this year||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-hits-high-court-work-as-two-judges-test-positive-222999
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 105 Covid cases||Another life lost in Mohali distMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the district toll to 391. Meanwhile, 68 fresh cases surfaced till Tuesday evening while two more patients recovered from the virus. There are 924 active cases. — TNS44 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 44 fresh cases of Covid during the past 24 hours. However, there was no fresh fatality due to the virus. So far, 11,100 cases have surfaced in the district and 10,674 patients have been cured of the disease. There are 277 active cases with 149 deaths in the district. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-105-covid-cases-223016
10-03-2021||---||Panjab University VC nod to opening of hostels||Chandigarh, March 9The Panjab University Vice-Chancellor has approved the recommendations of a committee regarding the opening of hostels for professional students. A meeting in this regard was held on March 5.The PhD students, who were enrolled by March 5, should be given hostel accommodation with the consent of their respective supervisors. The MDS students of Dr HSJ Institute of Dental Science and Hospital should be allowed hostel accommodation.All postgraduate students (final year), who are in final semester and require laboratory work to complete their dissertation, should be allowed to stay in hostels. Canteen of boys’ Hostel No.6 and girls’ Hostel No. 2 should be opened. The gate between girls’ Hostel No. 3 and 4 will be opened from 8 am to 7 pm.Guidelines to be followed“Chairpersons of the departments where international students are studying be requested to provide study material to them as they are unable to attend online classes due to network problem in their country,” mentioned the circular.Joint protest organised by student unions at PUMeanwhile, a joint protest was organised by the SFS, PSU Lalkaar, AISA, PUSU, NSUI, ASA, Y4S and SOPU demanding the reopening of the Panjab University campus.“The PU authorities have been unnecessary delaying the opening of university campus for too long and wasting precious study time of students. Five students’ representatives were called for a meeting with the authorities. They agreed to open the library from 8 am to 10 pm for all students and scholars alike. Further, girls’ hostels timings was also extended alongside that of the library up to 10 pm. They have agreed to open girls’ Hostel No. 2 and the boy’s hostel messes. A week’s time has been given to the PU authorities, failing which, a huge protest will be held,” said a press note.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-vc-nod-to-opening-of-hostels-223023
10-03-2021||Zirakpur||Dealers passed on info about locked houses||After a large-scale racket involved in making passports on forged papers in Zirakpur was busted in November last year, the police have found the involvement of a few property dealers who passed on information about locked houses in societies to the kingpin, Raman Kumar, himself a property dealer operating in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi.Gangster connectRaju Basaudi, who is a fugitive and notorious gangster involved in many cases in Haryana, and two drug peddlers also got their passport issued through them.The nexus between Raman and two policemen came to light on November 8 with the arrest of constable Rajinder Singh and havildar Sukhwant Singh, both posted at the Zirakpur police station. Both were arrested for allegedly preparing fake documents, including Aadhaar card and voter ID, which were used to make 41 passports. The police said a detailed investigation into the racket had led to 143 passports made on forged documents.The police suspect that a few immigration agents, too, could be involved in the case.Raju Basaudi, who is a fugitive and notorious gangster involved in many cases in Haryana, and two drug peddlers also got their passport issued through them.The police said they have informed the passport office and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to get all these passports cancelled.“The investigation into the case is going on and the suspects will be arrested soon,”said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dealers-passed-on-info-about-locked-houses-223024
10-03-2021||Panchkula||Farmers gherao BJP office in Panchkula||Farmers today gheraoed the BJP office at Sector 2 here and submitted a letter to be forwarded to Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta with regard to the no-confidence motion to be moved against the Khattar government tomorrow.Farmers, farm labourers and businessmen from Barwala, Raipur Rani, Morni, Raitan, Doon, Kalka and Pinjore took part in the protest. They demanded that Gupta should support the no-confidence motion. They also submitted a memorandum to district BJP president Ajay Sharma. Heavy police force was deployed near the BJP office to maintain law and order.Addressing the farmers, district farmer president Narinder Singh Nawanpind said three farm laws passed by the Centre should be revoked as the farmers had been agitating on Delhi border against these bills for the past more than 100 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-gherao-bjp-office-in-panchkula-223025
10-03-2021||Mohali||50 teachers already +ve , dept keeping watch||The Education Department is keeping its fingers crossed as about 50 teachers have been found Covid positive in various schools in the district. The department is awaiting the reports of test samples of students to decide the future course of action.Almost one or two cases of teachers being found infected with the virus are being reported from the schools daily. Teachers and the other staff were reportedly taking precautions as per the Covid protocol and it is not clear from where they got infected.Sources in the department said mostly teachers who were coming for duty on buses were infected with the virus.Recently, eight teachers of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Phase 3B1, had tested positive on March 4. Over 2,000 students are studying in the school and the Health Department had decided to test students in batches of 300 each from Monday. The department had also carried out fogging to sanitise the school.Similarly, two teachers of Government Senior Secondary School in Dayalpur Sodhian in the district had tested positive on Saturday. The department has sanitised the school and would conduct Covid tests of the staff and students soon.District Education Officer (Secondary) Himmat Singh Hundal said one or two cases of teachers testing Covid positive were being reported almost daily and they were keep a close eye on the situation. He said all schools were following the Covid protocol by providing sanitisers, besides maintaining social distancing. He said students of Phase 3B1 were being tested for the virus.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said they had started conducting Covid tests of students of the Phase 3B1 school from Monday and were awaiting the reports. She said the school authorities had told them that there were 2,000 students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-teachers-already-ve-dept-keeping-watch-223026
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Dept clarifies on offline exams||Amid rising concerns over offline exams amid the pandemic, the UT Education Department today clarified its stand that it will take offline exams for Classes IX and XI, as per the guidelines issued by the CBSE.The department has asked the schools to take measures, including proper sanitisation of school centres and self-monitoring of health by all, and reporting illness at the earliest.The exams will commence through the offline mode in the second and third week of March. The online mode will be allowed to those students who have genuine problems such as Covid-19 infection or residence falling in a containment zone. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dept-clarifies-on-offline-exams-223027
10-03-2021|| Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Martyr cremated with full military, state honours||The mortal remains of Havildar Naik Gurjant Singh (35) of Raipur Arian village in Amloh subdivision of the district, who attained martyrdom at India-China border, were consigned to flames with full state and military honours today.His body wrapped in the Tricolour was brought to the village by a team of Army officers and jawans. Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill, SSP Amneet Kondal, SDM Anand Sagar Sharma, along with Army officers, laid wreaths on the body as a mark of respect during the funeral.His father Santokh Singh, who is also an ex-serviceman, mother Charanjit Kaur, wife Kuldeep Kaur, daughter Gurparkash Kaur (12) and son Samarjot Singh (7) along with a large number of people from the area paid homage to the martyr. Col Avin Utayia and Lieut-Col Vijay Chaudhry, along with other military officers, presented the Tricolour to the family and presented guard of honour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/martyr-cremated-with-full-military-state-honours-223028
10-03-2021||Mohali||CT University, IVY Group of Hospitals ink MoU||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ct-university-ivy-group-of-hospitals-ink-mou-223029
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Court fines three for not wearing mask in public||To teach a lesson to violators, a local court has imposed a fine on three persons for not wearing face mask in public places.The court also fined another person for entertaining customers at a bar late in the night violating the orders issued by the Deputy Commissioner.One more penalised for violating ordersThe court also fined another person for entertaining customers at a bar late in the night violating the orders issued by the Deputy Commissioner.The court imposed the fine after the police presented the challans against them in the court for trial. The police sent the challans after registering FIRs against them under Section 188 of the IPC.Not wearing mask was made punishable offenceMasks were made compulsory for everyone in the city after the Covid-induced lockdown was imposed and not wearing it was made a punishable offence. Apart from police personnel, certain officers of the Administration and the MC were also authorised to issue challans for this offence.Face masks were made compulsory for everyone in the city after the Covid-induced lockdown was imposed and not wearing it was made a punishable offence. Apart from police personnel, certain officers of the Administration and the MC also authorised to issue challans for this offence.The challans were presented before the Court of TPS Randhawa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh.In one case, Atul Sharma was found without face mask near Government School, Mani Majra, on July 14, 2020. The court imposed a fine of Rs500 on the accused. In another case, the police found Ramesh Kumar roaming without a mask in the IT Park on June 7, 2020. He was ordered to pay a fine of Rs1,000 under Section 188 of the IPC.Ram Babu was also found roaming without a face mask in the IT Park on April 24, 2020. He was ordered to pay a fine of Rs1,000.In a separate case, a person, Jimmy Singh, was also fined for entertaining customers late in the night at Beach N Brew Bar, Sector 26, Chandigarh, without any permission in January 2020. He was fined Rs500 for the offence committed under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-fines-three-for-not-wearing-mask-in-public-223030
10-03-2021||Panchkula||Two nabbed for abducting minor girl in Pinjore||The Pinjore police have arrested two persons for abducted a 15-year-old girl on March 4.The suspects have been identified as Mohammad Ashif, a resident of Sarsawa in Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, and Junaid Ahmad, a resident of Ibrahimpur in Saharanpur.The girl’s father, in his complaint to the police, stated that the suspects abducted his daughter while she was going to meet him at a place near his house. He raised the alarm, but the duo managed to flee from the spot along with his daughter.The Pinjore police registered a case under Sections 363, 366-A and 34 of the IPC and arrested the duo. They were produced in a court today, which remanded them to police custody.Ram Pal, SHO of the Pinjore police station, said medical examination of the girl was conducted today and they were awaiting the reports. The POCSO Act would be added to the case if the girl was found raped. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-nabbed-for-abducting-minor-girl-in-pinjore-223031
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bank unions to strike work on March 15, 16 against privatisation||Bank unions aren’t happy with the government’s plans to divest stake in public sector banks (PSBs).The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, in a press conference today, released a statement opposing the announcements by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Budget 2021-22 and said the unions would go on a two-day strike on March 15 and 16 opposing privatisation.According to the unions, instead of further strengthening public sector banks, the present policies are aimed at weaken these, by starving them of the required capital, human resources, through disinvestment and proposed privatisation. The unions said weakening public sector banks was unwarranted, unjustified and regressive step.“We demand strengthening of public sector banks by adequate infusion of capital, human resources and strengthened statutory framework to recover the stressed assets. In the garb of efficiency and misconceived policy to shrug of the responsibility, the government has embarked upon privatisation of public sector banks. It is irrefutable that ‘privatisation’ neither brings efficiency nor the safety,” said Sanjay Kumar Sharma, convenor, United Forum of Bank Unions.Innumerable private banks have failed around the world. If private enterprises are epitome of efficiency, there should not have been any NPAs from large private corporate entities at all. NPAs/stressed assets of the banking industry belong to private large corporate, which incontrovertibly and unquestionably demonstrate that private enterprises do not denote efficiency.To impress upon the government on their demands, the bank employees and officers, under the aegis of the United Forum of Bank Unions, will go on a two-day strike on March 15 and 16 opposing privatisation of public sector banks, Sharma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-unions-to-strike-work-on-march-15-16-against-privatisation-223032
10-03-2021||Mohali||2 Nigerians among three get 10-yr jail for possessing heroin||The Additional District and Session Judge, Mohali, today awarded 10-year jail to three persons, including two Nigerians, for possessing 1.850 grams of heroin worth crores. The court also slapped a fine of Rs1 lakh each on the trio.The Mohali police arrested David and Amninder Singh during a checking drive at a barricade in the city. The duo was coming in a car on August 20, 2018. During the checking of their car, the police had recovered one-kg heroin. A court sent them to four-day police remand. During investigation, the duo revealed the name of main drug supplier Kenneth Bosil operating from a restaurant in Delhi.The Special Task Force carried out a raid on the restaurant and arrested Kenneth. It recovered 859 grams of heroin from his possession on August 23, 2020.During interrogation, Kenneth Bosil revealed that he came to India about one and a half years ago. He was staying at Mohan Garden in New Delhi and was running a restaurant there. David and Amninder used to purchase heroin from Bosil, who used to cook food for Nigerian nationals in his restaurant. Bosil used to hold conversations with his customers through video calling or WhatsApp calling.At the time of the arrest, Bosil did not possess visa for staying in India. The police also did not recover his passport. It remained mystery for the police authorities as to how he came to India without any legal documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-nigerians-among-three-get-10-yr-jail-for-possessing-heroin-223033
10-03-2021||Mohali||1,275 citizens get jabbed in Mohali||About 1,275 persons, including 1,138 senior citizens and 137 persons aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities, were administered the Covid vaccine at seven government hospitals and 29 private hospitals of the district today. A total of 6,180 senior citizens and 904 persons aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities have been given the jab so far.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said 170 and 118 healthcare workers were given the first and second doses of the vaccine, respectively. She added that 106 and 92 frontline workers too were given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively.So far, 6,393 and 3,180 health workers had been given the first and second dose, respectively, while 4621 and 319 frontline workers had been given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-275-citizens-get-jabbed-in-mohali-223034
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||2,794 take the shot in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-794-take-the-shot-in-chandigarh-223035
10-03-2021||Panchkula||1,758 vaccinated in Panchkula dist||As many as 1,758 beneficiaries, including 1,568 eligible citizens, were administered Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday. Among the eligible citizens, 1,442 were above 60 years and 126 aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities. The Panchkula Health Department had the target to vaccinate 3,500 beneficiaries, including 2,300 citizens. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-758-vaccinated-in-panchkula-dist-223036
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab FC lads to take on Mohammedan Club today||RoundGlass Punjab FC (RGPFC) lads will be looking ahead to fetch full three points in its next I-League encounter against Mohammedan Sporting Club at Vivekananda Yuba Bharati Krirangan (VYBK), West Bengal, on Wednesday.Must-win game for Fleming’s menIt’s a must-win game for Curtis Fleming’s men in the championship race. The side had a narrow defeat to Gokulam Kerala FC by 0-1 in its last match, but will be now looking to win the three points to propel into challenging for the title.It’s a must-win game for Curtis Fleming’s men in the championship race. The side had a narrow defeat to Gokulam Kerala FC by 0-1 in its last match, but will be now looking to win the three points to propel into challenging for the title.“The mood in the camp is good and it has to be. I don’t think one defeat can discourage the team. I probably wasn’t happy with the first 45 minutes (against Gokulam) and I let the boys know that. We learn and picked ourselves up. We are looking forward to putting things right tomorrow,” said Fleming.While talking about the opposition, Fleming said: “Mohammedan SC has done well. I think we have spoken about Mohammedan before the start of the season as being a legacy club in India. It has a rich history and with that comes a lot of expectations. It will be looking to bounce back from the last result.”Defender Anwar Ali was out of action for a while because of an injury, but seemed confident after recovering from it. At a press conference, he said: “Injuries are a part of the game. I was confident about my team because we had lots of young players in my position and they got a chance to prove themselves. I am back and whenever the team needs me, I will be there to help,” said Ali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-fc-lads-to-take-on-mohammedan-club-today-223037
10-03-2021||---||Two cagers selected for coaching camp||Chandigarh, March 9Local cagers Sahaij Pratap Singh Sekhon and Amrendra Nayak have been selected to participate in the Indian Senior Men Basketball coaching camp for the FIBA Asia Cup 2021.The camp will be conducted by the Basketball Federation of India and it will be held at Sri Jayprakash Narayan National Youth Centre in Bengaluru from March 10 to 31. Sekhon is studying in GGDSD College, Sector 32, while Nayak is pursuing his studies from Gurukul Global School, Sector 13, IT Park, Mani Majra. They both have represented India at the international level in the past also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-cagers-selected-for-coaching-camp-223038
10-03-2021||---||Defending champions Hockey Haryana keen to retain trophy||Chandigarh, March 9Defending champions Hockey Haryana will be looking ahead to retain the title of the 11th Hockey India Sub-Junior Women National Championship 2021 starting from March 10 to 18 in Simdega district, Jharkhand, for the first time.Haryana had lifted the title in 2019 following a thrilling final against Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy. Hockey Jharkhand, which is in Pool B, and Hockey Odisha in Pool C are also expected to go far. Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy, meanwhile, will be looking to go one better than it did in 2019.Hockey Haryana, which is in Pool A along with Hockey Uttarakhand and Hockey Rajasthan, is upbeat about its chances of retaining the trophy.“We had a memorable outing last time (in 2019). The tournament was held in Haryana and the girls rose to the occasion to perform exceedingly well. So many players made a mark, including forward Deepika who currently plays for the Indian Junior Women’s Team. We are confident of putting up a good show once again. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, training was challenging but we have come well prepared, thanks to the support shown by Hockey Haryana and Hockey India,” said Kuldeep Siwach, coach, Hockey Haryana.Skipper Nidhi expressed excitement ahead of the tournament. “I am so glad to be back playing with my teammates after a long gap. The circumstances were challenging to train due to the Covid-19 restrictions. But in recent months, that has changed and we feel well prepared for the 11th Hockey India Sub-Junior Women National Championship - 2021. I am proud to be representing Haryana and we are confident of winning gold again,” said Nidhi.A total of 22 teams with over 400 players as well as coaching and support staff will be in Simdega for the prestigious tournament, which will be closely watched by Hockey India national selectors. After five days of pool matches, quarterfinals will be played on March 15. The semi-finals and the final will be held on March 17 and 18, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/defending-champions-hockey-haryana-keen-to-retain-trophy-223039
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Harjinder’s legacy set to lose link with city football academy||Former international footballer and Indian team skipper Harjinder Singh, head coach of the state-run Chandigarh Football Academy (CFA), is all set to lose link with the institution. He remained the part of the institution for around 22 years.The UT Administration has decided not to extend the annual contract of the 66-year-old veteran gaffer, who has the credit of producing over 60 international players, playing at different levels and for various professional clubs in the country.Besides having a decorated career, the living legend was the sole pillar of the CFA, who made this institution top talent hub of the country. Shockingly, the UT Administration retained the services of several other retired coaches, but decided to put an end on Harjinder’s contract.“It’s not easy to fill his shoes. A person of his stature is one of the most valuable assets of our country. We are trying to find a best possible way, but there are brink chances that his contract gets renewed. We have to abide by rules and regulations. However, we will make sure he receives a deserving farewell. We have to wait till March 31,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, UT Administration.The CFA was the brainchild of former Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator Lt Gen JFR Jacob, PVSM (retd). It was started on August 7, 2000. Since then, Harjinder was heading the academy. Players also got the opportunity to be coached by another former international star Tejinder Kumar, who later left the country following his family commitments, making Harjinder the longest serving coach in the history of the CFA.As the saying goes “life should move on”, Harjinder is also planning to open his own academy.“I cannot remain apart from football for long. Whatever and wherever I can teach, I will do it happily. I have nurtured this academy with own hands and I won’t mind coaching here for ‘free’. But respect is my utmost priority. Officially, I am yet to receive any information regarding my contract, but I was told that the Administration is not going to review it. If they approve, I will be happy to do this job,” said Harjinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harjinders-legacy-set-to-lose-link-with-city-football-academy-223040
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Snatching: Minor among 2 nailed||Body found on railway tracksMohali: An unidentified body was found lying on the Kharar-Chandigarh railway tracks near Saidpur village in the district on Tuesday morning. Railway police officials said the deceased appeared to be a middle-aged man and probably a migrant labourer. The body, which is beyond recognition, has been kept in the mortuary of the Kharar Civil Hospital for the next 72 hours. A few passers-by had spotted the body and informed the PCR wing, who intimated the Kharar railway police post. TNSNSS celebrates Women's DayChandigarh: National Service Scheme (NSS), in collaboration with the department of computer science and applications, celebrated Women's Day by organising an online event comprising a special talk on "Right of Women as per Criminal Laws and Labour Laws" by Advocate Palak Gupta. Dr Anuj Kumar, coordinator of the event, insisted that such activities were essential at the university level, to make the younger generation aware of their rights and safety. TNSWebinar on Union BudgetChandigarh: University Institute of Applied Management Sciences organised a webinar on "Union Budget 2021-22". Dr Nishi Sharma, Associate Professor, UIAMS, said the paperless Budget 2021-22 was very much crucial as this year, the Centre had a formidable task to achieve a fine balance between addressing economic meltdown and maintaining deficit. Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU, said the Budget emphasised strengthening not only manufacturing, financial, healthcare but also digitisation in India. TNSWomen's Day celebratedChandigarh: HLP Galleria's Queens Street organised "Business Queens Awards" to felicitate women entrepreneurs on Women's Day. The evening programme progressed under the esteemed presence of Guest of Honour Mugdha Godse, celebrity RJ Meenakshi, Ashika Jain, ADC of Mohali; and Harveen Sarao, SP, Punjab Police. "We are privileged to honor the women who have achieved a great name and success with their hard work and dedication," said Pardeep Bansal, Director, HLP Group. TNSPRCI AMEYAA Award for SaryuChandigarh: Saryu D Madra, placed as Consultant (IEC/Media) with ROTTO PGIMER, has been selected for PRCI AMEYAA Award 2021 by the Public Relations Council of India (PRCI). The award has been announced by the PRCI Governing Council for Women Achievers on the occasion of Women's Day. Saryu has been selected for the award for her contribution to the domains of public relations, communication as also to the PRCI & YCC movement. TNSHousing project launchedMohali: The third phase of Riverdale Aerovista project in Mohali situated next to G Block of Aerocity was launched recently. The project, which is part of the Riverdale group's Aerovista project in Mohali, has introduced both flats and villas in the 'Spanish Revival Architecture' style. Sanjeev Jindal, CEO of Riverdale Group, said: "We are committed to providing the best class in the residential sector around the tricity." The prices for units range from Rs40 lakh to Rs50 lakh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatching-minor-among-2-nailed-223042
10-03-2021||Panchkula||Former chairman of Haryana's Special Publicity Cell arrested in Panchkula||YouTube singer and former chairman of the special publicity cell of the Haryana Government has been arrested by a joint team of the Panchkula and Kaithal police from his house in Panchkula’s Sector 4 on Tuesday morning.On Tuesday, a magistrate's court in Kaithal remanded him in police custody until March 12, Kaithal City Station House Officer Shiv Kumar said. Police also added new charges against Mittal---hurting a public servant while he's doing his duty (section 332), causing grievous hurt to a public servant doing his duty (section 333), and assaulting a public servant on duty (section 353) of the Indian Penal Code. Kaithal SHO Shiv Kumar said police found the judge's beacon and they were trying to establish how many others were involved in the case.The case dates back to May 18, 2015, when Munish Mittal, a commission agent was murdered at the new grain market. Commission agents blocked the road in protest against the murder. Rocky Mittal blocked the way when a judge was travelling through Jind during the protest. It was alleged that Rocky had not only misbehaved with the judge but also assaulted him. Kaithal City police had registered a case against Rocky  and others.Rocky Mittal had opened a front against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The Haryana government later removed him from the chairman of the Special Publicity Cell. After being removed from the post, Rocky had not only questioned the functioning of the officers of the Chief Minister’s Office, but was also constantly attacking Khattar.Rocky, a self-acclaimed Narendra Modi bhakt came into limelight for his song series ‘Modi Amritwani’ on YouTube. He had gained popularity in the saffron party circles by singing paeans to Modi in the run-up to the 2014 Lok Sabha election, performing at his political rallies in Gujarat and some other places and distributing free CDs of his songs across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-chairman-of-haryanas-special-publicity-cell-arrested-in-panchkula-222799
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||ED searches Punjab MLA Sukhpal Khaira’s Chandigarh house, other premises||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided the premises of Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira and a few others on Tuesday in connection with a money-laundering case linked to narcotics trafficking and the creation of an alleged fake passport, officials said.The team arrived from Delhi.ED sleuths also carried out searches at his Sector 5 residence in Chandigarh, and nine places in Punjab and two in Delhi—including the house of his son-in-law, Inderveer Singh Johal.The agency alleged that Khaira (56), the MLA from Bholath in Kapurthala district, is an “associate” of the drugs racket convicts and fake passport racketeers.Wearing a T-shirt and track pants, Khaira came out of his residence for a few seconds and told the reporters that he had “not done anything wrong”, adding that the ED sleuths arrived at his house around 7:30 am.The case pertains to the probe in the 2015 Fazilka (Punjab) drugs-smuggling case, in which 1,800 grams of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards were seized from a gang of international drug smugglers by security agencies.The central agency recently filed a PMLA case in connection with the case, which was first lodged by the Punjab Police.“The drugs were smuggled through the India-Pakistan border and one of the kingpins of the syndicate is in the UK.“Sukhpal Singh Khaira was actively aiding and supporting the gang of international smugglers and enjoying the proceeds of crime,” the ED has alleged.Some of the convicts in the Fazilka drugs case, currently lodged in jail, were also searched and questioned, the agency said.They were identified as Gurdev Singh, Manjit Singh, Harbans Singh and Subhash Chander, all residents of Fazilka district.Three people allegedly involved in the fake passport racket—Harminder Kaur (Jalandhar resident), Rajwinder Kaur (Kapurthala) and Bikker Singh (Kapurthala)—were also searched.“Incriminating documents and digital devices have been seized,” an ED officer said.Also read: Support in Punjab Assembly for Sukhpal Khaira; MLAs call for resolution against EDKhaira had floated a political party in 2019, Punjab Ekta Party. The new outfit had also established its units abroad.Besides, Khaira has been vociferously taking up the issue of the suspicious death of farmer Navreet Singh, who died on January 26 during the farmers' protest. — With Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ed-searches-punjab-mla-sukhpal-khairas-chandigarh-house-other-premises-222766
