11-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||‘Lost my bua, family in Chandigarh…’: Rubina Dilaik breaks silence on ignoring paparazzi, being called arrogant||Earlier this week, a video of Bigg Boss 14 winner Rubina Dilaik apparently mistreating the paparazzi at the Mumbai airport had gone viral.In the video, Rubina remained tight-lipped as the reported questioned her, “Ma’am, naaraaz ho kya (are you upset with us)?”Rubina ended up receiving severe backlash for the same.But now, in conversation with Andy Kumar, Rubina has addressed her behaviour. She revealed that right before the video was shot, she came to know her aunt passed away.In a video from the interaction, shared on Twitter by a fan, Rubina said, “As now everyone knows that I am shooting in Chandigarh, I have my extended family in Chandigarh—my father’s brother and sister live there. While I was inside the house, I lost my bua (paternal aunt) to a heart attack in January, which my family did not let me know.”Why rubina didn't stop in airport1:07:26 pic.twitter.com/AAGOAlaMGf  She added that even after the show, her family hid the news from her, as her grandmother did not want her to be ‘flooded with sorrow’.Rubina said that her family was ‘torn apart’ as her Bigg Boss 14 win was a joyous occasion but they were also reeling from a loss.“Exactly when I told my parents that I am going on a shooting schedule to Chandigarh that is when they broke this news to me. My extended family wasn’t communicating on a regular basis like they normally communicate. I thought it may be because I am busy, they are not calling frequently, but my grandmother had instructed everyone,” she said.A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  On the work front, Rubina is collaborating with her husband, Abhinav Shukla, for Neha Kakkar’s new music video ‘Marjaneya’. “Super excited to announce our #first feat. @ashukla09 in @nehakakkar ‘s #marjaneya,” she wrote in an Instagram post, sharing their first look from the song.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lost-my-bua-family-in-chandigarh%E2%80%A6-rubina-dilaik-breaks-silence-on-ignoring-paparazzi-being-called-arrogant-223735
11-03-2021||Gurugram||Chandigarh’s Saaniya Sharma leads||Saaniya Sharma carded five birdies against three bogeys for the day’s best card of a 2-under 70 on the first day of the fifth leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour here today.Saaniya’s best finish this season has been T-12 but in the first round here today, she shot her best round of the year. It gave her a one-shot lead over the trio of experienced Tvesa Malik and the Bakshi sisters, Hitaashee and Jahanvi.Saaniya, a qualified referee and a coach, has been playing patchy golf this season and was happy to get a card under par. “I have worked hard last few weeks, so it is good to see the scores coming in,” she said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-saaniya-sharma-leads-223626
11-03-2021||---||531 eligible citizens vaccinated in Panchkula||Panchkula, March 10As many as 531 senior citizens and those aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities were administered the Covid vaccine at 10 vaccination centres against a target of 700, registering a coverage rate of 75.86 per cent.Besides, 98 heathcare workers and 353 frontline workers also got the jabbed.The vaccine drive was held at the Civil Hospital (two sites), the ITBP, Bhanu, the MLA Hostel, Dhawan Hospital, Radha Devi Hospital, Paras Hospital, Ojas Hospital, EMM ENN Hospital and the Panchkula Welfare Trust.Over 9,000 eligible citizens have been vaccinated in the district so far. The ‘achievement rate’ stands at 76.29 per cent.1,101 senior citizens take shot in MohaliMohali: As many as 1,101 persons above 60 years of age were given the first shot of the Covid vaccine in the district on Wednesday. Besides, 152 persons with comorbidities were jabbed. The first shot was also administered to 152 healthcare workers while 89 got their second shot of the vaccine. In the frontline workers category, 281 were given the first shot and 150 the second. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/531-eligible-citizens-vaccinated-in-panchkula-223468
11-03-2021||Sandeep Rana---||Coming up, first community centre-cum-sports complex in Sector 16||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 10 The city will have its first community centre-cum-sports complex with a swimming pool in Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma’s ward in Sector 16. No other community centre has a swimming pool. It will also have a table tennis and badminton hall and provision for lawn tennis. Besides, there will be rooms that will serve the purpose of an MC guest house. The centre will have several state-of-the-art facilities. “The existing building will be dismantled and a new one will be built. We have approved the project and will incorporate whatever facilities are feasible,” the Mayor told Chandigarh Tribune. This centre, known as Rose Club, was used only by government officers for retirement or other functions. The MC said since it was located in a residential area, people objected to holding of outdoor public functions. Thus, it was not open for booking. However, a number of requests had been received from the Residents Welfare Association to open it for the general public. The building was renovated in 2010, but due to inadequate space, big functions were not possible, causing a loss of revenue to the civic body. “Once the new facility is ready, we will open it for the public as there will be a soundproof hall for holding functions,” said the Mayor. MC to open banquet hall The MC will open its first banquet hall at its existing public health store in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. The matter will be raised with the Department of Urban Planning for earmarking land for the purpose. Besides, the community centres at Sector 29 and Thakur Dwara in Mani Majra will be reconstructed. A community centre will be constructed in Sector 24 and additions and alterations will be carried out at the Sector 22 centre. All these agenda items were approved by the MC House on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coming-up-first-community-centre-cum-sports-complex-in-sector-16-223469
11-03-2021||---||To check Covid surge, Chandigarh Administration caps gatherings||Chandigarh, March 10The UT Administration has brought back some restrictions on the number of guests at functions in order to contain the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases.Also readThe Administration has decided to impose restrictions on the number of people earlier allowed to gather at social, cultural, religious and family functions. Now, the maximum number for indoor gatherings will be 100 or 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue, whichever is lower. As regards outdoor gatherings, the number has been kept at 200, the same as being followed by the Punjab Government.During a meeting to review the sudden spurt in the Covid-19 cases, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed concern over the rising number of corona cases and said Covid appropriate behaviour should be strictly followed. He directed the Deputy Commissioner and police officials to intensify checking and fine people violating the Covid guidelines.The Administrator directed that proper facilities should be provided at the vaccination centres so that senior citizens coming for the jab did not have to wait for a long time. He said they should not be asked to stand in queues; rather some arrangements for sitting in the hall and rest after the vaccination should be made.Badnore directed that a special drive should be conducted by the police to ensure that social distancing was properly maintained at dining places inside restaurants and inside shops in various markets and all such crowded areas, including Sukhna Lake.The Administrator directed that special arrangements should be made to screen and test residents of various welfare homes. He said there should be increase in testing and contact tracing all over the city.Sector 48 hospital to reopenThe UT Administrator has directed that the Sector 48 hospital should be reopened to accommodate the increasing number of corona cases. He said Covid care centres earlier opened at Dhanwantry Hospital in Sector 46 and Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22 should be kept in readiness.2,867 inoculated against Covid in ChandigarhChandigarh: As many as 2,867 persons were inoculated in the city on Wednesday. Among them, 1,725 were senior citizens while 205 were in the age group of 45-59 with underlying diseases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-check-covid-surge-chandigarh-administration-caps-gatherings-223470
11-03-2021||---||Testing to begin in Chandigarh schools||Chandigarh, March 10As cases of Covid-19 continue to rise in Chandigarh, the UT Health Department has decided to conduct testing in city schools from this week.UT Adviser Manoj Parida confirmed that the testing facility would soon be provided in the city schools wherein students and teachers would be encouraged to get themselves voluntarily tested for the virus.The Health Department, in consultation with the Education Department, will make a plan to send mobile testing teams to schools.The move is in line with Punjab where Covid samples of teachers and students are being collected. In various districts of Punjab, the schools are being shut as the samples of students and teachers have tested positive.The UT Administrator has directed that special arrangements should be made to screen and test residents of students’ hostels.Primary schools shut till situation improvesIt has also been decided by the UT Administration to keep primary schools closed until the situation of coronavirus infection improves. The UT Administrator has directed the school authorities to talk to the parents, so that their children take proper precautions against Covid, both inside and outside the school.Offline exams for Classes IX, XIMeanwhile, the UT Education Department has decided to go ahead with the offline exams for Classes IX and XI despite concerns raised by parents amid a spurt in cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/testing-to-begin-in-chandigarh-schools-223471
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Muktsar woman held for theft at house in Chandigarh||A 22-year-old woman, who was hired as a caretaker, has been arrested for committing a theft at a house in Sector 8.Jewellery worth around Rs 30 lakh and Rs 6 lakh in cash have been recovered from the suspect, identified as Amandeep Kaur, a native of Muktsar.The complainant, 68-year-old Parminder Kaur, had reported to the police that the suspect was hired as a caretaker in October. However, she left the job in February this year. The police said on March 5, the complainant checked the briefcase and found around Rs13 lakh and jewellery missing.The police were informed about the theft following which a case was registered at the Sector 3 police station.During a probe, the suspect was arrested in the case and stolen items were recovered from her. She was produced in a court, which sent her to six-day police remand.The police said remaining cash and jewellery items were yet to be recovered from the suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/muktsar-woman-held-for-theft-at-house-in-chandigarh-223472
11-03-2021||---||Zirakpur: Encroachments on VIP Road spell chaos||Zirakpur, March 10Several encroachments on VIP Road and nearby market areas leave road users and visitors an inconvenienced lot. It gives a chaotic look to the place, besides causing traffic and parking woes for residents.While the roadside is occupied by several hand carts and food vans, the parking area is mushrooming with makeshift eateries with colourful canopies. Confectionary shops and restaurant owners paying hefty rent complain that their customers are lured away by the street vendors, who deliver food to the cars parked on roadsides.‘’It leads to a traffic jam on the narrow road, making it difficult for residents to reach home. It also becomes the cause of drunken brawl and road rage incidents, said KS Bhatnagar, a resident of Savitri Greens.On October 10 last year, a 35-year-old Himachal Pradesh native was shot dead on VIP Road in a road rage incident over overtaking.The Municipal Council and police officials said the enforcement wing of the civic body kept a check on encroachments regularly, but they were short-staffed to handle the large and ever-growing commercial establishments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-encroachments-on-vip-road-spell-chaos-223474
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||87 more infected, one death in Chandigarh||55 fresh cases in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported 55 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall Covid tally to 11,155. With no new fatality due to the virus, the Covid toll remained 149. As many as 10,696 patients have recovered from the disease so far. At present, there are 310 active cases in the district. The recovery rate of Panchkula stands at 95.88 per cent. TNS149 test +ve, active cases past 1K in MohaliMohali: The district on Wednesday recorded one more death due to Covid-19 while 149 more persons have been found positive for the virus. As many as 60 patients have been cured of the diseases in the past 24 hours. The district tally stands at 21,188 with 19,784 recoveries. There are 1,012 active cases. With one fresh fatality, the toll reached 392 on Wednesday. Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “A house in Phase X where five family members were found positive on Wednesday has been declared a micro-containment zone. Testing has begun in the Phase 3B1 government school where eight teachers were found infected. No student has been reported positive for the virus so far.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/87-more-infected-one-death-in-chandigarh-223475
11-03-2021||Vijay C Roy---||170 firms have shut shop in 11 months||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 10 Around 170 companies based out of Chandigarh have been deregistered in the past 11 months of the current fiscal, as per the latest data provided by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. While some have been delisted for not filing annual returns and balance sheets, others wound up operations voluntarily as these either incurred huge losses or were unable to commence operations within the stipulated time amid the pandemic. Overall, in Chandigarh and Punjab, the names of 504 companies were removed from the data of the Registrar of Companies during April 2020 to February 2021. From Chandigarh only, a majority of the companies delisted were from the services sector, which includes hospitality, tour and travels, immigration, security services and BPO, followed by manufacturing. As on January 31, 2021, there are around 7,472 active companies in Chandigarh. The Companies Act provides for deletion of names of firms from the Registrar of Companies if these do not commence operations within a year of incorporation, or those which have not filed their annual return or balance sheet for two consecutive years. “Many companies, whose names were struck off, were defunct. These had not filed their annual return or balance sheet for two consecutive years or commenced their operations within a year of incorporation amid the pandemic,” said a senior official in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. “It is believed that those who do not file balance sheets for two years or more are, normally, shell companies created to evade taxes and dupe gullible clients. Also, there were instances where promoters voluntarily approached the Registrar of Companies to strike off their company name as they have shut operations,” the official added. In the wake of the pandemic, the Centre had imposed a nationwide lockdown in March last  year. Many states had imposed restrictions, affecting businesses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/170-firms-have-shut-shop-in-11-months-223477
11-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Vaccine optimism, social gatherings behind spike in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 10The active cases in the city rose five-folds from 133 on February 16 to 816 now, in a span of just 22 days, depicting an upward trend Covid incidence.The UT authorities and experts have attributed the sudden spurt in cases to vaccine optimism and people attending social events and gathering without following the Covid-19 protocol.Election activities in nearby areas was also one of the causes of the infection spread in Chandigarh, said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.“Municipal elections in Mohali contributed to the increase in the positivity rate of the district. The rise in cases in Punjab has affected us as many people from the state travel to Chandigarh. The positivity rate of the UT, at one point of time, was only 2 per cent. Last week, our positivity rate rose to 4.6 per cent,” said Parida.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said people were not following Covid-19 appropriate norms, which was leading to the fast spread of the virus. “There are hardly any people spotted wearing masks in our surroundings. The complacency of people is one of the major reasons for the virus spread,” he said.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of Department of Community Medicine and Public Health, PGI, said, “When the cases declined, lots of restrictions were lifted due to which there was a change in the behaviour of the general public. We will have to reinforce protocols and make people aware of the virus spread. We will have to again start contact tracing and quarantine people again to arrest the spread.”“The optimism of people towards the vaccine and a belief that Covid-19 will be wiped out has also resulted in complacency. It will take time for people to get the vaccine, which is why they need to follow the norms. It is a two-dose schedule and proper immunity will develop after two months. They should not abandon mask and observe social distancing,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-optimism-social-gatherings-behind-spike-in-chandigarh-223478
11-03-2021||---||Covid report must for visiting Una||Mohali, March 10The Una district administration has stated that pilgrims visiting Amb subdivision during the Holi fair from March 21 to 31 at Madi and Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib should get themselves tested for Covid before undertaking the journey.It is imperative that those arriving in Una from Punjab should carry the corona-negative report at the most 72 hours (3 days) in advance, stated the communication of the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-report-must-for-visiting-una-223479
11-03-2021||---||RLA reschedules appointments booked for today||Chandigarh, March 10The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has rescheduled the appointments booked for March 11.The official spokesperson said the UT Administration had declared Thursday a public holiday on account of Mahashivratri, adding that owing to a technical error, a few appointments for services related to driving license and registration certificates had been booked for Thursday.Accordingly, it had been decided that the applicants, who had booked online appointments for the day, will be entertained from March 12 to 19, the spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-reschedules-appointments-booked-for-today-223480
11-03-2021||---||PU holds high-level panel meet online||Chandigarh, March 10The first meeting of a high-level committee of experts headed by Prof RP Tiwari, Vice Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, to examine various facets of the existing governance structure of Panjab University was held on Wednesday.The committee held a pre-dominant opinion to go for governance reforms by having a lean and efficient governance structure based on the best governance practices within the state and outside it. The committee also decided to seek inputs from all stakeholders of PU, for which a designated portal will be made functional for a period of seven days.The members discussed the way forward and meet mandate of the committee within the stipulated time-frame of two months.Other issues, including existing governance structure of PU, re-initiation of governance reforms in the university, mandate of the 11-member committee as abstracted from the backdrop note appended by PU Chancellor, mode of appointment of deans of faculties in other universities/institutes in India (with reference to NAAC report of on quality enhancement of the PU), were also discussed.Vice-Chancellor honouredProf Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of Panjab University, was honoured with the “Management Guru” title by International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) for his contribution to imparting Vedic knowledge to students. By Professor Kumar’s efforts, a one-year certificate course on “Upanishad & Gita” was started on November 21 at the Department of Sanskrit. The VC stressed that the Bhagavad Gita was not only a religious book but also a way of living.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-holds-high-level-panel-meet-online-223481
11-03-2021||---||PGI launches website for kidney patients, donors||Chandigarh, March 10 To mark World Kidney Day, the department of nephrology, PGI, today launched a website where kidney recipient/donor pairs can register and find a perfect match.  Dr Raja Ram Chandran detailed about the website for kidney paired donation (KPD) as he shared: “In renal transplant, we intend to have a paramount addition to addressing deficiency of patients with kidney disease finding compatible living donors. On this front, the department of nephrology envisages launching the kidney paired donation programme. Paired kidney donation is a process of exchange of recipient/donor pairs who are related but incompatible (blood group being different or HLA incompatible because of antibodies), but the recipient of one pair is compatible with the donor of the other pair. The KPD is a distinctive way that transplant centres can support such pairs and increase the donor pool. The department starts this endeavour by creating a website — www.indiakpd.org — where such recipient/donor pairs can register. Nearer centres outside Chandigarh can register too, and contribute as well as benefit from the increasing pool of donors. The best part of the website is both patients and nephrologist/ transplant surgeons can register. Reiterating the theme of the year, “Living well with Kidney Disease”, Prof Manish Rathi said: “Despite this dismal picture, patients with kidney failure can live pretty well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-launches-website-for-kidney-patients-donors-223482
11-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay ---||Ex-medical officer guilty in graft case||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 10  Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge of CBI Court, has held Dr Rajiv Jassi, former medical officer of the District Jail, Ropar, guilty in a six-year-old bribery case.  The court will pronounce the quantum of sentence on March 15. The court has acquitted accused Satnam Singh.  Dr Jassi was arrested for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 4,000 from a woman. The case was registered in July 2014. The CBI Court framed charges of corruption against the medical officer in 2015. The investigating agency registered the case on a complaint of the mother of a prisoner lodged in the jail.  Sandeep was lodged in the Ropar jail in 2014 in a criminal case. When Sandeep’s mother, Dolly Rani, came to meet her son at Mohali Court during case hearing, Sandeep told her to request Dr Jassi to refer him to the PGI for treatment. However, as per allegations, when Dolly Rani contacted Dr Jassi, he demanded a bribe of Rs5,000 in lieu of referring her son to the PGI. The deal was finalised at Rs 4,000.  Dolly approached the CBI. A team laid a trap in Sector 40, Chandigarh, and arrested the accused. He was in a cab with driver Satnam Singh when both were caught by the CBI for accepting a bribe of Rs4,000 from Dolly Rani.  Dolly Rani was declared a proclaimed offender when she stopped attending hearings. The CBI arrested her and produced before the court to complete arguments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-medical-officer-guilty-in-graft-case-223484
11-03-2021||---||Accused claims innocence in Sector 37 property grab case||Chandigarh, March 10Manish Gupta, one of the accused arrested in an alleged property grab case, has claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case by the police. In his application for bail filed before a local court, Gupta claims that he had no role in the entire case.Gupta was arrested along with journalist Sanjeev Mahajan in the case on March 2 by the Chandigarh police.In the bail application, filed through counsel Rakesh Chopra, Gupta claims he was arrested only because he is the elder brother of Saurabh Gupta who bought the property.Manish, along with Mahajan, was sent to judicial custody yesterday by the court after completion of their seven-day police remand.The police opposed the bail citing serious charges against Manish.Manish’s counsel claimed before the court that his client was neither the seller nor the purchaser of the property.The court adjourned hearing in the case for March 12.The police have booked nine persons in the case. The FIR alleges that accused Surjit, Mahajan and others entered a two-storey house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 and took possession of the first floor in March 2017. It is alleged in the FIR that the accused had confined Mehta to a room for a few days and took his signatures on papers after torturing him. Rahul Mehta was later abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat from where he was shifted from one place to another.The police said that an imposter was produced before the office of sub-registrar at the time of execution of the sale deed of the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-claims-innocence-in-sector-37-property-grab-case-223485
11-03-2021||---||2 of Bishnoi gang land in police net||Mohali, March 10The police have arrested two members of Lawrence Bishnoi-Raju Basodia group and recovered .32-calibre pistol along with ammunition. The suspects have been identified as Vijay Kumar of Dera Bassi and Manpreet Singh of Dhaipi. They face ten criminal cases registered against them in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The duo was arrested on March 10 and booked under the 25 Arms Act at the Sadar Kurali police station.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said Manpreet was an old associate of Lawrence Bishnoi. In December last year, an attempt-to-murder case was registered at Faridkot. The assailants in the case were provided shelter by Manpreet on the directions of Bishnoi.Cops said Vijay was lodged in jail in 2015 where he came in contact with Bishnoi. He was released from jail in 2016 and fled to Bangalore.In 2017, gangsters Deepak Tinu and Sampat Nehra visited him and he provided them hideout. Vijay also planned dacoities and robberies in Ambala and Chandigarh in 2018 and 2019, respectively. In one of the dacoities, the owner of a jewellery shop was murdered at Sarafa Bazaar, Ambala. In these crimes, gangster Ankit Bhadu was also involved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-of-bishnoi-gang-land-in-police-net-223486
11-03-2021||Ambala||Five booked on charge of murder||The police have booked five persons in connection with the murder of Ranbir who was allegedly poisoned yesterday. He died at the GMCH-32 in Chandigarh.  The suspects have been identified as Jagbir, his wife, son, Harpal and Shishpal.  Ranbir was in the Police Department and three of the suspects (Jagbir, Harpal and Shishpal) also worked there.  In his complaint to the police, Shivraj, a resident of Sonepat, stated that his father, Ranbir, worked as water carrier in the office of DSP (CID) in Ambala City. On Tuesday, he was on duty. Around 10 am, Shivraj’s cousin Ajit informed him that Ranbir had been given poison by three-four persons. Jagbir and the other suspects had a dispute with Ranbir earlier. A suicide note was also recovered from Ranbir’s pants in which he had mentioned the suspects gave him poison forcefully.  TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-booked-on-charge-of-murder-223487
11-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda---||Sports Department mulls reopening sports academies||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 10 After a year of the COVID-19 pandemic halt, the UT Sports Department is planning to reopen state-run academies of football, hockey and cricket from the upcoming session after consulting the UT Education Department. Expanding their functioning, the Sports Department is also planning to start organising various tournaments from the upcoming session. While the proposal to reopen the academies has been sent to the higher authorities, the approval to conduct championships will be taken up once the Sports Department readies its tournament calendar. “The academies are likely to open from the next session. We are also waiting to discuss the matter with the UT Education Department as our trainees study in government schools. Once they (trainees) reach Chandigarh, we cannot confine them to just coaching,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director (Sports), UT Administration. On conducting trials for selecting the new batch, Saini said: “The players selected in the last session will be retained and those passing out, will be given an NOC. If required, trials can be conducted but everything depends on opening up of the academies.” Under these academies, trainees in the age group of 10-11 years were inducted in July 2007 in place of the senior football trainees on the completion of their seven-year tenure in the academy. The tenure of the junior string has been fixed as seven years as per the agreement signed with the parents of the trainees. “It has now been nearly a year that our academies have been closed. If conditions normalise, we can start the new session from April onwards,” added Saini. On conducting tournaments, Saini added: “We had not prepared the last session’s calendar speculating the high number of Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory. However, we have now decided to make our calendar and send it to the higher authorities for the final approval. Our aim is to start the championships soon. However, the factor of an increase in the number of coronavirus cases will be taken into account before finalising anything. Currently, all our training centres are functioning and local associations are even conducting championships.” Besides conducting annual championships of all disciplines in all age groups, the UT Sports Department recently came up with cash-prize championships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-department-mulls-reopening-sports-academies-223488
11-03-2021||---||Bhankharpur residents stage protest||Dera Bassi, March 10 Residents of Bhankharpur today protested overloaded tippers plying in the nearby villages, blaming them for damaging roads besides other problems. Villagers gheraoed the overloaded tippers and raised slogans against the police and administrative officials.  The Mubarikpur police rushed to the spot, seized the overloaded tippers and tried to calm down the protesters. The Mubarikpur police station in-charge, AI Arshdeep Sharma, action would be taken against the drivers. The residents said a large number of overloaded tippers ply on the Bhankharpur-Mubarikpur link road daily. The uncovered tippers leave dirt, sand and stones on the roads, causing inconvenience to pedestrians and two-wheeler riders, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhankharpur-residents-stage-protest-223489
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Expect light rain tomorrow||2 women held for stealing 11 gold nose pinsChandigarh: Two women have been arrested by the local police for allegedly stealing 11 gold nose pins from a jewellery shop in Mani Majra. Complainant Parmod Kumar reported that two women visited his shop on March 9. A man accompanying them stood outside the shop. He said the suspects asked him to show nose pins and after some time, they said they didn’t like any nose pin and left the shop. While the complainant was counting the nose pins, he found 11 were artificial and the original ones had been taken away by the women. He raised the alarm after which the women, Varsha and Prem, were caught near the spot. Varsha’s husband Vinod Kumar managed to escape from the spot. The police have registered a case. TNSArmy engineer found guiltyPanchkula: The special CBI court in Panchkula on Wednesday convicted an Assistant Garrison Engineer of Military Engineering Service, RS Verma, in a 2016 graft case. Special CBI Judge Jagdeep Singh held him guilty under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Verma had sought Rs 25,000 from Surender Sharma, partner at AR Construction Company, for issuing the completion certificate and ensuring hassle-free final pending payment in the three civic contract works undertaken by his firm. Verma has been sent to a prison in Ambala. TNSSBI Ladies Club donates Rs1 LakhChandigarh: The SBI Ladies Club donated ration, school bags and bed sheets to Jyoti Sarup Kanya Asra Trust, Kharar. The trust provides help to unprivileged and neglected girls by providing them education, residential and medical help. The club also gave a cheque for Rs1 lakh to Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre, Mohali, which provides aftercare and rehabilitate paraplegic, quadriplegic and disabled soldiers to make them self-reliant by providing vocational training as per their medical fitness. Anita Khara, president of the club, appreciated the efforts being made by both organisations. TNS105 specially abled get aidsDappar: As many as 105 persons with disability were provided aids and appliances by GMR Varluxmi Foundation and National Institute of Locomotor Disability, Kolkata, at Dappar toll plaza here on Wednesday. A total of 28 wheelchairs, 25 tricycles, 24 hearing aids, 23 artificial limbs and five CP kits were distributed to the needy children during the distribution camp. TNSFive booked for assaultMohali: The Phase 8 police on Wednesday booked five persons involved in an assault on Mataur resident Sukhjinder Singh. The complainant stated that on March 7, he was attacked inside his office, and the suspects snatched his gold chain and looted Rs46,000. Singh said the suspects attacked him after he objected to a boy and girl standing outside his PG accommodation. TNSLPG cylinder catches fireMohali: A Sector 69 resident had a narrow escape after the LPG cylinder in his kitchen caught fire on Wednesday morning. Brij Mohan Sharma sustained burn injuries on his right hand while trying to take the cylinder out from his house. Fire officials said the cause of fire was the installation of a high-capacity regulator instead of a domestic one. TNSRestaurant serves hookah, sealedChandigarh: The UT authorities on Wednesday sealed a restaurant in Sector 7 for serving hookah to customers. During an inspection carried out late at night in the area, Ruchi Singh Bedi, SDM (East), ordered the three-day sealing of Terminal-7 after finding hookahs being served on the premises. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-light-rain-tomorrow-223503
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||To check rise in COVID-19 cases, Chandigarh puts cap on numbers of guests in gatherings||The UT Administration has brought back some restrictions on the number of guests in a function in order to contain a rise in COVID-19 cases.The Administration has decided to impose restrictions on the number of people, which were earlier allowed to gather in social, cultural, religious and family functions.Now, the maximum numbers for indoor gathering will be 100 or 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue, whichever is lower. As regards the outdoor gathering, the number was kept to 200, which is the same as the restrictions imposed by the Punjab Government.During a meeting to review a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed deep concern about the rising number of corona cases and directed strict implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour.He directed the Deputy Commissioner and police officials to intensify checking and impose fine on people, violating the Covid guidelines.The administrator directed that proper facilities should be provided in the vaccination centres, so that the senior citizens coming for vaccination do not have to wait for a long time.They should not be asked to stand in queues; rather some arrangements for sitting in the hall and rest after the vaccination should be provided.Badnore directed that a special drive should be conducted by the police to ensure that the social distancing is properly maintained in dining places inside restaurants and also inside shops in various markets and all such crowded areas including Sukhna Lake.The administrator also directed that special arrangements should be made to screen and test the residents of various welfare homes; such as old age homes, homes for the physically challenged, students’ hostels and also facilitate vaccination for the senior citizens and the immunocompromised.The administrator directed that there should be increase in testing and contact tracing all over the city.  He desired that the crowded places like bus stand, railway station, apni mandis, Sukhna Lake and market places should be focused.Sector 48 hospital to be re-openedIn view of rising Covid cases, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the authorities that Sector 48 hospital should be re-opened to accommodate the increasing number of corona cases. He also desired that Covid Care Centres earlier opened in Dhanwantry Hospital and Sood Dharamshala should be kept in readiness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-check-rise-in-covid-19-cases-chandigarh-puts-cap-on-numbers-of-guests-in-gatherings-223309
