12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 135 COVID-19 cases; UT's total 22,832||Chandigarh on Friday reported 135 positive coronavirus cases, taking the UT's total to 22,832. The highest single-day spike—after a gap of four months—was last seen on March 6 with 122 cases.Over 1,500 people have been tested for the disease since Thursday.  The city reports 936 active cases.In the last 24 hours, 58 patients recovered from the deadly disease.  So far, 21,539 have been cured in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-135-covid-19-cases-uts-total-22-832-224211
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh NCC cadets spruce up cenotaphs of martyrs in college campus||As a run-up to the celebrations of 75 years of Independence, Air Wing NCC cadets of DAV College Chandigarh spruced up the cenotaphs of martyrs from the institute which have been installed in the college campus, and also beautified the surrounding area.These cenotaphs have been dedicated to Param Vir Chakra recipient, Capt Vikaram Batra, Maha Vir Chakra recipient Lt Rajeev Sandhu, Vir Chakra recipient Capt Vijayant Thapar and Maj. Sandeep Sagar.The college principal, Dr Pawan Sharma, Commanding Officer of No.1 Chandigarh NCC Air Squadron, Gp Capt MR Pandeya and Dr Shilpi Ajuja, caretaker NCC officer, along with other staff members and students paid floral tributes to the martyrs.Posters were made by cadets in the memory of martyrs.The cadets also recited poems on patriotic themes and expressed their opinions in the form of a speech, highlighting the heroic deeds of the brave hearts of the country.Interacting with the cadets, Dr Sharma felicitated them for this initiative and said that by virtue of their involvement in social activities, the youth will become more responsible and better citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ncc-cadets-spruce-up-cenotaphs-of-martyrs-in-college-campus-224186
12-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||In pictures: Chandigarh witnesses cloudy skies, light rain||After record-breaking heat in February, Chandigarh residents breathed a sigh of relief as the city witnessed cloudy skies, light rain and a dip in temperatures on Friday. The Chandigarh Meteorological Department had predicted light rain in the Tricity on Friday.The city witnessed the maximum temperature of 32.1°C, five degrees above normal, on Wednesday while the minimum temperature was 19.2°C, seven degrees above normal.The minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to come down a bit in the next two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-pictures-chandigarh-witnesses-cloudy-skies-light-rain-224168
12-03-2021||---||Night curfew in Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib districts from tonight||Chandigarh, March 12In view of the increasing Covid cases, the Punjab government has decided to impose night curfew in Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib from March 12.Also read: 18 more die in Punjab as nation witnesses 23,285 fresh Covid infectionsThe curfew will be effective from the night of March 12 from 11 pm to 5 am till further orders.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases for nearly four weeks.The govt has also imposed night curfew in districts, including Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, Ludhiana and Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-curfew-in-mohali-and-fatehgarh-sahib-districts-from-tonight-224167
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Technical snag hits Chandigarh Transport Undertaking bus service||SBI donates van to PGIMERChandigarh: As part of CSR initiatives, Dinesh Kumar Khara, chairman, State Bank of India, presented a vehicle to the PGI, Chandigarh, to be used for publicity of eye donation awareness among the public through camps. “The bank is committed to the well-being of society in every possible way. I think PGIMER deserves a special mention for providing advanced and best medical practices to its patients coming from various parts of the country,”said Khara.TNSCricket trials on March 13Mohali: The Mohali District Cricket Association will organise trials to select an U-16 team on March 13 (3pm) at the C Ground of the PCA Cricket Association. Players born, studying or living in Mohali and less than 16 years (as on September 1, 2021) will be eligible to participate in the trials. The players must bring original birth certificate confirming the date of birth and documents confirming their eligibility from the Mohali district. TNSWorld Kidney Day observedMohali: An interactive session was organised for dialysis patients and their families under the aegis of ‘Sahaayak’, a support group for such patients, at Fortis Hospital here to mark World Kidney Day. The day was made special as patients presented mementoes to doctors, thanking them for their care and support. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/technical-snag-hits-chandigarh-transport-undertaking-bus-service-224070
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||‘Beti bachao, beti padhao’ week||PRCI Ameyaa Award 2021 for DPRChandigarh: Renuka B Salwan, director, public relations, (DPR) Panjab University, has been selected for the PRCI Ameyaa Award 2021 in recognition of the support and contribution for the growth of the Public Relation Council of India (PRCI) and Young Communicators Club (YCC). TNSExpert talk on substance useChandigarh: The MHRD Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC) and the placement cell of the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), Panjab University, organised a webinar on “Molecules to therapeutic discoveries – Treatment for chronic and neuropathic pain, substance use disorders”. Dr Ganesh A Thakur, Associate Professor and Chair, Department Of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Northeastern University, Boston, USA, was the keynote speaker on the occasion. The webinar was organised under the aegis of the UIPS expert talk series. TNS28,800 students appear for examChandigarh: Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, said around 28,800 students of undergraduate/postgraduate/ other professional courses, including USOL/ private, appeared on Thursday for the online examination being conducted by Panjab University. As many as 72 examinations were conducted by the university, he added. TNSStitching workshop for womenChandigarh: In continuation with the women’s week celebrations, an advanced stitching workshop was organised for underprivileged women of Janta Colony under project Uday of Enactus, Panjab University. Project Uday aims to minimise the use of plastic while promoting cloth as a viable alternative. TNSWebinar dwells on Union BudgetChandigarh: University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS) organised a webinar on, “Union Budget-2021-22”, for students of BCom (LLB) here on Thursday. Dr Meenu Saihjpal, coordinator of the webinar, introduced the speaker, Prof Lakhwinder Singh, former Professor and Head, Department of Economics, and coordinator of Centre for Development Economics and Innovation Studies of Punjabi University, Patiala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beti-bachao-beti-padhao-week-224069
12-03-2021||Panchkula||39 fresh cases in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/39-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-224068
12-03-2021||Mohali||Two more succumb to virus in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-succumb-to-virus-in-mohali-224067
12-03-2021||---||Night curfew back in Patiala district||Patiala, March 11In view of the increasing Covid cases, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Kumar Amit has imposed a night curfew in Patiala district from tomorrow. The curfew will be effective from the night of March 12 from 11 pm to 5 am till further orders. However, the police and Army personnel on duty, government officials/employees, essential services, medical or any other emergency related to the safety of the public/property, will be exempted from the purview of these orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-curfew-back-in-patiala-district-223828
12-03-2021||---||Waste dumped in Sector 19-C park raises stench, irks residents||Chandigarh, March 11 A Sector 19-C green belt behind Palika Bazaar is turning into a sort of mini waste dumping site. The garbage is being thrown at the Sehaj Safai Kendra (SSK), which has common boundary wall with the park. But, due to huge quantity of garbage thrown here and not lifted, the boundary wall of the park has collapsed. This has led to spilling of waste inside park.   Now, more garbage is being thrown by workers here. It has made lives of morning and evening walkers’ hell. Residents have to bear stench emanating from the garbage while they come for a walk in the park. “Not only residents, even shopkeepers and rag pickers living in shanties near the park face difficulties. Scattered garbage is creating health problems. The waste must be lifted from here. Besides, this is not a proper site for the SSK. Would any officer like to walk in such a park near his house?” rued Yashika Thakur, a local resident. “It is a nuisance. The Municipal Corporation is talking about phasing out all SSKs, but waste is dumped here in the park. While out on a walk in the park people have to bear stench. Besides, students in the neighbouring school inhale nauseating smell. Garbage must be removed from the park immediately,” said Dilbagh Rana, general secretary, Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 19-C. “The whole park is crying for attention. Despite repeated complaints, things have not improved here. Officials should conduct inspection of the park and take steps to improve its condition,” he added.  “What is the use of the park when people are not able come here. Also, some areas of the park remain dark in the late evening as there are no lights,” said a resident. “Besides, broken tracks, water leakage and uncut grass welcome visitors at the park,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-dumped-in-sector-19-c-park-raises-stench-irks-residents-223831
12-03-2021||---||Vietnamese envoy woos businessmen in Panchkula for investment||Panchkula, March 11In an effort to promote trade and investment in Vietnam, Pham Sanh Chau, Vietnamese Ambassador to India, today emphasised that his country offered North Indian investors many advantages and benefits, including new free trade (FTA) agreements and economic partners.Chau addressed industry leaders during the India-Vietnam Business Forum at a hotel in the city today.Vietnamese high-power delegation is in the tricity as part of its three-day visit, being hosted by Davinder Singh Thapar, the Vietnam’s Consulate General in Chandigarh. ‘“The Vietnam-India trade has grown over the years to nearly 10 billion USD. The increasing importance of Vietnam’s global supply chains is a positive transformation in bilateral relations. Vietnam has a lot of offers for Indian investors such as favourable investment policies, numerous FTA agreements, commencement of direct flights, local business climate, rapid economic growth, political stability, cheap labour and conducive trade environment in the country,” said Chau.“Indian partners should set up a mutual cooperation with Vietnam to facilitate trade understanding between the two nations,” Chau added.Bui Trung Thuong, trade counsellor, Embassy of Vietnam, said from a meager 200 million USD in 2000, the bilateral trade between New Delhi and Hanoi saw a steady growth, which touched 10.04 billion USD by December 2020 with Indian exports and imports to Vietnam amounting to 4.49 billion and 5.55 billion USD, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vietnamese-envoy-woos-businessmen-in-panchkula-for-investment-223832
12-03-2021||---||Visually impaired persons protest in Patiala||Patiala, March 11Visually impaired persons, associated with the National Federation of the Blind, held a protest today near the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today.In a memorandum submitted to officials of the district administration, they stated that vacancies must be provided for the blind in government departments at the earliest. Protesters had also brought a cake for the Chief Minister on his birthday.Visually impaired employees had not been promoted by various departments, they said. They also demanded that pension of visually impaired employees should be increased from Rs750 to Rs5,000.Besides, association members demanded that the old pension scheme should be implemented for the present government employees and they should be given 20 per cent concession in passing the Teacher Eligibility Test in Punjab like on the lines of Rajasthan.The government had not created vacancies at schools for blind in Jamalpur for the past 18 years, protesters said.Their other demands include, free toll tax service for the visually impaired, four per cent state Budget for them and 400 units of free electricity.Balwinder Singh, general secretary, National Federation of the Blind, said, “We brought a cake for the Chief Minister. Our members scaled barricades to protest for their demands. Later, officials of the district administration received our memorandum.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/visually-impaired-persons-protest-in-patiala-223833
12-03-2021||Patiala||Untreated garbage dumped in dry pond, covered with sand in Patiala||Untreated garbage has been dumped in dry pond in violation of the NGT orders and pollution norms in the city. Though the Municipal Corporation (MC) claimed that garbage thrown on the low-lying land adjacent to the Sheesh Mahal Colony was not from any of its projects, the civic body had not been able to identify those involved in the act.A tipper along with a JCB machine worked on the site, disposing of untreated waste and covering it with sand. The illegal act was stopped when the MC was questioned. Notably, waste in tonnes was dumped in broad daylight.An official requesting anonymity said, “Waste cannot be disposed of in the open or dumped under sand without treatment. The Municipal Corporation should take action against those involved in the illegal act in the area under its jurisdiction. The NGT is itself monitoring waste management.” Another official said capping of waste can lead to emission of harmful gases and cause ground water pollution due to seeping of leachate.When contacted, the PPCB member secretary, Karunesh Garg, said, “Such practice is illegal. We will take action against those responsible.”The Municipal Corporation Commissioner, Poonamdeep Kaur, said, “Someone else must be throwing garbage waste at the site. It is not from our projects. We have nevertheless directed a sanitary officer to keep a watch on the site to identify the people involved in the illegal act.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/untreated-garbage-dumped-in-dry-pond-covered-with-sand-in-patiala-223834
12-03-2021||---||CCTVs to keep an eye on Chandigarh Estate Office||Chandigarh, March 11To keep a strict vigil, the UT Administration will install CCTV cameras in the Estate Office building in Sector 17.The UT Administration has initiated various steps to streamline the functioning of the Estate Office after files of three houses were found burning by an employee recently.The Engineering Department has invited bids from agencies for the installation of CCTV cameras on the second and third floor of the building. The selected company will start the work within two months of the allotment and also carry out maintenance work for five years, said an official of the Engineering Department.At a cost of approximately Rs20 lakh, nearly 30 CCTV cameras would be installed on both floors of the Estate Office, said the official.The official said some cameras had already been installed, but now the remaining areas of the office would be covered.Among other measures, the Administration has directed the Estate Office to speed up digitisation of the documents, to regulate entry of outsiders, to increase the number of appointments per day and to properly organise physical files.The authorities have also directed all employees of the Estate Office to wear their ID card during the working hours on the office premises to help differentiate between employees and visitors.The Administration has strictly warned officialsa against entertaining persons coming to the Estate Office without a legitimate reason or appointment saying that negligence will not be tolerated.For people coming to the Estate Office, the number of online appointments has been increased from 10 to 20 per day and for inspection of property records, the number of appointments has been increased to 14 from 10 per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cctvs-to-keep-an-eye-on-chandigarh-estate-office-223835
12-03-2021||---||Mahashivratri: At Saketri, Covid on nobody’s mind||Panchkula, March 11Despite the Covid-19 threat looming large, devotees thronged the famous Shiva temple at Saketri to offer prayers on the occasion of Mahashivratri today.Even though the district administration had deployed officials in large numbers to ensure strict implementation of Covid rules, these went for a toss with many people seen without face masks.The iconic temple, located at Mahadevpur in Saketri, draws thousands of devotees from the region every year on the occasion.“Festivals are an important part of our culture. Coronavirus can’t dampen my spirit,” Raghuveer, a devotee who visited the temple, said.Rajeev, a resident of Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4, was, however, taken aback to see crowds gathered there.“I was shocked when I saw people not following the Covid-19 rules such as wearing mask and maintaining social distance. The presence of administrative staff made no difference,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja had appointed duty magistrates to ensure that the gathering does not lead to the spread of the virus.The Deputy Commissioner of Police had been asked to deploy police personnel at identified points in and around the temple to ensure hassle-free darshan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mahashivratri-at-saketri-covid-on-nobodys-mind-223836
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 108 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-108-fresh-cases-223837
12-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh: 50 societies’ water bill likely to get slashed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 11A ray of hope has emerged for around 50 housing societies in southern sectors that have been paying commercial water rates for the past several years.After the approval of the MC House on Tuesday to charge residents on actual usage basis, the corporation is now going to start the process of amending its bylaws. Following this, it will have to cross the final hurdle of getting approval from the UT Administration.According to MN Shukla, convener, Voice of Housing Societies, Sector 48-51, there are 108 housing societies in the area. Of these, around 50 are at present paying fixed water charges of Rs2,010 every two months (each bill).“It was ruled that societies that are on a leasehold basis or have not got their completion certificate will have to pay these charges. The MC stopped work of meter reading from 2009. Since then, we have been paying fixed charges, which increased from Rs930 to Rs1,142 to Rs1,606 and Rs2,010 now after the latest water tariff revision notification,” said Shukla.“It is injustice. The leasehold aspect should have no concern with the water bills. The Administration should consider this fact. We are not carrying out any commercial activity, then why such rates for the common man,” he asked.Pradeep Kumar, a society resident, said: “My last water bill was more than the electricity bill. What the authorities are doing is illogical. They must amend such bylaws.”Meanwhile, a senior MC official said on condition of anonymity: “It is up to the Administration whether or not to give approval to the bylaws once these are amended.” He said: “The present bylaws state that societies without a completion certificate will get temporary water connection with double domestic rate and minimum 50 kl usage”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-50-societies-water-bill-likely-to-get-slashed-223838
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||DSP’s brother in judicial custody||A local court today sent Satpal Dagar, brother of a UT DSP, to judicial custody in an alleged property fraud case.Earlier, two suspects — journalist Sanjeev Mahajan and property dealer Manish Gupta — were sent to judicial custody. The police produced Dagar in a court after the expiry of his police remand.Dagar’s counsel Vishal Garg Narwana told the court that Dagar had no link with the alleged transaction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dsps-brother-in-judicial-custody-223839
12-03-2021||---||Girl among 3 arrested in  gang rape case||Mohali, March 11The police have booked four persons, including a girl, for allegedly gang-raping a 14-year-old girl, a native of Uttarakhand. The victim resides with her family in Mohali.The police have arrested three persons, including a girl, while the fourth suspect is still at large. The arrested persons have been identified as Shahrukh, Vijay and Simran, all residents of Sector 52.Investigating officer Navjeet Kaur said they had booked four persons, including a friend of the victim. Three persons had been arrested, while the fourth one was still at large.The IO said Simran had introduced the victim to the boys. The suspects raped the girl on several occasions at Simran’s residence. She said the fourth suspect was from Amritsar and raids were being conducted to arrest him. The three suspects were produced in a court, which remanded them in one-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-among-3-arrested-in-gang-rape-case-223840
12-03-2021||---||Flesh trade racket busted, 4 held in Panchkula||Panchkula, March 11The police claim to have busted a flesh trade racket allegedly being run under the guise of a massage parlour in Sector 14 here. They have arrested four persons, including a woman, in this connection.According to a spokesperson for the Panchkula police, acting on a tip-off that a prostitution racket was allegedly being operated from a massage parlour in the Sector 14 market, the police sent a decoy customer yesterday.“The decoy customer struck a deal with one of the suspects. The police, under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police Vijay Kumar and Sector 26 Crime Branch in-charge Inspector Aman Kumar, raided the parlour and arrested four persons,” the police said.Those arrested have been identified as Mohammed Azam, a resident of Mani Majra; Ramakant Pandey, a resident of Mauli Jagran; and Swami Prashad, a resident of Sector 28, Panchkula. The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them to judicial custody.A case has been registered under Sections 3, 4, 5 and 7 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flesh-trade-racket-busted-4-held-in-panchkula-223841
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Property fraud case: SIT questions four cops||Four police personnel, who were posted at the Sector 39 police station in 2017, have been questioned by the SIT. A complaint against Sanjeev Mahajan, Surjit Singh and Shehkar, who had forcibly occupied the house in Sector 37, was made at the Sector 39 police station.It is alleged that the cops did not take action against the accused. Sources said the police personnel were questioned regarding the complaint.Earlier this week, the UT police had summoned two cops — DSP Ram Gopal and Inspector Rajdeep Singh, who was the then SHO of the Sector 39 police station — to question them regarding the property grab case. The FIR lodged against nine persons mentions the names of two cops whose role has come under the scanner. While the DSP was questioned, the Inspector is yet to be grilled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-fraud-case-sit-questions-four-cops-223842
12-03-2021||---||Potholed roads continue to irk commuters||Chandigarh, March 11It seems the MC’s road recarpeting work is moving at a snail’s pace as several roads, especially in southern sectors, are giving bumpy rides to commuters.Residents of Sector 44 here complained several road stretches in their area were in a poor condition for a long time, but the work had not been started yet.“The road along a government school in Sector 44 is full of potholes and is in a bad state. The MC must get it repaired,” rued a local resident, Harpreet Kaur.Several inner roads in bad shape in cityThe road dividing Sector 53 and 54 is also in a dire need of recarpeting. “It has been many months since the road has been lying broken. It must be one of the worst road stretches of the city. The authorities should resolve the issue on a priority basis. Being on the border with Mohali, a large number of vehicles pass from the stretch,” said Varinder Kumar, a resident of Sector 54. Some of the inner roads in various sectors are also crying for attention.Besides, the road dividing Sectors 53 and 54 is also in a dire need of recarpeting.“It has been many months since the road has been lying broken. It must be one of the worst road stretches of the city. The authorities should resolve the issue on a priority basis. Being on the border with Mohali, a large number of vehicles pass from the stretch,” said Varinder Kumar, a resident of Sector 54.Some of the inner roads in various sectors are also crying for attention.Meanwhile, the MC’s senior road wing officer said road recarpeting works amounting to Rs 35 crore are pending for 2020-21 financial year and recarpeting works amounting to Rs 13 crore for 2019-20 would be carried out in the coming few months in a phased manner. Firstly, those roads which were scratched would be recarpeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/potholed-roads-continue-to-irk-commuters-223843
12-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Ads on public toilets: Chandigarh MC fails to cash in on project||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 11It seems due to “apathetic and reluctant” attitude of the Municipal Corporation, the project of advertisement on public toilets, which could have earned a revenue of Rs 25 crore in five years to the civic body, continues to hang fire and it may come a cropper.The MC floated the tender for the project after a gap of five years. The highest bidder in tender for the 55 public toilets was found on August 18, 2020. But till today, the work is still stuck.Civic body floated tender after five yearsThe MC floated the tender for the project after a gap of five years. The highest bidder in tender for the 55 public toilets was found on August 18, 2020. But till today, the work is still stuck. In what shows a lackadaisical approach of the civic body in generating revenue, of the total 55 toilets, whose tender was floated, about 15 were dismantled for renovation earlier.In what shows a lackadaisical approach of the civic body in generating revenue, of the total 55 toilets, whose tender was floated, about 15 were dismantled for renovation earlier.And others had a number of hindrances such as growth of herbs, tree branches or unipole site in front of the ad site. After insistence of Decode Adverting Private Limited, the highest bidder, MC Commissioner KK Yadav formed a committee to examine all hindrances to remove them.However, without clearing those hindrances and not mentioning the reduced area on account of toilets gone for renovation, the corporation has issued a letter of intent to the company.“This letter of intent is wrong. How can they issue this letter without removing hindrances detected in the committee. Secondly, they have not even mentioned how much total area is being offered to us,” said Rajesh Jain, MD of the agency.“It is reluctant and indifferent attitude of the MC. It seems they do not want to give this work due to reasons best known to them,” he added.The committee’s report, which is in possession with Chandigarh Tribune, has mentioned that some of the toilet blocks are not suitable for ads. While other toilet blocks had many hindrances found in the panel report.Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said: “We have reduced the total area from 11,000 sq ft to 9,400 sq ft. The letter of intent has been issued and the hindrances will be removed.”Leader of the Opposition in the MC House councillor Devinder Singh Babla said: “The maintenance work of over 300 public toilets has been lying pending for several years due to shortage of funds. But we prefer to beg for funds to the UT Administration while kicking away revenue coming our way.”Another caseThere is another case in which the MC did not care two hoots about getting revenue from ads on vehicles. The corporation without giving any proper reason had earlier returned cheques for Rs 72 lakh it had accepted from a private agency whom it had given permission to display advertisements on a moving vehicle. The firm had planned to start 10 such vans in about two months, which would have fetched about Rs 8-9 crore revenue to the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ads-on-public-toilets-chandigarh-mc-fails-to-cash-in-on-project-223844
12-03-2021||---||510 jabbed in Panchkula||Panchkula, March 11As many as 510 senior citizens and those aged between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities were administered the Covid-19 vaccine at nine private sites on Thursday.The target was to vaccinate 900 eligible citizens.The coverage rate stood at 56.67 per cent.At least 17 healthcare workers also took the jab along with the citizens.The sites where the vaccination drive was held were Dhawan Hospital, Paras Hospital, Radha Devi Polyclinic, Ojas Hospital, EMM ENN Hospital, Raffles Hospital, Pkl Welfare Trust, Malik Hospital and Dr Sanjeev Trehan Hospital.At an achievement rate of 74.9 per cent, 9,588 eligible citizens have been vaccinated so far in the district.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said the vaccination drive tomorrow would be held at 28 sites, which include all Primary Health Centres (PHCs) located across the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/510-jabbed-in-panchkula-223846
12-03-2021||---||824 get first dose in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 11As many as 824 eligible citizens (above 60 years of age and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities) got their first jab of Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday.Alongside, 126 healthcare workers and frontline workers were given the first/second doses.Till date, 15,507 eligible citizens have been vaccinated in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/824-get-first-dose-in-chandigarh-223847
12-03-2021||---||735 elderly among 873 vaccinated in Mohali||Mohali, March 10About 873 persons — 735 senior citizens and 138 persons aged 45 to 59 suffering from co- morbidities — were administered the Covid vaccine in seven government hospitals and 29 private hospitals of Mohali district on Thursday.A total of 7,992 senior citizens have been given the vaccine while 1,188 persons aged 45 to 60 suffering from co-morbidities were given vaccine jabs.Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said 62 and 45 healthcare workers (HCWs) were given the first and second doses of vaccine, respectively.She said 114 and 12 frontline workers (FLWs) had been given the first and second dose of the vaccine. Till now, 6,577 and 3,314 HCWs had been provided the first and second dose, respectively, while 5,016 and 481 FLWs had been given the first and second dose of vaccine, respectively. — TNSPunjab Jails Minister gets first shot||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/735-elderly-among-873-vaccinated-in-mohali-223848
12-03-2021||Mohali||Come forward for jab sans fear, senior citizens urged||Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur, accompanied by Renu Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon, visited the Sub-Divisional Hospital, Kharar, to review the Covid vaccination arrangements. SMO Manohar Singh apprised them of the arrangements and said the immunization work in the hospital was going on smoothly. Dr Adarshpal Kaur appealed to senior citizens of the district to come forward for Covid vaccination without any fear. She said on-the-spot registration facility was available in the health facilities and they need to carry Aadhaar card and photo ID along with them. She said the vaccination drive was going on in seven government health institutes and 27 private health institutes in the district.  Besides senior citizens, persons aged between 45 to 60 years with comorbidities, healthcare workers and frontline workers were being vaccinated. Meanwhile, a member of the Mohali Senior Citizens Association, JS Thakur, principal Swarn Chaudhary, Sukhwinder Singh Bedi and others got themselves vaccinated at the district hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/come-forward-for-jab-sans-fear-senior-citizens-urged-223850
12-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Insurance firm penalised for denying claim||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 11The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has penalised an insurance company for denying the claim of medical treatment to a consumer. Finding the excuse given by the company as unreasonable, the commission has directed the company to pay Rs 3,33,748 spent on the medical treatment of a consumer. It also directed the company to pay Rs 15,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs 10,000 as cost of litigation.Amarjit Singh, a resident of Mohali, approached the commission after he was denied the claim of treatment of his wife by the company.The orderFinding the excuse given by the company as unreasonable, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed the insurance company to pay Rs 3,33,748 spent on the medical treatment of a consumer. It also directed the firm to pay Rs 15,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs 10,000 as cost of litigation.He said he had a family health insurance plan from The New India Assurance Company since the past many years. On being allured by Star Health and Allied Insurance Company Limited for better coverage and service, he agreed to port his family health policy with it and paid the premium of Rs 24,072 vide a cheque dated April 5, 2018, to the company.The policy was valid from April 15, 2018, to April 14, 2019. It provided coverage to his wife, Sukhwinder Kaur also. On September 24, 2018, his wife Sukhwinder Kaur had a medical emergency and was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali, where she was implanted with stents and remained in Hospital for about two days. The total cost of the medical procedure raised by the hospital was Rs 3, 33,748. When the claim was submitted, the insurance company denied the payment on December 1, 2018. Not only this, even the company sent another letter dated December 3, 2018, for the cancellation of the policy from January 12, 2019.On the other hand, the insurance company contested the consumer’s complaint. The company claimed that the complainant had concealed the pre-existing disease of his wife Sukhwinder Kaur as she was hospitalised from May 31, 2007, to June 1, 2007, and was treated for retroperitoneal fibrosis and underwent ureterolysis with biopsy with DJ stent and was on tablet tamoxifen from 2013.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the arguments of the company could not be accepted. It said as per records, the pre-existing disease was cured in 2013 and, therefore, it cannot be said she had concealed the disease so as to invoke this exclusion clause to deprive the complainant of the claim Thus, by repudiating the genuine claim of the complainant, the company is proved to have indulged in deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. In view of this, the company is directed to pay the claim of Rs 3, 33,748 to the complainant along with interest at the rate of 8 per cent per annum from the date of repudiation (December 1, 2018, till realisation. The commission has also directed to pay an amount of Rs 15,000 to the complainant as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment to him and Rs 10,000 as cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insurance-firm-penalised-for-denying-claim-223852
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Golf meet strengthens India-Vietnam bond||To promote further mutual cooperation between India and Vietnam, the Allena Invitational Friendship Golf Cup was played between the two nations at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Thursday.  The Vietnamese team was led by Pham Sanh Chau, Ambassador of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in India. His team includes Bui Trung Thuong, trade counsellor, Bui Duy Khanh, first secretary, trade section, Son Hoang My Dung, FS to Embassy, and Nguyen Luong Duc, attaché, political and economic section. While Indian golfers were led by Davinder Singh Thapar, Honorary Consulate General of Vietnam at Chandigarh. Other members of the team include SPS Ghai, Jagatbir Singh Reggi, Tushar Narang and RBS Chahal. Chau is currently on a three-day visit to Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golf-meet-strengthens-india-vietnam-bond-223853
12-03-2021||---||PU health institute is new Covid-19 vaccination centre||Chandigarh, March 11 A vaccination centre for administering vaccine against Covid to Panjab University (PU) retirees, dependants and employees above 45 years with comorbidities was inaugurated by Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, in the presence of Prof VR Sinha, Dean (University Instructions), Vikram Nayyar, Finance and Development Officer, and officiating Registrar, Prof Rajesh Gill, Dean (Research), Prof Sukhbir Kaur, Dean (Student welfare women), Mritunjay Kumar, PUTA president, Deepak Kaushik, Assistant Registrar, and PUSA president, Dr BS Lal, Additional CMO (retd) and Dr Rupinder Kaur, Chief Medical Officer, at Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Institute of Health here today.  Dr Rupinder apprised all that after receiving approval from the Mission Director, National Health Mission and District Immunisation Officer, Dr Manjeet Singh Trehan, the staff of the PU health institute was trained for administering Covid vaccine to beneficiaries. The vaccination drive started today.   Dr Aruna Goyal, Professor and UGC member, was the first beneficiary to receive the vaccine followed by Professor Emirates Dr SL Goyal and Madhu Vashisth, Deepak Kaushik and Prof SK Singla. The health institute will remain open for vaccination from 9 am to 1 pm on all working days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-health-institute-is-new-covid-19-vaccination-centre-223829
12-03-2021||---||Bal Kalyan Kendra, digital library inaugurated||Chandigarh, March 11  The Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge-cum-Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, Justice Jaswant Singh, inaugurated “Bal Kalyan Kendra”, the first of its kind one stop solution and multidisciplinary centre for children in conflict with law and a digital library at the Observation-cum-Special Home, Sector 25, here today .   Vijay Singh, District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, Mahavir Singh, member secretary, State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, Ashok Kumar Mann, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, UT, Chandigarh, and Navjot Kaur Director, Department of Social Welfare Women and Child Development, were present on the occasion.   Speaking on the occasion Justice Jaswant Singh said, “It is the first of its kind and only integrated centre in the country that brings together five different departments to serve children in conflict with law.”   Another facility inaugurated today by Justice Jaswant Singh was a digital library. Justice Jaswant Singh said, “Digital library is a good initiative of the District Legal Services Authority in association with the Department of Social Welfare, which can open several growth opportunities for children. I hope children will make optimum use of the digital library as it can bring positive and significant changes in their life.”   Vijay Singh, District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, said, “I am hopeful that this convergent interdepartmental effort will go a long way in achieving the objective of “Access to justice” as is the motto of the Legal Services Authority. This centre will not only look after the needs of the children while in Observation Home, but efforts will also be made to link them to suitable rehabilitation services upon release.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bal-kalyan-kendra-digital-library-inaugurated-223830
12-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Now, all eyes on COA’s second faction polls||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 11Days after one of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) factions conducted elections, now all eyes are set on the other group, which is holding their elections on March 17.The faction, headed by last-term president Amarinder Singh Bazaz, claims to have support of atleast 19 associations. However, out of these associations many were present at the elections held at Punjab Bhawan on March 8.It will be interesting to see if these associations, which extended their support to Bazaz, would turn-up on March 17 poll. Prior to these elections, the faction, which conducted March 8 polls, is hosting an annual general body meeting to allot various portfolios to association members in order to hold them back.Sources claimed that the meeting may witness some development regarding appointment of COA’s representative at the Indian Olympic Association (IOA).“There have been many associations, which have been assured of important portfolios in the COA. Many will wait for the final decision. If associations don’t get what they want, they might move to other group. All this politics will be rife till the time the IOA takes some concrete action,” said a source.Questions raised over RO’s appointmentAs per the clause (5) of the model election guidelines followed by all national sports federations, the president has the ultimate power to appoint the returning officer.“The previous elections were conducted without following any protocols. The COA follows National Sports Code, which gives sole power to the COA president for appointing the returning officer (RO). In March 8 elections, the RO was appointed by the general secretary. Also, no prior 16-day mandatory notice was given to the association. Moreover, letters were given on back dates,” said Chander Mukhi Sharma, general secretary, Basketball Federation of India, and president, Chandigarh Basketball Association.Supporting the Bazaz group, Sharma claimed that the March 17 elections would be held as per schedule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-all-eyes-on-coas-second-faction-polls-223827
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Live-in relationship deeds not morally acceptable: High Court||Marriages may be made in heaven, but live-in relationship deeds are being solemnised in “presence of witnesses” by “male” and “female” partners with clauses that enable the signatories to terminate the charter after giving a month’s notice. The documents, making it clear that the relationship is not ‘marital’, also give the partners the right to approach a competent court of law for its implementation, if any of the parties backs out of the deed.‘Misuse of the process of law’Live-in relationship deeds have failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Ruling that the terms and conditions in the deeds were a “misuse of the process of law”, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has asserted “it cannot be morally accepted in society”.But such deeds have failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Ruling that the terms and conditions in the deeds were a “misuse of the process of law”, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has asserted “it cannot be morally accepted in society”.The “new concept of contractual live-in-relationship” was brought to Justice Sangwan’s notice after an 18-year-old girl and 19-year-old boy filed a petition seeking protection of life and liberty. Their counsel told Justice Sangwan’s Bench that certain terms and conditions had been settled by way of mutual consent in the “deed of live-in relationship” executed between the petitioners.Justice Sangwan observed the deed made it clear that both parties had agreed to fully cooperate with each other without any dispute or issues and would not claim anything against each other. In the end, it was stated that the parties agreed to solemnise marriage on attaining marriageable age.Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, the state counsel submitted that Section 26 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, provided that an agreement in restraint of marriage was void. As such, it could not be enforced as per Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963.Even otherwise, the petitioner “male partner” was not competent to perform marriage under the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. He was not even competent to have a live-in relationship with the petitioner “woman partner” as he had not attained the age of marriage. After hearing the arguments, Justice Sangwan dismissed the petition while asserting that the court did not find merit in the matter. The clauses, especially stating that it is not a ‘marital relationship’, were nothing but abuse of the legal process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/live-in-relationship-deeds-not-morally-acceptable-high-court-223810
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Devotees throng temples on Mahashivratri in Punjab and Haryana; story in pictures||A large number of devotees on Thursday thronged temples across Punjab and Haryana, including Chandigarh, on the occasion of Mahashivratri.The devotees thronged the temples since early morning to offer prayers and perform special ‘pujas’.Lord Shiva temples were decorated for the occasion.The famous Saketri temple, near here, was bedecked for the celebrations.Panchkula: Devotees pay worship on the occasion of Maha Shivratri at Saketri Shiv temple on Thursday. Tribune Photo: Ravi KumarPunjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar have extended greetings to the people on the sacred occasion of Mahashivratri. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devotees-throng-temples-on-mahashivratri-in-punjab-and-haryana-story-in-pictures-223710
