15-03-2021||Mohali||20 challaned for Covid violations||Parking staffer AssaultedChandigarh: Two persons assaulted a parking attendant at a parking lot in Sector 7 here on Saturday night. The complainant, Rajat (23), stated that when he was leaving around 11:50 pm, two persons, including Kartik of Bapu Dham Colony, reached there and attacked him with a rod on his head and stomach. The suspects also snatched the cash and parking ticket machine from him, before escaping from the spot. The victim had an altercation with Kartik a few days ago, said a police official. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-challaned-for-covid-violations-225498
15-03-2021||---||HP man found dead at home||Dera Bassi, March 14A 33-year-old man was found dead in a rented accommodation in Saraswati Vihar here today. The deceased has been identified as Mohit Sharma, a native of Hamirpur, HP. He was employed as a technician with a private hospital.The police have recovered a syringe from the spot. An injection mark was also found on the victim's arm. No suicide note has been recovered from the spot. The police have informed the kin of the deceased. The body has been shifted to a mortuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hp-man-found-dead-at-home-225497
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||ASI summoned for questioning||The UT police have summoned ASI Parminder Singh for questioning in the Sector 37 property grab case. He will be questioned by the SIT on Monday.Parminder, who is said to be close to Inspector Rajdeep Singh, was posted at the Sector 39 police station in 2017, when a complaint regarding the property grab was made.The FIR lodged by the police against nine persons on March 2 at the Sector 39 police station mentions the names of DSP Ram Gopal and Inspector Rajdeep Singh, following which their role came under the scanner.Both cops were questioned and Inspector Rajdeep was arrested for allegedly not taking action on the complaint against Sanjeev Mahajan, Surjit Singh and Shehkar for forcefully occupying the house in Sector 37. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asi-summoned-for-questioning-225496
15-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Now under MC, Kishangarh residents still crave for basic amenities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 14One may envy this place for its location, but on the contrary you have to think twice before entering this village.Nestled between Sukhna Lake and the IT Park and being a gateway to Panchkula through Saketri, Kishangarh undoubtedly is one of the best locations in Chandigarh. But lack of development in the area is haunting the residents.Broken roads, inadequate sewerage system, irregular drinking water supply, no rainwater drainage system and insanitary conditions, the list of civic problems here is a long one.“There is zero development,” rued Kishangarh resident Jassi Lubana, who also heads the AAP’s Chandigarh youth wing.“We do not get required drinking water in summers. Sewerage pipelines here were laid about 25-30 years ago. After that the population has increased and sewerage system needs to be upgraded,” said Lubana, adding that sewerage often flows on to the roads.“Rainwater often stagnates here as the area lacks proper drainage system. Roads here were constructed more than eight years ago, since then re-carpeting has never been. Besides, there is no dispensary and the government school is only up to Class 8,” added the young leader.After the villages merged with the MC, the development has not happened. But the Kishangarh residents have instead got burdened with taxes.“After the abolishment of the Panchayat system here, the MC Councillors’ elections are scheduled this December. No development has taken place in between. However, the corporation has started imposing taxes like sewerage cess on water bills. This Chandigarh village is worse than those in Punjab and Haryana,” lamented Vijay Lubana, another Kishangarh resident. Former Panchayat Samiti member Naveen Singh said, “Kishangarh has today become the dirtiest village in the UT. Our relatives do not want to visit us. For last 15 years, roads have not been re-carpeted. Residents often get potholes filled with debris to avoid any accident and during rains that also fails to work. No cleaning works are carried out in the area. We keep shuffling between the administration and the corporation with problems, but nobody bothers.”Meanwhile, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “The Administration has already approved release of funds for village development. We will soon receive it, following which work will be done in all villages.” As per the Mayor, the UT Administration has promised to release Rs30 crore special grant for the development of 13 villages up to March 2021.Village woes KishangarhAfter being notified by the UT Administration on November 30, 2018, 13 Chandigarh villages were brought under the control of the Municipal Corporation with the hope of development. But nearly two-and-a-half years later, these villages are still craving for basic amenities.No money, no developmentThe UT Administration had transferred 13 villages to the cash-starved MC in 2018 without allocating any dedicated funds for their development. And even after January’s “in-principle” approval for providing about Rs102 crore for village development, not even a single penny has been given to the MC, leaving these villages in a shambles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-under-mc-kishangarh-residents-still-crave-for-basic-amenities-225495
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||6 days on, bakery worker’s killer arrested||Six days after a man was found murdered in Sector 53, the UT police arrested the alleged killer. The police said the suspect was identified as Kamal (52), alias Komal, a resident of Kajheri.Cops said Kamal suspected that the victim, Kedar, had an illicit relation with the woman with whom he too was in an illicit relationship following which he allegedly eliminated the victim by attacking him with a stick.Kedar, who worked at a bakery, was found dead in a park on March 8. A case was registered at the Sector 36 police station. During an investigation, the police found that the victim was in an illicit relationship with a woman residing in Sector 54 and a day before the incident, he and the suspect had a fight at Phase II, Mohali, over the issue.The woman was questioned by the police who raised suspicion on Kamal.The police found that Kamal was absconding since the day of the incident and his mobile phone was also switched off. Cops then found that Kamal had fled to his native place in Uttar Pradesh.The police nabbed the suspect, who worked as a mason in Chandigarh. During interrogation, he revealed that he had come to know that Kedar also had a relation with the woman following which he decided to murder him. On March 8, around 7 am, he attacked the victim on his head with a stick that turned fatal for him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-days-on-bakery-workers-killer-arrested-225494
15-03-2021||---||2 held for stealing bags from buses||Chandigarh, March 14Two persons have been arrested for stealing bags containing laptops and other valuables from buses parked at the ISBT, Sector 43.A total of nine laptops, one i-Pad and one charger have been recovered by the police.The suspects have been identified as Balram (26) and Om Parkash (61), both natives of Rohtak district.The police said several incidents of theft in buses had been reported in the past few days. A case was registered on a complaint by Anjali Singh, who reported that bags containing two laptops, one mobile phone, one power bank and some belongings were stolen. Another was registered on a complaint by Chimnay Dandavate who reported that his laptop, charger and iPad were stolen.Modus operandiAccording to the police, the suspects disclosed that they were addicted to drugs. They would sit in a bus and keep a watch on passengers. As soon passengers went out of the bus, they would steal their bags.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-stealing-bags-from-buses-225492
15-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid patients up from 30  to 100 in one month at PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 14Occupancy at Covid Hospital of the PGI once again reached 100 today as the region started witnessing a surge in cases.On February 18, the hospital had received 30 patients. A 100 per cent increase was witnessed in just a week with 57 positive patients being admitted to the hospital on February 25. The hospital has 100 severe positive patients at present.Dr Jagat Ram, Director of PGI‘We may have to limit OPD registrations’At one point of time, admission had come down to 30. We were mulling increasing OPD services when cases had declined. But now, there is no question of increasing OPD services. If the cases continue to rise, we may have to limit the number of OPD registrations.A majority of 52 patients are from Punjab, followed by 20 patients from Chandigarh and 15 patients from Haryana.Prof GD Puri, Head of Covid Co-ordination Committee of PGI, said: “Admission to the Covid-19 ward has increased after the sudden spurt in cases. At one point of time, the number of patients had increased to 200 at the PGI. Such situations limit the resources in the medical institutions as many healthcare workers are engaged in Covid duties. A majority of patients are from Punjab in our hospital. The situation is grim as these patients are severely afflicted with Covid.”“A lot of people are not following Covid protocols at gatherings and functions, which is leading to the spread of virus. People think there is no need to wear a mask after being vaccinated but it takes time to develop immunity. The fear of transmission is very real till Covid is completely wiped out,” said Dr Puri.Dr Jagat Ram, Director of PGI, said: “At one point of time, admission had come down to 30. We were mulling increasing OPD services when cases had declined. But now, there is no question of increasing OPD services. If the cases continue to rise, we may have to limit the number of OPD registrations.”“The reason behind the surge in cases is that a lot of events are taking place where Covid protocol is not being followed,” said Dr Jagat Ram.Of 1,088 active patients in the city, 96 patients are in the city hospitals. There are 53 patients in the GMCH-32 and 23 more in the GMSH-16. Around six fatalities have taken place in the past two weeks. “Whenever there is a surge, fatalities are reflected after two to three weeks of hospital stay. So, severity of disease cannot be determined now,” said Health Department official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patients-up-from-30-to-100-in-one-month-at-pgi-225491
15-03-2021||---||206 new cases, one death in Mohali||Mohali, March 14 After about six months, the fresh cases of Covid reportedin a day crossed the 200 mark in the district today. Asmany as 206 persons tested positive for the virus, taking the tally 21,862.Besides, one more fatality was reported from the district taking the total number of deaths due to Covid to 402. As many as 83 patients have beencured of the virus, taking the recovery count to 20,101.There are 1,359 active cases.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said a large number of cases surfacing in the district was on expected lines as it wasthe second wave of the pan-demic. She said they had been urging people to follow the precautions by wearing a mask and maintaining social distance. She said they had also been appealing to the people to come forward for vaccination, which was avail-able at seven government hos-pitals and 27 private hospitals. Among the new cases, 121 were reported from Mohali(urban), two each from Gharuan and Lalru, sevenfrom Kurali, 24 from Kharar and 34 from Dhakoli. 120 FOUND INFECTED IN CHANDIGARHChandigarh: The city recorded 120 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the number of cases to 23,096. The death toll remained 358. A total of 64 patients have been cured of the disease. There are 1,088 active cases. TNS47 TEST POSITIVE IN PANCHKULAPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported 47 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the overall tally to 11,332. The Covid toll remained 149. While 10,828 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 355 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 95.55 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/206-new-cases-one-death-in-mohali-225487
15-03-2021||---||Bid on Panchkula councillor’s life||Panchkula, March 14A Congress councillor from Ward Number 6 was allegedly attacked by a drug peddler with a knife at his office in Rajiv Colony here today.The incident took place around 4:30 pm when the councillor, Pankaj Valmiki (20), was sitting in his office along with his mother and two other persons from the neighborhood.The suspect, identified as Mona (24), barged into his office and alleged that the councillor was supporting the police in their campaign against drug peddling. Then, he pulled out a knife and lunged at the councillor, inflicting blows on his head and left hand.The suspect then ran away from the spot but was nabbed by locals after a brief chase. They thrashed him before handing him over to the police.The injured councillor was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where he was given first aid. “We have arrested two persons in the case — Mona and his accomplice Ajay. The latter had accompanied the alleged attacker but stood nearby at a shop while Mona went inside the office,” said Sub-Inspector Sushil Kumar, in charge, Sector 16 police post.VICTIM’S SUPPORTERS GHERAO POLICE POSTFollowing the attack, the councillor’s supporters and local residents gheraoed the Sector 16 police post and raised slogans, questioning the law and order in the area. The police had to call additional personnel to keep the situation under control. Later, former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia and other Congress leaders reached the police post and met senior police officials, seeking timely action against the suspects. A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC has been registered.REASON BEHIND ATTACKThe suspect, identified as Mona (24), barged into the office of the councillor from Ward Number 6, Pankaj Valmiki, and accused him of supporting the police in their campaign against drug peddling. He pulled out a knife and inflicted blows on his head and left hand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-on-panchkula-councillors-life-225485
15-03-2021||---||1 held in Kharar murder case||Kharar, March 14 The police arrested a Chamkaur Sahib resident in a murder case of Kharar resident Avtar Singh on Sunday. The suspect has been identified as Harmandeep Singh (30). He had a dispute with the victim over a property.   Avtar was killed while two persons, Jaspreet Singh and Ramandeep Singh, were injured in a brawl at Daun Majra village on Friday night. The deceased sustained injuries inflicted by a sharp weapon and rushed to the Kharar Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Twelve persons were booked in the case registered at the Kharar Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-held-in-kharar-murder-case-225298
15-03-2021||---||Phase 3B1 garden in Mohali to have 1,500 varieties of rose||Mohali, March 14  The Horticulture Department has now decided to plant more than 1,500 different varieties of rose at the Phase 3B1 Rose Garden in Mohali.  Residents have been demanding that more roses be planted at the garden, which is named after martyr Major Singh.   Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had inaugurated the project by planting a rose at the park yesterday. The minister said 450 varieties of rose would be planted at the park. “The Horticulture Department has made a plan to plant more than 1,500 different varieties of rose,” the minister added.   Rose Garden is spread over a wide area and is home to thousands of plants and several hundred varieties of rose. Visitors can stroll on well-laid-out paths of the garden admiring the beauty of flowers unwinding into the nature’s lap.   Besides roses, there are various other medicinal plants in the garden. There are paths for walking and jogging, an open-air gym, play area for kids and a small library to read daily newspapers in the garden.   Speaking to reporters on the occasion, the minister said residents had been demanding for a long time that more rose saplings be planted in the garden as its name was Rose Garden.   Jasveer Singh, supervisor of the Horticulture Department, said different varieties of rose would be brought from a nursery in Una (Himachal Pradesh). Around 1,000 plants would arrive by Tuesday, he added. Keeping in view design of the garden the department could order more rose saplings from the nursery, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phase-3b1-garden-in-mohali-to-have-1-500-varieties-of-rose-225299
15-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||NGT committee to visit Bharonjian village today||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 14The Pollution Monitoring Committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal and headed by Justice Jasbir Singh, a former Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, would visit Bharonjian and Kansal villages on Monday to inspect the remedial measures taken by the Punjab Government against the alleged change in the natural course of Siswan river.Dr Babu Ram, the technical expert on the panel, has directed officials concerned to bring the record and papers relating to the matter along with the site plan to the spot. He also directed the senior-most officer representing the builder involved in the matter to be present at the site during inspection.The NGT on February 24 had taken serious note of the fact that despite builder allegedly changing the natural course of Siswan river, the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) while granting environmental clearance (EC) failed to consider this aspect. “We appreciate the efforts of the Chief Secretary in the matter, the remedy provided does not adequately address the problem. Mere construction of a bridge may not be a solution in the circumstances. There is a need to further examine the matter with the assistance of an independent committee,” the NGT said.“Accordingly, without expressing final view at this stage, we request the committee headed by Justice Jasbir Singh, former Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, to look into the matter after undertaking a visit to the site and suggest remedial measures,” the NGTadded.“The committee may give its report preferably by April 30 and also upload it on PPCB website so that the parties/departments concerned and the Chief Secretary can access it for further action unless there are objections to the report, in which case the Tribunal will resolve the issue,” the NGTadded.Petitioner Harminder Singh of Bharonjian village, had submitted that the builder filled up the river course and raised construction on the river bed at Bharonjian and Kansal villages, resulting in irreversible damage to the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngt-committee-to-visit-bharonjian-village-today-225300
15-03-2021||---||Industrial body keen on improving  ties with Vietnam||Mohali, March 14  With an aim to strengthen the relations with Vietnam, the Mohali Industry Association (MIA) is keen on exploring the possibilities of business under the aegis of Indo-Vietnam bilateral trade for benefiting nearly 2,500 MSME units in the region.  The MIA delegation would soon hold a virtual meeting with the Trade Department of the Embassy of Socialist Republic of Vietnam to provide a new dimension to the region’s MSME sector, MIA president Yogesh Sagar said during a felicitation ceremony to honour Vietnam Ambassador to India Pham San Chau and other diplomats of the Embassy at the MIA xampus today.  Vietnam envoy and diplomats were welcomed by Mohali industrialists at the conclusion of a three-day visit of the Vietnamese Ambassador. Ambassador Chau also invited industry leaders to invest in Vietnam. Chau said the Vietnam government was offering investors a wide range of incentives. “We aspire to forge a positive relationship between India and Vietnam across a wide number of sectors,” Chau emphasised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industrial-body-keen-on-improving-ties-with-vietnam-225301
15-03-2021||---||I-League: Punjab FC to take on TRAU today||Chandigarh, March 14 After playing out a 3-3 draw against Mohammedan SC in the ongoing I-League, RoundGlass Punjab FC  will try to find a win against TRAU at Kalyani Municipal Stadium on Monday. Speaking at the pre-match press conference,  RoundGlass Punjab FC head coach Curtis Fleming said: “We scored three goals against Mohammedan. This is the only positive thing of that match. We played an attacking game and we managed to execute our plan to some extent.” When asked about Bidyashagar Singh, the leading goal scorer of the competition with 11 goals from 12 matches, Fleming said: “He has done very well to score two back-to-back hat-tricks. A team cannot score goals without everything coming together. Strikers do get the plaudits, but it is the entire team that makes or creates chances for them.” Ashish Jha, who scored his first goal in the professional football against Mohammedan Sporting, was also present at the press conference. “I am proud of my performance in the last match. I have been waiting for my chance. I got a few chances earlier and I missed a few opportunities. I have worked hard on training and I am happy with my goal in the last match. A win against TRAU will keep title hopes alive for RoundGlass Punjab FC,” said Ashish Jha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-league-punjab-fc-to-take-on-trau-today-225302
15-03-2021||---||Congress workers face water cannons||Chandigarh, March 14The police had to use water cannons to disperse Congress workers who had gathered here to march towards the house of BJP councillor Dalip Sharma in Bapu Dham Colony today.The Congress workers said they were protesting against poor condition of roads, civic amenities and other problems concerning the residents of the ward.Led by Chandigarh unit president Subhash Chawla, Congress workers gathered in front of Valmiki Dharamshala in Bapu Dham Colony and started a march towards the house of Dalip Sharma. They wanted to submit a memorandum to the councillor.The protesters carrying party flags and placards raised slogans and demanded immediate re-carpeting of roads and improvement in various civic amenities in the area.The police used water cannons to disperse the protesters in which many of the party workers allegedly got hurt.Earlier, addressing the protesters, Chawla said the BJP-led Municipal Corporation had lost its credibility and people were wondering whether there was a need for the Municipal Corporation or not.He alleged that the BJP did nothing for the betterment of the city and its infrastructure. Chandigarh has lost its position in the recently held survey for the topmost cities, he added.Party spokesperson HS Lucky said the condition of roads in the city was very bad and potholes could be seen in every sector road.Lucky demanded immediate re-carpeting/repair of city roads failing which the people of the city would teach the ruling BJP a lesson in the MC elections to be held later this year.Councillor Devinder Singh Babla criticised the lackadaisical approach of the BJP-led Municipal Corporation and alleged that it had failed to deliver on all fronts.People have seen only taxes being levied instead of any development by the Corporation. The agendas put in the House meetings these days are only about levying new taxes, said Babla.The Congress workers later gave the memorandum to the area SHO and DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-workers-face-water-cannons-225303
15-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo---||Potholed Mohali roads give bumpy ride to commuters||Tribune News Service Mohali, March 14 Recarpeting work in Sectors 76 to 80 here hasn’t been carried out for the past four years and the condition of roads has gone from bad to worse. The roads are hardly motorable as they are filled with potholes and uncovered manholes.  In addition to some “engineering flaws”, the persistent ignorance of the authorities towards re-carpeting of roads after digging them up for underground drainage works are adding to the commuters’ woes. The internal roads in these sectors, too, are in bad shape. Water logging due to gullies that often get choked is another reason for residents’ disappointment. The worst affected is the dividing road of Sector 79-80, which has the maximum number of potholes. Even mild rainfall causes water stagnation on the road which could be dangerous for the motorists, particularly the two wheelers. Earlier, the maintenance of the roads in these sectors came under the purview of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) but now the work has been transferred to the Mohali Municipal Corporation. A senior official of the GMADA said that they carpet the roads after every five years and they cannot carry out the recarpeting work as the decision to hand over the maintenance works to the MC had already been taken.  Regarding the recarpeting of the Sector 79-80 diving road, the official said they have already allotted the work and the same would begin soon. The official further said that most of the times it was the ignorant attitude of the residents that caused damage to the roads, especially during construction of houses, when people use roads for keeping the building material. MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said that they were conducting a survey of the roads and would take only those roads from the GMADA which were in proper condition or else, they would take money from the GMADA for recarpeting the damaged roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/potholed-mohali-roads-give-bumpy-ride-to-commuters-225304
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||French week celebrations in city to begin tomorrow||The week-long cultural fest Semaine De La Francophonie (French week) will begin at Alliance Francaise from March 16. Francophonie is a group of 88 member states and governments from five continents sharing French as a common language. These countries collectively have over 1 billion inhabitants. “At Alliance, every year we celebrate Francophonie week. We come up with different kind of activities like musical concerts, theatres, cuisine workshops, film festivals, etc,” said Ophélie Belin, Director, Alliance Francaise, Chandigarh.  “This time, because of Covid, we can’t organise the activities on a grand scale but we have still tried to propose different activities, both online and offline. Keeping the pandemic in mind, we are hosting this event outdoors. All our activities are free of cost,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/french-week-celebrations-in-city-to-begin-tomorrow-225305
15-03-2021||Amit Bathla||Limited staff, vaccination hit sampling in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 14Even though Covid-19 cases have witnessed a northward trend, the Health Department hasn’t been able to ramp up testing to meet the demands of the emerging Covid-19 situation. The limited staff and the ongoing vaccination drive for senior citizens and other eligible citizens have kept the daily sampling under the significant 1,000 mark, the data has suggested.In the past fortnight (between February 28 and March 14), on an average, only 877 samples were collected daily. The daily sampling has remained under the 500 mark on four occasions during this period. The lowest (235) samples were collected on March 8 and the highest (1,344) on March 6. Active cases soarThe active caseload also soared from 83 (on Feb 14) to 355 on Sunday. The recovery rate dipped from 97.84% to 95.55% in this period.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said they need to increase testing but limited staff along with the ongoing vaccination drive was a challenge for them. “We will try to add more staff to boost daily sample collection,” she said.On February 24, the Civil Surgeon’s office had issued directions to step up preventive measures against the fresh surge of coronavirus cases, including scaling up daily testing. The Health Department has attributed the fresh Covid-19 surge to increasing caseload in neighbouring Mohali and Chandigarh.“It is part of the second wave being witnessed in other states. It was kind of expected as Panchkula is in close proximity to a state with high caseload,” Dr Kaur had told The Tribune.Focus on stepping up vaccinationOn Monday, the vaccination drive will take place at 42 sites in the district (highest so far). The focus is on mobilising poor sections from slum pockets, which are so far deprived of immunisation against coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/limited-staff-vaccination-hit-sampling-in-panchkula-225306
15-03-2021||---||Accident victim succumbs||Dera Bassi, March 14 A day after a collision between a truck and a bike claimed the life of a motorcyclist near Saidpura, one more person succumbed to the injuries today. Kudawala resident Bhupinder breathed his last at the GMCH-32 today, taking the toll to two. One more accident victim, Kishen Dev, a resident of Kudawala, is undergoing treatment at the GMCH. The police have registered a case against an unknown truck driver, who fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind.  A motorcyclist was killed, while two persons riding pillion suffered injuries when their bike hit the truck coming from the opposite direction at Saidpura. Satvir Singh of Saidpura was crushed under the wheels of the truck yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accident-victim-succumbs-225307
15-03-2021||For offline mode||Let parents decide which option is best for their wards||Offline exam only for Classes X to XIIKeeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, schools must continue with online examination for all Classes except Standard X and XII. This would curb the spread of the virus. Wise decisions must be taken by the authorities concerned else the number of coronavirus cases in the City Beautiful might surpass those reported from other parts of the country.Shobhna Kalra, PanchkulaA single student can spread virusMany schools have resumed classes in the UT. This is risky as one student, who has contracted virus, can infect the entire school. To play safe, the examination must be conducted online. Even after getting children vaccinated it will be not wise to lower guard against the virus.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliQUESTIONCovid-19 cases have witnessed a sudden spurt at the onset of March. In just 13 days, the city has recorded 1,206 infections. Should the UT Administration impose more restrictions to control the rising virus infection among residents?No appropriate safety measures are takenSchools should continue with online education as cases are rising with each passing day in Chandigarh. What is the purpose of sending children to school if they are not safe? Many schools have opened and follow SOPs, but still no appropriate safety measures are taken either by teachers or students. Wearing a face mask or carrying hand sanitiser would not make any difference until they follow safety norms. Schools should be closed again and continue with online classes.Muskan Sharma, ChandigarhAll students don’t have internet accessSurge in Covid case in the UT is a cause of concern. But, schools should not continue with online exam because students cheat while attempting answers. Moreover, all students have no internet access. Offline exam should be conducted by schools. The authorities should make sure that students wear face masks, maintain social distance and sanitise hands regularly. The school staff should adhere to safety protocol. Somewhere, residents of Chandigarh are responsible for the rising Covid cases because of their own negligence. It's time to take care of ours and others health.MR Bhateja, NayagaonCan’t stop kids from minglingWith the recent surge in coronavirus cases, it will be better to continue with online examinations. While adults might follow safety norms it is not possible to stop children from mingling with each other. Chances of infection spreading rapidly in schools cannot be ruled out.SC Luthra, ChandigarhOffline exam must not be mandatoryCovid-19 cases are again on the rise. Schools are adamant on conducting exam offline. This has created panic amongst parents, which needs to be addressed before schools become hotspots of virus. Offline exam must not be mandatory. All schools must give students the option of appearing for their exam online or offline with consent of their parents. Students must furnish a negative Covid test report before physically appearing for any examination. The school authorities must follow all Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOPs) while conducting examination offline.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhHow long can we remain stuck at home?No doubt that the number of Covid-19 cases are surging in the region, but for how long can we all remain stuck at our homes. Schools should go ahead with offline exam for Classes VI onwards whereas for below Standard VI online exam can be arranged in case parents are not ready to send their children to school. We cannot afford to waste time of senior students. Online exam for seniors are not recommended due to mass copying from the Internet. In such circumstances, the mere purpose of conducting exam gets defeated. Even parents should support offline exam for the betterment of their children. One thing must be ensured that proper Covid-19 guidelines are followed in letter and spirit during conduct of offline exam by schools.Bir Devinder Singh BediFollow ‘Health is wealth’ mantraAs we observe that many higher educational institutions are conducting online exam. If it is possible at such high level, then why can't schools conduct online exam? Moreover, coronavirus cases are increasing among school students and teachers. We must follow the mantra "Health is wealth". All school students except board classes must be given a chance to appear for online examinations.Anju Behl, ChandigarhStudents’ movement must be restrictedCovid-19 cases are increasing in the tricity despite best efforts by the authorities concerned. It is pertinent to ensure minimum movement of schoolchildren, when online facilities are available. Offline exam should be avoided till Covid-19 is wiped out. It will reduce cases and save students from travelling to and from school during the pandemic.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliNo exam below eighth standardIt's time students appear for offline exam. Throughout the year exam have been conducted online. The CBSE should give choice of offline and online exam to Class IX-XII students because parents are not prepared to send their wards to schools in the ongoing pandemic. There should be no exam for students below eighth standard. They should be evaluated and promoted on the basis of projects and assignments.Anita Tandon, KhararSchools adamant on offline examSudden jump in Covid cases in the UT is worrisome and alarming. Parents are in panic as many city schools are adamant on conducting offline examination in the midst of the pandemic. They are afraid because this virus strain spreads faster than the previous one. The school authorities should not conduct offline examinations.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaOffline exam for only three classes a dayFor fair assessment, offline exam mode is necessary. Schools can conduct offline exam as parents are suspicious about parameters adopted for evaluating students in the online mode. Schools should conduct offline exam for two or maximum three classes on a day to avoid spread of the Covid. Checking of students at the school gate by medical staff wearing PPE kits should be mandatory. Parents should take responsibility of their children for any symptoms of the virus. Parents also need ensure that their children follow Covid protocols and take necessary precautions to stay safe and healthy. Schools should go ahead with offline exam while following SOPs and help students get promoted to next class on the basis of fair evaluation.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliNo substitute for school educationSchool education is meant to prepare future citizens, who can make the nation strong and progressive. In schools, students learn through books and practical. They also learn discipline, team spirit, appropriate social behaviour and other things when interacting with fellow students and teachers. Games ensure physical fitness, which is lost when students sit in front of computers at home for a long time. Therefore, schools must conduct offline exam while following Covid protocol strictly.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhOnline examination creates digital divideCovid cases are rising in the UT with each passing day. The longer this crisis continues, the worse will be its impact on the study of students. Online examination is a good solution in the short run, but it is also creates a digital divide. Offline exam mode is much better than online. During exam offline exam students are more punctual and attentive in their study. So, schools should proceed with offline exam.Gurwinder Bhullar, ChandigarhBe optimistic about offline examThe pandemic is here to stay. We must learn to stay with it and prevent the virus from spreading further. Start normal activities, but don't lower guard against virus. Follow all standard operating procedures. Schools must ensure that students and teachers wear masks, maintain safe distance and sanitise hands regularly. The Administration should sanitise premises of all schools. There should be a policy of no relaxation. Parents, teachers and students must be optimistic and opt for offline exam.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhKids don’t have strong immunitySchools should continue with online exam. Parents are afraid to send their children to school. Children don't have strong immunity to ward of coronavirus. The proverb "Prevention is better than cure" should be followed by one and all. Virus is now mutating faster than before. Therefore, schools should conduct online exam till the virus subsides.Adish Sood, AmlohHealth of Students & teachers importantCovid cases are increasing every day in Chandigarh due to negligence of residents, who don't take necessary precautions. Whatever the reason be, it is evident that increasing cases are open risk for students and teachers, which stop parents from sending their wards to schools. In the present situation, it would be better to conduct online examinations. Managements should ensure that all Covid-19 related precautions are taken for safety of teachers, who come to schools occasionally.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliDon’t insist on offline examThe Covid-19 scare is back with a bang. Many states across the country are once again thinking about lockdown to prevent the spread of the disease. Even in Chandigarh, we are seeing resurgence of the virus. The UT Administration has imposed restrictions on the assembly of people at indoor and outdoor events. As children are vulnerable, schools should conduct online examinations till the situation improves. Many children travel to school in buses, autos and taxis. So, their chances of getting infected are more. For the health of schoolchildren it would be sensible for the Administration and school authorities not to insist on offline examinations.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhStudents’ safety & health top prioritiesIn the last few months, schools have perfected and honed teaching, learning and assessment skills of teachers and students through digital platforms. Students must be given an option to appear in offline and online exam as the pandemic is yet to over. Transparent assessment is important to check the academic abilities of a student. The traditional method of assessment is better to test the subject knowledge of the student. Online platforms are yet to get fool proof to prevent cheating. The greatest challenge in education now is to conduct examination. It seems the negative side of online exam weighs more than the positive side. Conduct offline exam while following SOPs to prevent the spread of the virus and ensure students safety and well-being.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliGive both options to students, parentsThe UT Administration should issue instructions to all schools to give both offline and online examination option to students. A student should be allowed to appear for the examination in any mode as per his/her choice. There should not be any restrictions on students and parents keeping in view the situation created by the pandemic. The Administration should allow schools to open any time in a day for conducting examinations.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhCovid-19 has hit education hardCoronavirus outbreak has changed the face of education. It has adversely affected every area of education. There are many advantages of online examinations like safety of students is not compromised and school managements can reduce overhead costs. In online examinations, the timer runs above or below screen. It reminds students to complete the exam within stipulated period. There is no harm in continuing online examinations.Dr Manjinder Kaur, ManaliClose primary schools in ChandigarhCovid cases are on the rise across the city. Under the present circumstances primary schools in the Union Territory need to be closed till the situation normalises. The CBSE has already decided to conduct Class X and XII examinations in May/June through offline mode. As career of students is involved, the Chandigarh Administration should give option to parents as well as schools concerned to decide for the online/offline mode of examinations for the remaining Classes VI to IX. Those, who appear for the offline exam, must observe all SOPs to prevent the spread of virus.SK Khosla, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/let-parents-decide-which-option-is-best-for-their-wards-225406
15-03-2021||Panchkula||Man held with poppy husk||Octave store inauguratedChandigarh: Octave, a chain of readymade apparel stores founded and operating in India since 1991, on Sunday opened its 173rd flagship store in Elante Mall, Chandigarh. The store was inaugurated by Anil Malhotra, executive director, Nexus Mall. Octave has now entered into women’s and junior boy’s segment as well. TNSSMO flags off campaign vanDera Bassi: Dera Bassi Senior Medical Officer Dr Sangeeta Jain flagged off a campaign van to popularise the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. TNSHearing and speech clinicZirakpur: Sivantos India Private Limited and Times Health Care announced the opening of a hearing and speech clinic in Zirakpur. The clinic was inaugurated on Sunday. TNSCommunity centres under Zirakpur MCZirakpur: As many as 10 community centres here will now be taken care of by the Zirakpur Municipal Council. Residents will now have to approach the civic body to book community centres for marriages or any other social and cultural function. Earlier, these centres were being governed by local social organisations. TNS2-day badminton meet concludesChandigarh: Over 50 journalists from various publications participated in the second edition of the Kuldeep Panwar Memorial Inter-Media Badminton Tournament, at Sector 38 West Sports Complex, on Sunday. The two-day event was organised by the Punjab-Haryana-Chandigarh Sports Journalist Association in collaboration with the Chandigarh Badminton Association and the Chandigarh Sports Department. Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta was the chief guest, while UT Director Sports Tejdeep Saini was the guest of honour. TNSUniversal Club baseball champChandigarh: Universal Club beat 9 Famous Club 3-2 to win the women’s final on the concluding day of the Senior State Baseball Championship on Sunday. Leisure Valley Club registered a 7-5 win over Model Club to claim the third position. In the men’s category, 9 Famous Club beat Universal Club by a hairline margin of 5-4. Leisure Valley Club claimed the third position by defeating City Hawk Club 5-4. TNSCricket tourney begins todayChandigarh: The PCA will organise a triangular cricket tournament, ‘Trident PCA Cup’, between Best of Punjab and Rest of Punjab from March 15. Bhupinder Singh (Sr), former India international and member of the organising committee, said the tournament would be played in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana, while the three-day final will be held at the PCA Stadium in Mohali. “The matches will be played among three teams comprising of players from Punjab - Punjab XI (main team), Rest of Punjab (Red) and Rest of Punjab (Green),” said Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-poppy-husk-225387
15-03-2021||---||20-yr-old girl goes missing, one booked||Dera Bassi, March 14The police have booked an unknown person for wrongful confinement of a 20-year-old girl from Dhakoli.On a complaint of the girl’s father, the police have registered a case under Section 346 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Dhakoli police post.The complainant said the girl, who was employed at a housing society in Dera Bassi,left the house on March 5 for work, but did not return home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-yr-old-girl-goes-missing-one-booked-225369
15-03-2021||---||Journo Jubilants win cricket meet||Ropar, March 14Journo Jubilants defeated SSP Superstars by three wickets to win the Rupnagar Cricket League organised by the District Olympic Association, Ropar, on Sunday. Electing to bat, SSP Superstars lads were bundled out for 86 runs in 18.4 overs. Journo Jubilants achieved the target in 16 overs with three wickets to spare.Amarinder Singh of Journo Jubilants was adjudged man of the match, while Jujhar Singh of SSP Superstars was adjudged man of the tournament.Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri gave away prizes to the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/journo-jubilants-win-cricket-meet-225368
