16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Additional COVID-19 protocol for eating establishments in Sectors 26, 7, Industrial Area||Chandigarh administration issued additional COVID-19 protocol to bars, hotels, clubs and restaurants in Sector 26, 7 and Industrial Area on Tuesday.A new order from the administration said these commercial establishments must ensure social distancing and masks are strictly followed. Hotels must bring down their seating capacity to 50 per cent, and conduct temperature checks on patrons. These establishments must also seek Chandigarh administration’s permission before allowing live performances. Hookahs will be strictly prohibited.The development comes as Chandigarh sees a spike in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/additional-covid-19-protocol-for-eating-establishments-in-sectors-26-7-industrial-area-226107
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||786 NCC cadets take exam||As many as 786 cadets of the Army, Navy and Air wings of the NCC from different institutions in the city appeared for their B-Certificate examination that was held at the Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School here. The examination marked the culmination of two years of training and included drill, weapon training, firing procedure, service subjects, map reading, field craft, leadership, national integration, disaster management and general knowledge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/786-ncc-cadets-take-exam-225636
16-03-2021||---||Extension for submission of synopsis sought||Chandigarh, March 15The Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) had taken up the issue of extension period for submitting synopsis for batch 2018-19.“The research scholars of 2018-19 batch are scheduled to submit their synopsis. The association had put forward this issue cogently that due to the prolonged Covid-19 lockdown, research scholars were facing problems as they didn’t have access to the library and other related things available only on the university campus,” stated a PURSA press note.Members of PURSA later met the DUI and the Dean Research. “The PU authorities have formed a committee to think and discuss the underlying issue of extension for submitting synopsis. The PU authorities have assured that they will shortly grant extension for synopsis submission (Batch 2018-19) for at least three months (till June 2021),” claimed PURSA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/extension-for-submission-of-synopsis-sought-225637
16-03-2021||---||Rising Covid cases: Parents’ assn writes to Chandigarh Adviser||Chandigarh, March 15The Chandigarh Parent Association (CPA) has written to UT Adviser Manoj Parida requesting online conduct of examination at schools in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases.All schools of Chandigarh were earlier closed. However, as the Covid situation improved, the Education Department decided to conduct offline exams at the government schools and the private schools were also allowed to conduct exams in the offline mode.The appeal sent by association reads: “All government schools and a few private schools have been conducting compulsory offline exams for various classes since the last week of February. It is during this period only that the city has witnessed a steep rise in positive cases of Covid-19. While there were 120 active cases in February, we have about 1,088 active cases of Covid in Chandigarh at present. Even the GMCH-32 had to close down it’s OPD to prevent the spread of virus. Most government offices, including the Estate Office, are closed for public dealing. However, the city schools continue to remain open while students and teachers are getting infected almost each day.“The CBSE has postponed the board examinations for classes X and XII till May-June. However, the purpose of this postponement stands defeated since most schools in Chandigarh are conducting pre-board examinations at this time, when Covid is at its peak.”The association has pointed out that Panjab University is also conducting examinations online for all classes and the UT Administration has already ordered to keep the primary schools closed. The students of classes VI to XII are being asked to appear for offline examinations while there is no scientific basis to classify this age group of students as more immune than others.The parents voiced their concerns over schools becoming potential hotspots of Covid transmission, considering that many state governments, including the Punjab Government, have ordered the closure of all schools except the board classes of X and XII.Social distancing goes for a tossA student of GMSSS-35 D, requesting anonymity, said: “I took my first offline exam on March 12. In the rooms, there were four rows of benches and almost 30 students were sitting in each room. There was no social distancing and the students of the adjacent rows had only one-metre distance in between. After school, students gathered in groups without masks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rising-covid-cases-parents-assn-writes-to-chandigarh-adviser-225638
16-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Rising Covid cases worry Panjab University authorities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 15Rising Covid-19 cases have been a cause for concern for the Panjab University authorities who are planning to open the campus for students. With reports confirming that students of a Patiala-based university have tested positive, and Chandigarh witnessing a sudden spike in infections, the authorities are a bit worried.“Students are mature enough to understand the situation. The nearby states are also suffering and even the city is now on high alert. The situation is not easy either for us or for our students. We have to be patient and cautious,” said an official.Recently, the PU Vice-Chancellor had approved the recommendations of a committee regarding the opening of hostels for professional students. The PhD students, who were enrolled by March 5, were given hostel accommodation with the consent of their respective supervisors. The MDS students of Dr HSJ Institute of Dental Science and Hospital should be allowed hostel accommodation, according to the recommendations. All postgraduate students (final year), who are in the final semester and require laboratory work to complete their dissertation, were also allowed to stay in hostels.Various students’ political parties had submitted a memorandum to the authorities regarding the opening of the university campus. A campaign on the social media was also launched in support of their demand.“Decisions have to be made considering the current scenario. The safety of students comes first. A meeting in this regard is likely to be conducted soon to take any further call,” said another official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rising-covid-cases-worry-panjab-university-authorities-225639
16-03-2021||Zirakpur||Thieves steal jewellery, car||Thieves made off with jewellery worth Rs4 lakh, a car, and Rs 10,000 in cash from a locked house in G-Block of Aerocity, Mohali, on March 13.  Rajinder Chopra said his family had gone out when the theft happened. The thieves entered the house after breaking a windowpane. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-steal-jewellery-car-225640
16-03-2021||---||Dayalpura resident booked on charge of dowry death||Zirakpur, March 15 The police have registered a case of dowry death against Talwinder Singh, a resident of Dayalpura, after his wife Ravinder Kaur, alias Ruby (28), died under mysterious circumstances today. On a complaint by the woman’s kin, the police have booked the suspects under Section 304-B of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station.  The victim’s father, Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Naraingarh village, alleged that his daughter, Ravinder Kaur, got married to Talwinder in 2012. The couple had two sons, aged seven and five. At the time of marriage, the parents gave dowry to the in-laws beyond their means.  Shortly after the marriage, the in-laws began to asking for more dowry, he alleged. On Monday around 5 am, his son-in-law called up to tell him that his daughter had suffered a heart attack and was being taken to a hospital for treatment, after which it was informed that Ruby had died.  Her parents alleged that their daughter ended her life for not meeting her in-laws’ dowry demands. Zirakpur SHO Omkar Singh Brar said: “The girl’s father, Jaswinder Singh, lodged a complaint that his daughter was harassed to the point that she committed suicide. The body has been shifted to Dera Bassi Civil Hospital for post-mortem. Further action will be taken after receipt of the post-mortem report.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dayalpura-resident-booked-on-charge-of-dowry-death-225641
16-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Now, CHB to go with e-tendering||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 15To stop cartelisation, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to introduce e-tendering for auction of residential and commercial properties.The CHB has prepared a list of 270 properties, including 11 residential (leasehold), 109 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (leasehold), for auction.A senior official of the CHB said instead of e-auction, e-tenders would be invited for each property separately to maintain secrecy and to prevent cartelisation. The bidders would be able to submit the bid only once against the reserve price of the property, he added.To get a good response, the CHB has reduced the reserve price of the properties by 10 per cent, as not even a single bidder expressed interest in the auction of CHB properties as the reserve price was too high for both residential and commercial properties last year.The residential properties to be put up for sale are in Sector 51, Sector 63, Sector 38-W, Sector 39, and Mani Majra. The commercial properties to go under the hammer are in Mani Majra, Sector 51, Sector 61 and Maloya.The properties to be auctioned include nearly 51 new flats in Sector 51. Several properties of the board, both commercial and residential, have been lying vacant in Mani Majra, Sector 45, 41, 47, 39, 38-West, 49 and 51 for quite a long time.Last year, the CHB had put up 64 residential and 148 commercial properties for auction. The reserve price for a freehold three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 was Rs1.07 crore and the reserve price for the Sector 39 leasehold HIG flats was Rs1.31 crore. Nine leasehold and 55 freehold properties were put up for auction last year.Check on cartelisationA senior official of the CHB said instead of e-auction, e-tenders would be invited for each property separately to maintain secrecy and to prevent cartelisation. The bidders would be able to submit the bid only once against the reserve price of the property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chb-to-go-with-e-tendering-225642
16-03-2021||---||Record 4,980 citizens get jabbed at 42 Panchkula sites||Panchkula, March 15A whopping 4,980 eligible citizens received the Covid-19 vaccine under a special vaccination drive at 42 sites to cover maximum beneficiaries here today. The coverage rate stood at 145.98 per cent.The highest single-day vaccination of senior citizens and those with comorbidities took the overall figure to 17,874.The Health Department had coordinated with ASHA, anganwadi workers and officials of the Social Justice and Empowerment, Urban Local Bodies, and Panchayati Raj to mobilise people to come to the nearest vaccination centres.As many as 297 healthcare workers and 562 frontline workers also took their maiden or booster dose today.We congratulate everyone who contributed to this massive vaccination drive. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja deputed pink buses to transport beneficiaries to the vaccination centres and provided us with IT support. —Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil SurgeonThe vaccination sites included all public health centres and community health centres, health sub-centres, government schools, public dispensaries and private hospitals.A team of the Health Department visited several vaccine centres throughout the special drive to ensure the smooth conduct.While expressing gratitude, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “We congratulate everyone who contributed for this massive vaccination drive. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja deputed pink buses to transport beneficiaries to the vaccination centres and provided us with IT support.”“SDMs/ CTMs/incident commanders /Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Department and all health staff deserve appreciation,” she said.As many as 17 centres have been identified for vaccination drive tomorrow. 145.98% coverage rateThe coverage rate stood at 145.98 per cent. The highest single-day vaccination of senior citizens and those with comorbidities took the overall figure to 17,874.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/record-4-980-citizens-get-jabbed-at-42-panchkula-sites-225643
16-03-2021||---||1,284 vaccinated in Mohali district||Mohali, March 15As many as 1,284 persons — 1,120 senior citizens and 164 persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities — were administered Covid-19 vaccine at seven government hospitals and 27 private hospitals in the district today.A total of 11,114 senior citizens and 1,742 persons aged between 45 and 60 have been given the vaccine so far.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said 160 and 40 healthcare workers (HCWs) were given the first and second doses of the vaccine, respectively. As many as 231 and 155 frontline workers (FLWs) were given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively.So far, 7,051 and 3,507 HCWs have been given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively, while 5,819 and 891 FLWs had been given the first and second dose of vaccine, respectively.2,887 inoculated in City BeautifulChandigarh: As many as 2,887 persons were inoculated in the city on Monday. Among them, 1,662 were senior citizens, while 223 were in the age group of 45-60 with underlying diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-284-vaccinated-in-mohali-district-225644
16-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Corruption deserves no sympathy: CBI court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 15While saying that corruption deserves no sympathy and leniency, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, awarded four-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) to Dr Rajiv Jassi, former medical officer of the District Jail, Ropar, in a six-year-old bribery case. The court also imposed a fine of Rs50,000 on the convict.The court has earlier held the accused guilty of committing the offence punishable under Sections 7 and 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The court has acquitted another accused, Satnam Singh, in the case.Dr Rajiv Jassi was arrested in 2014 for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs4,000 from a woman whose son, Sandeep, was lodged in the Ropar jail in a criminal case.Sandeep’s mother Dolly Rani filed a complaint before the CBI. In her complaint, Dolly alleged that when she met her son at the Mohali court during a case hearing, he told her to request Dr Jassi to refer him to the PGI for treatment. However, as per allegations, Dr Jassi sought a bribe of Rs5,000 from her to refer her son to the PGI. The deal was allegedly struck for Rs4,000.Following the complaint, a trap was laid in Sector 40, Chandigarh, where the accused had called Dolly Rani with the money. The accused was in a cab, along with driver Satnam Singh. The CBI caught them while accepting a bribe of Rs4,000 from Dolly Rani. The CBI Court framed corruption charges against the medical officer in 2015.While the counsel of the accused prayed for leniency, public prosecutor KP Singh argued for harsher punishment for the accused. After hearing the arguments, the court said “accused Dr Rajiv Jassi was working as a medical officer in the District Jail, Ropar. He had received illegal gratification of Rs4000 for referring the complainant’s son to the PGI. Therefore, while imposing sentence to the convict in this type of corruption cases, the court should not show leniency. When such a medical officer does not act with integrity, the entire society will suffer. Corruption deserves no sympathy and leniency.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/corruption-deserves-no-sympathy-cbi-court-225645
16-03-2021||---||Property Grab Case: Statements of 2 cops recorded||Chandigarh, March 15The UT police today got the statements of two police personnel recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. The two cops, who were posted at the Sector 39 police station in 2017, were questioned by the SIT investigating property grab case, few days ago.The statements of the cops, identified as Rampal and Bhupinder, were recorded before the magistrate.Sources said the two cops, during their questioning, had revealed information, which established the fact that the police failed to act on a complaint regarding the property grab.The SIT also grilled ASI Parminder Singh regarding the case. The sources said he would be questioned again soon.The FIR lodged by the police against nine persons on March 2 at the Sector 39 police station mentioned the names of two cops - DSP Ram Gopal and Inspector Rajdeep Singh - following which their role came under scanner.Inspector Rajdeep, who was the then SHO of the Sector 39 police station, was recently arrested in the case. The FIR mentions that Inspector Rajdeep allegedly didn’t take action on a complaint filed against the accused, who had forcefully occupied the house in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-statements-of-2-cops-recorded-225646
16-03-2021||---||Inspector Rajdeep sent to judicial custody||Chandigarh, March 15A local court today sent Inspector Rajdeep Singh, who was arrested in the Sector 37 house grab case, to judicial custody.The police produced him in the court today after the expiry of his two-day police remand. Rajdeep Singh is the fourth accused remanded in judicial custody in the case.Earlier, journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, property dealer Manish Gupta and another accused Satpal Dagar were sent to judicial custody. The special investigation team of the police arrested Rajdeep Singh last Friday.The police arrested Rajdeep Singh on the charge of not taking any action on a complaint filed against the accused, who had allegedly forcibly occupied the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inspector-rajdeep-sent-to-judicial-custody-225647
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab FC go down to TRAU||Komron Tursonov’s free kick in the 81st minute helped TRAU FC to defeat RoundGlass Punjab FC (RGPFC) 1-0 in a closely contested I-League match at Kalyani Stadium, West Bengal. Punjab FC played like they had a point to prove, throwing their hat into the ring in a bid to stay in the title race.In the 5th minute, Bhutanese striker Chencho Gleytshen cut inside the box from the left flank and shot inches wide of the goal as TRAU survived an early scare.The best opportunity of the match perhaps fell upon Tursunov in the 25th minute when he released a long ball straight on to the goal from the defence line.With just the goalkeeper to beat, Tursunov’s shot was saved by Kiran Limbu. In the 33rd minute, Telem Suranjit Singh’s efforts from a distance almost gave RGPFC the lead. However, the shot rattled the post and came back into play.After lemon break, both sides once again came to play. In the 68th minute, RGPFC’s Joseba Beitia found Papa Diawara inside the box. However, the Senegalese forward failed to make the most of the opportunity. In the 79th minute, Mohamed Irshad was shown a straight red card for his heavy challenge on Tursunov, who was clear on goal.TRAU was awarded a free kick right outside the penalty box and the Tajikistani striker made no mistake in netting the ball home. TRAU, thereafter, changed its strategy and remain committed to defending the lead till the final whistle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-fc-go-down-to-trau-225649
16-03-2021||---||Sector 19 govt school teams bag max medals||Chandigarh, March 15Coaching Centre BSF Sports Club, Chandigarh, won the men’s final on the concluding day of the Chandigarh Handball Senior (men & women) & Junior (boys & girls) State Championship. The team of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 19, claimed the second position and DAV Senior Secondary School, Sector 8, finished at the third spot.In the women’s final, the Sector 19 government school team won the title by defeating Government Model High School, Sector 36. The B team of Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 19, claimed the third position.Guru Nanak Khalsa School, Sector 30, won the boys’ title by defeating DAV School. Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 19, claimed the third position.In the girls’ title clash, Government Model High School, Sector 36, defeated the Sector 19 government school team. The B team of the Sector 19 government school claimed the third position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-19-govt-school-teams-bag-max-medals-225650
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey Haryana to face UP in semifinal||Hockey Odisha overpowered Hockey Punjab by 5-1 in the first quarterfinal match of the 11th Hockey India Sub-Junior Women National Championship 2021 in Simdega today.Dipika Barwa netted twice, while Nisha Dadel, Rambha Kujur and Kanika Kerketta scored one goal each to ensure win. Hockey Punjab skipper Sukhveer Kaur bagged a consolation late goal for her side.Meanwhile, Hockey Haryana lads defeated Hockey Unit of Tamil Nadu by a resounding 23-0 margin. Kanika Siwach scored five goals, while Sakshi Rana scored four goals. Tamanna Yadav scored three goals while Shashi Khasa, Manisha, Saavi and Bhateri scored two goals each. Ishika, Nandni and Sejal scored one goal each for the defending champions.Uttar Pradesh Hockey registered a commanding 11-0 win against Hockey Bihar, while Hockey Jharkhand marched to a 16-0 win against Delhi Hockey. The semi-final will be played on March 17. Hockey Haryana will face Uttar Pradesh in the first semi-final, while Hockey Odisha will clash with hosts Hockey Jharkhand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-haryana-to-face-up-in-semifinal-225651
16-03-2021||---||DLSA awards Rs 7.50-lakh relief to rape victim’s kin||Chandigarh, March 15The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) has awarded a compensation of Rs7.50 lakh to the family of a six-year-old rape victim.The CJM-cum-Secretary, DLSA, took suo moto cognisance of the case registered on March 6, 2021. As per the FIR, a minor girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 13-year-old boy at Hallo Majra.In the award announced today, the CJM said: “The amount of medical aid and interim monetary compensation cannot be measured with mathematical exactitude. In view of gravity of the offence and severity of mental or physical harm and injury suffered by the victim coupled with other factual, social and economic aspects, interim monetary compensation to the tune of Rs7.50 lakh is awarded to the victim’s family.”The amount should be disbursed as per the provisions of the Union Territory of Chandigarh Victim Assistance Scheme 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dlsa-awards-rs-7-50-lakh-relief-to-rape-victims-kin-225653
16-03-2021||Panchkula||Zirakpur resident held for sexually exploiting woman||The police on Sunday arrested a man for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman on the promise of marriage. The suspect has been identified as Sameer, a resident of Zirakpur. The suspect was today produced in a court, which sent him in judicial custody.On March 11, the victim had told the police that the suspect developed relationship with her and later proposed her for marriage.“During this period, he sexually exploited her. However, he later refused to marry her,” the complainant said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-resident-held-for-sexually-exploiting-woman-225654
16-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Olympic assn election opens can of worms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 15The curiosity of who will head the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) seems to be heading nowhere as disapproval has emerged within one of the factions, which conducted its annual general meeting on Sunday, confirmed sources. The meeting was not attended by general secretary Raghumit Singh Sodhi, son of Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi.The sources claimed that members, who attended the meeting, were surprised after they were allotted portfolios, which doesn’t even exist as per the COA constitution. Moreover, the circular of this meeting mentioned that the body is affiliated to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), whereas no such authority letter has been provided by the latter, so far.“The local office will remain the same and its address will be printed on COA letterheads once we elect our office-bearers. As far as affiliation to the IOA is concerned, we will submit the minutes of this Sunday’s meeting and will get it (affiliation) in no time. We have followed all rules,” said Maha Singh, former general secretary of the COA, who is looking after the process. His son was elected as the president of the COA.Poll tomorrowMeanwhile, a parallel election is scheduled to be held on March 17 at a Sector 43-based private hotel. The sources claimed that the other group is trying every possible way to attract a number of associations. However, things are yet to the take final shape. “Both sides (groups) have flaws and it can be only solved through consensus. Even in this group, those contesting for authoritative posts were part of the other faction. The final verdict is likely to be of the IOA. Rumours hinted that the IOA wants both elections to happen to come up with an ad-hoc committee in Chandigarh,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/olympic-assn-election-opens-can-of-worms-225655
16-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Vertical gardens to come up at three sites in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 15To enhance the beauty of the city and reduce air pollution, the Forest Department has decided to set up vertical gardens in the UT.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said one such garden would be set up near the railway station. “People reaching the city will feel good on seeing a green wall just opposite the railway station,” he said. The garden would not only increase the greenery, but also reduce pollution and absorb dust to an extent, he said. He said the garden would save the land area and drip irrigation would be used for the conservation of water.He said ornamental plants would be planted in the garden that would be 15 feet in height. It would be set up on the road opposite the railway station.A green wall each would also be set up at Paryavaran Bhawan and Butterfly Park at an estimated cost of nearly Rs73 lakh.Earlier, one such vertical garden, also called a green wall, was set up near the Nehru Hospital Extension block on the PGI campus.Rajeev Kumar Sao, Superintending Engineer-cum-Project Director, CPWD, said apart from plants, some creepers would give a green look to the garden. Sao jad developed the garden at the PGI. A vertical garden is a technique where plants are grown on a wall or a panel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vertical-gardens-to-come-up-at-three-sites-in-chandigarh-225656
16-03-2021||---||55-yr-old health worker at Chandigarh's GMCH-32 tests +ve after two jabs||Chandigarh, March 15Even after taking two doses of the Covishield vaccine, a 55-year-old healthcare worker at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, tested positive for Covid-19.There have been many such instances in Punjab wherein frontline workers and healthcare workers tested positive after receiving two doses of the vaccine. However, experts say that vaccination does not guarantee that the beneficiary will never get infected, but it does ensure decreased severity.Dr Madhu Gupta, principal investigator of Covishield vaccine trials at the PGI, said it was possible for a person to get infected despite vaccination as the production of antibodies in a human body differs from person to person.She said the vaccine was important because it would lower down the severity of the disease and reduce mortality among Covid patients.‘REDUCES SEVERITY’The vaccination will decrease the severity of the disease, but the chances of catching the infection still persist. The healthcare worker who tested positive is asymptomatic due to the vaccination. —Dr Madhu Gupta, PGI“Vaccine is an artificial antigen that acts like a virus and produces antibodies in the human body. After the second dose, the level of antibodies will increase. The antibody production varies from person to person. Studies show that the vaccine is producing antibodies in almost 100 per cent individuals but the levels may vary. If any vaccinated person comes in contact with a Covid-19 patient, the virus can travel through the nose wherein there is no antibody to neutralise the virus. As the virus travels to lungs, there will be antibodies to neutralise it,” she said.“The data, too, suggests that the double dose efficacy of the vaccine is 62 per cent. So, there is a chance that 38 per cent may get infected. The most important thing is that the vaccination will decrease the severity of the disease but the chances of catching infection still persist. The healthcare worker who tested positive is asymptomatic due to vaccination,” said Dr Gupta.Dr Deepak Chawla, nodal officer for immunisation at the GMCH-32, said even after vaccination, we educate the beneficiaries to keep adhering to Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-yr-old-health-worker-at-chandigarhs-gmch-32-tests-ve-after-two-jabs-225657
16-03-2021||Panchkula||Carjacking case: Wanted criminal lands in police net||The Sector 26 Crime Branch of the local police has arrested a wanted criminal of notorious gangster Dilpreet Baba gang.The suspect has been identified as Gurpreet, alias Bunty, a resident of Amritsar.He was carrying a bounty of Rs5,000 on his head.He was today produced in a local court, which sent him in two-day police remand.According to the police, the suspect, along with his three accomplices, had snatched a car at gunpoint in Pinjore’s Marranwala on October 10, 2017. A case was registered at the Pinjore police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carjacking-case-wanted-criminal-lands-in-police-net-225658
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 148 cases||1 death in MohaliMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 403. Meanwhile, 164 fresh Covid cases were reported. The district has so far reported 22,026 positive cases in the district. There are 1,338 active cases now. — TNS40 +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 40 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 11,372. The Covid toll remained at 149. While 10,868 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 355 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 95.56 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-148-cases-225659
16-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19: Next 2 weeks crucial, say experts on spike in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 15As the city reaches one-third of the peak cases witnessed in September, health experts have warned of an upward trend during the next two weeks.The first wave saw 449 cases on a single day on September 13. The highest single-day caseload during the current wave is 148 so far.Dr Rajesh Kumar, a former head of the School of Community Medicine and Public Health, PGI, said: “When the cases start rising from the average number being reported daily, it is called a wave or a surge. There is a high probability of spike in the cases in the coming days as the nearby states have reported a similar trend. The cases are bound to increase during the next 15 days. The authorities have started adopting stricter measures after the rise. The efforts towards prevention and control will bear result after two weeks.”“It is uncertain whether the second wave will be of a greater magnitude than the first one. Some countries have reported a lower magnitude of the second wave, but states such as Delhi have reported a much severe second wave,” added Dr Kumar.“When the positivity reaches above 5 per cent despite ample testing, it indicates that an outbreak is prevalent in the community. The priority groups should get vaccinated,” he said.Meanwhile, the UT health authorities are stating that Chandigarh is on the brink of another wave. “The surge noticed at present is not even 50 per cent of what was reported earlier. Such a surge was noticed in November and December around festivals, but the cases retracted thereafter. The coming two weeks will be crucial for the region and more efforts are being put towards sensitising people to Covid norms,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.In the last week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.5 per cent every day. For every 100 confirmed cases, five are currently infected in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-next-2-weeks-crucial-say-experts-on-spike-in-chandigarh-225664
16-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Vaccination at Sec 38 fraught with risk||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 15The Covid vaccination drive at the Sector 38 dispensary leaves much to be desired and poses a risk of leaving many infected.In a visit to the dispensary, it was found that the social distancing norms were not being followed and senior citizens, who had come to get inoculated, were huddled together on benches outside the vaccination room. Though there was ample space for maintaining distance, beneficiaries were apparently trying to sit closer to the door of the vaccination room as the dispensary staff had not issued them any token number.Some of them even entered a verbal spat over the sitting issue following which the staff finally allotted them token numbers at 12.30 pm.“Ever since the pandemic, I have avoided physical contact with people. However, now when I have come for taking the jab, I was squeezed with others. The staff should have made proper seating arrangements and allotted token numbers in the morning. They are making us even more vulnerable to the infection,” said one of the senior citizens.Another senior citizen, Partap Chand, lamented: “The registration system is too slow here, maybe due to the shortage of staff. It took me over two hours at the dispensary even as there were only six people waiting before me. I think there was not enough staff to manage things.”“Importantly, after I got the jab, the staff did not guide us. They just asked me to stay on the premises for half an hour. They did not tell me the date for receiving the second jab or what medicine I should take in case of any side effect,” he added. He and two others later asked the peon and left the dispensary.The officiating in-charge of the dispensary, Dr Bindu, said: “We keep advising people to follow the social distancing norms. We have even marked signs on the seats. However, they do not listen to us.” She claimed that they did have a token system for turn-wise vaccination.“Had the system already existed, there would not have been a need for people to sit huddled together,” said a senior citizen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-at-sec-38-fraught-with-risk-225665
16-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||NGT panel inspects Siswan choe||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 15The monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal, headed by a former Judge of the Punjab and High Court, Justice Jasbir Singh, inspected the Siswan choe at Bharonjian and Kansal villages in Mohali today.The five-member committee, led by the chairman, Justice Jasbir Singh, arrived at Bharonjian village at 9 am where at least 35 officials of GMADA, PUDA, the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the Revenue Department were waiting. The committee sought maps and documents in connection with the natural flow of the Siswan choe.Siswan choeCommittee members held discussions with officials and representatives of the builder concerned for about four hours Sources said Justice Jasbir Singh directed officials of the Revenue Department to provide a demarcated site plan of the choe. The representatives of the builder presented their viewpoint stating that the construction had been carried out as per the plan approved by GMADA.On February 24, the NGT had taken a serious note of the alleged change in the natural course of the Siswan choe by the builder.The committee also interacted with the complainant, Manjinder Singh, who provided the team with the site map prepared by Punjab Engineering College in 2009. Manjinder Singh said they were satisfied with the inquiry conducted by the monitoring committee of the NGT.The Executive Engineer of the Drainage Department, GMADA, Parminder Singh, said they had provided documents regarding the site. He said further action would be taken after receiving the recommendations of the monitoring committee, which would submit its report to the NGT by April 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngt-panel-inspects-siswan-choe-225666
16-03-2021||Mohali||Avoid elective surgeries, Mohali hospitals advised||In view of a surge in the Covid cases, the administration today advised all hospitals in the district to avoid elective surgeries.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said all hospitals should dedicate resources towards the treatment of Covid patients. He said all L-2 and L-3 hospitals shall provide an inventory of their beds, including ICU/ventilators, to the district nodal officer and update the occupancy and vacancy numbers daily. He said six micro-containment zones had also come up — one at Shivalik Vihar, Zirakpur, two at Phase 10, Mohali, and one each at Dharamgarh in Lalru, National Dental College in Dera Bassi and Vikas Nagar in Nayagaon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-elective-surgeries-mohali-hospitals-advised-225672
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Man duped of mobile phone||Two fraudsters duped a man of his mobile phone. Complainant Tushar, a resident of Phase 1, Ram Darbar, reported that two unknown persons riding a red motorcycle met him in the Industrial Area, Phase II. They offered him a new phone in exchange for his old phone. The complainant reported that the suspect took his phone and fled from the spot. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. An investigation has been initiated into the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-duped-of-mobile-phone-225673
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||School staff vaccinated||National webinar held at collegeChandigarh: A national webinar on "Remembering Subhash Chandra Bose and his quest for Freedom" was organised by the Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, to celebrate "Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsava" on Monday. The keynote speaker, Prof Pampa Mukherjee, from the department of political science, Panjab University, highlighted the importance of the event. TNSEntrance test schedule of PUChandigarh: Panjab University has released examination schedule of various entrance tests from the next session. PU CET (postgraduation) will be conducted from June 12 to 13, followed by PU LLB (three years) on June 20, PU CET (undergraduate) on June 27, PU BA/BCom, LLB (hons) (five years) integrated course and PUTHAT on July 4, PUMEET and PULEET on July 11, MBA (executive) for USOL July 18 and MPhil & PhD on August 22. TNSBoxing meet from March 25Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association will organise State Sub-Junior and Junior (men and women) Boxing Championship from March 25 to 27 at The British School, Sector 44. Interested boxers from the city should report at the tournament venue with original and photocopy of Aadhaar card, institutional identity card and birth certificate or any other valid resident proof of Chandigarh at the time of weighing in. Weight categories will be as per the Boxing Federation of India guidelines. Weighing in for sub-junior category will be held on March 25 between 2 pm and 4 pm, while the competition will start from 2 pm onwards on March 26. Weighing in for the junior category will be held on March 26, followed by draws and bouts on March 27. TNS3 selected for nat’l team campChandigarh: Three footballers - Kartik Choudhary, Akshay Raaj and Chaman - from Minerva Academy Football Club were selected by the AIFF to attend the U-15 national team camp. All three players played for Minerva Academy Football Club in the JCT U21 Youth League. The U-15 camp is mainly being held to prepare the Indian national team for the U20 AFC Cup championship, which is the qualifying tournament for the U-20 FIFA World Cup 2023. The camp, which was delayed due to Covid-19, will be held at Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar. TNS2 selected for varsity gamesChandigarh: Two students of GGDSD College, Sector 32, have been selected to participate in the World University Games in Taekwondo to be held in Chengdu (China) from August 18 to 29. Bhavjot Singh Gill has been selected in the Poomsae event while Virender Bhukal has been selected in the Kyorugi event. The trials to select the Indian University Team were held at MD University, Rohtak. Gill is a national gold medallist and has won the best player award in the Poomsae National Championship - 2018. Bhukal is a two-time national medallist and has attended the India Camp for Asian Championship and World Championship in 2018-19. TNSGharuan varsity team lad in IPLMohali: Vaibhav Arora from Chandigarh University, Gharuan, is all set to make his debut in the 14th edition of IPL-2021. Arora has been picked up by Kolkata Knight Riders and is amongst the five young players bought during the IPL auctions held recently in Chennai. TNSCash, jewellery stolen from flatChandigarh: A theft incident was reported at a flat in Sector 49 here. Around Rs30,000 in cash and gold jewellery, including chain, mangalsutra, two earrings, bracelet and kada, were stolen from the flat on March 1. A case has been registered. TNSPunjab XI win opening tieChandigarh: Punjab XI defeated Rest of Punjab by six wickets in the opening match of the triangular cricket tournament, “Trident PCA Cup”, on Monday. After winning the toss, Rest of Punjab scored 225/9 in 50 overs. Salil Arora (82 off 76 balls studded with five boundaries and five sixes) and Sumeet Sharma (52 off 62 balls, including six boundaries) were the main run getters for the side. Abhinav Sharma claimed three, while Vinay Chaudhary and Ramandeep Singh claimed one wicket each for the bowling side. In reply, Punjab XI posted 227/4 in 37.1 overs. Abhijeet remained the main scorer (112 off 96 balls, including 14 boundaries and four sixes) for the side. His innings was supported by Prabhjot Singh. Kashish Panseja claimed two wickets for the bowling side. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/school-staff-vaccinated-225674
16-03-2021||Mohali||5 of snatchers' gang held with weapons||The police today arrested five members of a gang and recovered three motorcycles, a pistol with two rounds and other weapons from them near Jandpur village here.The suspects have been identified as UP natives Rakesh Giri, Shahrukh Khan, Chandan, Nanu and Sohail. All of them are in the age group of 20-24 years and reside in Zirakpur. They were reportedly involved in many snatching and theft cases in Kharar and Mohali.A case under Sections 399, 402, 379 and 379B of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered. A court today remanded them in police custody. During interrogation, it came to light that the gang had committed 70-80 such crimes near Sunny Enclave, Kharar, and Zirakpur. The gang was active for the past two-three years.The police said the gang targeted new colonies mostly. They generally targeted local labourers and commuters by snatching money and mobile phones with weapons. They were nabbed near Jandpur village while reportedly planning to execute a snatching in the area by a team of SI Harjinder Singh, CIA staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-of-snatchers-gang-held-with-weapons-225675
16-03-2021||---||Banking services crippled in over 500 branches in tricity||Chandigarh, March 15Banking services in over 500 branches of public sector banks in the tricity were crippled as employees went on a strike for two days, starting today, opposing privatisation. Services such as deposits and withdrawal at the branches and cheque clearance were affected as banks remained closed.“Today was the last date to deposit the EMI for my two-wheeler loan. I was not aware of the strike and since the branches are closed, I will be subjected to a penalty for no fault of mine,” said Kamal Thakur, a public sector bank customer. There were many like Kamal who were unaware of the strike.The strike has been called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions. It has called for a two-day nationwide strike on March 15 and 16 against the privatisation of public sector banks.Monday was the last date to deposit the EMI for my two-wheeler loan. I was not aware of the strike and since the branches are closed, I will be subjected to a penalty for no fault of mine. —Kamal Thakur, A customerIn the Union Budget presented last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the disinvestment plan of the government to generate Rs1.75 lakh crore. While opposing the legislations to privatise the banks, Sanjay Kumar Sharma, convener of the UFBU (Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali), said instead of further strengthening public sector banking, the present policies were aimed at weakening PSBs, by starving them of the required capital, human resources, through disinvestment and proposed privatisation.Branches of private sector lenders such as ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank and other new generation banks were, however, open as they were not part of the strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banking-services-crippled-in-over-500-branches-in-tricity-225679
