18-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Don’t entertain pleas of innocence after probe commencement: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 18In a judgment liable to change the way criminal cases are probed, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday barred the police from entertaining representation/request on behalf of the accused to examine innocence.The order would be applicable in every case where the investigation was underway after the registration of FIR. The Bench also prohibited the initiation of parallel inquiries.Justice Manoj Bajaj also quashed instructions dated May 4, 2017, which empowered police officers to carryout fresh inquiries on commission of offences. “It is evident that the instructions violate the process and procedure of investigation established by Code of Criminal Procedure and further cause abuse of the process of Court by submitting conflicting reports, which is against the cardinal principles of administration of criminal law,” Justice Bajaj ruled.Describing such inquiries as sheer and blatant interference with the process of justice, Justice Bajaj said it could not stand the test of justification. It was unfair for the prosecution also to forward inconsistent reports expressing diverse opinions on the same facts without any other material or evidence. “By following the instructions, the police officers higher in rank have violated the procedural law of investigation contained in Code of Criminal Procedure.”Justice Bajaj also made it clear that a trial Court could pass appropriate orders for suitable departmental/penal action against officers, if it found upon conclusion of trial that the acquittal of the accused was due to deliberate lapses in investigation. In all, Justice Bajaj issued seven commandments on criminal investigation.Justice Bajaj added the investigation would be conducted by the investigating officer strictly in accordance with the provisions of Code of Criminal Procedure. It would be necessary to intimate the magistrate concerned in writing, along with the reasons, in cases where the State government or the police ordered transfer of investigation after its commencement.It would also be mandatory to send a report to the magistrate, whenever the investigating officer decided to hold or stop the investigation against all or any of the accused after commencement of the probe.Both the governments of Punjab and Haryana, along with the UT Administration were directed to ensure that the police officers and public prosecutors were properly sensitised about their responsibilities and duties to strictly adhere to the statutory provisions of law on the investigation in crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-entertain-pleas-of-innocence-after-probe-commencement-hc-227112
18-03-2021||Mohali||Residents oppose demolition drive||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-oppose-demolition-drive-226988
18-03-2021||---||Cong blackens PM Modi’s pictures at fuel stations in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 17 A group of the Chandigarh Youth Congress activists staged a symbolic protest against the Centre by blackening PM Narendra Modi’s pictures at petrol pumps in different parts of the city this morning. Petrol pumps in Sectors 22, 33, 34, 46 and Ram Darbar were targeted. The Chandigarh Youth Congress attacked the Centre “for not making enough efforts to reduce the petrol prices and not fulfilling promises which were made by them before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections”. Modi’s posters at various petrol pumps were blackened. Youth Congress accused the Central Government for not keeping up with their promises and instead, burdening people with high fuel prices at a time when the crude oil prices were cheaper in the international market. They also pasted posters with the slogans such as ‘Bahut hui mehangai ki maar, zimmedaar Modi sarkar’. “This is the protest against rising inflation. The rates of gas and fuel has skyrocketed and is beyond the reach of the common man,” said Luv Kumar, president of the Youth Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-blackens-pm-modis-pictures-at-fuel-stations-in-chandigarh-226873
18-03-2021||---||Chandigarh to enhance testing to contain virus surge||Chandigarh, March 17 The UT Administration has decided to intensify measures to control the resurgence of coronavirus in the city. After a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the steps to be taken to contain the second wave of Covid-19 today, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the senior officials to follow three Ts — testing, tracking and treating. He appealed to the shopkeepers to ensure that the customers maintained social distancing within  shops and wore masks while shopping. He advised shopkeepers to get themselves tested early, since they come into contact with many customers. The Administrator also directed the Health Department to enhance the number of Covid tests, particularly the RT-PCR. He directed the doctors to send genome samples to Pune so that the strain of corona could be identified. Badnore further directed regular testing of schoolteachers, students and also persons coming from outside at railway station and bus terminus.  He appealed to the senior citizens and vulnerable persons to go for vaccination at the earliest. The Administrator directed the Director General of Police to intensify challaning in public places, eateries and markets to ensure wearing of mask and adherence to Covid protocol by everybody. He appealed to the residents to cooperate with the administration in fight against the deadly virus and strictly follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour. During the videoconference, the Administrator mentioned that though the number of Covid cases had reduced drastically in January and February, there had been a substantial rise thereafter. He informed the Prime Minister that against a population of 12 lakh, the UT Administration had already conducted 2.8 lakh tests. He also mentioned that 57,000 people had been vaccinated till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-enhance-testing-to-contain-virus-surge-226874
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t let customers in sans mask, traders told||In view of the rise in coronavirus cases, the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, has appealed to shopkeepers not to let any customer in without a mask. Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi said a meeting was called to discuss the current situation of coronavirus in the city. “Life is important, so we need to be cautious. Corona is knocking at our doors as cases are increasing by the day,” he said. Panchhi said the association had appealed to the traders not to let any customer come into their shop without wearing a mask and they should themselves also wear a mask while interacting with the customers as doctors have warned that this time, the wave of corona would be more dangerous. A poster on safety measures was released by the president and members of the association to spread awareness among the public about Covid.  “We need to take extra care because people have started becoming careless towards the virus and this can be fatal,” he said.  The second wave could be deadlier than the first one, so people have to be very careful and take all precautions, said Panchhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-let-customers-in-sans-mask-traders-told-226875
18-03-2021||---||897 senior citizens jabbed in Mohali||Mohali, March 17 As many as 897 senior citizens and 125 in the 45 to 59 age group with comorbidities were administered the first shot of the Covid vaccine here today.  In the category of healthcare workers, 196 were given the first dose while 54 received the second today. In the category of frontline workers, 177 got the first dose and 120 the second. A total of 13,222 senior citizens and 2,101 persons aged from 45 to 59 have been jabbed so far. As many as 7,570 healthcare workers have been given the first shot while 3,613 have got the second shot. Similarly, 6,192 frontline workers have received the first dose of the vaccine and 1,140 the second.  The helpline number of the Health Department, 104, can be contacted for queries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/897-senior-citizens-jabbed-in-mohali-226876
18-03-2021||Panchkula||585 get shot at 11 centres in Panchkula||As many as 585 beneficiaries, including 426 eligible citizens, took the Covid jab at 11 centres today.The Health Department had a target to vaccinate 750 persons. The drive was held at the Civil Hospital, ITBP centre (Bhanu), MLA Hostel, Polyclinic (Sector 26), Paras Hospital, Ojas Hospital, EMM, ENN Hospital, Panchkula Welfare Trust, Chakravarty Nursing Home, Aditya Rattan Heartline Hospital and Cloudnine Hospital.So far, 19,597 eligible citizens have been vaccinated.Panels to enforce normsThe district administration has constituted 14 committees, each consisting of one representative from the police, health and administration, to supervise and enforce Covid-19 norms in the district in view of the spike in daily Covid cases.The committees will keep a vigil on all types of gatherings in areas under their jurisdiction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/585-get-shot-at-11-centres-in-panchkula-226877
18-03-2021||---||26 sportspersons appointed cops||Chandigarh, March 17 Twenty-six outstanding sportspersons were given appointment letters by Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Minister for Sports, Youth Services and NRIs Affairs, at the Punjab Bhawan here today.  Out of the 79 candidates, three have been appointed sub-inspector and 23 constables, most of them gold medallists, in the first phase.  The outstanding players appointed sub-inspectors are Sarpreet Singh (cycling), Gurinder Singh (volleyball) and Jagdeep Kumar (boxing). Sodhi said: “When I presented the file regarding the appointment of these players before Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, he cleared it in a minute. There were some glitches on the part of medical and other documentation. So the process of appointing them was delayed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-sportspersons-appointed-cops-226878
18-03-2021||---||Chandigarh MC sub-panels get heads||Chandigarh, March 17 Nominations for three sub-committees of the Municipal Corporation were filed and their heads were elected. Councillor Dalip Sharma filed the nominations for the roads committee, councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali filed for the water supply and sewerage disposal committee and nominated councillor Charanjiv Singh filed nominations for the house tax assessment committee. Since there were no other nominations against their names, they got elected as the heads of these panels. The Mayor has the power to make these committees. The MC House had earlier approved the names of all members of the sub-panels. The recommendations of the committees are tabled in the House meetings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-sub-panels-get-heads-226870
18-03-2021||---||Property grab: HCS officer joins probe||Chandigarh, March 17  A Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officer, Manoj Khatri, today joined the police investigation into the property grab case. Two other persons, including then Khattri’s PA and one clerk of the Estate Office, also joined the investigation.  Khattri was posted at the Estate Office in 2017 when the deal of the Sector 37 house took place. Their statements were also recorded. Nine persons, including liquor baron Arvind Singla, Satpal Dagar (brother of a DSP), Khalendra Singh Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh Gupta, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar, Daljit Singh and Sanjeev Mahajan, have been booked by the police in the case registered at the Sector 39 police station on March 2. Sanjeev, Satpal, Manish Gupta and Inspector Rajdeep Singh have been arrested in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-hcs-officer-joins-probe-226871
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Graft case: ASI gets bail||Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI court, has granted bail to an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Chandigarh Police, Harbhajan Singh, who was arrested by the CBI for allegedly accepting Rs10,000 as bribe. Harbhajan Singh was arrested by the CBI on February 16 on the complaint of Dharampal, a resident of Lalru.  Dharmpal alleged that Harbhajan Singh demanded bribe from him and threatened to implicate him in a false case. According to the FIR, the police had received a complaint from a financier against Dharmpal for the alleged non-payment of a loan amount. The ASI was allegedly seeking a bribe from Dharmpal for not registering a case against him. The counsel of the accused told the court that the accused was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. On the other hand, public prosecutor KP Singh opposed the bail plea of the accused. After hearing the arguments, the court granted bail to Harbhajan Singh without commenting upon the merits of the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/graft-case-asi-gets-bail-226872
18-03-2021||---||Chikkarangappa in lead as Harendra slips to 2nd spot||Chandigarh, March 17Chandigarh’s Harendra Gupta slipped a place to tied 2nd after he shot a 2-under 70 in the second round for a two-day total of 8-under-136 in the Delhi-NCR Open Golf Championship at the Golden Greens Golf Club in Gurugram today.Defending champion Chikkarangappa S of Bengaluru carded a sublime 7-under 65, the day’s joint best score, to emerge as halfway leader.Gurugram’s Tapy Ghai (69-67) shared the second spot with Gupta at the Rs 30-lakh event. The cut was declared at 1-over-145.Chikkarangappa (70-65), lying overnight tied 12th and four off the lead, began the day with a flurry of birdies on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd holes, the latter two being conversions from 12 to 15 feet.He recovered well after his bogey on the 4th with two more birdies on the 8th and 9th.Ghai (69-67), who was tied-8th and three off the lead after first round, had nine birdies and four bogeys to show in his round of 67 today.Gupta (66-70), the Round 1 joint leader, returned a 70 that featured three birdies and a bogey. He made some gains towards the end after making pars on his first 13 holes.Another Chandigarh golfer, Ajeetesh Sandhu, the first round joint leader, slipped to tied 4th at 6-under 138 after a round of 72.Bengaluru’s Khalin Joshi, who also struck the day’s joint best score of 65, was bunched in tied-4th along with Sandhu, Pune’s Udayan Mane (67), Patna-based Aman Raj (66) and Gaurav Pratap Singh (68) of Noida.Delhi’s Honey Baisoya, who was a part of the three-way lead on Day 1, shot a 74 to drop to tied-12th at 4-under 140.PGTI Order of Merit leader and Chandigarh golfer Karandeep Kochhar (69) was also in tied 12th position. Rashid Khan (74) was a shot further behind in tied-17th place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chikkarangappa-in-lead-as-harendra-slips-to-2nd-spot-226867
18-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Finally, COA poll drama ends, questions over accountability||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 17After a faction of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) elected Vikram Singh as its president a few days ago, the group led by Amarinder Singh Bazaz held the poll to elect the new office bearers today.The split in the COA has brought disrepute to the local sports and has also raised questions over the working of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) as both the elections were conducted under their supervision.IOA observer Kuldeep Vats supervised both March 8 and today’s elections.Right after the faction led by Amarinder Singh Bazaz conducted their elections, Vikram Singh, who heads the rival faction, alleged that “bogus associations” had attended the poll.Bazaz was re-elected as president today, while NS Thakur was elected as general secretary. Harish Kakkar was elected as treasurer.Rahul Talwar, son of COA CEO Ravinder Talwar – an old member of the Chandigarh Olympic Association – was elected as vice president.Earlier, during March 8 elections, Vikram Singh, son of former COA general secretary Maha Singh, was elected as president of the rival faction.“Many bogus associations participated in today’s elections and one of the examples is from netball. The association (netball) affiliated to the national federation is in our support and the list is long. We will definitely move court,” said Vikram Singh.When asked if the group led by him plans to submit a complaint to the IOA, Vikram Singh said: “Not now, but we will definitely approach them after completing all the paper work.”Bazaz, meanwhile, hit back saying: “We have got the authority letters signed by respective association representatives.”Confusion prevailsMeanwhile, IOA observer Kuldeep Vats, who also attended the March 8 elections, failed to clear doubts over the COA’s authentication.When asked if he attended the previous elections in official capacity, Vats replied: “I was informed about elections on January 27. However, those were postponed. Later, I attended the March 8 elections on the basis of the previous orders. There could be some miscommunication.”Vats even announced that the body (led by Bazaz) would work for the welfare of sports.He said that IOA assesses performance of all the units. When asked about the COA’s performance, he replied: “Very bad.”“But things will change now,” said Vats.Right to ruleSources said that the fight was now not about the majority, but about who has followed the rules. “There’s no doubt that the COA follows the National Sports Code and whichever faction would have followed the rules will be granted affiliation.”As per the rules, only the president can call upon the elections and appoint returning officer. However, the other faction led by Vikram Singh had authorised the secretary for the procedure. Both sides should be taken to the task,” said a source.Maha Singh, former COA general secretary, meanwhile, alleged that Amarinder Singh Bazaz was not a resident of Chandigarh and hence cannot contest the elections.However, Bazaz said he had a rented accommodation in Sector 27.“As per the rule, he (Bazaz) cannot contest elections as he is not a resident of Chandigarh. All communication addressed to his local address returned undelivered. He is a former mayor of Patiala and also a resident of Patiala,” said Maha Singh.“I don’t have that much money to buy house in every city or wherever I wish. I have a rented accommodation here in Sector 27,” Bazaz rebutted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-coa-poll-drama-ends-questions-over-accountability-226868
18-03-2021||---||Santoor recital, Odissi dance mark Day 2 of Bhaskar Rao Nritya and Sangeet Sammelan||Chandigarh, March 17The second day of the ongoing Bhaskar Rao Nritya and Sangeet Sammelan at Tagore Theatre witnessed santoor recital and Odissi dance.One of the artistes at the event was India’s Global Music Ambassador, Sangeet Natak Awardee Santoor Maestro Pt Tarun Bhattacharya. His techniques of playing santoor also facilitates the playing of ‘Krintans, Ekharatans, Boltans’.The second artiste was a distinguished Odissi exponent SNA Awardee Sujata Mohapatra. She made her foray into the dancing arena in her early childhood when her interest in dance was nurtured from an early age by her parents.The programme commenced with santoor recital by Pt Tarun Bhattacharyya. He played a melodic raga, ‘Jansammohini’, and concluded his recital with a captivating ‘Bhatiyali Dhun’. He was embellished by Pune-based prominent tabla maestro Pt Ramdas Palsule.The Odissi dance troupe with Sujata were Prasanti Jena, Aknita Sengupta, Soumya Bose and Biswajit Chakraborty.Kendra Registrar Dr Shobha Koser and Secretary Sajal Koser were present on the occasion. Prof. Saubhgya Vardhan, former Director, NZCC, also graced the occasion as the chief guest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/santoor-recital-odissi-dance-mark-day-2-of-bhaskar-rao-nritya-and-sangeet-sammelan-226869
18-03-2021||---||AAP questions e-tender move of CHB||Chandigarh, March 17 The local unit of AAP has raised questions over the decision of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) to sell properties through e-tendering process, instead of e-auction.  President of city AAP Prem Garg says such a process may cause a huge revenue loss to the exchequer, as bidders will have no opportunity to compete with the other bidders and thus ad hoc bids filled in e-tenders by purchasers will have to be accepted by the board, though the second lower bidder might be willing to buy the property at a much higher price in e-auction. He said the CHB could use the NIC or any other professional e-auction platform, by getting the necessary approvals. In a communication to Manoj Parida, Chairman, CHB, and Yash Pal Garg, CEO of CHB, Garg has cautioned that the board may lose heavily by this “misadventure”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-questions-e-tender-move-of-chb-226863
18-03-2021||---||Official inspects Chandigarh NCC Group||Chandigarh, March 17The Additional Director General, NCC, Major General JS Sandhu, inspected the Chandigarh NCC group here today. He reviewed the functioning of different units comprising the group.This was his first visit to the group, which has one unit each of the Army, Navy, Air and girls wing, since assuming the charge of the Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate.He was briefed about training activities and other administrative aspects by Group Commander Brigadier BS Dhillon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/official-inspects-chandigarh-ncc-group-226864
18-03-2021||---||2-day rowing meet at Chandigarh's Lake Sports Complex from March 20||Chandigarh, March 17The Chandigarh Rowing Association will organise the Chandigarh State Rowing Championship at the Lake Sports Complex here from March 20-21.Interested rowers need to confirm their entries with coaches Arvind Sehgal and Deepak Kumar on or before March 19. The events will be held, adhering to the Covid-19 protocols, in the single scull, double scull, coxless pairs and coxless-four for sub-junior, junior and senior categories, said the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-day-rowing-meet-at-chandigarhs-lake-sports-complex-from-march-20-226865
18-03-2021||Mohali||Get e-voter card on doorstep in Mohali||Mohali Additional Deputy Commissioner-cum-Additional District Electoral Officer Ashika Jain said today that all the booth-level officers (BLOs) of the district will go door to door on March 20 and 21 to get the newly registered voters to download the e-Voter Photo Identity Card (e-Epic).As per the instructions of Election Commission of India, a cursory revision of voter lists was carried out in three assembly constituencies under Mohali district from November 16 to December 15 to achieve the target of 100 per cent eligible voters.Voters can download their e-Voter Photo Identity Card from the voter helpline app or web portal (https: // nvsp.in).Ashika Jain said that the cursory correction of the voter list was done during which 4,896 new voters were registered in Kharar constituency, 4,181 in SAS Nagar constituency and 4,918 in Dera Bassi constituency.She appealed to all the newly registered voters to extend their full support to the concerned BLOs in downloading the e-Voter Photo Identity Card on their arrival at their homes on March 20 and 21. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-e-voter-card-on-doorstep-in-mohali-226866
18-03-2021||---||Chandigarh heritage items to be auctioned in Italy on March 24||Chandigarh, March 17Several heritage items from the city will be put up for auction in Italy on March 24.Ajay Jagga, Member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, stated that a set of six chairs with structure and armrests in wood and seat in woven cane and a sofa with wooden structure and fabric upholstery would be put up for sale by the auction house, Cambi Casa d’Aste, in Milan on March 24.In a letter to Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Jagga stated that an auction of Chandigarh heritage items was going to take place on March 24 in Milan, in violation of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) orders dated February 22, 2011.“There is an emergent need to the get the matter examined from the law enforcing agencies of Italy, as to how these items reached there,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-items-to-be-auctioned-in-italy-on-march-24-226862
18-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Surge forces quarantine team to up manpower||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 17With Covid-19 cases increasing, the number of people being quarantined has also gone up, making the contact tracing and quarantine team raise its staff strength again.“After the cases saw a downward trend, the team had reduced its staff. However, one month ago, it again had to depute more staff from other wings of the MC to cater to the rising number of people to be traced and quarantined,” said one of the team members.In the past one week, 1,211 persons were quarantined by the MC team. In one year, from March last year when the pandemic hit the city till March 16 this year, 56,645 persons have been quarantined in the UT. As many as 2,457 people were in quarantine for the March 1-March 15 period.“Our job of tracing and quarantining contacts of positive people is on. Though there was a breather earlier, the number of people being quarantined has increased now,” said MC Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg, who heads the team.According to an official, after they get the report of a positive person from the Health Department, they contact the patient on the phone and take the details of his or her recent contacts.The contacts are quarantined for 17 days and a certificate is issued to them in this regard. In case the person who tests positive is already in a hospital, his contacts are quarantined for 14 days.Unlike earlier, now it is becoming difficult to trace the infection source of a positive person due to the large number of cases.“Now, there are many cases, so many people do not come to know from where they have got the infection. People have also started hiding their travel information. They just say we have not gone anywhere,” said a member of the tracing team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surge-forces-quarantine-team-to-up-manpower-226846
18-03-2021||Panchkula||60 contract virus in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-contract-virus-in-panchkula-226848
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||201 more from Chandigarh infected||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/201-more-from-chandigarh-infected-226850
18-03-2021||Mohali||1 death, 222 new cases in Mohali dist||For the second time in three days, the number of new Covid cases in the district has crossed the 200 mark, scaling a new high from 206 on March 14 to 222 cases today. The fresh surge has taken the district about six months back when 200 cases were being reported on an average.Meanwhile, one death due to Covid-19 was reported from the district today. As many as 89 patients recovered from the virus during the past 24 hours.Among the new cases, 144 were from Mohali (urban), 28 from Dera Bassi, 18 each from Dhakoli and Kharar, eight from Banur, four from Gharuan and one each from Kurali and Lalru.The district tally stands at 22,440 and recoveries 20,457. With one fresh fatality, the toll reached 408. There are 1,575 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-death-222-new-cases-in-mohali-dist-226851
18-03-2021||Saurabh Malik  ---||6 years on, High Court directs expeditious trial||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 17  The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the trial court/CBI Special Judge to expeditiously conclude the trial in more than six-year-old case allegedly involving Chandigarh Municipal Corporation officers and M/s Selvel Media Services Pvt. Ltd. The case revolves around the operation and maintenance of toilet blocks in various complexes of the UT. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan made it clear that the trial was required to be completed preferably within two years, considering the fact that proceedings were stayed in 2016. The direction on a petition filed by Jimmy Subawalla and other petitioners against the CBI and other respondents came as Justice Sangwan refused to quash the proceedings. Director of M/s Selvel Media Services Pvt Ltd, Subawalla, and other petitioners were seeking directions for quashing the FIR dated December 9, 2014, for cheating and criminal conspiracy under Sections 120-B and 420 of the IPC, along with the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Directions were also sought for quashing further proceedings pending before the Special Judge. In reply, counsel Sumeet Goel contended on respondent CBI’s behalf that all accused, in conspiracy with each other, caused a huge loss to the public exchequer. The petition was filed at the stage when the charges were to be framed. “For the purpose of framing of charge, the court is required to satisfy if a prima facie case exists for proceeding against the accused. For that limited purpose, the court can evaluate the material or documents on record, but cannot appreciate the evidence,” Goel contended. The Bench, among other things, was told that the conspiracy between then executive engineer RC Diwan and M/s Selvel Media Services Pvt Ltd was apparent on record. In order to give undue benefit, he, by the way of negotiation, firstly reduced the bid from Rs9,800 to Rs8,800 with an annual increase of 10 per cent instead of 15 per cent as quoted in the original bid.  Goel further submitted that the conspiracy was also apparent as the petitioners gave a conditional bid even though it was specifically provided that conditional bid would not be accepted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-years-on-high-court-directs-expeditious-trial-226853
18-03-2021||Amit Bathla||Graft: Ex-GM of BSNL held guilty||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 17The special CBI court today convicted Chander Shekhar, the then General Manager of the Rohtak Telecom Circle of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) in a 17-year-old graft case.CBI sleuths had caught Shekhar red-handed while taking a bribe of Rs 25,000 from a contractor in June 2004.The convict has been sent to Ambala jail. The quantum of sentence will be pronounced on March 22.Shekhar was currently serving as the Deputy Director General in the Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications, Government of India.In 2005, the charges were framed by the special CBI court in Ambala (as earlier the court was located there).According to the CBI, Shekhar was caught red-handed while accepting a sum of Rs25,000 from the complainant with a motive to approve tender.During an investigation, the office and residential premises of the accused were searched and a number of incriminating documents and articles, including Rs45 lakh, were recovered.Thereafter, the CBI had also booked him under disproportionate assets case under Section 13(1)(e) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. This case is still pending in the special CBI court.“During the investigation, the accused hasn’t been able to put forth any explanation regarding possession of such huge cash,” the CBI said.*The oldest caseThis 17-year-old case was probably the oldest pending matter in the CBI court, Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/graft-ex-gm-of-bsnl-held-guilty-226856
18-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Power privatisation: No new firm shows interest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 17Despite extending the last date for the submission of the bids, no new company has evinced interest in the privatisation of the UT Electricity Department.The UT Administration had recently extended the last date to submit bids till March 18 after making changes in the request for proposal (RFP) conditions in the tender documents.A senior official said till date, no new company had come forward to take part in the privatisation process after certain conditions were incorporated in the bid documents.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.As many as 20 intended bidders purchased the tenders, but only six companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power — had submitted their bids by the last date on February 8.However, on a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-privatisation-no-new-firm-shows-interest-226858
18-03-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||17 pupils of Dera Bassi dental college test +ve||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 17Seventeen students of Sri Sukhmani Dental College and Hospital in Dera Bassi tested positive for the novel coronavirus today. As a precautionary measure, the college has been closed for the next five days by the Health Department.As per information, around 120 students of the college had gone on a tour to Jaisalmer recently. When they returned, some of the students complained of cough, cold and fever. Some students took the Covid test, out of which two returned positive.The Health Department later took samples of 42 students, out of which 17 students reported positive today.The infected students include 12 girls and five boys. Three infected boys and six infected girls live in college hostels while two boys and six girls live in different PGs at Dera Bassi.The college hostel has been declared a micro-containment zone and all the patients have been kept in isolation.Senior Medical Officer, Dera Bassi, Dr Sangeeta Jain said that the infected students had been instructed not to leave the hostel.One teacher was also found positive after which samples of 32 more students have been taken today, the results of which are awaited.It may be recalled that nine students and five staff members of the National Dental College on Gulabgarh Road here were found positive recently following which the college was closed temporarily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-pupils-of-dera-bassi-dental-college-test-ve-226859
18-03-2021||Naina Mishra||At 7.6%, Chandigarh positivity rate is second highest in India||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 17As the UT completes one year of the Covid-19 outbreak today, the virus transmission has again started to grip residents after a lull of four months, taking the positivity rate of the city once again to the second highest in the country.Despite conducting more than the average number of tests in the country, the UT positivity rate stands tall at 7.6 per cent, only behind Maharashtra.Health experts have flagged the concern over the rising positivity rate despite a greater number of tests being conducted in the city. “If more tests are conducted and the positivity rate shoots beyond 5 per cent, it implies that there is an outbreak in the community,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the Department of Community Medicine and Public Health, PGI.At one point of time, the positivity rate of the city had dipped from 30.21 per cent on September 1 to 15 per cent on October 10, but it was still above the national average of 8.1 per cent. Even at that time, the city’s positivity rate was the second highest in the country, next to Maharashtra.In the last week, the number of new infections has grown exponentially by an average of 0.6 per cent every day. The growth rate is the third highest in the country.The first case was reported on March 18 last year. A 23-year-old woman, who had returned from the UK, had tested positive for Covid. From thereon, a total of 23,592 city residents have contracted the infection, which comprises 2 per cent of the total population. For every 10 lakh people in the city, around 2,39,319 samples have been tested and 19,840 have tested positive for the virus.Residents’ cooperation helped UT keep fatality rate minimal: AdviserUT Adviser, Manoj Parida said, “We fought a tough battle against Covid and brought it under control without causing much hardship to the common man. The outbreak in Bapu Dham was contained successfully. It is because of the cooperation of the people that our fatality rate has been minimal. We expect to get the same support from the city residents during the second surge. Since we cannot seal our borders, banning entry from outside, our success in fighting corona will depend on the performance of the neighbouring states.”Can fight 2nd wave with ‘test, track, treat’: PGI DirectorPGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said, “The pandemic changed the healthcare system as it curtailed OPD services and affected the non-Covid patients. The institute had to start telemedicine to cater to the patients. The Nehru Hospital has attended to close to 3,000 Covid patients. There is a need to prevent this second wave with the help of testing, tracking, and treating Covid patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-7-6-chandigarh-positivity-rate-is-second-highest-in-india-226861
