19-03-2021||---||Sans mask: Give Rs 1,000 fine, take COVID-19 test in Mohali||Mohali, March 19If you are going outdoors without a face mask, be prepared to pay Rs 1,000 fine and take an on-the-spot COVID-19 test in Mohali. Police will, however, hand a face mask to the offenders for free. On day 1 of this first-of-its-kind drive, 62 persons were challaned in Phase 3B2 market and the health department officials took their samples for COVID-19 test. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “On the orders of Deputy Commissioner, the drive is being carried out to persuade people to go outdoors and in public places with face masks and it will continue in the coming days.” The exercise was carried out in Zirakpur, Phase 3B2 and other spots. Cops said the offender has to pay Rs 1,000 fine and if a person does not have the money on the spot he/she will have to appear in the SDM court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sans-mask-give-rs-1-000-fine-take-covid-19-test-in-mohali-227629
19-03-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula’s silver lining — No Covid death since February 24||The district has adequate hospital beds to deal with the rising caseload, said the Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, amid a spike in the daily Covid-19 cases.“We have made a Covid care centre functional in the wake of the emerging Covid-19 situation even though most of the cases are mild and in home isolation,” she said.Contrary to what was witnessed in January and February, the Covid cases have gone up this month, with the district reporting 96 cases on March 16, the highest since November 28.Panels to enforce Covid-19 behaviourRecently, the Panchkula administration had constituted 14 committees, each consisting of one representative from the police, health and administration, to supervise and enforce Covid norms in the district.Death toll stands at 149However, despite this, the silver lining remains that the death rate has remained stagnant. It was February 24 when the last Covid death was reported from the district. Since then, the death toll stands at 149.Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “The vaccination of those above 60 will help keep the death rate low in the current Covid-19 wave.” — TNS46 test +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 46 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 11,574. The toll remained 149. While 10,961 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 464 cases are active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkulas-silver-lining-%E2%80%94-no-covid-death-since-february-24-227291
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration imposes curbs in 6 zones||To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration today declared six containment zones in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the issue of the Covid-19 outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as containment zones in the city.The affected areas declared as containment zones were parts of Sector 15, 29, 33-B, 38-B, 44-D, and 49-A. He said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted, he added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-imposes-curbs-in-6-zones-227293
19-03-2021||Mohali||Surge: Curfew extended by 2 hours in Mohali district||In view of a spurt in Covid cases during the past one week, the curfew timings in the district has been increased by two hours.The curfew will now be effective from 9 pm to 5 am, instead of 11 pm to 5 am in Mohali. All shops will be closed by 8.30 pm, while essential services will function as usual.Aashika Jain, Additional Deputy Commissioner, said following the directions of the state government, the night curfew had been extended by two hours. She said the main objective was to discourage large presence of people at marriage palaces, discotheques, restaurants and hotels. She added that strict action would be taken against the violators.Jain said the district administration had arranged 100 beds at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, and 19 beds at the de-addiction centre in Sector 66 for Level 1 category patients. Hospital administrations had been told to update the health status of critical patients daily so that all available resources could be pooled to contain the case fatality rate, which was at 1.8 per cent. It is pertinent to mention here that the district administration had already directed the hospitals to postpone elective surgeries as far as possible to dedicate requisite resources towards treatment of Covid patients.To meet the shortage of staff in hospitals in view of the spurt in Covid cases, the district administration would rope in doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff on contractual bases as per the norms laid by the Health Department. Earlier, the term of the medical professionals, who had joined on contractual basis, had ended in November last year.On March 1, the district Covid tally stood at 20,375, which has now shot up to 22,654. The number of deaths has gone up from 385 to 408.In February, 20 Covid deaths were reported while in the past 18 days, 23 deaths have been reported from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surge-curfew-extended-by-2-hours-in-mohali-district-227295
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Get tested, display board outside shops, traders told||To prevent further transmission of the coronavirus, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has appealed to shopkeepers to get themselves voluntarily tested and display a signboard in front of their shops stating that they and their staff are free from the virus.58,157 doses administered so farDr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said till date, 58,157 Covid vaccine doses had been administered in the UT.During a review meeting on Covid-19, the Administrator also advised owners of restaurants and eating places to reduce the number of tables so that there is proper social distancing and avoid close physical interaction among customers.211 more cases in cityChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported 211 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the active caseload to 1,466. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 23,803. With no fresh fatality, the toll remained 359. A total of 75 patients were cured during the past 24 hours.The Administrator directed that testing, particularly the RT-PCR, should be enhanced. He advised the hospital authorities to ensure that patients going for OPD consultation should preferably get themselves tested for Covid either from the government or private facilities available in the UT. “This will reduce the risk of spread of the corona infection on the premises of the hospitals and prevent unnecessary risk to health workers and other patients,” he said.2,071 vaccinatedAs many as 2,071 beneficiaries, including 1,258 eligible citizens, were administered the Covid-19 vaccine at 43 sites in the city on Thursday. Over 60,000 people have been vaccinated in the city so far.The Administrator directed the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, to intensify contact tracing and enhance sanitisation in the city. He also directed the police authorities to intensify challaning, particularly against those not wearing masks in crowded places, including markets. During the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said they had administered 9,000 doses of the Covid vaccine so far.Dr GD Puri of the PGI said surprisingly, many young patients had been affected in the recent surge with severe infection and a large number of such patients were coming from rural areas.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said till date, 58,157 Covid vaccine doses had been administered in the UT. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-tested-display-board-outside-shops-traders-told-227298
19-03-2021||Mohali||214 more found infected in Mohali district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/214-more-found-infected-in-mohali-district-227305
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Power Dept privatisation: Another firm throws hat in ring, 7 in the fray||With the submission of another bid, seven companies are now in the fray for taking over the UT Electricity Department.A senior official said one more firm — Eminent Electricity Power Company — had submitted a technical bid to take part in the privatisation process after certain conditions were added to the bid documents.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department. As many as 20 intended bidders were issued the request for proposal (RFP), but only six companies had submitted their bids by the last date (February 8).However, the UT Administration had recently extended the last date for submitting the bids to March 18 after making some changes in the RFP conditions in the tender documents. The official said the bids would be opened on Monday and the name of the highest bidder would be sent to the Union Cabinet for final approval. On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-power-dept-privatisation-another-firm-throws-hat-in-ring-7-in-the-fray-227320
19-03-2021||Panchkula||Cong wants security for councillor, stages protest||The local unit of the Congress, led by former Deputy CM Chander Mohan, today staged a protest over the alleged knife attack on Pankaj Valmiki, party councillor from Ward No. 6, on March 14.While Congress workers were marching to lay a siege to the DGP office in Sector 6, the police stopped them near the barricaded Geeta Chowk. The protesters raised slogans against the police and submitted a memorandum seeking action against those involved in the case. “Though they had arrested four or five suspects, some are still roaming free. We have decided to give another chance to the police to take necessary action in the case,” said Chander Mohan.The Congress also demanded security for Pankaj. They said he was vulnerable to more such attacks. On this, the police said security was provided on the basis of the threat perception. “We will soon complete the process and take a decision accordingly,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police Vijay Kumar Nehra.“We have so far arrested five people in the case. The police are taking strict action against those indulging in the drug trade,” Nehra said.The protesters demanded that a team should be constituted with the Chandigarh Police to crack down on drug suppliers in Indira Colony, Rajiv Colony and Mauli Jagran. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-wants-security-for-councillor-stages-protest-227321
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Property fraud case: Statements of 2 recorded||The statements of Aneesh, owner of a stud farm in Gujarat, where the victim in the property grab case was allegedly kept by the accused, and a chemist, Amit, were recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC today.The police had found that in June/July 2017, Surjit and other suspects took the victim, Rahul Mehta, to Bhuj in Gujarat and confined him in a stud farm for around three months. Surjit had told Aneesh that Rahul was homeless and had some health issues. He also told Aneesh that he would take Rahul back after sometime. However, after a few months, when Surjit didn’t come to take Rahul back, Aneesh got Rahul admitted to Shri Ramdev Seva Ashram, Bhuj. After that, he was shifted to Shraddha Foundation, Karjat, Maharashtra, and then to Apna Ghar Ashram, Delhi. Thereafter, he was shifted to Apna Ghar Ashram, Rajasthan.The police also recorded the statement of a chemist named Amit from whose shop in Sector 37 Rahul used to purchase medicines. Sources said after Rahul went missing, Amit tried to know about his whereabouts. However, the police allegedly asked him to remain quite. He was allegedly harassed by cops. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-fraud-case-statements-of-2-recorded-227324
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Property tax: 90K get no-dues certificate in Chandigarh||The property tax branch of the MC has issued no-dues certificate to 90,000 property tax payers in the city.The MC has planned to issue the certificate to 97,000 taxpayers. “A total of 90,000 slips have already been issued,” said MC Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg.The practice was started last year after many discrepancies were found in property tax records. Several people, who had paid the tax, were still getting bills. Some of them, who had already paid, did not have old payment slips. At that time, even the corporation did not have old records. Thus, it caused harassment to residents.This had become a big issue and was raised in the MC House as well following which the corporation set its own house in order after most taxpayers cleared their dues.To allay fears of the residents that they will not get the old bills again, the civic body decided to issue them computer-generated clearance certificate. It is being sent to all through post. “Now, our all property tax records are maintained on the computer. With a click of a mouse, even taxpayers can get the payment details of previous years,” shared an official.The total number of residential and commercial tax payers in the city is 1.06 lakh. Other 41,000 property owners are either fully or partially exempted from paying the levy. The civic body has earned a revenue of Rs57 crore in the form of property tax in the current fiscal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-tax-90k-get-no-dues-certificate-in-chandigarh-227325
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Give details of CVO’s duties in 10 days: HC to Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has given the Chandigarh Administration and its functionaries 10 days to come up with the details of the duties enjoined upon the chief vigilance officer (CVO).The counsel appearing for the Administration and other respondents has also been asked to seek instructions from the authorities concerned whether the duties were being discharged on a regular basis and that too promptly.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh passed the directions after the UT counsel prayed for additional time to file a reply to the queries earlier raised by the Court. The Bench also fixed the matter for the March last week for further hearing.Next hearingThe UT Administration has already been asked to apprise the Bench of whether a regular chief vigilance officer was functioning in Chandigarh. It was also asked to come up with the details of a vigilance inquiry, if pending, on a representation filed by the Marble Arch Residents’ Welfare Association.The Bench was earlier told that that the site for M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited was auctioned for approximately Rs108 crore. In the brochure issued thereafter, it was promised that 168 flats of three/four bedrooms would be constructed in nine towers.Believing the representation, the petitioner-association purchased the flats. Possession was, thereafter, handed over to the allottees and sale deeds were also executed. As the matter was being dealt with by the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, the petitioner-association was confident that the civic body would act in a transparent manner. The petitioner’s counsel added M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited did not undertake any activity for raising flats for the economical weaker sections (EWS) category. In March 2016, however, they decided to raise another tower for the construction of flats for the EWS. Even permission for this construction was granted by the authority concerned. Thereafter, petitioner-association made representations and vigilance inquiry was also instituted. However, the petitioner-association had no inkling about the fate of the vigilance inquiry.The Bench, on a previous date of hearing, had asserted: “The Court also be apprised of whether a regular chief vigilance officer is functioning in Chandigarh. In case assertion of the petitioner as regards pendency of vigilance inquiry is correct, court may be told whether any progress has been made in the inquiry. The authority concerned shall be at liberty to file an affidavit in this regard”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/give-details-of-cvos-duties-in-10-days-hc-to-chandigarh-227328
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccinate school staff on priority: Assn to Badnore||The Independent Schools’ Association (ISA), Chandigarh, has written to the UT Administrator for considering school teachers and workers as frontline workers for Covid-19 inoculation process.In a letter to VP Singh Badnore, Governor Punjab and UT Administrator, the ISA said that teachers and other workers should be administered Covid-19 vaccine in anticipation of start of physical classes from April 1.“Now that there are plans to physically start schools for new academic session from April 1 (depending upon the circumstances), we have approached the Administrator to consider our teachers and workers (administrative staff, class IV employees) in the frontline section for vaccine shots on a priority basis,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA.“Our association had difficult time last year and all schools have made efforts to provide online education to their students to the best of their ability. The teachers and other staff have done a commendable job and they should be given vaccines on priority,” said Mamik.Over 75 schools in the tricity are affiliated to the ISA.“Covid-19 is dangerous for one and all. Since the frontline workers of all age groups have already been administered the vaccine, we should also be taken into account,” said one of the teachers.“Most of the schools have already started and we have to interact with different people. We are at equal risk and the administration should think on this,” the teacher added.The staff strength in each tricity school is around 250.“Not only for the ISA, but the administration should also think about teachers teaching in government schools. We have seen a number of cases in neighbouring states, where both teachers and students got infected. Precautionary steps should be taken for all teachers, including those teaching in schools located in congested areas,” said another teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccinate-school-staff-on-priority-assn-to-badnore-227330
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hallo Majra protest: Bail granted to three youths||A local court has granted bail to three youths arrested for allegedly blocking the road at the Hallo Majra light point and pelting a police team with stones on March 6.A large number of people had gathered at the light point to protest against the murder of a six-year-old girl. The protesters had blocked the road leaving commuters at the receiving end.After registering the case under Sections 147, 149, 332, 353, 341 and 323 of the IPC, the police arrested Amandeep Singh and Vaibhav of Punjab and Gopal, a resident of Hallo Majra.In the FIR, the police alleged that the arrested youths hurled stones at cops and obstructed the police from discharging their duty.Dilsher Singh Jandiala, counsel of the accused, told the court that they were innocent and two of them were pursuing their studies. He said the accused were from respectable families and keeping them in jail would not serve any purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hallo-majra-protest-bail-granted-to-three-youths-227331
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Team of cops, engineering wing visits 15 accident spots||A joint team of the Chandigarh Police and the engineering wing of the Administration and the Municipal Corporation (MC) today visited various spots where fatal accidents were reported in the city. The team visited these spots to study if there are any engineering faults, which led to accidents, so that corrective measures can be taken.DSP (Traffic) Jaswinder Singh said the team visited 15 spots, including Poultry Farm chowk, Hallo Majra light point, Transport light point, Press light point, Colony No. 5 light point, where fatal accidents were reported in the recent past.The cops were accompanied by officials from the Administration and the MC.A report on observations made by the team at the accident spots will be prepared and sent to the Engineering Department so that corrective measures, if required, can be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/team-of-cops-engineering-wing-visits-15-accident-spots-227332
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Flautist, tabla exponent, vocalist enliven Day 3||Celebrated flautist Pt. Rakesh Chaurasia, tabla exponent Pt. Jaidev and melodic vocalist Mahalaxmi Shenoy enlivened Day 3 of the Bhaskar Rao Nritya and Sangeet Sammelan at Tagore Theatre in Sector 18 here.Pt. Jaidev presented special classics of Punjab tabla gharana like ‘rele kayde palte’ and won applause for every move on the stage. Ravinder Singh ably accompanied on harmonium.After this performance, Mahalaxmi took the centre stage. She chose raga Kalawati with aalap followed by a “bandish in vilambit ek taal with bols sajan ghar aaye”. She then moved on to present drut teen taal composition with bols “tumhare bina main to” amidst applause. She concluded with special compositions, bhajans in Konkani and Kannada. She was ably accompanied by Pt. Abhishek Mishra on tabla.In the third performance of the day, Pt. Rakesh Chaurasia commenced with raga Durga through an aalap and jod. He then doled out with composition in “madhya taal”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flautist-tabla-exponent-vocalist-enliven-day-3-227333
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||High Court makes Roorkee institute a party to Save Sukhna case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today impleaded the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, as a respondent in the Save Sukhna case. The institute had, among other things, stated that Sukhna Lake was not dying after all.The direction came as the special Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu extended the stay on High Court’s previous orders directing the demolition of constructions in the catchment area and the imposition of unprecedented costs of Rs200 crore on Punjab and Haryana.During the hearing, Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda also presented a letter stating that the Survey of India’s 2004 map was not topographic. Responding to the submission, counsel appearing for residents submitted that action should not be taken on its basis under the circumstances.The directions came after the Bench heard Nanda for the State of Punjab; counsel Rajeev Anand for Kansal Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association and UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain.Digging deep into the Save Sukhna issue, the Roorkee-based institute had earlier come out with a slew of suggestionsfor prolonging the lake’s life. The institute had asserted that the lake could not be said to be “limnologically” dying.Limnologically, a lake dies only when it gets completely filled with sediments and turns into a marshy or a land area. “The people of Chandigarh and those who are attached with Sukhna Lake should be enlightened to refrain from overreacting or scaring… People should be informed that there is nothing to panic about, if the lake occasionally dries in a year or so, that too for a month or so, due to periodic occurrences of deficit rainfall years…,” the report had advised.Among other things, it suggested the checking of evaporation to preserve water in the lake.The report also recommended an increase in the overall capacity of lake and lowering the capacity of check dams.“Certain evaporation retarding chemicals are available which are known to reduce evaporation. However, to avoid any possible negative impacts of such chemicals on the flora and fauna of the lake, they are not recommended for Sukhna. Instead, it is suggested that a physical method such as reduction in the exposed water spread area be adopted for the lake because evaporation is predominantly a surface phenomenon,” the report had added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-makes-roorkee-institute-a-party-to-save-sukhna-case-227334
19-03-2021||Panchkula||1,378 citizens get jab in Panchkula||As many as 1,378 eligible citizens (above 60 and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities) were administered the Covid-19 vaccine at 22 centres on Thursday.The coverage rate stood at 87 per cent. Besides, 60 healthcare workers and 170 frontline workers took the first and second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.The vaccination centres included the Civil Hospital, Sub-Divisional Hospital, Kalka, all primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs), Paras Hospital, Ojas Hospital and Malik Hospital.Over 38K people have been vaccinated in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-378-citizens-get-jab-in-panchkula-227336
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Congress leaders arrested, released on bail||The UT police today arrested six Youth Congress leaders who had yesterday blackened PM Narendra Modi’s hoardings at different petrol pumps across the city in protest against the rising fuel prices.The police later released them on bail. An FIR against Youth Congress city unit head Luv Kumar, general secretary Ashish Gajnavi, general secretary Jaanu Malik, district president Dheeraj Gupta, district vice-president Sukhdev Sukhi and media in-charge Vinayak Bangia was lodged at the Sector 34 police station yesterday.Instead of pressuring the UT police to file an FIR against us, BJP should have tried to speak to the PM and raise issue of fuel hike which is burning a hole in the pocket of the common man. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-congress-leaders-arrested-released-on-bail-227337
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||162 bids for allotment of 80 liquor vends to open today||For the allotment of 80 liquor vends, the UT Excise and Taxation Department has received 162 bids, which will be opened tomorrow. The department has put 96 liquor vends for auction for the financial year 2021-22. The process was started on March 10 and today was the last date to submit the bids.The highest reserve price of Rs7.95 crore has been set for a liquor vend in Dhanas. In 2019-20, it had earned a record revenue of Rs10.78 crore for the department. Last year also, it was allotted at Rs 7.05 crore.Other vends with the highest reserve price are at Khuda Lahora/Khuda Jassu (Rs6.75 crore) and Sector 30 (Rs6.4 crore). The reserve price of a vend in Sector 9, which had fetched the highest price of Rs7.56 crore last year, is Rs6.1 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/162-bids-for-allotment-of-80-liquor-vends-to-open-today-227338
19-03-2021||Chandigarh||Withdraw additional PGMs, GMs: BSNL employees’ union||The Sanchar Nigam Executives’ Association (SNEA), an employees’ union of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), has sought withdrawal of 225 additional principal general managers (PGMs) and general managers (GMs) posted on deputation from the Department of Telecommunication (DoT).In a letter to the Chairman & Managing Director, PK Purwar, the association claimed that operator was incurring huge losses amounting to Rs80 crore-Rs100 crore annually as salary and expenses towards these excess officers on deputation from the DoT.“Excess PGM/GMs at BSNL and circles, numbering about 225, may be sent back to the DoT without further delay and save huge expenditure of Rs80 to Rs100 crore. If corrective steps are not taken immediately, BSNL also will go in the MTNL way,” states the letter sent by K Sebastin, General Secretary, SNEA. — TNSGraft: Ex-GM of BSNL held guilty||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/withdraw-additional-pgms-gms-bsnl-employees-union-227339
19-03-2021||Mohali||Youth killed as truck hits bike||Labs, hostels open for final-yr pupilsChandigarh: A Panjab University committee, constituted by the Dean University Instructions, to discuss opening of hostels unanimously decided that all final-year students of postgraduate courses, who are in the final semester and require laboratory work to complete their dissertation, to be allowed to stay in hostels. All postgraduate (final-year) final semester students should be also allowed to attend laboratory work in their respective departments. TNSPhotoshoot of activities at GMHSChandigarh: Various activities were held at Government Model High School (GMHS), Mauli Colony, here on Thursday. As per the directions of the Department of Education, activities related to study with photoshoot of schoolchildren were to be held in schools. Children from all streams took part in these activities. Teachers of special training centres (STC) from cluster-20, Chandigarh, were part of such activities and photos were shot of study through teaching and learning materials. TNS4-wkt win for PCA Rest of Punjab (Red)Chandigarh: On the third day of the league matches in the ongoing Trident PCA Cup 2021 - Triangular Challenger Series, PCA Rest of Punjab (Red) logged a four-wicket win over PCA Rest of Punjab (Green). After winning the toss, the Green team scored 206 runs in 47.3 overs. Harjot Dhawan (40), Naman Dhir (35), Talwinder Brar (30) and Daman (30) were the main run getters for the side. In reply, the Red team posted 207/6 in 44.5 overs. Opener Nehal Wadhera scored an unbeaten 67 off 68 balls, while Kuwar Pathak (30), Kashish Pasneja (28), Chitkara (20) and Salil Arora (19) were the others to shine with the bat. TNSHockey Haryana win sub-jr titleChandigarh: Hockey Haryana defeated Hockey Jharkhand 4-3 in a penalty shootout to clinch the 11th Hockey India Sub-Junior Women National Championship 2021 title. The first half ended goalless in a closely contested final between two high-scoring sides. The deadlock continued in the second half with neither Hockey Haryana nor Hockey Jharkhand coming close to scoring. Hockey Haryana captain and custodian Nidhi starred in the shootout, denying Edlin Bage and Sweety Dungdung and Nisha Minj’s attempts on goal. Ritika, Kanika Siwach, Manisha and Sakshi Rana scored in the shootout for Hockey Haryana. Earlier in the day, Uttar Pradesh Hockey finished third in the championship by edging out Hockey Odisha 3-1. TNSCity NSS unit shines at campChandigarh: As many as 11 members of the Chandigarh NSS unit attended the National Integration Camp organised by the Regional Directorate, Lucknow, and Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Ruhilkhand University, Bareilly, from March 9 to 16. The NSS unit won three medals — two for speech and one for poetry. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-killed-as-truck-hits-bike-227340
19-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh announces six new containment zones, but no night curfew||Despite Punjab announcing night curfew in nine districts, Chandigarh administration on Thursday decided not to implement a night curfew in the city.Apart from this, the administration has also announced six new containment zones here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-announces-six-new-containment-zones-but-no-night-curfew-227035
