20-03-2021||---||CBI arrests Uttrakhand cop from Chandigarh while ‘accepting’ bribe from taxi driver||New Delhi, March 20The anti-graft probe agency CBI on Saturday said it has arrested a Sub-Inspector of Uttrakhand Police for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 5 lakh and collecting the first tranche of Rs 1 lakh in Chandigarh from a local taxi driver.   The arrested Sub-Inspector of Uttarakhand Police Hemant Khanduri is posted at Police Station Cantt, Dehradun.“A case was registered on a complaint alleging that accused Khanduri was demanding a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from the complainant for not taking action against him whose name had cropped up in a case of cheating lodged at Police Station Cantt, Dehradun,” CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said.The spokesperson said the CBI had laid a trap in Chandigarh wherein the Sub Inspector of the Uttarakhand Police “was caught red handed while demanding & accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh as part payment”. He said, searches at two residential places of the accused in Dehradun were being conducted and certain incrementing documents and other evidence were recovered. The arrested accused would be produced in a local court tomorrow, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-arrests-uttrakhand-cop-from-chandigarh-while-accepting-bribe-from-taxi-driver-228086
20-03-2021||---||3 killed as cars collide in Mohali||Mohali, March 20Three people were killed as two cars collided here on Saturday.The accident took place at the Radha Soami Ashram light point in the morning.Details are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-killed-as-cars-collide-in-mohali-228041
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Youth arrested with 4-gm heroin||Photography, writing contestChandigarh: A unique photography and poetry-writing contest, "Chandigarh in Spring", kicked off here on Friday and it will continue till March 31. The winners in different categories will take away prizes worth Rs 60,000 in total. TNSOne nabbed with pistol, roundsDera Bassi: The police arrested a person with a country-made pistol and four rounds in Handesra area on Friday. The suspect has been identified as Sahil, a resident of Handesra village. The suspect will be produced in a court on March 20. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Handesra police station. TNSTeenage girl hit by train, diesZirakpur: A teenage girl died after being hit by a train while crossing a railway gate in Dhakoli on Friday evening. Railway Police ASI Rajinder Singh Dhillon said the girl, wearing a black jeans and a black T-shirt, looks like an immigrant. The police tried to identify the victim in the nearby residential areas, but to no avail. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital for the next 72 hours for identification. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-with-4-gm-heroin-227846
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Goyal is Masters Federation chief||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/goyal-is-masters-federation-chief-227844
20-03-2021||---||Title for Tvesa, Amandeep 5th||Chandigarh, March 19Tvesa Malik managed to stay afloat and keep her nerves as she overcame an over par round to win the sixth leg of the Women’s Pro Golf Tour by two strokes at the Rambagh Golf Club in Jaipur today.Panchkula’s Amandeep Drall (72) finished fifth, but managed to stay atop the Order of Merit, which is being combined for 2020 and 2021 season.Tvesa, meanwhile, ended an 18-month winless drought dating back to 2019, a season in which she won three times.The Gurugram golfer, who was leading by 3 shots when the final round began, was 2-over after the first four holes but managed to hang in with a birdie on 17th as the leaders started on the back nine.Jahanvi Bakshi gave Tvesa a run for her money as she came within a shot of the leader with birdies on the 1st and 2nd.Tvesa and Jahanvi bogeyed the Par-4 3rd hole and the gap of one stayed as both players parred from 4th to 7th. When Jahanvi bogeyed the Par-5 8th, Tvesa pulled two ahead with a par. A par from both on the 9th, the closing hole, ended the race in Tvesa’s favour.Tvesa shot a 2-over 72 for a total of 1-under 209 as Jahanvi carded 1-over 71 and finished with a card of 1-over 211.Tvesa’s last win was in September 2019, while Jahanvi won last week.Amateur Kriti Chowhan showed her familiarity at the Rambagh course with the day’s best card of 1-under 69 to finish third. She had four birdies against three bogeys.Hitaashee Bakshi (71) was fourth and Amandeep Drall (72) was fifth.Ridhima Dilawari (77) was sixth, Vani Kapoor (73) seventh, and amateur Avani Prashant (77) eighth. Ananya Datar (75) and Seher Atwal (76) completed the top-10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/title-for-tvesa-amandeep-5th-227843
20-03-2021||---||Abhijeet steers Punjab XI to  7-wkt victory||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19Abhijeet hit an unbeaten century as PCA Punjab XI beat PCA Rest of Punjab Green by 7 wickets on the fourth day of the league matches in the ongoing PCA Cup Triangular Challenger Series, at the HDCA grounds in Hoshiarpur today.Put in to bat, Punjab Green lost Uttejit Hans and Arjun Singh early and were reduced to 26 for 2 in 7.3 overs. However, a patient half-century by Naman Dhir (56) and a useful contribution from Ashish Ghai (31) put the side back on track.Harjot Dhawan and Prashant Ahlawat then helped the team reach 202 for 6 in the allotted 50 oversDhawan scored a 69-ball 57, while Ahlawat hit 34 off 38 balls.Gaurav Chaudhary was the most successful bowler for PCA Punjab XI, claiming 3 for 16 in his five-over spell.Gurnoor Brar, Abhinav Sharma and Akul Pandove chipped in with one wicket each.Needing to score just over four runs per over for the victory, Abhijeet smashed an unbeaten 129 off 111 balls to guide PCA Punjab XI home in just 33.2 over’s with seven wickets to spare.Aarush made 17-ball 21 while Chaudhary remained not out on 27.Abhijeet was declared Man of the Match for his electrifying knock.PCA Punjab XI have maintained a clean slate and lead the table with six points. The side is followed by PCA Rest of Punjab Red with two points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhijeet-steers-punjab-xi-to-7-wkt-victory-227842
20-03-2021||---||Karandeep finishes 5th as Udayan claims top spot||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19Udayan Mane reignited his season with a two-shot victory at the Prometheus School Presents Delhi-NCR Open Golf Championship 2021 even as Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar maintained his lead in the PGTI Order of Merit with a fifth place finish at the Golden Greens Golf Club in Gurugram today.Pune’s Mane, who had been struggling to find his ‘A’ game since the resumption of the tour in November last year, clinched his 11th title on the PGTI after he totaled 14-under 274 to prevail by two strokes at the Rs 30-lakh event.Mane’s third title of the 2020-21 PGTI season will help him make a big push up the world rankings from his current 320th position and as a result boost his chances in the Tokyo Olympics qualification race.Gurugram-based Shivendra Singh Sisodia, playing at his home course, secured a career-best tied 2nd finish at 12-under 276 after a sensational birdie-eagle finish on the last two holes helped the 31-year-old put up a score of 66 in the final round.Chikkarangappa (68) and Patna’s Aman Raj (69) also took a share of second place.Kochhar (67) claimed fifth place at 11-under 277, while Sandeep Singh of Sri Ganganagar, Rajasthan, shot the day’s best score of 7-under 65 to finish tied 9th at 8-under 280.Mane (71-67-67-69), the overnight leader by one shot, had a hot start to the day with two birdies on the first three holes which saw him play a couple of good wedge shots. He then made some good putts which didn’t roll in but he still hung on to his lead.On the Par-5 18th, Mane sank a crucial 10-feet birdie putt to seal the deal even as playing partner Aman Raj missed his eagle putt from the same distance.The win is a shot in the arm for the big-built Mane who will now earn five world ranking points and go past Rashid Khan (ranked 311 at the moment) to become the highest-ranked Indian when the latest Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR) list is released on Monday.Udayan had bagged the first two trophies of the 2020-21 PGTI season as part of his three match winning streak which began with season-ending event of the previous 2019 season. However, he had not been at his best since the resumption of the tour in November last year.“The win couldn’t have come at a better time for me as the race for qualification to the Olympics is quite intense at the moment with the likes of Gaganjeet, Rashid, Chikka, Karandeep and Aman Raj, all being strong contenders,” said Mane.Shivendra Singh Sisodia (71-71-68-66), known for driving it long, was exceptional with his iron-play and approach shots today. Shivendra, who was overnight tied 8th and five off the lead, collected three birdies over the first 12 holes before signing off in style with birdie-eagle on the last two holes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karandeep-finishes-5th-as-udayan-claims-top-spot-227841
20-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Athletes accuse coach of wrongdoing, seek action||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19Five local athletes here have complained to the UT Sports Department alleging that a coach was forcing them to pay money and to have performance enhancing steroids.In their complaint, the trainee athletes claimed that the coach misled them, asked them for monthly fee and forced them to take steroids. They also alleged that they were being emotionally abused by the coach.“We have been asked to do all this by our coach. However, we have now complained to the authorities. This is no way of getting coached, this is humiliation,” said a 22-year-old athlete, who has been training under the same coach from the last three years.Other trainees are said to be above 17 years of age.“We will also meet the higher authorities,” said another athlete.Meanwhile, Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT, confirmed that a complaint had been made by the athletes against a coach.“The athletes have submitted a complaint to the District Sports Officer (DSO) and the matter is being looked into. There was no past complaint against him (coach). Knowingly giving money and taking steroids is equally wrong on part of the athletes. However, we still have to find what has happened actually,” said Saini.Some other trainees though came out in support of the coach. “The coach has supported many athletes and even helped them bag some sponsorships. Perhaps there is some conspiracy in all this as he (coach) was likely to get a permanent job in the department,” said an athlete, who didn’t wish to be named. “Since a complaint has been made formally, things need to be crystal clear.”Sources, meanwhile, confirmed that the Sports Director and the DSO held a preliminary inquiry into the matter and interacted with the athletes and support staff at the coaching centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/athletes-accuse-coach-of-wrongdoing-seek-action-227840
20-03-2021||---||Auto-rickshaw, Rs1,200 snatched||Mohali, March 19Three miscreants snatched an auto-rickshaw and Rs1,200 from Ranjit Singh, a resident of Jujhar Nagar, near Nayagaon.The complainant said the trio hired the auto from PGI gate number 3. They assaulted auto driver Ranjit near Patiala ki Rao rivulet and fled with the auto. The police have registered a case of snatching. They are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to get any clue about the miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-rickshaw-rs1-200-snatched-227839
20-03-2021||---||Sitar, ‘dhrupad’ experts enthral||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19Sitar and “dhrupad” recitals marked Day 4 of the ongoing 50th All-India Bhaskar Rao Nritya and Sangeet Sammelan being organised by Pracheen Kala Kendra.Sitar maestro Harvinder Sharma tugged at the heartstrings with his sitar performance and famous Mallick Bandhus sang “dhrupad” at the Tagore Theatre here today. The programme was also telecast on social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and official YouTube channel of Pracheen Kala Kendra.Dr Sharma opened up the programme with the popular “raga pahadi”. He presented “masitkhani” and “rajakhani” followed by many traditional compositions. He was accompanied by tabla maestro Ustad Akram Khan. Dr Sharma concluded the recital with a captivating folk composition based on “khayal ang”.After this melodic presentation, Mallick Brothers took the centre stage and the duo began with “raga jog” through an elaborate “alaap” besides “badat” followed by a “bandish” set to “dhamar taal” with lyrics “Khelan aaye hori kanhaai”. The duo concluded the recital with “sool taal”-based invocatory composition “kripalam mahakal”. They were ably accompanied by the noted pakhawaj player Rishishankar Upadhyay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sitar-dhrupad-experts-enthral-227838
20-03-2021||---||Punjab minister Charanjit Singh Channi releases research study||Mohali, March 19Skilling of workforce is a crucial pillar of the success of the Indian economy and the government has taken many initiatives to take it to the next level. The Punjab Government and the Indian School of Business (ISB) have come up with a joint report that studies the impact of the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) on skilling and employment.Charanjit Singh Channi, Minister for Technical Education and Industrial Training, stated this while virtually releasing the research report titled, “Impact of PMKVY-2 on the Skilling & Employment”, at a special programme held at on the ISB campus here today.The research team conducted a study to analyse the difference in the PMKVY skilling programme outcomes between the Centrally Sponsored Centrally Managed (CSCM) and Centrally Sponsored and State Managed (CSSM) training programmes in Punjab with a dataset of 167,792 records for the CSCM and 22,494 records for the CSSM programme.Prof Chandan Chowdhury, executive director, Munjal Institute for Global Manufacturing, said: “The study shows that theCentrally Sponsored and State Managed (CSSM) scheme has been more impactful through the State Skill Development Mission (SSDM) and their robust skilling ecosystem within districts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-releases-research-study-227837
20-03-2021||---||TiECON-2021 enters Day 2||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19TiECON-2021 Chandigarh, an entrepreneurial event in the region, entered its second day which began with the STPI awards ceremony where Dr Omkar Rai, director-general of STPI, was the chief guest and Rajneesh Agrawal, Director, STPI Noida; Ajay Srivastava, Director & Centre Head, STPI Mohali; and Hirdesh Madan, president of TiECON, were the guests of honor.Harit Mohan, co-chair TiECON and founder & CEO of Signicent Information Solutions LLP, proposed a vote of thanks. Omkar Rai praised the efforts of STPI and TiE Chandigarh in creating dynamic synergies and providing a conducive environment for the success of start-ups in the region.The conference was followed by an informative session by Vivek Sunder, chief operating officer of Swiggy, on VUCA (volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity) termed as “Being Agile in Vuca Environment”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tiecon-2021-enters-day-2-227836
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Faculty members ask PUTA to clear stand on reforms||Five faculty members of Panjab University have written to the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) asking it to bring clarity over the protest against the governing reforms.Dr Priyatosh Sharma and Dr Ashish Kumar from the department of history, Dr Naresh Kumar and Prof Harish from the UIET and Dr Suman Mor from the department of environment studies have asked PUTA to clear its stance on the reforms.“PUTA has not brought a white paper on the PU governance reforms – whether it wants the senate election without reforms and favours status quo or it favours senate election with reforms in governance,” the group asked.“The PUTA office-bearers should bring out a clear-cut agenda/points which can be deliberated upon in the upcoming Open House,” they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/faculty-members-ask-puta-to-clear-stand-on-reforms-227835
20-03-2021||---||NDU development team visits Panjab University||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19A six-member delegation of National Defence University (NDU) development team from Nepal visited Panjab University.The delegation was led by NDU chairman Lt Gen Bala Nanda Sharma (retd). Other members of the high-powered committee include Prof Shambhu Ram Simkhada, Brig Gen Bishu Raut and Krishna Prasad Gnawali, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Defence.Dr Jaskaran Singh Waraich, chairperson, Department of Defence and National Security Studies acted as the nodal officer.The team discussed the mandate for development of the NDU in Nepal and also shared their views. They also showed keen interest in visiting the departments running various courses on disaster management.The team later visited the Department of Defence and National Security Studies where they were briefed on governance structure and PU’s history, culture and heritage.They also visited the Department of Geology to gain knowledge about the research work on the Himalayan Region of India and were shown various instruments being used in the study on seismography.After visiting Geology Department, the delegation also went to the Department ofGeography, one of the oldest departments.The delegates also had a tour of the university campus which was followed by exchange of mementos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ndu-development-team-visits-panjab-university-227834
20-03-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Hallo Majra rape and murder: Protesters allege police torture, SHO refutes claim||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19Three youths, including two students of Panjab University (PU) and a resident of Hallo Majra, arrested by the UT police while they were protesting the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl, were granted bail by a district court on Thursday. Today, the youth alleged police torture. The police, however, have denied the allegations.Amandeep Singh, 25, who is pursuing a bachelor’s degree at the department of library and information science in PU, said: “On March 6, the day of protest, the three of us were taken to the Sector 31 police station. In a room on the first floor, we were beaten up mercilessly. The police would abuse us, hurling crass, lewd remarks at our mothers, sisters.” He said: “The police rounded us up at the protest site when we told them that we were moving the crowds away from the road and will march towards Hallo Majra. That’s when they started lathi-charging us.” Aman is associated with a Panjab University’s left-leaning student organisation, the Punjab Students Union-PSU (Lalkaar).Vaibhav, 25, said: “The police took turns to beat us. One officer would sit on top of us, the other would ask us to lift up our feet and then lashed batons on our soles. Then they would ask us to walk. After a while, the beating would start again.” Vaibhav is pursuing a masters degree in sociology at the PU and is a member of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha, a left-wing Indian association founded by Bhagat Singh in 1926.Amandeep and Vaibhav said: “At night, we were taken for a medical in the Civil Hospital, Sector 45. Our details were taken in the presence of the police. I even asked for a medicine, but neither the police nor the doctor said anything. We were made to sign on the medical and then put in the lockup. The next day, we were presented before the court.” They added, on March 8, their bail plea was rejected and they were sent to 14-day judicial custody.Gopal, 28, a resident of Hallo Majra, who runs a small gift gallery in the locality, stated: “There was no evidence of the youths assaulting or pelting stones at the police.”Fact-check report will be prepared: Bekhauf AzadiAdvocate Ravinder Singh Jolly, one of the defence lawyers in the case, reported that the arrest of the activists demanding justice had become a common occurrence these days whether it is a struggle against agricultural laws in Delhi or the demand for justice for rape victims.He said: “The law and advocacy community stands with Amandeep, Vaibhav and Gopal.” Advocate Aarti also shared that a fact-check report would soon be prepared by her organisation, Bekhauf Azadi, to expose the police’s apathy and inaction.Not the question to be asked by media: SHOWhen contacted, the SHO of Sector 31 police station, Narinder Patiyal, said: “I know you called to know about the police beating the three boys, abusing them and all. When we arrest someone, we get their medical done. These guys are such ‘budhijeevis’, studying in universities; they should have told them. They could tell the judge that they have been beaten up. All allegations are false. More arrests will be made. We have a complete list.” He added: “The day they blocked the road for six hours, people were inconvenienced. Did the media ask them why they blocked the road? The police have a six-hour video of them. Now, more people will be arrested. These people should not be entertained. This is not even a question to be asked by the media.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hallo-majra-rape-and-murder-protesters-allege-police-torture-sho-refutes-claim-227833
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 314.12L disbursed among 28,223 beneficiaries in Chandigarh||The Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development, UT, has disbursed pension amounting to Rs314.12 lakh to 28,223 beneficiaries under various pension schemes in February.A sum of Rs134.04 lakh was distributed among 13,035 beneficiaries under the old-age pension scheme, Rs92.03 lakh among 8,863 beneficiaries under financial assistance to widows and destitute women, Rs19.38 lakh to 1,872 beneficiaries under financial assistance to dependent children of widows and Rs68.67 lakh among 4453 beneficiaries under pension to disabled persons.The payment under the schemes is being disbursed on a monthly basis in Aadhaar-seeded bank accounts of beneficiaries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-314-12l-disbursed-among-28-223-beneficiaries-in-chandigarh-227832
20-03-2021||---||Pay relief to war widows, says grievances cell chief||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 19The Punjab Government should initiate steps to pay compensation to about 120 illiterate war widows whose cases were pending with the state government due to the indifferent attitude of politicians as well as the bureaucracy.Lt Col SS Sohi (retd), president, Ex-Servicemen Grievances Cell, in a letter to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, said there were still several war widows of the 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars in Punjab who had not received land or money announced by the state government from time to time.He said widows of soldiers killed in the three wars were still forced to move from one place to another to get the compensation. According to information collected from sources, 120 cases of war widows were still pending who had not received any land or financial assistance from the government and there were cases where family members of illiterate war widows have filed cases in courts seeking compensation.Sohi said there were several cases where war widows could not file their cases on time due to illiteracy, ignorance and other reasons. War veterans had special status in society and these families could not be deprived of land or financial assistance just because they did not file the case on time. He urged the Punjab Chief Minister to provide immediate relief to the war widows.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-relief-to-war-widows-says-grievances-cell-chief-227831
20-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Former head warder of Model Jail, Burail, held guilty in bribery case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, held a former head warder of the Model Jail, Burail, guilty in a bribery case.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had arrested the accused, Sarwan Kumar, in July 2014 while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs5,000 from a convict, Sandeep.The court has held him guilty of the offences committed under Sections 7 and 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act - 1988. The court will pronounce the sentence on March 23.The CBI had filed a charge sheet against Sarwan Kumar in October 2014. As per the charge sheet, the CBI registered a case against the accused on the complaint of a Mani Majra resident, Pratap Singh Bisht, brother of Sandeep’s cell mate Prem Singh Bisht, who was also undergoing jail term.Prem Singh Bisht and Sandeep, co-convict in a case, were lodged together in barrack number 4/5 at the Model Jail, Burail, since 2013. Pratap alleged that his elder brother, Prem Singh Bisht, came out on parole on July 9, 2014, and told him that head warder of the jail Sarwan Kumar was demanding a bribe in the shape of a water purifier or Rs5,000 from Sandeep Kumar in the last week of June 2014 in lieu of getting his duty changed from the visitors’ room and assigning him some easier duty.The complainant had alleged that Sandeep returned after getting married during his parole. In the presence of Prem, he requested the jail warder to change his duty from the visitors’ room. Sandeep told the head warder that he was facing problems while performing duty in the visitors’ room as he had to go from one place to another searching for inmates. Pratap alleged that the head warder demanded Rs5,000 from Sandeep to accept his request.Public prosecutor KP Singh argued the case on behalf of the CBI. Singh told the court that Sandeep gave the mobile number of Pratap to the head warder saying he was his brother and asked Sarwan to get in touch with him for money or water purifier. Pratap alerted the CBI, following which it laid a trap and caught the jail warder red-handed while taking the bribe from Pratap opposite a school in Sector 45.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-head-warder-of-model-jail-burail-held-guilty-in-bribery-case-227830
20-03-2021||---||PO lands in police net||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 19The police have arrested a proclaimed offender, identified as Shobit Amarjit Singh, a native of Hassanpur village in Samastipur district, Bihar.According to information, the local police had arrested the accused with 1.1-kg ganja in Kalka on October 13, 2017. A case under Sections 20, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against him at the Kalka police station.The police said the accused got the bail. However, he failed to appear before the court, following which the Sessions Court declared him a proclaimed offender on August 6, 2019, and a case under Section 174-A of the IPC was registered against him. The accused was today produced in a court, which remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/po-lands-in-police-net-227829
20-03-2021||---||Man held for waste collector’s murder||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 19A 20-year-old man was arrested in a blind murder case at Kharar here today. The suspect has been identified as Sita Gul Sheikh, a native of Murshidabad in West Bengal.Yesterday, a body of man, aged about 35, was found in a shed near Labour Chowk, Khanpur, Kharar. The police said the mouth of the deceased, Abbu Talib, aka Jullha, was smeared with blood and his jaw appeared to have been broken. He was employed as a waste collector.The body was kept at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital for identification. A case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered at the Kharar City police station.During investigation, different police parties were dispatched to view the footage and establish the identity of the deceased. Abbu Talib’s wife Pinky, who was living separately over discord, identified him. She is currently staying with her maternal aunt.The police said further investigation revealed that the deceased and the suspect were consuming liquor in the shed and they had a fight over the suspect’s wife. Sita Gul allegedly smashed Talib’s face with a boulder.SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal said, “The blind murder was solved in less than 20 hours.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-waste-collectors-murder-227828
20-03-2021||---||CHB invites bids for 109 flats on freehold basis||Chandigarh, March 19In the first phase, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to put up 109 built-up residential units on freehold basis on sale through e-tender.The e-tendering process will start on April 1 and the bids can be submitted up to 2 pm on April 30. The bids will be opened 3 pm onward the same day.The CHB has prepared a list of 270 properties, including 11 residential (leasehold), 109 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (leasehold), for sale. The remaining properties will be put up for sale at later stages.270 properties on the blockThe CHB has prepared a list of 270 properties, including 11 residential (leasehold), 109 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (leasehold), for sale. The remaining properties will be put up for sale at later stages. The highest reserve price for a three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 has been fixed at Rs 86.24 lakh. However, the lowest reserve price for an EWS flat in Sector 63 has been fixed at Rs 23.44 lakh. Most of the flats, three-bedroom, medium-income group (MIG) flats, two-bedroom flats, one room flats, and EWS flats, are located in Sector 63 and 51.The highest reserve price for a three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 has been fixed at Rs 86.24 lakh. However, the lowest reserve price for an EWS flat in Sector 63 has been fixed at Rs 23.44 lakh.Most of the flats, three-bedroom, medium-income group (MIG) flats, two-bedroom flats, one room flats, and EWS flats, are located in Sector 63 and 51.To get a good response, the CHB has reduced the reserve price of the properties by 10 per cent. Not even a single bidder expressed interest in the auction of CHB properties held in 2019 as the reserve price was too high for both residential and commercial properties.This time, the CHB has decided to replace the e-auction process of selling properties with the e-tender process.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said, “In e-auction, the earnest money deposit (EMD) for participation cannot be paid online. The bidder deposits the same in the CHB account and submits a proof. The payment is confirmed by the CHB officers before allowing the bidder to participate in the e-auction process. Hence, number of bidders for particular property and their identity is not fully confidential.”However, in e-tender, EMD can be paid online and there is no need of any approval and hence there is complete secrecy about the number of bidders and their identity, said Garg.In e-auction, the prospective bidders are required to register themselves within a particular period. They can participate in the e-auction process after their registration is approved by the CHB officials. Once the prescribed period is over and approval is given by the CHB officials, the e-auction takes place among the approved bidders only and there cannot be any new entrant in the e-auction.However, in e-tender, any person can participate in the tendering process any time before closure of the bidding process. Hence there can be new entrants, at any stage, till closure of the bidding, he added.The possibility of cartelising and other mischiefs cannot be ruled out in the e-auction process. Garg though said: “The Excise Department of UT is successfully using the e-tender process for allotment of liquor vends across the entire city in highly fair and transparent manner.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-invites-bids-for-109-flats-on-freehold-basis-227827
20-03-2021||---||16 more vaccination sites set up in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 19To speed up the vaccination drive, the health authorities here have set up 16 new sites at primary healthcare centres (PHC) in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the vaccination centres were yesterday set up in Phase 3B1, Mohali, Basoli, Khizargarh, Pandwala, Khizrabad, Palheri, Chando, Majat, Landran and Mullanpur. The drive had also been initiated at urban primary health centres in Phase 1, Phase 7 and Phase 11 in Mohali, Baltana, Preet Colony in Zirakpur, and Nayagaon.Dr Adarshpal Kaur said so far, the vaccination centres were operating at seven government health institutions and 27 private institutions across the district. She said the government health institutions where vaccination drive was being carried out included civil hospitals in Kharar, Dera Bassi, Boothgarh, Gharuan, Kurali, Banur, Lalru and Dhakoli.The Civil Surgeon said vaccination drive was in full swing in the district. The District Health Department was working hard to maximise vaccination to curb the spread of the pandemic and to keep people safe from the fatal disease. She said the vaccine was completely safe and had been approved by the World Health Organisation. According to the Civil Surgeon, the vaccine was being provided free of cost at all government health institutions.She appealed to senior citizens of the district to come forward for Covid vaccination without any fear. The Civil Surgeon said: “Those aged 60 years and above should come forward with full enthusiasm and get vaccinated against Covid.” She said on-the-spot registration facility was available at health facilities and they needed to carry Aadhar card and photo ID with them.1,033 inoculated in distMohali: As many as 1,033 persons — 837 senior citizens and 196 persons aged between 45 and 60 with comorbidities — were administered Covid-19 vaccine at seven government and 27 private hospitals of Mohali district today.A total of 14,737 senior citizens and 2,386 persons aged between 45 and 60 with comorbidities have been vaccinated.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said 162 and 39 healthcare workers (HCWs) were given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively. As many as 189 and 166 frontline workers (FLWs) were given the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively.So far, 7,782 and 3,733 HCWs have been given the first and second dose, respectively, while 6,608 and 1,432 FLWs had been administered the first and second dose, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-more-vaccination-sites-set-up-in-mohali-227826
20-03-2021||Ropar||Suicide bid by Mohali hotelier in jail||Mohali hotelier Nirankar Singh Sarao, facing a trial for the alleged murder of his wife, attempted suicide at the district jail here yesterday. The jail authorities said Sarao tried to strangle himself with a piece of cloth given to inmates for covering their head. Sarao (63) had allegedly shot his wife Kulwant Kaur dead on October 18, 2017. The couple was on their way to the PGI in their car for the treatment of the accused when he pumped four bullets into his wife’s body from point-blank range in front of Manav Mangal Smart School at Phase X in Mohali. The police had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC and the Arms Act, and arrested Sarao.Ropar jail superintendent Daljit Singh said it was for the second time that the accused had attempted suicide in the jail in a similar way. Earlier, he tried to end his life nearly five months ago following which he was shifted to the Kapurthala jail. Recently, he was again brought to the Ropar jail on his request to the court in this regard.The Ropar police said a case under Section 309 of the IPC (suicide attempt) had been registered against Saroa on a complaint of the jail authorities. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suicide-bid-by-mohali-hotelier-in-jail-227808
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||2 women steal gold chain in Mani Majra||Two unknown women, who visited a jewellery store at the NAC, Mani Majra, posing as customers, allegedly stole a gold chain. The incident has been caught on CCTV cameras installed at the store. According to the police, complainant Milind Malhotra reported that two women visited the store posing as customers on March 17 and asked the salesman at the counter to show jewellery.While the salesman was showing them jewellery, one of the women stole a gold chain, weighing 18.03 gm. After sometime, the women left the store. The staff later discovered that a gold chain was missing. The footage of CCTV cameras installed at the store was scrutinised in which the suspect is seen stealing the chain. The police were informed following which a case was registered. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-women-steal-gold-chain-in-mani-majra-227785
20-03-2021||Panchkula||129 new +ve Covid cases in Panchkula||The district reported 129 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest in the past four months.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a total of 166 cases surfaced on Friday, which included 37 cases of the past two days. The total number of cases rose to 11,740 on Friday. So far, 10,973 patients have been cured. There are 618 active cases with 149 deaths in the district. A total of 40,832 persons have been vaccinated in the district so far, including 8,486 healthcare workers, 9,818 frontline workers, 19,602 senior citizens and 2,926 persons aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/129-new-ve-covid-cases-in-panchkula-227784
20-03-2021||Mohali||258 +ve for Covid in Mohali||The number of Covid cases reported from the district in a day touched a new high this year with 258 testing positive for the virus on Friday, taking the overall tally to 22,912. Meanwhile, 62 more patients have been cured. The district saw no fresh fatality due to Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/258-ve-for-covid-in-mohali-227782
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 214 new cases of Covid-19||The city reported 214 new cases of Covid-19 and one death on Friday, taking the number of active cases to 1,597. The UT tally has reached 24,017 and toll 360. A total of 82 more patients have been cured of the virus in the city. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-214-new-cases-of-covid-19-227780
20-03-2021||Mohali||Without mask, pay Rs 1,000 fine, undergo Covid test on the spot||If you are going outdoors without a face mask, be prepared to shell out a fine of Rs1,000 and take an on-the-spot Covid test in Mohali. The police will, however, hand over a face mask to the offenders for free.Don’t have money?The police said the offender had to pay a fine of Rs1,000 and if a person did not have the money on the spot, he/she would have to appear in the SDM court.On Day 1 of this first-of-its-kind drive, 62 persons were challaned in the Phase 3B2 market and health officials took their samples for the Covid test with an amused look on cops’ faces nearby.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “On the orders of the Deputy Commissioner, the drive is being carried out to persuade people to go outdoors and in public places wearing face masks. The drive will continue in the coming days. The exercise was carried out in Zirakpur, Phase 3B2 and other places.SP (City) Harwinder Singh Virk and DSP (City-1) Gursher Singh Sandhu also visited public places. Virk appealed to the people of the city “to strictly follow the instructions of the government and leave their homes only in case it is necessary”. The police said the offender had to pay a fine of Rs1,000 and if a person did not have the money on the spot, he/she would have to appear in the SDM court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/without-mask-pay-rs-1-000-fine-undergo-covid-test-on-the-spot-227777
20-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Dhanas liquor vend hits a new high in e-auction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19A liquor vend at Dhanas village received the highest bid of Rs11.55 crore at an e-auction today. Proximity to Punjab is being seen as the likely reason for the high bid. Since liquor is cheaper in the UT in comparison to Punjab, the vend, given its location, generated the maximum interest among the bidders.The UT Excise and Taxation Department had received a total of 162 bids electronically for 80 liquor vends having a reserve price of Rs317.31 crore.The department collected a total revenue of Rs398.04 crore in the shape of licence fee, registering an increase of approximately 25.44 per cent over the reserve price, and Rs5.67 crore in the shape of participation fee.The highest bid of Rs11.55 crore was received for the liquor vend at Dhanas village against a reserve price of Rs7.95 crore, registering an increase of 45.31 per cent. The lowest bid of Rs1.95 crore was received for a liquor vend at Basti Bhagwanpur (Kishangarh village) against the reserve price of Rs1.75 crore.In 2019-2020, the department had earned the highest revenue of Rs10.78 crore from the Dhanas vend. In 2020-2021, the vend had received the second-highest bid of Rs7.05 crore. A liquor vend in Sector 9 had fetched the highest bid of Rs7.56 crore last year.An official said analysis of the successful bidders revealed that no single entity got allotment of more than eight vends.In the Excise Policy 2021-2022 announced recently, the UT Administration had decided to keep the licence fee and excise duty on beer and wine unchanged. The excise duty on the India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) has been increased by 6 per cent which is expected to increase the prices of IMFL brands by 10-12 per cent. To curb any cartelisation or creation of monopolies, allotment to a single entity was restricted up to a maximum of 10 liquor vends only.In the new policy, the Administration had also increased the number of liquor vends from 94 to 96. The bids for the remaining 16 vends will be received till March 23 and opened on March 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanas-liquor-vend-hits-a-new-high-in-e-auction-227772
