21-03-2021||New Delhi||Chandigarh's Ganemat Sekhon settles for bronze in women's skeet||Young Indian shooter Ganemat Sekhon won her maiden senior ISSF World Cup medal when she bagged the women's skeet bronze on the third competition day of the tournament here on Sunday.However, in the men's skeet final, Gurjoat Khangura finished sixth with a score of 17. Khangura also qualified in sixth place for the final.Denmark's Jesper Hansen (58) won the gold medal in men's skeet ahead of UAE's Bin Futais Saif (51) and Qatar's multiple Dakar Rally champion Nasser Saleh al-Attiyah (44). Earlier, the 20-year-old Sekhon, ranked 82 in the world, shot 40 to clinch the bronze medal on the shotgun range of the Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range.The other Indian in the six-women final, Karttiki Singh Shaktawat, settled for the fourth position after an impressive start, shooting 32.Occupying the second position for a long time, Sekhon missed three birds successively to bow out, leaving Great Britain's Amber Hill and Zoya Kravchenko of Kazakhstan to fight for the gold medal in an exciting final where nobody was willing to give an inch.Hill held her nerves to eventually run away with the gold medal after a shoot-off with Kravchenko.It was a good learning experience for the 19-year-old Shaktawat as she looks to grow in the sport. Ganemat was third in the qualification with 117, while Shaktawat was fourth with 116.India's Parinaaz Dhaliwal was ninth with 108.In 2018, Sekhon had become the first Indian female skeet shooter to win a medal at the ISSF World Championship, as she claimed the bronze medal in the junior event in Sydney, Australia.Having started shooting on the insistence of her father Amrinder Singh Sekhon in 2015, the youngster completed her hat-trick of silver medals in the senior National Shooting Championship when she won the silver medal in the 2018 championship at Jaipur.In the selection trials held at KSSR in January, Sekhon had topped qualifying with a score of 120, which was a huge six points ahead of second place.In the finals of that trials, the Chandigarh-based woman shot 55, which was a clear four points ahead of second-placed Zahra Deesawala.Sekhon also competed in the 2018 Asian Games in Indonesia, where she finished 10th. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-ganemat-sekhon-settles-for-bronze-in-womens-skeet-228508
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old Mercedes driver, who mowed 3 persons in Mohali, arrested||Punjab Police arrested an 18-year-old man for mowing down three persons with his Mercedes car near Radha Soami Chowk here in SAS Nagar in the early morning of Saturday.The accused, Samrat, 18 years, a resident of sector 34D, Chandigarh belongs to the family of Weldon Opticals in Chandigarh. He did not have a driving license and was drunk while driving at the time of the accident. The police have also booked two of Samrat’s friends, identified as Arjun and Prabhnoor, who was accompanying him in the car.The incident took place when Samrat, who was driving the Mercedes bearing registration number CH01CA1869 jumped the traffic lights and rammed his car into an Ertiga car and two cycles, leaving three persons including a cyclist dead and other three critically injured. The deceased persons have been identified as Dharampreet Singh, Ankush Narula and Ram Prasad.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) SAS Nagar Satinder Singh said that the trio who were riding the Mercedes was drunk when the accident took place and the driver lost control of the car. They fled from the accident spot even after sensing the serious condition of victims and didn’t inform the police or ambulance. The police have also recovered empty bottles of liquor from the Mercedes.The SSP said that the police have arrested Samrat, the accused driver who does not possess a Driving Licence. The police are conducting raids and will arrest the other accused persons soon too, he added.Meanwhile, a criminal case has been registered under sections 304 (Culpable Homicide not amounting to Murder) and 120B (Criminal Conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Police Station Mataur against the accused. Investigations will be completed in the next two weeks and the Court will be asked to conduct a speedy trial to give exemplary punishment to the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-year-old-mercedes-driver-who-mowed-3-persons-in-mohali-arrested-228445
21-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||MP Manish Tewari takes first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Ropar Civil Hospital||Congress leader and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari on Sunday took the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at the Ropar Civil Hospital.Tewari thanked doctors and called the vaccination process “flawless and smooth”.After the first dose of COVID -19 vaccine in Ropar - Sri Anandpur Sahib . pic.twitter.com/Jqv9aKB28f  Announcing the development through a video on Twitter, Tewari said: “The second wave of COVID-19 can be even more dangerous than the first one. My motive behind getting the shot at my Lok Sabha constituency, Sri Anandpur Sahib, is that I want to send out the message that those who are eligible must get the vaccine.”Tewari said the vaccine had “no reaction, no pain, and would save one from COVID-19.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-manish-tewari-takes-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-at-ropar-civil-hospital-228425
21-03-2021||UT Adviser Manoj Parida dedicates the ‘murmurations’ installation at Matka Chowk to the City Beautiful on Saturday. With 300 flying birds||Adding to Chandigarh's beauty||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adding-to-chandigarhs-beauty-228411
21-03-2021||---||Ajay, Monalisha win gold||Chandigarh, March 20 Ajay clocked 4:10.266s to claim the gold medal in the men’s 1000m single scull competition in the Chandigarh State Rowing Championship here today. Saurav (4:13.554s) claimed second position while Pradhuman (4:46.560s) finished third.  In the women’s single scull, Monalisha Mohanty topped the podium with a timing of 5:20.584s. She was followed by Gurbani (5:55.218s) and Poonam (6:07.152s) in second and third positions respectively. In the women’s coxless four competition, Mamta, Priyadarshani, Ranjana and Amritpal clocked 4:43.638s to win the gold medal.  Alisha, Renu, Radha and Pooja (4.59.137s) finished second, while Poonam, Arpita Malik and Gurbani (5:10.59s) bagged the third position. In the men’s double scull, Arjun and Depanshu (4.02.227s) won gold, while Gurdeep and Vishal Dhaiya (4:06.025s) bagged the silver. Saurav and Gurmej (4:11.183s) finished with bronze.  CS Sahoo and Tarsem Singh (4:03.506s) topped the podium in the men’s coxless pair competition. Sukhdeep and Gulshan (4:09.81s) claimed second position and Akash and Gaurav secured third spot. In the men’s coxless-four boat race, Jagsir, Ravi Kumar, Ahmed and Sharman (3:45.867s) claimed first position, while Sukhdeep, Aditya, Sahil and Lovepreet (3:46.057s) finished second. Rajinder, Manjit, Gulshan and Gulshan Kumar (3:54.111s) followed in third place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ajay-monalisha-win-gold-228217
21-03-2021||---||Rs 2L, jewellery stolen from spiritual centre||Chandigarh, March 20 A theft was reported at a spiritual centre in Burail here on Thursday night. Miscreants took away Rs65,000 in cash, 35 packets containing a total of Rs1,35,000, 5 grams of gold, a silver ring, a gold coin, a mobile phone, 5 ATM cards, 21 passbooks, 13 cheque books and other important documents from the centre. Complainant Putrevu Surya Prakash, head of the spiritual centre, found the almirah ransacked on the second floor of Kesho Ram Complex, Burail. The police have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 380 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 34 police station. The police said CCTV footage of the area was being scrutinised. Further probe is on into the matter. A forensic team visited the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-2l-jewellery-stolen-from-spiritual-centre-228220
21-03-2021||---||PAP constable booked||PAPconstable booked Chandigarh: Munish Kumar, a senior constable of the Punjab Armed Police (PAP), has been booked for furnishing fake bills of Rs1,96,056 pertaining to medical reimbursement of an employee while working as a computer operator in the accounts branch of the PAP headquarters here. On the statement of a senior constable, Virender Singh, a case has been registered against Munish. The complainant, who was on leave, had given the charge to the suspect. He made multiple entries on January 25 and January 27. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pap-constable-booked-228221
21-03-2021||---||Minor boy held with opium||Lalru, March 20 The police have arrested a 14-year-old boy with 2-kg opium near Ravidas Bhawan in Lalru. The suspect has been identified as a Nepalese national. The police said the minor, whose father died last year, was on his way to Shimla where his mother is currently employed. A man, identified as Sunil, in Nepal told him that his acquaintance lives in Shimla and knows his mother. He will help him reunite with his mother. He will come to the Shimla bus stand and take him to his mother. The police said Sunil gave him a parcel of opium to hand it over to the acquaintance. The juvenile was produced before a Mohali court, which sent him to an observation home in Hoshiarpur. A member of the Juvenile Justice Board counselled the juvenile. Legal aid was provided to the juvenile as per the instructions given by the board member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-boy-held-with-opium-228222
21-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration mulls steps on Punjab pattern to check Covid surge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 20In view of the steady rise in Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration may take stringent measures on the pattern of the Punjab Government to check the resurgence of cases in the city.A senior official said: “If active Covid-19 cases continued to increase, the Administration will not hesitate in taking strict steps as being taken in the neighbouring state of Punjab”.Meanwhile, the Union Home Secretary, during a videoconferencing, asked senior officials of the UT Administration to increase testing, particularly RT-PCR. The Home Secretary also laid emphasis on contact tracing, increasing number of containment zones and strictly enforcing Covid appropriate behaviour.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had recently directed the authorities to enhance testing, particularly RT-PCR. He advised the hospital authorities to ensure that patients going for OPD consultation should preferably get themselves tested for Covid to reduce the risk of spread of infection on the hospital premises and prevent unnecessary risk to health workers and other patients.The Administrator had also directed the Municipal Commissioner to intensify contact tracing and enhance sanitisation in the city.He had also directed the police to intensify challaning, particularly against those not wearing masks in crowded places, including markets.He appealed to residents to cooperate with the Administration in the fight against the pandemic and strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.He had stated that against a population of 12 lakh, the UT Administration had already conducted more than 2.80 lakh tests. The Administrator informed that 49 sites had been set up for providing vaccination facilities to eligible persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-mulls-steps-on-punjab-pattern-to-check-covid-surge-228223
21-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Minister raises concern over rising Covid-19 cases in tricity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 20The Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Dr Harsh Vardhan, has expressed his concern over rising number of Covid cases reported in the tricity. He was here to attend an inaugural ceremony at the PGIMER today.“I have studied the data of cases being reported in this region. It is alarming to find that 500 to 600 cases are being reported in the Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula areas. Earlier, the number of cases had gone down to 20 to 30 per day in each city. People need to adhere to the Covid appropriate norms before cases start spiralling,” Dr Harsh Vardhan added.“Residents of Chandigarh are well educated and such a behavior is not expected from them. There are seven to eight states in the country that comprise 80 per cent of the current infection,” Dr Harsh Vardhan added.On being asked about expanding the eligibility criteria for the vaccination, Dr Harsh Vardhan informed, “A decision will be take in consultation with all the stakeholders. So far, the vaccination is available free of cost in the country. The Finance Minister has also allocated Rs35,000 crore budget for the vaccination. More amount will be earmarked for the vaccination if the need arises.”Chandigarh's positivity rate has gone up to 9.2 per cent, the second-highest after Maharashtra. In the last week, the number of new infections has grown exponentially by an average of 0.73 per cent every day. The city has been reporting more than 200 cases for the four consecutive days.Meanwhile, Mohali district recorded highest number of single day cases in the tricity with 385 persons contracting infection. With this, the district surpassed last single day spike. During the last surge, 274 single day infections were recorded in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-raises-concern-over-rising-covid-19-cases-in-tricity-228224
21-03-2021||---||Shortage of gynaecologists at Dera Bassi hospitals to be addressed soon: Preneet||Mohali, March 20The shortage of gynaecologists in government hospitals in Dera Bassi would be addressed soon, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur said here today.Addressing a Disha committee meeting at the District Administrative Complex, the Lok Sabha member said that under all the schemes for the development of girls, including ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’, it must be ensured that the sex ratio of the district is improved further and at the same time maximum opportunities should be provided to the girls for advancement in life.Dera Bassi is a part of the Patiala Lok Sabha constituency.Preneet Kaur said the education of girls should be given the utmost attention and their development should not be hampered in any way.She also directed the authorities to look into the problems faced by the people regarding Fard Kendras and registries.The Patiala MP further said that vaccination had a major role in preventing corona and asked the authorities to ensure maximum people are inoculated as per the prescribed procedure.At the same time, ensure that those who take the first dose of the vaccine get the second dose also, she told the authorities. Preneet also said that maximum efforts should be made to create awareness among the people about the vaccination and compliance with precautionary measures against corona.Sri Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari, who was also present in the meeting, said that the benefits of all government schemes should be extended to the eligible beneficiaries and all the officers should go to the field to personally monitor the ongoing development works in the district.He also stressed on maintaining the quality of ongoing works besides completing the pending development works as soon as possible. Tewari further directed the authorities to ensure cleanliness in the district.He also directed the authorities to take special measures to provide maximum employment to the youth by imparting skills to them. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan assured the Lok Sabha members of following the guidelines. No stone will be left unturned in extending public welfare schemes to eligible beneficiaries, Dayalan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shortage-of-gynaecologists-at-dera-bassi-hospitals-to-be-addressed-soon-preneet-228225
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' cause: Sarb Dharam rally in Chandigarh today||Naujawan Kisan Ekta has given a call for Sarb Dharam motorcycle-scooter-car rally, which will start from Gurdwara Amb Sahib, Phase 8, and end at the Rally Ground in Sector 25 on Sunday.The rally will be organised to protest against the three agro-market laws and to show solidarity with farmers agitating at Delhi borders. “The rally will be flagged off by the chief of kinnar samaj and people of all religions,” said organisers. The rally will start from Phase VII, near Gurdwara Amb Sahib, pass by Jama Masjid, Sector 45, Laxmi Narian Mandir, Sector 44, markets of Sector 44, 43 and 42 and the church in Sector 41 before ending at Sector 25. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-cause-sarb-dharam-rally-in-chandigarh-today-228226
21-03-2021||---||No gathering sans permission in Panchkula district, says DM||Panchkula, March 20In view of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration has made it mandatory for organisers of social, religious, cultural and sports events to take prior permission for the same.Issuing the orders, District Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said no gathering would be allowed without prior permission. The Deputy Commissioner of Police and Sub-Divisional Magistrates of Panchkula and Kalka, all SHOs, in-charge of police posts and incident commanders would ensure the enforcement of orders in letter and in spirit.Ahuja said he had issued the orders under Sections 30 and 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in capacity of the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority. He said any violation of the order would invite penal action under Sections 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and legal action under Section 188 of the IPC.He said it had been made clear that there was no limit/bar on gatherings in open spaces. However, it would be allowed keeping in view the capacity of the place to accommodate people so that guidelines issued from time to time could be followed.Violators to face actionDistrict Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said he had issued the orders under Sections 30 and 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in capacity of the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority. He said any violation of the order would invite penal action under Sections 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and legal action under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-gathering-sans-permission-in-panchkula-district-says-dm-228227
21-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||COA feud: 19 bodies seek IOA, Sports Ministry intervention||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 20In a new twist to the feud between the warring factions of Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA), 19 sports associations have now approached the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) and the Ministry of Sports alleging financial irregularities and mismanagement by both the groups.Interestingly, many of these 19 associations had participated in elections process of both factions of the UT Olympic Association – one led by Amarinder Singh Bazaz and the other headed by Vikram Singh – earlier this month.The association representatives though said they decided to oppose the two factions after observing similar irregularities on both sides.The move has given rise to the possibility of a third front as all the 19 associations are part of the COA.“We have decided to come under a single umbrella and promote sports. These two factions are promoting nepotism, demoting sports and have committed financial irregularities,” claimed Ranjan Sethi, president of the Chandigarh Rugby Football Association.“We have written to the IOA and even to the Ministry of Sports and sought their intervention. Both these factions have done nothing for the welfare of local sportspersons. We (19 likeminded associations) have now decided to conduct games on our own but in a phased manner,” said Sethi.He also pledged to spend Rs 1 crore for conducting the Chandigarh State Games and also vowed to triple the budget for hosting the National Games.In their complaint, the 19 associations alleged that even the Chandigarh Sports Council had denied entertaining the factions led by Bazaz and Vikram Singh.“Many elected representatives in both these factions are not even residents of Chandigarh. They just want to be in power. We seek intervention from the IOA and the Ministry of Sports for the welfare of Chandigarh’s sportspersons,” Sethi reiterated.Matter referred to committeeAfter the two factions conducted their respective elections, the IOA has now sought a detailed report from IOA observer Kuldeep Vats, who supervised the two elections. The report will be referred to the ethics and legal committee for a final outcome. Sources said that there’s a possibility that the IOA might form ad hoc committee to run the COA affairs, as many local associations had been caught supporting both the factions in their respective elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coa-feud-19-bodies-seek-ioa-sports-ministry-intervention-228228
21-03-2021||---||Down Syndrome Day: Experts dwell on prenatal screening||Chandigarh, March 20 An awareness programme and an online storytelling session were organised by Chandigarh Down Syndrome Society (CDSS) on the eve of World Down Syndrome Day at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, here today. Experts highlighted the need for prenatal screening in early intervention and management of chromosomal disorders such as down syndrome. Dr Gurjit Kaur, president, CDSS, said the society was established in 2015 under the leadership of late Prof BS Chavan who had the vision of not only uniting the families but also providing the healthcare services and skill developmental facilities to empower these children to be self-sufficient and live a healthy and contented life. The two main objectives of the CDSS are to provide prenatal screening to all pregnant women for chromosomal disorders and empower persons with down syndrome. Prof Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, GMCH-32, emphasised the importance of prenatal screening of all pregnant women and promised to extend full support to the CDSS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/down-syndrome-day-experts-dwell-on-prenatal-screening-228229
21-03-2021||---||Harsh Vardhan opens 5 advanced facilities at PGI||Chandigarh, March 20Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan inaugurated five state-of-the-art facilities and equipment, further upping the super-speciality diagnostic quotient of the PGI.Addressing as the chief guest of an event organised to mark World Oral Health Day at Bhargava Auditorium, Dr Harsh Vardhan said the premier institutes such as the PGI had a bigger responsibility of mentoring and hand-holding, of creating successful models which contributed towards the ultimate goal of ‘Health for All.’ “The year 2020 may go down in history as the ‘Year of Covid’, but it will also be remembered as the ‘Year of Scientific Community’,” he said.“The way our medical professionals and scientific community rose to the occasion through the challenging times of Covid-19 and even after one year, still fighting relentlessly without any trace of fatigue, thereby significantly and successfully managing the pandemic in a country of 1.3-billion population is a testimony to the fact that we have the DNA, sincerity, commitment and passion to accomplish the vision of quality healthcare for everyone in the country,” he added.Complimenting the PGI for its commendable initiatives, the minister stated that the state-of-the-art facilities/equipment inaugurated today were a major step forward in healthcare innovation and will go a long way in addressing the healthcare needs of the community of the region.Resource centre fororal healthcareThe Union Minister had inaugurated National Resource Centre for Oral Health Care of Children and Elderly, the first ever initiative under the National Oral Health Programme, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which has been aimed at nurturing a model of oral healthcare delivery to children and elderly persons in the Chandigarh region.3 PET scannersHe also inaugurated an advanced PET-CT scan facility. With this state-of-the-art equipment from Siemens, Germany, the PGI has become the first government hospital in the country to provide this facility and the only hospital having 3 PET scanners.CATH labThe Advanced Vascular Interventional Lab, the first of its kind neuro-interventional CATH lab with a unique ‘biplane’ system to visualise the brain in 2 planes instead of one for increased accuracy, lesser complications and reduced procedure time, was also inaugurated by the minister.Fastest CT scan machineDr Harsh Vardhan also inaugurated 384 Slice Dual Source CT Scan. Installed in the Advanced Paediatric Centre of the institute, the world’s most powerful and fastest CT scan machine allows for CT scans to be done in the fraction of a second.Refractive surgery suiteA refractive surgery suite (SMILE) was also inaugurated by him. Revolutionising the world of refractive surgery, the state-of-the-art refractive surgery suite at the Advanced Eye Centre now provides the latest technology for laser vision correction in the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harsh-vardhan-opens-5-advanced-facilities-at-pgi-228230
21-03-2021||---||Speeding Mercedes kills 3 in Mohali||Mohali, March 20Three persons were killed and as many suffered injuries when a recklessly driven Mercedes rammed into an office cab and then went on to hit two cyclists near the Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan chowk at Mataur here early this morning.A cyclist and an occupant of the cab died on the spot while another cab occupant succumbed to injuries during the treatment. The condition of the cab driver and another person is said to be critical.The deceased have been identified as Ram Prasad (40) of Mataur, Dharampreet (23) of Gholupur and Zirakpur resident Ankush Narula (27). Ram Prasad and the other cyclist were returning from the office of a private firm after completing their night shift.The injured have been identified as Shripal, a cyclist, Harish Kumar, a cab driver, and Pradeep Singh. The ill-fated car occupants were the employees of USA-based billing service provider, Unify Healthcare Services, in Industrial Area, Phase 8-B.The accident took place around 5 am when a private firm cab was on its way to drop employees after their night shift. As it reached the intersection on the Airport Road, a recklessly driven black car, bearing a Chandigarh registration number and coming from the Ivy Hospital side, hit it on its left side.Eyewitnesses said the impact of the collision was so strong that the cab overturned two-three times. The Mercedes driver lost control of the vehicle and ran over two cyclists before crashing into an iron railing.Eyewitnesses said there were three youths in the Mercedes. They too had received injuries but were saved as the airbags of the car were deployed. On seeing the crowd gathering at the spot, the trio escaped, leaving the vehicle behind.Investigating officer Sikandar Singh said, “Three persons have died in the accident while three injured were undergoing treatment at various hospitals. A case has been registered at the Mataur police station.” The police denied having found liquor bottles in the Mercedes.Cab flips over multiple timesEyewitnesses said the impact of the collision was so strong that the cab flipped over two-three times. The Mercedes driver lost control of the vehicle and ran over two cyclists before crashing into iron railings.Youths flee leaving high-end car at spotEyewitnesses said there were three youths in the Mercedes. They also suffered injuries but were saved as the airbags of the car were deployed. On seeing the crowd gathering at the spot, the trio escaped, leaving the vehicle behind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speeding-mercedes-kills-3-in-mohali-228231
21-03-2021||---||18-year-old Dhakoli youth stabbed to death in Panchkula||Panchkula, March 20An 18-year-old youth of Dhakoli was found murdered at a park adjoining the Industrial Area, Phase 1, here late on Friday night.A passerby spotted the body this morning and informed the police. The victim has been identified as Saleem, a resident of Ambedkar Colony of Dhakoli in Zirakpur.After receiving the information, a police team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Vijay Kumar Nehra and Sector 20 SHO Dilip Singh, rushed to the spot. CIA staff, accompanied by a forensic team, also reached there. The forensic team took samples of the victim’s body as well as the spot.The police took the body into their custody and sent it to the mortuary of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where a post-mortem examination will be conducted tomorrow.According to information, Saleem worked as a labourer and had taken liquor with some youths. The police suspect that there could be heated arguments between the victim and the youths following which he was stabbed with a knife. SHO Dalip Singh said the preliminary investigation revealed that the victim, along with his friends, had taken liquor late on Friday night. He said there were 14 stab wounds on the victim’s body. He said no arrest had been made so far, adding that they had got some leads in the case and raids were being conducted to arrest the assailants.Had liquor with ‘friends’: PoliceSHO Dalip Singh said the preliminary investigation revealed that the victim, Saleem, along with his friends, had taken liquor late on Friday night. The police suspect that there could be heated arguments between the victim and the youths following which he was stabbed with a knife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-year-old-dhakoli-youth-stabbed-to-death-in-panchkula-228232
21-03-2021||Zirakpur||Biker dies in ‘hit-and-run’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-dies-in-hit-and-run-228233
21-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali district sees biggest single-day spike, 385 test +ve||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 20The district on Saturday recorded 385 fresh cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. Besides, one patient succumbed to the virus while 138 got better of the disease.Among the new cases, 292 surfaced in Mohali (urban), two each in Gharuan and Kurali, four in Banur, five in Lalru, 26 in Dera Bassi and 33 in Dhakoli area of Zirakpur.The district has witnessed over 332.38 per cent increase in active cases during the past 20 days. The number of active cases has gone up from 636 to 2,114.On March 1, the district tally was 20,375, which have now reached 23,297. Similarly, the number of recoveries has gone up from 19,354 to 20,774 till Saturday. The recovery rate in the district has declined from 94.98 per cent to 89.17 per cent in the same period, compounding the problem. The number of deaths too increased from 385 to 409, showing a jump of 6.2 per cent. In February, 20 Covid deaths were reported while in the past 20 days 24 fatalities have already been recorded.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said sporadic cases were coming from different parts of the district. She said health teams had started testing people, who were moving without a mask in the district. She said people should avoid coming out of their houses without any purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-385-test-ve-228234
21-03-2021||Panchkula||85 test positive in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/85-test-positive-in-panchkula-228237
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 203 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-203-cases-228238
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Will upgrade sector markets, says Mayor||Youth Congress leaders honouredChandigarh: Former Uttarakhand Chief Minister and Chandigarh Congress in-charge Harish Rawat honoured local Youth Congress leaders, who were arrested and later released on bail for blackening PM Narendra Modi’s hoardings against increase in rates of petrol and diesel, during his visit to the Congress Bhawan here. Harish Rawat honoured local Youth Congress president Love Kumar, general secretary Jaanu Malik, general secretary Ashish Gajnavi, district president Dheeraj Gupta, district vice-president Sukhdev Singh and media in-charge Vinayak Bangia. TNSPoster contest, cycle rallies heldChandigarh: The Department of Social Welfare, Women & Child Development organised a poster competition during the Poshan Pakhwada 2021 here. Adolescent girls were informed about hygiene and sanitation. Their parents were given counselling on the right age of marriage. Two cycle rallies dedicated to the theme of malnutrition were organised in the city. TNSThieves strike at Sector 71 templeMohali: Two miscreants made off with Rs35,000 from five donation boxes of Baba Bal Bharti temple in Sector 71 here on Friday night. Two youths broke the locks of two donation boxes and took along three other boxes, which were later found near the temple with their locks broken. the incident reportedly took place around 1:30 am. A case has been registered at the Mataur police station. The police are scrutinising the CCTV footage of the temple. TNSBike stolen near Elante MallChandigarh: Morni resident Lovish Goyal reported to the police that an unknown person stole his motor cycle parked near Elante Mall on March 15. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNSTwo booked on charge of assaultChandigarh: A Sector 26 resident Anand alleged that Manish and Honey, also residents of Sector 26, assaulted him with an iron rod at his residence on Friday. The complainant stated that he got injured and was admitted to the GMSH-16. A case under Sections 324, 452 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. TNSTwo arrested for theft at templeChandigarh: The police have arrested two juveniles in a case related to theft of a donation box containing Rs15,000 from Sanatan Dharam Temple at Dhanas on Tuesday night. Cops said the donation box was recovered. The duo was arrested after identification by an eyewitness. Both suspects were produced before the juvenile board. A case under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC has been registered at the Sarangpur police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-upgrade-sector-markets-says-mayor-228247
21-03-2021||---||CBI nabs Uttarakhand cop taking bribe in Chandigarh||New Delhi, March 20The CBI has arrested a Sub-Inspector of the Uttarakhand police for demanding a bribe of Rs 5 lakh and collecting the first tranche of Rs 1 lakh in Chandigarh from a local taxi driver.The suspect, Sub-Inspector Hemant Khanduri, is posted at the Cantt police station, Dehradun.“A case was registered on a complaint alleging that Khanduri was demanding a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from the complainant for not taking action against him whose name had cropped up in a case of cheating lodged at the Cantt police station, Dehradun,” said CBI spokesperson RC Joshi.The spokesperson said the CBI had laid a trap in Chandigarh wherein the Sub-Inspector of the Uttarakhand police “was caught red-handed while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh as part payment”.The CBI official said searches at two residential places of the suspect in Dehradun were being conducted and certain incrementing documents and other evidence were recovered. He would be produced before a local court tomorrow, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-nabs-uttarakhand-cop-taking-bribe-in-chandigarh-228249
21-03-2021||---||HSWC set up  title clash with Education Dept||Panchkula, March 20Education Department, Haryana, defeated Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency (HAREDA) by seven wickets in the semifinals of the 1st HSWC Inter-departmental Premier League Cricket Tournament here today.Batting first, HAREDA XI were all out for 130 runs in 18.5 overs. Azad Singh (40) was the top scorer for the side. Gurmukh, Amit and Gajinder Singh claimed three wickets each.In reply, Education Department scampered home in 17.3 overs with seven wickets to spare.Amit Sharma made a quick-fire 56 while Param Singh contributed 40 runs to the chase. Azad Singh and Tajinder Dullat took one wicket each.In the second semifinal, Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) defeated Haryana Civil Secretariat (HCS) by nine runs.Batting first, HSWC scored 119/9 in allotted 20 overs. Sumit Hooda (41), Sahil (21) and Deepanshu (20) made useful contributions to the total.For HCS, Nasib and Parveen Kumar took two wickets each.Needing six runs per over for victory, HSC were bowled out for 110 runs in 20 overs. Parveen Kumar (19) was the top scorer for HSC, while Ajay and Deepanshu Rajanwal claimed three wickets each for HSWC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hswc-set-up-title-clash-with-education-dept-228271
21-03-2021||---||SAI Academy girls log 6-0 win over RoundGlass Punjab||Chandigarh, March 20Hina Bano and Pooja Yadav scored a brace each as SAI Academy thrashed RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Academy 6-0 in the inaugural Hockey India Junior Women Academy National Championship in Bhubaneswar today.Hina struck in the 3rd and 6th minutes while Pooja scored in the 13th and 26th minutes. Poonam Mundu (9th) and Bhavani Madugula (57th) added a goal each to the SAI Academy tally.In another match, Khalsa Hockey Academy (Amritsar) registered their second win of the competition steamrolling Dhyan Chand Hockey Academy 12-0.Taranpreet Kaur (1st, 5th, 18th, 60th) and captain Simranjeet Kaur (2nd, 28th, 39th, 48th) scored four goals each, while Sneha Sabharwal (13th, 53rd, 55th) struck thrice for Khalsa Academy. Sukhpreet Kaur (33rd) chipped in with a goal.Salute Hockey Academy, meanwhile, blanked Raja Karan Hockey Academy 6-0 and Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre drubbed Bhai Behlo Hockey Academy Bhagta 9-0.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sai-academy-girls-log-6-0-win-over-roundglass-punjab-228272
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Divyang Premier League from April 15||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/divyang-premier-league-from-april-15-228273
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amanjot powers City to victory||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amanjot-powers-city-to-victory-228274
