22-03-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh announces new Covid curbs; eateries to close by 11 pm, ban on Holi festivities||Chandigarh, March 22The Chandigarh administration on Monday ordered ban on festivities relating to Holi and directed restaurants and eating houses to close shop by 11 pm, in view of rising Covid-19 cases.The eateries have been also asked to must limit their customers to 50 per cent of their seating capacity The last order can be taken till 10 pm.Read also: Chandigarh administration orders schools, colleges to close till March 31 as COVID cases surgeThe UT administration said all public Holi-Milan gatherings are banned. The clubs, hotels, restaurants etc. will not allow any ceremonial gatherings for Holi.  The residents must celebrate the Holi festival at home while following appropriate Covid protocol.No new permission will be granted for holding any exhibition/mela to entertain gatherings.  However, all those, which have been allowed earlier may be allowed to complete as per their scheduled programme.Permission from Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh will be mandatory for holding any event including political and social gatherings and even wedding events.  The number of guests will be restricted by the Deputy Commissioner.Strict monitoring of Covid Appropriate Behaviour will be done in crowded places like Sukhna Lake, Apni Mandis, markets and malls.However, Municipal Corporation will allow vendors to sell vegetables and fruits in carts by visiting various residential areas.  This will reduce the crowd in Apni Mandis and Wholesale Market in Sector 26, Chandigarh.The frontline workers, including the health workers, police officials and municipal officials must come forward to get themselves vaccinated.Get more breaking news and analyses on Chandigarh city here||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-announces-new-covid-curbs-eateries-to-close-by-11-pm-ban-on-holi-festivities-228962
22-03-2021||Mohali||Video crowdsourced by Mohali student bags first prize in 'Clean Air Punjab Competition'||Akshyae Singh, who crowdsourced a video from his friends and family in Mohali about Punjab's air pollution, has bagged the first prize in Clean Air Punjab Competition held recently. The second and third prizes have been bagged by students from Amritsar and Kharar, respectively. In a unique initiative to empower citizens, especially the student community to use their smartphones to narrate powerful stories that talk about the rising air pollution and its impact on health in Punjab, Let Me Breathe (let me breathe.in), a community platform documenting and sharing stories on environment and sustainability, recently conducted Clean Air Punjab storytelling workshop.As part of this workshop, Clean Air Punjab invited submissions in three categories, including decoding the sources of pollution, people’s pollution stories and 'pind di clean air' innovation. The competition drew a lot of interest among school and college students who used innovative ways to tell their stories visually. The competition also saw participation from young startup founders, climate activists as well as other concerned citizens.The first prize for the competition was bagged by 18-year-old Akshyae Singh. His video had a great visual-fiction start, covered the latest data points and included 10+ interview bytes from various residents, including mothers, senior citizens, farmers, students, doctors, tourists and more. The video highlights multiple issues such as sources of pollution like industrialisation and health effects on children.Anvi Sadana from Amritsar, a Class 8th student, won the second prize. The third prize was given to Avneet Kaur, a 15-year-old student from Kharar. The first, second and third winners will receive a cash prize of Rs 15,000, 10,000 and 5,000, respectively.The participants not only learnt but also sent their entries, which covered various issues, including industrialisation, vehicular pollution, urbanisation, waste burning and solutions like growing mini forests or sustainable agricultural practices. Even though the World Air Quality Report Punjab has six of the world’s 50 top polluted cities, the air pollution conversation in Punjab is often reduced to just stubble burning ignoring the other sources of pollution. The contest sought to capture these different sources of pollution and received over 70 entries. Apart from the three winners, over 30 selected participants got a chance to attend a curated storytelling boot camp by award-winning mobile storyteller and the head of storytelling at Pluc, Shubham Gupta. Akshyae Singh shared that the power of storytelling in portraying stories of lives of people free from media filters makes it one of the strongest tools. “I have always been inspired to tell stories related to air pollution and to represent the people of Punjab. The training session was really helpful too as I met other storytellers and learned about some of the fundamental tips and tricks of video-making,” he said.Sahil Sharma, a student and Clean Air Punjab participant, said, “This competition was an opportunity to reach out and share my thoughts about how we can reduce air pollution in Punjab. The storytelling boot camp was a great learning experience. I had so many new techniques to learn that day for my stories going forward.”Citing her example about how the ill-effects of Punjab’s air pollution problem had impacted her life, Sehaj Jolly, founder of Stub-Eco and Clean Air Punjab, said, “When I came across this competition, I took it as a chance to talk about not just different sources of pollution, but also the solutions. I talked to my friends and family to prepare my entry and used the anchoring strategies taught to portray my story better.”  Tamseel Hussain, founder, letmebreathe.in & pluc.tv, said,  “When we look at solving a complex problem like air pollution, a lot of action starts by sharing our own stories. We are so glad to host the first-ever Clean Air Punjab competition and see the amazing entries coming in from local citizens. Using our storytelling and creator engagement tools, we were able to support these people further and help them create their final entries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/video-crowdsourced-by-mohali-student-bags-first-prize-in-clean-air-punjab-competition-228903
22-03-2021||Mohali||Teenaged Merc driver was drunk, arrested||A teenaged boy was arrested on Saturday night for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after three persons were killed with his speeding car near the Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan chowk.Empty liquor bottles found in car: SSPThe boy and his two friends were under the influence of liquor when the accident took place. They fled the spot even after sensing the serious condition of the victims and didn’t inform the police or ambulance. The police have also recovered empty bottles of liquor from their car.—  Satinder Singh, SSP, MohaliThe suspect has been identified as Samrat (18) of Sector 34, Chandigarh. The police claimed that he was under the influence of alcohol and did not have a driving licence at the time of the accident.The police have also booked two of Samrat’s friends, identified as Arjun and Prabhnoor, who were accompanying him in the car.The incident took place when Samrat, who was driving the Mercedes, jumped the traffic light and rammed the car into a cab and two cycles, leaving three persons dead and another three injured. The deceased were identified as Dharampreet Singh, Ankush Narula and Ram Prasad.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “The boy and his two friends were under the influence of liquor when the accident took place. They fled the spot even after sensing the serious condition of the victims and didn’t inform the police or ambulance. The police have also recovered empty bottles of liquor from their car.”“The driver of the car does not possess a driving licence,” he said. A case has been registered under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at the Mataur police station. The autopsy of Dharampreet Singh was conducted on Saturday while that of Ankush Narula and Ram Prasad was conducted today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teenaged-merc-driver-was-drunk-arrested-228682
22-03-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Car was being driven at speed of 140 km/hr||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 21The Mercedes car, which was involved in the death of three persons here yesterday, was being driven at a speed of 140 km per hour when it met with the accident.Two victims were breadwinnersZirakpur resident Ankush Narula and Dharampreet Singh of Gholumajra were the sole earning members of their families. A family member said Dharampreet had got the job recently and was happy earning Rs22,000 per month. Ankush, the third victim whose wife is expecting a child, was earning Rs35,000. Ram Prasad, the cyclist, was employed with Godrej. The deceased, a cyclist and two car occupants, were returning from night shift in their firms.“The speedometer needle was stuck at 140 km/hr after the accident. The police also found liquor bottles inside the vehicle,” said Mohali SSP Satinder Singh.The car driver has been identified as Samrat, a Class XII student of an upscale school in Sector 26 and resident of Sector 34, Chandigarh. He is 18 years and two months old and son of the owner of Weldon Opticians in Sector 17. The 2019 model Mercedes car was registered in the name of M/s Weldon Opticians, the police said.Eyewitnesses said the driver was in tears before being taken away from the spot by a person. He was arrested on Saturday night. His blood, urine and Covid samples have been taken. The police said the trio was “partying” in Sector 9, Chandigarh, and Phase 3B2 and were on their way to Landran on the insistence of Prabhnoor when the mishap took place around 5 am. The police said the two other occupants of the Mercedes, Arjun and Prabhnoor, were yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-was-being-driven-at-speed-of-140-km-hr-228683
22-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Can’t call it ‘classical’ 2nd wave: Harsh Vardhan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21As the nation is struggling with resurgence of Covid-19 cases, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said the spike cannot be termed as “classical second wave”.On being asked whether the second wave is more virulent, Dr Vardhan said, “You can give it any name, but I don’t think it is a classical second wave or something. The treatment of Covid is not difficult and there is nothing powerful than wearing a mask properly. The transmission can be halted if people follow this norm for one month.”Vardhan was addressing mediapersons at the CSIO here today. “It has been observed that the incidence of other airborne diseases has also gone down due to wearing of masks,” he added.The single-day cases in the tricity shot to 673 yesterday, registering a spike of 300 per cent since March 1. The minister did not approve to “lockdowns” being a solution for trapping Covid-19. The only solution would be Covid-appropriate behaviour.Amid reports of deaths post-vaccination, Dr Vardhan said, “Each case of death following the vaccination is being investigated from the grassroots level to a national-level committee. So far, no link has been established between these deaths and the Covid vaccine. Minor side-effects are not even 1 per cent in the country.”The eligibility criteria for the vaccination would be expanded after the existing priority groups were covered, said the minister. On the difficulty faced by the priority groups due to stringent comorbid conditions laid down by the ministry, Dr Vardhan said, “The method is quite simple and comorbidities are well-defined. Anyone meeting the criteria can get vaccinated after getting the certificate from the registered medical practitioner.”On social distancing being violated at farmer rallies, Dr Vardhan said since there was no lockdown, people had to observe the social behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-call-it-classical-2nd-wave-harsh-vardhan-228684
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh witnesses 239 cases, one death||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-239-cases-one-death-228685
22-03-2021||Mohali||327 contract virus in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/327-contract-virus-in-mohali-228686
22-03-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula woman dies, 93 positive||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-woman-dies-93-positive-228687
22-03-2021||---||More than 6 cr crore doses sent to 76 countries||Chandigarh, March 21More than six crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been sent to 76 nations, while 4.5 crore doses have been administered to Indian citizens, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Science and Technology and Earth Sciences Harsh Vardhan said today.Speaking on the sidelines of inaugurating two technical centres for promoting research and entrepreneurship in the field of life sciences and intelligent sensors that have been set up at the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) and the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) here, Dr Vardhan called upon the scientific community to use its experience of combating the Covid-91 pandemic for any unforeseen challenges that the future may throw up.Stating that science had the potential to solve many longstanding issues which may belong to any sector, he said a people-centric approach was required and whatever scientists did in their labs should have a strong connect with the people for meeting future needs.He said the government stood rock solid behind anyone who had a bright idea and wanted to convert it into an entrepreneurship, discover or develop something new that could solve some of the long-standing problems, alleviate their sufferings and make their lives better.He added that a special fund of over Rs900 crore had been set up to help the industry expedite research for the Covid-19 vaccine.At IMTECH, a Bio-Innovation Centre has come up, which would be a hub for life sciences and biotechnology startups and MSMEs from all over the country, thereby boosting entrepreneurship in the field of life sciences.A Centre of Excellence for Intelligent Sensors and Systems has been established at CSIO, which will house the development of multi-sensor systems based on seismic, acoustic and infrared for perimeter monitoring and strategic applications using artificial intelligence and machine learning.The minister was briefed about the ongoing research projects and allied activities at the respective institutes by Dr Sanjeev Khosla, Director, IMTECH, and Prof SA Ramakrishna, Director, CSIO.During his separate visits to these institutes, Dr Vardhan went around the laboratories and facilities, and also interacted with scientists and staff there. He stressed the need for promoting the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in India.He also took stock of projects related to the mitigation of the pandemic and technologies developed in this regard at these two institutes. IMTECH was one of the first labs to commence Covid-19 testing in the region and has augmented its efforts through work on air sampling, sewage surveillance and genome sequencing of the SARS-COV-2 virus strain.CSIO had also developed some equipment to combat the virus spread such as viral load testing unit electrostatic sanitisation sprayers, contactless sanitisers, ultraviolet chambers, eye-protectors, ventilators and foot-operated taps. These were displayed on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-than-6-cr-crore-doses-sent-to-76-countries-228688
22-03-2021||Panchkula||2 held for Dhakoli boy’s murder||The Panchkula police arrested two of the three youths allegedly involved in the brutal killing of an 18-year-old boy of Dhakoli at a park in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, here on Friday night.The suspects have been identified as Sandeep and Salman, both residents of Ashiana Complex near Ramgarh. They were produced before the court of Duty Magistrate, which sent them to one-day police remand.The victim, Saleem, worked as a labourer and had taken liquor with the suspects. The police suspect that there could be heated arguments between them, which led to the victim getting stabbed. There were 14 stab wounds on the victim’s body. A case under Section 302 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 20 police station.Sector 19 police chowki Incharge Gulab Singh said arrests had been made late on Saturday night. He said old enmity between the victims and the three suspects was stated to be the main reason behind the murder. He said a manhunt has been launched to nab the third suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-dhakoli-boys-murder-228689
22-03-2021||Panchkula||Boy killed, mother hurt as truck hits bike||A four-year-old boy was killed while his mother was critically injured after a rashly driven truck hit their motorcycle near the Majri chowk here this morning.They were taken to a hospital where the boy, identified as Mankirat, succumbed to his injuries while his mother Rupinder Kaur was referred to the PGI as her condition was serious.According to the police, Gurpreet Singh was riding the motorcycle. They were going for some work when the truck hit the motorcycle from the rear side. Rupinder Kaur and her son fell on the road. Gurpreet escaped with minor injuries.The police said they received information about the accident from the hospital around 2 pm. The police said the truck was loaded with gas cylinders and the driver escaped from the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-killed-mother-hurt-as-truck-hits-bike-228690
22-03-2021||---||SIT visits Sec 37 house in property grab case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21In the property grab case, the SIT today visited the house in Sector 37, which was under construction until the police started investigating the case.The police inspected the house and also took its measurements. Sources said they would check what changes had been made in the house by the accused after allegedly grabbing it.The police will also check with the Estate Office whether the new building plan was approved or the accused were illegally carrying out the construction.The police team also spoke to people staying in the neighborhood to enquire about who were staying in the house before victim Rahul Mehta was allegedly kidnapped and taken to Gujarat.Nine persons — scribe Sanjeev Mahajan, liquor baron Arvind Singla, Satpal Dagar (brother of a DSP), Khalendra Singh Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh Gupta, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar and Daljit Singh — were booked by the police in a case registered at the Sector 39 police station on March 2. Four accused — Sanjeev, Satpal, Manish Gupta and Inspector Rajdeep Singh — have been arrested so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sit-visits-sec-37-house-in-property-grab-case-228692
22-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Under Chandigarh MC limits now, Mauli Jagran villagers say they were better off earlier||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21After Mauli Jagran village came under the MC over two years ago, its situation has only deteriorated. Residents say their problems have increased and no development has taken place after the village came under the MC limits.Former sarpanch Kartar Singh Thakur said, “Even the development that was undertaken earlier has been affected, while no new work has been started here. They ask for unnecessary permissions, even in the matter of construction of houses. People have to face difficulties as the panchayat system is over and the municipal elections have not been held. The UT Administration should have given extension to the panchayat system till a new MC body is formed here.”Local resident Kamaldev Dhiman said, “There are katcha lanes in our village and these become slushy during the rainy season. It becomes difficult for us to walk outside our houses. Roads and lanes are never cleaned. The roads are dark at night as there are no street lights. Not even a single thing has been fixed after the civic body took over.”Residents rued that other than civic problems, there was also a lack of basic facilities. There was no Sampark Centre and Janjh Ghar, they said.They allege that certain facilities which existed earlier had also been removed. “There used to be a Gram Sampark Centre, but two months ago, it was shifted to Vikasnagar. Now, we have to go out of the village for works such as affidavits, stamps and pension,” said Surinder Singh Thakur.Harbhajan Singh, a former Zila Parishad member, said, “They are now charging us heavily for water and sewerage. However, our sewer pipelines are old and have started leaking. Sometimes, drinking water gets mixed with sewage.”Congress leader Shashi Shankar Tiwari, who lives in neighbouring Vikasnagar, Mauli Jagran, said, “Not just the village, the situation in the entire Mauli Jagran area has gone from bad to worse. Villagers had high hopes of development when they came under the MC limits, but they are now a harried lot. They have nowhere to go.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/under-chandigarh-mc-limits-now-mauli-jagran-villagers-say-they-were-better-off-earlier-228693
22-03-2021||With sudden spurt in covid cases||Only strict norms, not lockdown/curfew, can provide succour||People should Avoid unnecessary travelCertain restrictions must be imposed. Educational institutes should switch to the online mode. The government and private offices staff should report to their offices on rotation basis. Work from home must be encouraged. Unnecessary travel to and from the city must be regulated. Partial lockdown could be imposed on certain weekdays and weekends.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhCovid patients must follow protocolThe sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases is a cause of worry for institutions like schools, going to start offline studies. Yes, the UT Administration should impose restrictions like night curfew and ensure proper sanitation and social distancing norms in offices and institutions. Covid test centres should be sanitised regularly. Coronavirus patients should follow protocol to prevent spreading of the virus among residents.Satvik Singla, ChandigarhEateries must accept takeaway orders onlyThe UT Administration should impose more restrictions to curb the spread virus. Coffee houses, eating joints and hotels should accept only takeaway orders. Educational institutions should be closed for some time. Crowds at markets should be restricted. Only serious shoppers not gheri flock should be allowed in markets. Avoid unnecessary socialising.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhVisitors must have Covid-free certificateThere is a need to have more strict restrictions to control the virus. All persons entering tricity should have Covid-free medical certificate. The authorities should challan persons not following Covid-19 norms like not wearing face mask or keeping social distance (2 gaj ki duri) in public places and not sanitising hands regularly.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliIt’s a Lull before the stormThe increasing Covid cases in the tricity is an alarm before the storm comes. The lenient attitude of the authorities and carelessness among masses is responsible for the coming catastrophe. Undoubtedly, the UT Administration cannot restrict day to day activities for a long time due to certain impediments to livelihood, but strict and sincere implementation of the Covid protocols is the need of the hour.Gobind Ahuja, ChandigarhComplacency towards prevention normsCovid infections are on rise in the tricity. People have become complacent and stopped taking preventive steps. No check on crowd at public places, opening of schools and relaxation in restrictions on entertainment and functions have led to spurt in Covid infection. Restrictions must be imposed strictly and vaccination drive increased. The fear related to side effects of vaccine must be alleviated through awareness campaigns.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliTask force can ensure norms complianceThe public has virtually stopped wearing masks properly and maintaining social distance, which has spiked Covid cases. Imposing more restrictions will bring more social and financial miseries to the common man as well as the Administration. A task force should be set up to visit every sector/village to ensure implementation of the Covid precautions without any excuse.KC Rana, ChandigarhStart lockdown with night curfewWith the number of coronavirus patients rising steeply in the tricity and the Administration failing to stem the spread of the virus, it has become more or less imperative to impose lockdown now. A start can be made with night curfew.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhMass gatherings have to be stoppedNot stopping mass gatherings for protests, election rallies and at religious places has led to spurt in Covid cases in and around Chandigarh. The UT Administration and the police must deal strictly with people not following Covid prevention norms like maintaining social distance or wearing face masks. All must follow the protocol even after getting vaccinated against coronavirus.SC Luthra, ChandigarhAdministration lax in implementing normsEveryone was afraid about possible surge in Covid cases during winters. But contrary to this, cases reduced during the cold season and spiked in March. Although safety norms were in force in the UT, but the Administration was lax in their implementation. Residents moved in markets and on roads without wearing face masks, maintaining social distance and sanitisation. Whosoever flouts Covid norms must be penalised or kept in custody for one or two days.MR Bhateja, NayagaonViolators must be dealt with strictlyThe proverb “Self-discipline is the best discipline” is so true for the present situation. It is worrisome that coronavirus cases are surging in the region. But, every time we cannot expect just the Administration to react. As responsible citizens we must follow protocols. Those, who are careless, must be dealt with strictly. No doubt strictness by the Administration is the need of the hour, but it cannot prevent the spread of the virus. So, we all must help the government fight the disease.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhSelf-regulation failed to give resultsThe question is why restrictions to control the spread of the virus? Self-regulation has failed to give desired results. Complacency and administrative laxity to enforce protocols is telling. We are in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic. Covid is not leaving us anytime too soon. Universal vaccination is a distant dream. The respective Administrations in the tricity must strictly enforce more restrictions. There is no escape from new normal of regular sanitisation, social distancing and wearing face mask to facilitate opening up of more and more activities.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaLockdown should be the last stepThe masses must ensure that all Covid-related guidelines are followed. The Administration must ensure proper social distancing and wearing of face masks. Unlike many western countries the impact of pandemic was not such severe in our country. Any lockdown in near future may severely affect daily wagers, small shopkeepers, workers and people from lower sections of society, who solely depend on daily earnings. The Administration must spread awareness about pandemic. The second wave induced lockdown will play spoilsport for the economy, industry and employment on a large scale. Imposition of lockdown should be an extreme and last resort. The Administration may explore other viable options to check the spread of the virus.Karan Singh Vinayak, ChandigarhLimit gatherings to minimum at functionsThe Administration needs to impose strict restrictions to prevent the Covid spread in the UT. Gatherings at functions should be restricted to minimum, timings for shopping be curtailed to 7 pm and online classes should continue in schools and colleges. Besides, visitors coming to the city from other states should be tested for Covid at borders. Above all, the authorities muse ensure that precautions are taken strictly. Special check should be conducted in markets, parks and functions to make sure that people wear masks. Violators should be penalised without any leniency.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliPeople careless towards Covid normsThe UT Administration should impose more restrictions to control the rising virus infection among residents. People are careless towards Covid norms. Strict lockdown cannot be averted if we ignore safety protocols. The UT Administration should make residents aware about horrible impact of the mutating coronavirus. There should be strict punishment for those, who violate Covid norms. The proverb “Prevention is better than cure” should be followed by one and all. Covid testing and contact tracing of persons, who have contracted virus, should be increased. It is Administration’s duty to provide soap, mask and sanitisers to the poor free of cost.Adish Sood, AmlohImpose weekend lockdownThe UT Administration should impose a weekend lockdown to prevent the coronavirous transmission. Social distancing has to be followed by everyone. Residents should be encouraged to restrict non-essential travel and stay home.Gurwinder Bhullar, ChandigarhFollow norms or face restrictionsMost people aren’t following Covid prevention protocol like maintaining social distance and wearing face mask. In the present economic condition, further lockdown/curfew will make things worse for the people like daily wagers, who have to earn every day to make their both ends meet. However, public should also realise their responsibility and follow norms to keep safe from the virus. Otherwise, restrictions will be imposed again.Sukhpal Singh, ChandigarhExisting restrictions are enoughTo prevent the virus upsurge the authorities need not impose new restrictions. They just have to enforce already announced restrictions sincerely. For example, wearing face mask is mandatory, but not everyone does so. Heavy fine should be imposed on violators. The entry of those not wearing mask should be barred at public places. More than stipulated number of invitees to social gatherings should invite punishment for organisers.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhBan mass gatherings in chandigarhNecessary preventive measures should be taken by the Administration. Mass gathering should strictly be banned. Above all, the police must ensure that social distancing is maintained at crowded places. The authorities should impose heavy fine on people violating the coronavirus guidelines.Anita Tandon, KhararIssuing challans is not the only solutionCovid cases have surged not only in Chandigarh, but in Mohali and Panchkula too. The main reason negligence of the people. The Administration’s focus is only on issuing challans to violators of prevention norms rather than distributing free sanitisers, masks and gloves among public. Restriction can be increased in the UT to check the spread of the virus. The amount collected from challans should be utilised for the Covid prevention purpose only.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhDon’t lower guard against virusThe life was slowly limping back to normal as Covid cases declined in January and February. But, sudden resurge of coronavirus in March in the UT is worrisome and alarming. Social gatherings led to the spike in positive cases. There is hardly any place where people are seen wearing mask or adhering to the safety measures. People are taking the pandemic lightly. The UT Administration must keep a tab on unnecessary movement of the people and impose strict restrictions. The pandemic can continue for another year. So, prevention is better than cure. People should not lower guard against virus.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaChandigarh Admn has to stay vigilantThere are various reasons behind behind Covid surge, including irresponsible behaviour of the public. The Chandigarh Administration has to remain vigilant and start declaring containment zones where community infections are on the rise. There could be an odd-even formula for opening market places to prevent crowding. Complete lockdown may not be the answer to this new spread of the virus, but the government guidelines must be strictly enforced.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhRamp up vaccination drive in ChandigarhA lockdown doesn’t prompt people to be more health conscious. The coronavirus doesn’t spread predominantly in the night hours. The Administration must start aggressive campaign to ensure that everyone wears face mask. Wearing face mask inconveniences politicians, who move freely in potentially super spreader election campaigns. Vaccines are finally here and supply is also no constraint. Vaccination drive must be ramped up. Centre must meet the demand to relax priority group inoculation in states witnessing surge.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliImpose one or two-day lockdown per weekOne or two day lockdown per week with ensure compliance of the guidelines along with adequate social distancing on other days can reduce the spread of the virus. Among all measures contact tracing and quarantine are the key to contain the spread. The police must ensure that social distancing is maintained at public places. Special arrangements should be made to screen and test residents of old age homes, students’ hostels, disabled and immunocompromised. The number of at functions should be restricted.Dr Manjinder Kaur, ManaliViolators must face fine, imprisonmentPeople have a lax attitude towards norms. At this moment, the UT Administration should strictly penalise and imprison violators for not following protocols while stepping out of their homes. Check on shops, public places, tourist spots and offices is needed to curb the spread of the virus. People must understand that the second Covid wave could do more harmful as the mutated virus spreads faster. They must help the Administration combat it by following the guidelines.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliImpose existing restrictions strictlyMarch has brought the of last year’s memories when lockdown was imposed in the country. Residents have become careless and do not follow the instructions issued by the Administration from time to time. They behave as if these are for others and not for them. One should realise that Covid does not make difference between people on the basis of caste, creed or status. The authorities should impose the existing restrictions from sincerely. So, remember the ‘mool mantra do gaj ki doori, mask mukh par aur hath ki safai jaruri’ will only save us from contracting virus.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhGoods at subsidised rate in lockdownIt’s been one year since Covid restrictions were imposed. Life will become more miserable if lockdown/curfew is imposed as our economy is shattered and there is no aid from the government for the common people. Imposing curfew at night will affect the hospitality industry. Where is coronavirus when farmers sit at Delhi borders to protest against agri Acts? Where is coronavirus when people celebrate at Khumbh mela? Where is coronavirus when our politicians attend election rallies? Make people realise that they should follow safety rules. If lockdown/curfew is imposed then provide them goods and facilities at subsidised rates.Charu Malhotra, MohaliNobody should be complacentThe seriousness of the situation and rigor with which activities were carried towards the peak of the pandemic could have started a bit earlier. As a matter of fact, it was the fault of the masses as well as the Administration due to which cases increased. Initial contact tracing and home quarantine of foreign travels and screening for respiratory symptoms could have been undertaken at the start of the pandemic. Vegetable markets (Apni Mandis) should be closed for the time being. The RT PCR testing should be enhanced. Crowd should be regulated at all sorts of events.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONHow much are parents to be blamed for their teenaged children driving recklessly on roads leading to accidents in which innocent lives are lost?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-strict-norms-not-lockdown-curfew-can-provide-succour-228696
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Devank wins overall title||Devank Gupta won the overall title in the Junior Mr Chandigarh competition while Nidhi Sharma was named the Women Fitness champion on the concluding day of the 29th Junior Mr Chandigarh, 32nd Senior Mr Chandigarh, 5th Women Fitness and 7th Men’s Best Physique Championships, held at SGGS College, Sector 26, today. In the 29th Junior Mr Chandigarh event, Ankit Tiwari came first in below 55kg category followed by Gokul Singh and Tushar Sharma in second and third places, respectively.In below 60kg category, Ajay Kumar, Dikshant Bansal and Intejar Ahmed claimed the top-three positions. Manish Kumar won gold, Shivam Mahajan silver and Vijay Saini bronze medal in the 65kg category. In below 70kg category, Lovely Sharma clinched gold, Budh Singh silver and Shubham bronze medal. Devank Gupta won gold, Ashish silver and Vicky Khan bronze in above 70-kg category. Vikas Pandey won gold, Manoj Kumar silver and Anil Kumar bronze medal in the Classic Bodybuilding Championship (open weight). In the Men’s Physique (open) event, Ashish Dogra, Lovely Sharma and Manoj bagged first three positions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devank-wins-overall-title-228697
22-03-2021||---||Kathak performance casts spell at sammelan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21On the sixth day of the All India Bhaskar Rao Nritya and Sangeet Sammelan, a soulful vocal recital by young maestro Ambrish Das from Kolkata, along with a dazzling Kathak dance performance by Dr Samira Koser, at Tagore Theatre enthralled the audience here today.The event opened to a melodic start with a classical vocal recital by Kolkata artiste Ambrish Das, who commenced with an ‘alaap’ in ‘Raga Yaman’ followed by ‘Vilambit ek taal bandish’. He also presented ‘drut bandish’ amidst applause, which was followed by another beautiful ‘bandish’, called ‘aae mayi aaj aaye ghar mitwa’. He concluded with ‘basant raaga’-based composition and was ably accompanied by Pt Debashish Adhikary on tabla.After this soulful presentation, Kathak danseuse Samira Koser took the centre stage. She commenced with invocatory piece ‘Shloka’ to offer prayers to Almighty followed by Shudh Kathak dance with Jaipur Gharana with ‘gat’, ‘nikas thaat’, ‘aamad’, ‘uthaan’, ‘paran’, ‘chakradar paran’, ‘upaj’ and so on presented with captivating and graceful movements and fine footwork. Samira Koser then presented ‘abhinaya’ aspect of Kathak. This item is based mythological story of Ahilaya.She was accompanied by Guru Brij Mohan Gangani on padant, Pt Madho Prasad on vocal, Shakeel Ahmed and Mehmood Khan on tabla, Saleem Kumar on sitar and Vinay Prasanna on flute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kathak-performance-casts-spell-at-sammelan-228699
22-03-2021||---||Congress workers protest poor roads||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21The Chandigarh unit of the Congress held a protest against the Municipal Corporation (MC) over the poor condition of roads here today.The demonstration was held on the stretch in front of CRB School, Sector 7, where the entire road is broken.Protesters placed replicas of lotus – the BJP symbol – on the potholes to highlight the “misrule” of the BJP-led Municipal Corporation.The protesters raised slogans against the MC and carried a banner with “Sadko mey gadde, gaddo mey dhul, hamari bhul kamal ka phool” written over it.Addressing the protesters, Chandigarh Congress unit head Subhash Chawla said that the BJP had “no moral right to rule” in the Municipal Corporation.“Today, the common man of the city is fed up with the Municipal Corporation and is cursing its very existence. The city is in bad shape and basic facilities have gone from bad to worse. On the other hand, new taxes are being levied every day,” said Chawla.Party spokesperson HS Lucky said the roads in the city were in bad shape and it was tough to figure out whether there are potholes on the roads or road is in the potholes.Sector 7 is one of the posh sectors of the city. MP, Adviser, DC and other big officers of Chandigarh live here, even then the condition of roads here is poor, said Lucky.People of the city are fed up with these conditions and their patience is now giving up. You go to any sector of the city, you will see broken roads and shabby parks. Seeing such a plight of the city beautiful, you want the corporation to be dissolved, Lucky added.Youth Congress leader Karanbir Singh Kanu alleged that the common man had been completely neglected in the BJP’s rule. “On one side, the inflation is rising and on the other side, unemployment has broken the back of people,” said Kanu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-workers-protest-poor-roads-228700
22-03-2021||---||Panchkula Health Dept starts 2-day mega vaccination drive today||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, March 21The Panchkula Health Department, while setting a target to cover as many people as possible under the vaccination drive to be launched on Monday and Tuesday, urged persons over 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities to get vaccinated at the nearest health centres. Vaccine totally safe, says Civil SurgeonCivil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said arrangements had been made at 49 places in the district, including community health centres, primary health centres and private hospitals, under the mega drive. The vaccine was totally safe and it would help check the spread of the virus.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said arrangements had been made at 49 places in the district, including community health centres, primary health centres and private hospitals, under the mega drive. She said the vaccine was totally safe and it would help check the spread of the virus.Dr Jasjit said the Health Department had coordinated with several departments to encourage people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities. These include the Incident Commander, Women and Child Development Department and Urban Local Bodies, Panchayati Raj Institutions and religious leaders.She said in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the district, people need to wear face mask, wash their hands frequently with soap and avoid going to crowded places. People need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour even after being vaccinated.Dr Meenu Sasan, Nodal Officer for vaccination, said 41,963 people were vaccinated on March 20. Of this, 23,442 were above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-health-dept-starts-2-day-mega-vaccination-drive-today-228701
22-03-2021||---||Social distancing ignored at Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan’s event||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21The social distancing norms went for a toss during the inauguration of the help desk for Covid-19 vaccination at Dadu Majra’s health and wellness centre by Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. A large number of BJP workers, healthcare workers of the civil dispensary and media personnel gathered at the site ahead of the Health Minister’s visit. Minister shown black flagsCongress workers, who had gathered outside the wellness centre at Dadu Majra to protest the visit of the Union Health Minister, were allegedly detained by the police when they showed black flags to Dr Harsh Vardhan. “About 14 Congressmen were detained and taken away in a bus. They were released later on,” said Congress leader Harmail Kesari. The Congress workers were protesting over the dumping ground in Dadu Majra.As soon as Harsh Vardhan reached the centre, Congress workers, who had also gathered at the venue, “created ruckus” and there was violation of the social distancing norms.“The event was announced a day before in the newspapers so enthusiastic residents and young members of the BJP gathered at the centre. The Congress workers created ruckus outside the venue, which is uncalled for,” said Arun Sood, president of the city BJP unit. Sood said the help desk at Dadu Majra’s health and wellness centre would serve towards the wellbeing of city residents.“The local workers of the party are helping the needy in getting vaccinated. Our workers are helping elderly with registration and bringing them to vaccination centres,” said Sood.City residents though felt that the organisers of events need to be more responsible.“The current rising trend in Covid-19 cases tells us that Chandigarh has been pushed back by six months in its fight against the pandemic. The organisers and hosts of functions and events need to be more cautious. They should seriously implement the Covid-appropriate behaviour in the gatherings as per the latest government advisory,” said Vinod Vashishta from the Resident Welfare Association, Sector 22:More than 50 people were vaccinated during today’s campaign at the centre. Some of them were brought on wheelchairs. The Union Minister interacted with the elderly who had come to the centre to register for vaccination.After inaugurating the help desk, Harsh Vardhan inspected the vaccination centre. He interacted with people who came for vaccination and also encouraged doctors and other Health Department staff. The minister was accompanied by Dr Amandeep, Director, Department of Health and other officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-ignored-at-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhans-event-228702
22-03-2021||Panchkula||Haryana Speaker unveils plaques of two projects in Panchkula||Adding a new chapter to the development of Panchkula district, Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta unveiled the plaques of two development projects worth Rs43 crore at the PWD Rest House here today.The projects include inauguration of a 2.5-km-long link road from Khangesra to Jaswantgarh, constructed at a cost of Rs5 crore, and the foundation stone of the office building of the Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) to be constructed in the Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 6, at a cost of around Rs38.36 crore.Gian Chand Gupta said today’s programme assumed a special significance for the development of Haryana as Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of 163 projects worth Rs1,411 crore for all districts simultaneously through videoconferencing.Gupta said the link road from Khangesra to Jaswantgarh was a pending demand of the residents of this area. Panch, sarpanch and villagers of Barwala had met him and demanded for the construction of this road. He took up the matter with the Chief Minister, who announced the construction of this road. Now, travelling time between Khangesra and Jaswantgarh would be reduced by 50 per cent.Gupta said the office building of the DMER would be constructed at a cost of Rs38.36 crore and it would be completed within 21 months. It would be centrally air-conditioned and energy-efficient. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-speaker-unveils-plaques-of-two-projects-in-panchkula-228703
22-03-2021||---||Man found dead in drain||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, March 21A 45-year-old man was found dead in a drain near Ambedkar Colony in Kathgarh village of Dhakoli. The deceased has been identified as Manpal, who used to work as a waste collector.A passerby saw the body around 8.30 am today and informed the police. Manpal was missing for the past three days. His brother Kiratpal had lodged a missing complaint with the police. The cops said Manpal fell into the drain under the influence of alcohol and died.The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital for autopsy, which will be conducted on Monday. There were no injuries marks on the body.His was living in Ambedkar Colony with his brother for the past some time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-in-drain-228704
22-03-2021||Panchkula||Congress leader, friend booked for rape||Congress leader Om Shukla and his friend Ajay Arora have been booked for allegedly raping a woman.The victim, a widow, in her complaint said Arora raped her on pretext of marriage and later blackmailed her to also have physical relationship with Shukla.A case has been registered against Congress activist Om Shukla and Ajay Arora, the police said. The victim is a resident of Bhamia Kalan village in Ludhiana district and is presently living in a rented accommodation in Sector 26, Panchkula, said the police.Her husband had died in 2017 and she started living in a rented accommodation in Dhakoli. The woman claimed that Arora had told her that he was a bachelor and wanted to marry her, said the police. When I came to know that Arora was already married and had a child also, I started avoiding him but he started blackmailing me.The woman claimed that on March 13 or 14 Arora, along with Shukla, visited her house and asked her to continue making physical relationship with him as well as his friend. She said when she refused, Shukla thrashed her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leader-friend-booked-for-rape-228705
22-03-2021||Mohali||Development works in full swing in Mohali dist: MP Tewari||Development of the district was being ensured and various development works were in full swing in the district. Continuous efforts were being made to change the face of villages. This was stated by Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari during a meeting with members of the Zila Parishad at the District Administrative Complex here today.Tewari said no stone was left unturned in transforming the district by developing it at the grassroots level. A budget of Rs49.41 crore was approved for the Mohali Zila Parishad, Rs4 crore for the Dera Bassi Block Samiti, Rs2.12 crore for the Majri Block Samiti and Rs3.53 crore for the Kharar Block Samiti. A labour budget of Rs36.55 crore was also approved under the MGNREGA.Tewari also asked the Zila Parishad members to personally monitor the ongoing development works in the district and the facilities being provided to the people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/development-works-in-full-swing-in-mohali-dist-mp-tewari-228706
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rally against farm laws held in Chandigarh||The Naujawan Kisan Ekta organised an “interfaith” protest rally here today. Hundreds of people took part in the rally on their vehicles, including motorcycles, scooters, cars, jeeps and tractors.The rally against the three agro-market laws took off from Gurdwara Amb Sahib in Mohali and culminated at Rally Ground in Sector 25. The rally was flagged off by Anisa, one of the leaders of the Kinnar community.The rally traversed through Gurdwara Amb Sahib to Jama Masjid Sector 45 and then to Lakshmi Narayan Mandir Sector 44. The rally took place in the markets of the sectors, reached the Christian Church in Sector 41.The participants said the issue was not about religion but about livelihood. “The Government of India should renounce bigotry and accept the voice of the farmers,” said Prateek Mann from the Naujawan Kisan Ekta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rally-against-farm-laws-held-in-chandigarh-228707
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Theft at house||Over 66K appear for online examChandigarh: As many as 66,120 students appeared for the online exam of Environment and Road Safety Education and Violence against Women and Children. The exam, which was earlier scheduled for February 5, was postponed to March 20 and 21. Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations, Panjab University, said a total of 38,468 students of Bachelor of Arts (second semester) appeared for the examination on Sunday, while 27,652 students took the exam on Saturday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-house-228709
