23-03-2021||Chandigarh||53 more Covid deaths, 2,274 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday reported 53 more fatalities due to COVID-19 and 2,274 fresh cases, bringing the toll to 6,435 and the infection count to 2,17,663, according to a medical bulletin.The districts which saw deaths due to the pandemic included Jalandhar (14), Hoshiarpur (9) and Patiala (6).Ludhiana reported a maximum of 364 new COVID-19 cases, Jalandhar 322, Mohali 263 and Amritsar 246, the bulletin said.The number of active cases increased from 18,628 on Monday to 19,403 on Tuesday.A total of 1,426 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,91,825, the bulletin said.There are 29 critical COVID-19 patients who are on ventilator support while 268 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 56,66,257 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported 214 more coronavirus cases, taking the count to 24,881.The death of a 52-year-old woman took the coronavirus-related toll to 364 in the Union Territory, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 1,979 on Monday and 2,066 on Tuesday, the bulletin said.A total of 126 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 22,451.A total of 2,96,079 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far in the UT and 2,70,196 of them tested negative while reports of 151 samples are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/53-more-covid-deaths-2-274-new-cases-in-punjab-229441
23-03-2021||---||GMCH, PGI asked to scale up RT-PCR testing capacity||Chandigarh, March 22The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have been asked to increase their RT-PCR testing capacity in view of the surge in the Covid-19 cases.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the PGI authorities to enhance sample testing capacity to 1,200 per day. Of this, at least 600 samples sent by the UT Administration should be accepted daily. The GMCH-32 has been asked to increase the capacity to 400 RT-PCR tests per day.The share of RT-PCR tests has increased to 48 per cent in the last week from 40 per cent seen in the month of February.In the past four days, over 55 per cent of the Covid-19 tests conducted were RT-PCR. The Centre has asked the UT to test almost all possible suspected Covid-19 cases through RT-PCR.All family contacts of the infected patients, suspected patients and those visiting the OPD are being tested through RT-PCR.The Administrator suggested that contact tracing should be intensified and all those, who came into contact with Covid patients, must be mandatorily tested. He also mentioned that visitors reaching Chandigarh by bus, train, air and other public transport modes should be invariably screened and wherever symptoms are found, people must be tested to check infection.The Administrator also appealed to the medical authorities to be prepared to handle the increasing number of Covid patients, who are coming for treatment in hospitals. He also directed them to ensure that there is no wastage of the vaccine and the FIFO (first-in, first-out) principle should be strictly followed while utilising the vaccine.Substantial rise in positivity rate: PGI DirectorPGI Director Dr Jagat Ram stated that Covid patient load at the institute had increased to 135 in Nehru Hospital Extension. Out of this, 41 belonged to Chandigarh, 58 to Punjab, 26 to Haryana, seven to Himachal Pradesh and three to other states. He also mentioned that there has been a substantial increase in the positivity rate, which has reached as high as 10 per cent. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said they had conducted 7,754 Covid tests, out of which, 867 were found infected. The positivity rate was 11.2%.The directionsThe UT Administrator directed the PGI authorities to enhance sample testing capacity to 1,200 per day. Of this, at least 600 samples sent by the UT Administration should be accepted daily. The GMCH-32 has been asked to increase the capacity to 400 RT-PCR tests per day.Panjab University Vice-Chancellor inoculatedPanjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, Panjab University, here on Monday. The Vice-Chancellor followed the instructions and waited at the institute for 30 minutes post-vaccination. He also had an interactive session with the patients who were satisfied and contended with the services of the medical staff of the institute. The Vice-Chancellor, along with Principal Prof Hemant Batra, also inspected the institute. He advised Prof Batra to take steps for the growth of the institute, maintain Covid-19 protocol and take care of the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-pgi-asked-to-scale-up-rt-pcr-testing-capacity-229091
23-03-2021||---||Take precautionary measures to prevent spread: Haryana Speaker||Panchkula, March 22Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today exhorted the people of the district and the state to take adequate precautionary measures to keep a check on the further spread of coronavirus.Gupta, while inaugurating a two-day Covid vaccination campaign at the community centre in Sector 12-A here, said in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, strict precautionary measures needed to be taken as was being done during the time of initial outbreak of the disease.He also appealed to people to maintain social distancing, use hand sanitiser and wear mask to protect themselves from coronavirus.The Health Department had set a target to vaccinate 8,000 people above 60 years of age during the two-day campaign.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said more than 1 lakh people of the district would be vaccinated by the month-end. She urged senior citizens to come forward for vaccination.Earlier, the two-day campaign started with the vaccination of a senior citizen, Satpal Gupta.After getting the jab, Satpal said he was feeling comfortable and did not face any kind of problem. He called upon people to get vaccinated at the earliest.Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Sanyam Garg, DMC Deepak Sura, BJP district president Ajay Sharma, officials and employees of the Health Department were also present on the occasion.Target to jab 8K senior citizens in 2 daysHaryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, strict precautionary measures needed to be taken as was being done during the time of initial outbreak of the disease. He also appealed to people to maintain social distancing, use hand sanitiser and wear mask to protect themselves from the coronavirus. The Health Department had set a target to vaccinate 8,000 people above 60 years of age during the two-day campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-precautionary-measures-to-prevent-spread-haryana-speaker-229092
23-03-2021||---||2 arrested for painter’s murder in Badhmajra||Mohali, March 22 The police claimed to have solved the murder case of a painter in Badhmajra with the arrest of two suspects. The police also recovered a scooter, a country made pistol and one round from their possession. The suspects have been identified as Rohtaas, a resident of Jhunjhunu, and Ajay Agarhari, a resident of Sant Kabir Nagar, UP. The duo was staying at Faidan village and Ram Darbar, respectively. A case under Sections 379 of the IPC & Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Sohana police station. Rohtaas is the prime suspect in the murder of the painter, Sanjay Yadav (35), in Badhmajra on June 28 last year. He absconded with his associates after committing the crime. A case under Sections 302, 450, 148 and 149 of the IPC was already registered against him at the Balongi police station. Rohtaas was wanted in the murder case. During search, a country made pistol and one round was recovered from co-accused Ajay Agarhari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-painters-murder-in-badhmajra-229093
23-03-2021||---||Third accused in police net||Panchkula, March 22With the arrest of third accused, the police today claimed to have solved the murder of a Dhakoli youth who was killed in a park near Industrial Area, Phase 1, here on March 20.The arrested accused has been identified as Akash Yadav, a resident of Ambedkar Colony in Dhakoli, Zirakpur.The other two accused – Sanjeep and Dilbar, alias Salman, both residents of Ashiana Complex in Sector 28 – have already been arrested by the police.The trio was produced in the court which remanded them in judicial custody.Victim Saleem’s father Aasik in his complaint to the police said his son used to work with him as a labourer but he often skipped work.When I sought information in this regard, it was revealed that Saleem had fallen in bad company, Aasik a native of Chakkarpur village in Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, and presently living at Ambedkar Colony, told the police.The SHO, Sector 20 police station, Dalip Singh, said Aasik told them on March 19 his son, along with his friends, had gone to the meat market in Sector 19, Panchkula, but he did not return home till next day morning.He (Aasik) said after enquiry, he came to know that Saleem, along with Sanjeep, Dilbar and Akash Yadav, had gone to Sector 19 market and purchased cooked goat meat, said the SHOAasik further said that they also took liquor and after this there was a fight among his son and his friends in which he was killed, Dalip Singh added.A case was registered against the accused under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 20 police station, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/third-accused-in-police-net-229094
23-03-2021||---||Man booked on rape charge||Mohali, March 22 The police today booked a Sohana resident on charge of raping a 28-year-old woman. The suspect, identified as Kamardeep Singh, a resident of Sohana, is yet to be arrested. He was booked under Section 376 of the IPC at the Mataur police station today. The complainant, a resident of Zirakpur, alleged that the suspect was staying with her and raping him for the past sometime on the pretext of marrying her. He later refused to marry her. Investigating officer Navjeet Kaur said a case had been registered. The police were searching for the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-on-rape-charge-229095
23-03-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Administration opens technical bids submitted by seven firms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 22Expediting the process, the UT Administration today opened the technical bids submitted by seven firms for privatisation of the Electricity Department. CB Ojha, Chief Engineer, UT, said the bid evaluation committee would now examine all technical bids. However, the financial bids would be opened after scrutinising all technical bids.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.As many as 20 intended bidders were issued the request for proposal (RFP), but only seven companies - Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company - had submitted their bids by the last date on March 18.However, the UT Administration had recently extended the last date to submit the bids after making some changes in the request for proposal (RFP) conditions in the tender documents.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. Sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.The UT has proposed to give licence to a distribution company, to be finalised after the bidding process, for 25 years under the project.Meanwhile, the UT Powermen Union alleged that the UT Administration opened the bids in the absence of a nodal officer appointed for the purpose violating all rules and procedure of the bidding system.Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary of the union, said in protest against the decision of the Administration, electricity employees boycotted the work and held a dharna before the New Power House, Industrial Area, Phase 1. They marched towards the Transport Chowk, Sector 26, and burnt an effigy of the UT Administration. He said they would hold a dharna on April 7 and, thereafter, a 24-hour strike in all shifts would be observed on April 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-opens-technical-bids-submitted-by-seven-firms-229097
23-03-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration declares six new containment zones||Chandigarh, March 22To break the chain of Covid transmission, the UT Administration today declared six more containment zones in the city.Adviser Manoj Parida said the outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as containment zones in the city.Also readThe areas declared containment zones are: part of Sector 34-D, 38-D, 46, 49-B and Sector 63. Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted.Earlier on March 18, the UT Administration had declared six containment zones in parts of Sector 15, 29, 33-B, 38-B, 44-D, and 49-A (Pushpak Enclave).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-declares-six-new-containment-zones-229098
23-03-2021||---||Download Smart City app to avail of services||Chandigarh, March 22  City residents can now download ‘I’m Chandigarh’ mobile application for filing online grievances and availing of other government services. “The ‘Citizen Service Platform’ for Chandigarh is now live! You can now easily register your complaints/grievances, track their status and access other services. Download ‘I’m Chandigarh’ app,” tweeted Chandigarh Smart City Limited today.  Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Residents’ Welfare Organisations, said: “The facility was already on their website and a common complaint number is also there. However, now residents will be able to operate it through the mobile application.” Various services related to horticulture, online permissions, property tax, bookings, e-challan, licence and lease will be available on the app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/download-smart-city-app-to-avail-of-services-229099
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Artistes captivate audience on concluding day||The 50th All-India Bhaskar Rao Nritya and Sangeet Sammelan’s concluding day was studded with a soulful vocal and incredible Bharatnatyam and kathak dance presentations at the Tagore Theatre here today.After a reposeful “aalap”, Poornima Kulkarni presented raga Puriya Kalyan in bandish “ovan lagi sanjh bhai” in vilambit ek taal. Her next rendering was drut bandish with bols “ Dhan dhan tero bhag” followed by a tempting Tarana. She left a mark on the audience with rendition of concluding composition in Hori with bols “ Khele Nandlal sang rangbhari hori” was well received. She was well accompanied by Durjay Bhaumik on tabla and Paromita Mukherjee on harmonium.Thereafter, the team of celebrated Bharatnatyam Guru Kamilini Dutt took the centre stage. They presented “Rangoantaratma”, a journey of Nada, Bindu, Kala and Rasa through their incredible dance performance. This concept was based on Shiv tatva in which the Shakti and birth of nature and utmost bliss of life was presented with fine footwork, beautiful movements and soulful expressions. They spellbound the audience with their abhinaya and nritya. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/artistes-captivate-audience-on-concluding-day-229100
23-03-2021||Zirakpur||Chains snatched at Pabhat, Sector 71||Two bike-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from a middle-aged woman standing outside her home in Shiva Enclave of Pabhat village.Mala, 56, said around 2:30 pm, two youths stopped near her house and tried to engage in her a conversation. When she turned back to go inside the house, one of them snatched her gold chain, weighing 10 gm, from her neck and both fled on their bike.Investigating officer Jaswinder Singh said the police were scanning CCTV footage of the area and the culprits would be nabbed soon. A similar incident was reported from Sector 71 in the evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chains-snatched-at-pabhat-sector-71-229101
23-03-2021||Amarjot Kaur||A tribute to Jeanneret on 125th birth anniversary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 22While tracing the legacy of Pierre Jeanneret’s architectural talent, given his versatility, aesthetics and adaptability, one stands acquainted with Chandigarh’s soul. The detail of quintessential modernism in his works extends way beyond just the obvious facade, pervades functionality and stands relevant even today.Before it was decided to convert his house into a museum, the structure had witnessed many haphazard additions and alterations over the years. “The verandahs were enclosed, doors and windows replaced, fittings and fixtures changed and the brick fireplace and niches were demolished. We spent nearly four years on its restoration,” recollects Deepika Gandhi, Director, Le Corbusier Centre.She shares: “The most important aspect of Jeanneret’s design was that he was versatile. He could change his entire vocabulary according to the situation. He would improvise. If you look at Corbusier’s work, you will be able to recognise it. Jeanneret’s not as much. You can’t tell that Jeanneret designed Panjab University’s Administrative Block, Corbusier Centre and Gandhi Bhawan. In all of his architectural designs, he changed his vocabulary.”Jeanneret’s merit lies in his ability to balance aesthetics and functionality. Rajnish Wattas, former principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture, architectural critic, author and heritage expert, says: “Jeanneret’s style is very understated. He had the knack of making something modern out of ancient materials such as the red sandstone used in Panjab University. Then there’s Gandhi Bhawan, which is reminiscent of Fatehpur Sikri, which is all white, and stands out in Panjab University’s otherwise red-coloured linear facades.”During his stay in Chandigarh, he lived in a self-designed house number 57 in Sector 5, from December 1954 to August 1965. Le Corbusier, too, used to stay in this house during his visits to Chandigarh every year.Sangeeta Bagga, principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture, shares: “There were three dictates that led to the East West dialogue (creation of Chandigarh style of architecture). First was the dictate of a harsh composite climate. The second a shoestring budget and the third a complete reliance on local men and materials. Jeanneret utilised these three dictates to create a humane architecture for everyday living.” She adds: “When it comes to his aesthetics, ‘Less is More’ seems to be the key. With waste and discarded ‘taslas’, he created lamps, wove ‘durries’, built boats and crafted ‘jaalis’. Art in everyday life was his second nature as he was a Handyman.”Such was Jeanneret’s love for the city that as per his ‘will’ his ashes were immersed in the Sukhna Lake after he died in 1967.Stayed in city from Feb 1951 to Aug 1965Pierre Jeanneret had stayed in Chandigarh from February 1951 to August 1965, and designed most of the government housing complexes, schools, colleges, shopping centres, Gandhi Bhawan, Panjab University, and other infrastructure besides supervising the implementation of Le Corbusier’s designs of the Capitol Complex, Museum and Art Gallery, College of Art, City Centre, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-tribute-to-jeanneret-on-125th-birth-anniversary-229102
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Exhibition held in architect’s memory||To mark the 125th birth anniversary of Pierre Jeanneret, the Department of Tourism, UT, today organised an exhibition based on the work of Pierre Jeanneret at the underpass connecting the Rose Garden, Sector 16, to Sector 17, Chandigarh. Nikita Pawar, Special Secretary-cum-Director Tourism, UT, inaugurated the exhibition. It will continue till March 31 from 10 am to 8 pm.  The exhibition is a part of the activities being undertaken by Chandigarh Tourism Department towards Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav and celebrating the 75th year of Independence. A 3D art on paper has been beautifully designed on the floor showcasing the Jeanneret work. The winners of the souvenir design competition were also felicitated by the Special Secretary. Harsh Khare and Ujjwal won 1st prize, Vridhi Jain won 2nd prize and Samarth & Shweta bagged 3rd prize. The other members of MN Sharma Architectural Society, Chandigarh; the Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi and the Tourism Department were also present. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/exhibition-held-in-architects-memory-229103
23-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CBI court frames charges against five||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 22The CBI Court has ordered to frame charges against five accused in an alleged fraud case with Indian Overseas Bank worth over Rs7.29 crore.Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, has discharged two accused in the case after the competent authority refused to give prosecution sanction against them. A company, M/s Arvind Machine Tools Private Limited through its directors, has also been named as an accused.The charges have been framed against Sahil Gorwara, Daljit Kaur, Parminder Singh, Adarsh Kumar Rajwanshi and Raj Kumar Panjla. Rajwanshi and Raj Kumar Panjla are former officials of the bank. The case dates back to 2015 when Indian Overseas Bank filed a complaint with the CBI regarding the alleged fraud.The bank alleged that the accused took loans of crores by creating fake companies. The CBI registered an FIR against eight persons, including four retired officials of Indian Overseas Bank, in the case. The CBI filed a chargesheet in the case against all these accused on September 30, 2019, under Sections 120-B, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC and Sections 13 (2) and 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. It was alleged by the CBI that the accused defrauded Indian Overseas Bank by conspiring together and misrepresenting the facts.The court had earlier declared Amrinder Singh Gorwara, one of the accused in the alleged bank fraud, as a proclaimed offender after the accused failed to appear before the court despite warrant issued against him. The court directed the investigating officer to submit the list of moveable as well as immovable properties of Amrinder Singh till the next date of hearing to proceed against him under Section 83 of the CrPC. The SHO concerned of the Sector 36 police station, Chandigarh, was directed to register an FIR under Section 174-A of the Indian Penal Code against the accused in accordance with law.Public prosecutor KP Singh argued the case on behalf of the CBI. The court has discharged two accused - Vijay Kumar Grover and Satya Kumar Pareek, former bank officials, from the case on the basis of the fact that their prosecution sanction was declined by the competent authority of the bank.Case dates back to 2015The charges have been framed against Sahil Gorwara, Daljit Kaur, Parminder Singh, Adarsh Kumar Rajwanshi and Raj Kumar Panjla. Rajwanshi and Raj Kumar Panjla are former officials of the bank. The case dates back to 2015 when Indian Overseas Bank filed a complaint with the CBI regarding the alleged fraud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-frames-charges-against-five-229104
23-03-2021||---||Top seed Aditya, Lakshya ease into 2nd round||Mohali, March 22 Top seed Aditya Chauhan drubbed Jai Aditya Singh 6-0 6-1 to qualify for the second round of the boys’ U-16 main draw in the ongoing Roots-AITA (CS7) U-16 National Ranking Tennis Championship here today.  Second seed Lakshya Gupta registered a 6-4 6-3 win over Dhruv Chaudhary, while Samarpit Bhatia humbled Japnaam Singh 6-3 6-0. Harwin Singh edged out Mehraab Singh 7-6(4) 6-0. Uday Batra moved into the next round with a 6-2 6-2 win over Siddharth Mohan, while Gurbaaz Singh thrashed Divyam Sharma 6-1 6-0. Arnav Bishnoi showed the door to Gundeep Singh. Bishnoi won 6-1 6-1.  In some other matches of the day, Sukhwinder Singh upset third seed Anirudh Sangra 7-6(7) 6-4, while Hardik Khanduja came from behind to beat Arpit Garg 5-7 6-2(10-6). Meanwhile, Inaaya Mittal registered a 6-2 6-1 win over Ankita in the girls’ U-16 competition.  Sia Mahajan trounced Poonam 6-0 6-1, while Mehakpreet Kaur got the better of Ayushi Prajapat. Mehakpreet won 7-5 6-4. Radha Sadhra downed Shakti Singh 6-2 6-0. Results Boys’ U-16: Umang Singh bt Prabhav 6-1 6-3, Ankit bt Aditya Bhatnagar 6-2 7-5, Yash Solanki bt Kirtarth Singh 6-2 6-3, Varchasva Thapiyah bt Tanav Gupta 6-0 6-0, Akshat Dhull bt Lakshya Singh 6-1 6-2 Girls’ U-16: Akshdha Sharma bt Krittika Katoch 3-6 6-3(10-2), Gurbaaz Toor bt Lavanya Tiwari 6-3 6-4, Antara Panwar bt Ira Chadha 6-0 6-2, Shriya Singh bt Akshita Vashisht 6-1 7-6(10-2), Shrawasti Kundliya bt Isheeta Midha 4-6 6-3(10-6), Snigdha Pandey bt Mankirat Kaur 7-5 6-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-aditya-lakshya-ease-into-2nd-round-229105
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali boy wins ‘Clean Air’ contest||Akshyae Singh, an 18-year-old student who crowd-sourced a video from friends and family in Mohali about air pollution in Punjab, has bagged the first prize in the ‘Clean Air Punjab Competition’ held recently.  According to a press note, Anvi Sadana of Amritsar, a Class VIII student,  won the second prize and Avneet Kaur, a 15-year-old student from Kharar, stood third.  A ‘Clean Air Punjab’ storytelling workshop was conducted by letmebreathe.in, a community platform which documents and shares stories on environment and sustainability. Submissions were invited in three categories, including decoding the sources of pollution, people’s pollution stories and ‘pind di clean air’ innovation.  The competition saw participation by young start-up founders, climate activists as well as other citizens concerned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-boy-wins-clean-air-contest-229106
23-03-2021||---||Water Day celebrated at Siswan||Mohali, March 22A cleanliness drive was carried out at the Siswan reservoir in Mohali district by the Department of Forests and Wildlife, Ropar Division, to mark World Water Day.A team of the department, comprising Mohan Singh, RO, Mohali; Satinderpal Singh, BO, Siswan; Maninder Kumar, RO, Siswan, and Ramzan Khan, RO, Siswan; facilitated the participants.Dr Monika Yadav, DFO Wildlife, said areas near the water bodies such as Siswan reservoir needed to be cleaned as garbage thrown around eventually travels into these bodies that not only contaminated the water but also impacted the health of people and animals using that water. She said despite the unexpected rain, more than 100 people participated in the drive who removed the garbage.Dr Yadav said students from Khelshala participated in the drive that covered the complete stretch near the Siswan reservoir. Khelshala also assured the department of participation of its students in the coming activities of good cause held by the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-day-celebrated-at-siswan-229107
23-03-2021||---||‘Catch the rain’ drive||Chandigarh, March 22 On the occasion of World Water Day today, a campaign, “Catch the rain — where it falls, when it falls”, was launched by KPS Mahi, Additional Deputy Commissioner.  The campaign is being launched at the national level under the National Water Mission of the Centre to encourage the states and other stake holders to create appropriate rainwater-harvesting structures, suitable to the climatic conditions and sub-soil strata before monsoon.  Nehru Yuva Kendra, Chandigarh, is conducting an awareness campaign by organising webinars, through wall paintings, “nukkad nataks”, competitions in essay writing, poster making and painting etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/catch-the-rain-drive-229108
23-03-2021||---||Abhinav, Prabhjot steer Punjab XI to victory||Chandigarh, March 22 A brisk half-century by Abhinav Sharma and useful contribution from Prabhjot Singh helped PCA Punjab XI register a five-wicket win over Rest of Punjab (Red) in the ongoing Trident PCA Cup 2021 Triangular Challenger Series, today.  Chasing a revised target of 165 in 22 overs, PCA Punjab XI reached home in the final over of the match. Sharma hit a strokeful 56 while Prabhjot made 42 runs. Ramandeep Singh contributed 37 runs with the bat. Abhishek Bajaj claimed two wickets for Punjab Red, while Deepin Chitkara, Prerit and Ikjot Singh took one wicket each. Earlier batting first, Punjab Red rode on Vishwa Pratap (87) and Gitansh Khera’s (62) knocks to score 182/3 after the match was reduced to 28 overs a side due to rain. However, the target was later revised as bad light interrupted the play. Ramandeep, Akul Pandove and Vinay Chaudhary took one wicket apiece for Punjab XI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhinav-prabhjot-steer-punjab-xi-to-victory-229109
23-03-2021||---||Amrendra in national camp||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amrendra-in-national-camp-229110
23-03-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration shuts schools, colleges till March 31; curbs back||Chandigarh, March 22The UT Administration has reimposed various restrictions to prevent further spread of the coronavirus in the city.During a review meeting, the Administration decided to close all educational institutions till March 31. All restaurants, hotels and eating places have been asked to close by 11 pm. The last order can be taken by 10 pm and they must limit their customers to 50 per cent of the seating capacity.Also readKeeping in view the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Administration has ordered the closure of all schools, colleges and other educational institutions with immediate effect till March 31, but the entire teaching and non-teaching staff will continue to attend their workplaces on all working days.Online examinations for Classes III to VIII will continue as per the schedule and the position regarding the ongoing examinations for Classes IX and XI will be reviewed and necessary instructions regarding the revised schedule will be issued later.However, the online examinations being conducted by Panjab University will continue as per the schedule.The Administration has also imposed a ban on all public “Holi milan” gatherings and clubs, hotels and UT shuts schools, colleges till March 31; curbs back restaurants will not allow any ceremonial gatherings for Holi and residents must celebrate the festival at home while following the Covid appropriate protocol.State museums, libraries, auditoriums and theatres run by the Chandigarh Administration will remain closed till further orders.The Administration has also decided not to grant new permission for holding any exhibition or mela to entertain gatherings. However, all those, which have been allowed earlier may be allowed to complete as per their scheduled programme.Permission from the Deputy Commissioner (DC) will be mandatory for holding any event, including political and social gatherings, and even wedding events. However, the number of guests will be restricted by the DC.Strict monitoring of Covid appropriate behaviour will be done in crowded places such as Sukhna Lake, Apni Mandis, markets and malls. To reduce the crowd in Apni Mandis and the wholesale market in Sector 26, the Municipal Corporation will allow vegetable and fruit vendors to sell vegetables and fruits in carts by visiting various residential areas.Hosts in various events such as marriages, political gatherings and other such events will ensure that all participants wear masks.Online exams as per scheduleOnline examinations for Classes III to VIII will continue as per the schedule and the position regarding the ongoing examinations for Classes IX and XI will be reviewed. The examinations being conducted by the PU will continue as per the schedule.UT logs 208 casesThe city reported 208 new cases and one Covid death on Monday, taking the number of active cases to 1,979 and the toll to 363. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 24,667. Hundred more patients recovered.What you must know||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-shuts-schools-colleges-till-march-31-curbs-back-229111
23-03-2021||---||Sector 63 residents pitch for infra boost||Chandigarh, March 22Residents of the Chandigarh Housing Board flats in Sector 63 met councillor Heera Negi today and sought improvement in basic facilities such as roads and street lights. They also demanded setting up of a community centre in the area.The newly elected body of 3BHK Residents Weflare Association, Sector 63, led by president Paramjeet Singh, also demanded setting up of bay shops, walking track, light pole for sports ground and an open air gym in the area.“Roads here are in poor condition. They have not been recarpeted for over five years now,” said one of the residents.“A proper lighting system should be in place in the playground and walking track should be made inside the park,” the resident added.“The allotment of flats here started in 2015 and in 2020, the society was handed over to the MC. These facilities should have been provided at the time of building these flats by the CHB,” said RWA member Sameer Chaku.He though informed that the councillor assured them of early redressal.“Due to Covid, the MC could not carry out the works in the area. But we have now been assured by the area councillor that the road recarpeting work will be started in early April. She has also assured of fulfilling all other demands of the residents,” said Chaku.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-63-residents-pitch-for-infra-boost-229112
23-03-2021||---||Merc driver’s friends still at large, remand extended||Mohali, March 22A local court today extended the police remand of 18-year-old Mercedes driver Samrat Singh by two days. Three persons were killed and three injured when his car hit them on Saturday.CCTV cameras in place, but no footage of mishapSamrat was earlier sent to one-day custody on Sunday. His two friends, Arjun Kapoor and Prabhnoor, are absconding. Three days after the accident, which snatched away the sole breadwinners from three humble families, the police are searching for the teenagers of an upscale Sector 26 school.Sources said Prabhnoor and Arjun Kapoor were together since the accident.Arjun Kapoor is a resident of Chandigarh while Prabhnoor is a resident of Phase 7, Mohali. Prabhnoor’s father owns a well-known hotel in Phase 9. Samrat and Prabhnoor were classmates while Arjun was one year junior to them, the police said. Mataur SHO Ashok Kumar said: “The extension of the police remand was sought to know the whereabouts of his two absconding friends. The police found Prabhnoor’s house locked during a raid and are still ascertaining Arjun’s house address. The investigation is on.”The police today added Section 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapon or means) with 427 and 304 of the IPC to the FIR registered at the Mataur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/merc-drivers-friends-still-at-large-remand-extended-229113
23-03-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||CCTV cameras in place, but no footage of  mishap||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 22The police do not have a conclusive CCTV footage of the accident even though cameras are installed at Radha Soami Chowk in Mohali.Mataur SHO Ashok Kumar said they did not have the CCTV footage, while the investigating officer in the case, Sikandar Singh, said he was yet to see the footage of the accident.Mohali DSP (City-1) Gursher Singh Sandhu said: “The CCTV footage is unavailable. Probably because of bad light, it was blurred.”Mohali DSP (Traffic) Gurjoat Klaer said: “The cameras are functional. It is a different matter that the accident footage may not be available. What will cameras do when a person is driving at a speed of 140km/hr? The parents of the children driving vehicles rashly should also be held responsible for giving the car keys to their children.’’Passersby had clicked photos and videos of the victims and the suspects at the spot.According to road safety experts, the accident site is a designated black spot on Airport Road.On December 30, Mohali SSP Satinder Singh launched the ‘Safe Mohali Project’ with the installation of 32 automatic number plate detection and recording (ANPR) cameras in the city. Initially, the cameras were installed at 16 locations covering about 18-km stretch falling under the Phase 1 and Mataur police stations. The artificial intelligence-based video surveillance system included Installation of 200 cameras in Mohali district at a cost of over Rs2 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cctv-cameras-in-place-but-no-footage-of-mishap-229114
23-03-2021||---||Punjab cop arrested for cheating, in two-day remand||Chandigarh, March 22A senior constable of the Punjab Police has been arrested by the UT police for procuring several lakhs from the state exchequer by submitting fake medical bills of other Punjab police personnel.He was produced in a court and remanded in two-day police custody. The Punjab Police has suspended the accused, who was booked on March 19 on a complaint of senior constable Virender Singh.The police claimed that Munish Kumar (30) had confessed to his crime. He took advantage of the Covid-19 situation as the medical bills were not intensively scrutinised. He is a resident of Hoshiarpur district.The police recovered Rs1.96, which was withdrawn by him after submitting fake medical bills of ASI Surinder Kumar.An amount of Rs2 lakh, which was credited to the account of his mother, is yet to be recovered. Munish claimed that he was in need of money for a land deal and committed the crime, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cop-arrested-for-cheating-in-two-day-remand-229127
23-03-2021||Panchkula||78 more infected in Panchkula district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/78-more-infected-in-panchkula-district-229130
23-03-2021||Mohali||Two deaths, 295 cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-295-cases-in-mohali-229139
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Minor fire at PGI||Two arrested for chain theftChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a mother-daughter duo on a charge of stealing a gold chain from a Tanishq store at Mani Majra on March 18. A police team, led by Mani Majra SHO Neeraj Sarna, nabbed the accused identified as Geeta Chopra (52), a resident of Delhi, and her daughter Dimple (39), a resident of Kharar. They were arrested from Mani Majra and the stolen chain was recovered. TNSMan ends his life at MaloyaChandigarh: A 28-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Maloya. No suicide note was found. The victim has been identified as Ashok Kumar. He is survived by his wife and two children. Sources said the victim was unemployed. TNSSpecial talk organisedChandigarh: Research Scholars of Panjab University organised a special talk on the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh, Sukdev and Rajguru on the topic, " Role of Youth in Nation Building." Avinash Rai Khanna, National Chairman, Indian Red Cross Society, urged the audience to get motivation from the life and vision of these three sons of Maa Bharti and to firmly resolve to contribute to the society and nation by their relevant research and intellectual works. Vikrant Khandelwal, ABVP North Zone Organisation Secretary, called it "param dharma" of research scholars and academics to contribute to the betterment of society with their work. TNSMemorandum submittedChandigarh: Panjab University's SFS unit submitted a memorandum regarding the opening of AC Joshi Library. Library has been opened from 8 am to 12 am after a protest held by students and scholars. "Unfortunately, the librarian chose to implement this decision of the PU authorities arbitrarily by opening only outer section till 12 noon and inside floors from 9 am to 8 pm. Students have resisted this arbitrary interpretation by the librarian. Students and scholars are being continuously harassed by the librarian," stated a note. TNSRajasthani folk showcasedMohali: A city-based theatre group, The Narrators Performing Arts Society, organised a Rajasthani folk ensemble, "Beliya" here recently. Ushering in the beauty of spring, members of the Narrators presented six 'Manganiar' folk artistes from western Rajasthan (Thar Desert area) who enlivened the evening with their spellbinding Rajasthani folk songs and instrumental 'jugalbandi". Nisha Luthra, founder of The Narrators, directed the 'Beliya'. Dr Sumita Misra, Senior Adviser, Economic Council to Prime Minister of India, was the chief guest. TNSOnline contest organisedChandigarh: Vasudha, the environment society of Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, celebrated World Water Day-2021 on the theme, "Value Water". To mark the day, an online inter-college Powerpoint presentation competition was organised in which 50 persons from various colleges participated. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-fire-at-pgi-229142
23-03-2021||---||Expect more rain today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-more-rain-today-229143
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration orders schools, colleges to close till March 31 as COVID cases surge||The Chandigarh Administration has ordered all schools and colleges in the union territory to close until March 31—a development that comes as UT reports a second spurt of coronavirus cases.An order from the Chandigarh Administration's Director of Education said that it would revisit its decision to hold in-person exams for Classes 9 and 11. A revised schedule, if necessary, will be issued later.Teaching and non-teaching staff in schools and colleges will have to report to work as usual.Read also: Chandigarh announces new Covid curbs; eateries to close by 11 pm, ban on Holi festivitiesOnline exams for Classes 3-8 will go ahead as scheduled, as will Panjab University’s online exams.Another order from the Chandigarh Administration bans public gatherings for Holi and orders all state museums, libraries, auditoriums and theatres to close down until further orders.Restaurants and eating houses have been asked to close shop by 11 pm, and must limit their customers to 50 per cent of their seating capacity.All gatherings, whether social and political, need the Chandigarh administration’s sanction. The union territory has been battling a second wave of the COVID-19 infection all of this month.India revisits Covishield vaccine schedule: 2nd dose 4-8 weeks after first, instead of 4-6 weeksUntil March 21, Chandigarh had 1,872 active cases—nearly five times the UT’s active infection numbers since the end of last month.Chandigarh's government schools began reopening gradually in November last year after a gap of nine months. Schools and colleges were ordered closed last March after COVID cases rose across India. The second wave comes in the middle of a vaccination drive to help break the chain of transmission. Social distancing ignored at Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan’s eventGet more breaking news and analyses on Chandigarh city here||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-orders-schools-colleges-to-close-till-march-31-as-covid-cases-surge-228932
