24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Despite rise in cases, fatality stays low in Chandigarh||Even as the cases of Covid-19 are spiralling in the city, the number of deaths has been quite low this month. The city has recorded 2,689 cases in March so far and only 11 of these were fatal.According to experts, the new UK variant — B.1.1.7 — found in Punjab could be the reason behind a faster spread in the city. However, its correlation to the severity of the disease has not been epidemiologically established.The city had reported 18 Covid deaths last month, whereas 17 fatalities were recorded in January. During the last surge, the month of September had seen over 100 deaths. At the beginning of the first peak in August, the number of deaths was 41.Dr Mini P Singh, a virologist at PGI, said, “At this point, it is difficult to say how the mutant strain will behave in the country. It is not the virus every time but also the immunity of the host body. It will depend on how it will impact the Indian genes. It is definite that the spread is very fast and a younger lot is quite affected.”PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said it was very likely that the new variant might be found in Chandigarh as well due to the interstate mingling of people from Punjab. The results of January and February Covid-19 samples sent for genome sequencing are awaited for Chandigarh.Dr KK Talwar, Health Adviser to Punjab Government, said, “The available data suggests that the mutant strain is not more virulent as the nature of the disease is the same as the original virus. We need to carry analysis to determine what impact the new mutant will have on the severity of the disease. There has been less number of deaths in Punjab as well.”Dr Suneela Garg, professor of excellence at Maulana Azad Medical College and member of Lancet Commission Covid India Taskforce, said the mutant strains of the virus in many other countries had been more infectious and less severe due to which there were less number of deaths. “If we are not going to increase vaccination, the virus will become resistant to our existing vaccines as well. One thing is clear that herd immunity can only be achieved with vaccination,” said Dr Garg.However, the UT health authorities believe that the actual death rate of this surge will be reflected in the next month when the hospital stay of many serious patients will be over.According to the official data, around 10 per cent of the active patients in the city are currently admitted to the hospital. The case fatality in the city stands at 1.5 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-rise-in-cases-fatality-stays-low-in-chandigarh-229502
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh witnesses 214 cases, one death||263 infected in Mohali, 3 deathsMohali: Three more fatalities were witnessed due to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 414, while 263 fresh cases were reported. Among the fresh cases, 205 were reported from Mohali (urban), three each from Gharuan and Kharar, seven each from Banur and Dera Bassi and 38 from the Dhakoli area in Zirakpur. The district has 2,561 active cases. — TNS89 test positive in Panchkula district Panchkula: The district reported 89 (49 males and 40 females) new cases of Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the infection tally to 12,085. The district has so far seen 12,085 cases, while 11,173 patients have been cured. There are now 762 active cases. The death toll has reached 150. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-214-cases-one-death-229503
24-03-2021||Mohali||Mercedes driver’s friends fled towards Panchkula||The two suspects in the Mercedes car accident at Radha Soami chowk, who are at large, fled towards Panchkula, the police said. Three persons were killed and three injured in the mishap. Four days on, the two suspects continue to elude police.“The duo’s last mobile tower location was found in Panchkula after which their phones were switched off,” said a Mohali police official. The police have raided multiple locations, but have not been able to nail them.The Mercedes car driver, Samrat Singh, was arrested on Saturday night, but the duo has been evading the police after the accident early on Saturday morning.Samrat’s police remand was extended by two days yesterday. Mataur SHO Ashok Kumar said, “The investigation is on. The suspects were on a joyride at night and had gone to a food outlet in Phase 3B2, but it was closed; after that, they were going to Landran to get momos.”The luxury car has been involved in two traffic violations — dangerous driving (March 13, 2021) and driving at excessive speed (December 1, 2020) — during the past four months.Family members of the deceased and those injured claim that they have not been contacted by the police till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mercedes-drivers-friends-fled-towards-panchkula-229504
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh caps number of people attending events||To contain the spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration has imposed restrictions on the number of people attending social, political or marriage functions.To maintain caution and strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines, District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar today issued directions putting a ceiling on the number of persons to be allowed at social, cultural, religious and family functions.Now, the maximum number for indoor gathering will be 100 or 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue, whichever is lower. Only 200 persons will be allowed at functions organised outdoor or 50 per cent capacity of the size of the open space, whichever is less.The DM authorised the SDMs to grant permission for holding such events in their respective jurisdiction. He said the organisers would ensure that all guests or participants must wear mask properly on their faces and they have to make the necessary arrangements of sanitisers at the place of function or event.The SDM concerned will also obtain an undertaking from the applicant or the organiser to ensure the compliance of the Covid-safety protocol during the function.The DM clarified that no new permission would be granted by the SDMs for holding any fairs or exhibitions in their respective jurisdictions.Over the recent surge in the number of active Covid cases, the UT Administration had yesterday ordered that permission from the Deputy Commissioner (DC) would be mandatory for holding any event, including political, social and even wedding, to restrict the number of guests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-caps-number-of-people-attending-events-229505
24-03-2021||Kharar||Auto driver returns bag with Rs 10,000||An auto-rickshaw driver, Raj Bahadur, presented a shining example of honesty by returning a bag containing Rs10,000 to a passenger, which she had forgotten in the vehicle on Monday.The auto driver contacted the traffic police and the bag was returned to the owner.For his honesty, Mohali SP (Traffic) Gurjot Singh Klaer presented him an appreciation letter from the Police Department and a cheque for Rs3,100.Klaer said, “Raj Bahadur’s act is a reflection of his personality and the residents of Kharar are proud to have a citizen like him.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-returns-bag-with-rs-10-000-229506
24-03-2021||Mohali||2 buses flout Covid norms, challaned||Regional Transport Officer Sukhwinder Kumar on Tuesday challaned two private buses for not following the Covid protocol in Sector 79 here. The UP-bound buses had many passengers sitting without mask. The vehicles were also challaned for wrong parking. One of the drivers did not have a valid driving licence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-buses-flout-covid-norms-challaned-229507
24-03-2021||Panchkula||Man thrashed as wife, daughter plead for help||In a shocking incident, five youths continued to thrash a young man while his wife and five-year-old daughter kept asking people to save the man from the attackers.The passersby though remained mute spectators.One of the persons informed the police and a team, led by in-charge Gulab Singh, from the Sector 19 police post rushed to the spot and rescued the man. The incident occurred near the Amartex chowk in Sector 14, Panchkula.According to information, the main accused drove the car to Sector 14 after hitting a scooty in the Dhakoli area. The victim and his family, who were witness to the incident, chased him in their car and managed to intercept him near the Amartex chowk.The man asked the youth why did he run away after hitting the scooty in Dhakoli following which an argument took place between the two. The accused called some people working at the the nearby Indian Oil petrol pump and together they started attacking the man.They allegedly kept beating up the man for about 15 minutes before the police reached the spot and rescued him.The team led by Gulab Singh later took the accused to the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-thrashed-as-wife-daughter-plead-for-help-229510
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Snatchers target 2 in Chandigarh||Two snatching incidents have been reported from the city.According to the police, Basant Lal reported that two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from his wife, Kiran Devi, in Sector 45 on March 22.The victim was going to the market when the suspect riding pillion got down and snatched the chain. The police said the chain broke following which the suspect fled with one half of the chain. The police were informed, who visited the spot. A case has been registered.In the other incident, 18-year-old Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, who is a fruit vendor, reported that while returning home on March 22, he stopped his cart in Sector 47 to attend to a phone call. In the meantime, two miscreants riding a motorcycle came from the rear and snatched his phone. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-target-2-in-chandigarh-229516
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||High Court allows plea of 7 former members for Senate poll||Just about three months after seven former senators of Panjab University moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court demanding the Senate elections, Justice Fateh Deep Singh today allowed their plea.What it indicatesThe detailed judgment was not yet available. However, the official website of the High Court showed the case status as “allowed”, indicating that the elections to the PU apex governing body would now be held.The detailed judgment was not yet available. However, the official website of the High Court showed the case status as “allowed”, indicating that the elections to the PU apex governing body would now be held.The Senate term ended on October 31 last year. However, the elections were not held for the first time since Partition to the Senate, having 91 members, of whom 36 are nominated by the Chancellor.The petitioners, demanding the Senate elections, had alleged that a proposed committee slated to replace the Senate would comprise representatives of the ruling political party. Among other things, the petitioners had claimed that certain candidates owing allegiance to the ruling political dispensation, apprehending an unsuccessful contest, wanted the Senate to be abolished and replaced by a committee.The petitioners, Prof Keshav Malhotra and others, through counsel R Kartikeya, had submitted that they had reasons to believe that the candidates owing allegiance to the ruling political dispensation initially pressured the university administration and their political bosses to defer the Senate elections to avoid an unsuccessful contest. “They had now started another agenda for abolishing the Senate and to replace it by a committee, which would comprise representatives of the ruling political party as the committee would be nominated by the office of the Chancellor, through the Ministry of Home Affairs”.Kartikeya had added that the agenda was being further supported by some 30 former employees/officers of the university, who appeared to be looking for post-retirement rehabilitation and had already been tipped to be part of the proposed committee.Their objective to abolish the Senate had been openly advocated from time to time as their illegal actions were overruled by the Senate and the Syndicate. Some of them even went to the extent of describing the members of the Senate as “vultures”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-allows-plea-of-7-former-members-for-senate-poll-229517
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to pay Rs 500 per RT-PCR sample to pvt labs||The UT Administration will pay Rs500 per sample to private laboratories to give the Covid-19 report within 24 hours, said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.The Administration held a meeting with the private laboratories on Tuesday. The pendency in RT-PCR Covid reports was more than 48 hours, which was causing a delay in contact tracing.Parida said the UT Health Department was going to send samples collected by it to private laboratories and reimburse them Rs500 for giving the Covid test report within 24 hours. This was being done to enhance the existing RT-PCR capacity as the pendency of reports was going up to four days in such tests.The ministry has asked to increase the share of RT-PCR tests to 80 per cent out of the total tests. The Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research have also been asked to increase their RT-PCR testing capacity in view of the surge in the Covid-19 cases.The UT Administrator directed the PGI authorities to enhance the sample testing to 1,200 per day. Of this, at least 600 samples sent by the UT Administration should be accepted daily. The GMCH-32 has been asked to increase the capacity to 400 RT-PCR tests per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-pay-rs-500-per-rt-pcr-sample-to-pvt-labs-229518
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Gatherings banned at Panjab University, online exams to continue||A meeting was held today at Panjab University to discuss the directives issued by the Director, Higher Education, Chandigarh, regarding the containment of Covid-19 spread. At the meeting, presided over by Prof VR Sinha, Dean of University Instructions, it was unanimously recommended that the classes would continue through the online mode till further orders.However, the administrative staff of teaching departments and other offices will continue to attend the office on all working days.The scheduled online examinations will continue as per the notified date sheet. The AC Joshi Library and other libraries of departments will remain closed till March 31. As per the circular, no social gatherings, including “Holi Milan”, shall be held on the university campus till further orders. To ensure proper Covid-19-compliant behaviour, all gatherings (for whatever reasons) of the university staff and students on the campus are banned, except those for which prior permission of the Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh, is granted.The meeting was attended by Prof SK Tomar, Dean, Student Welfare; Prof Sukhbir Kaur, Dean, Student Welfare (Women); Prof Sanjay Kaushik, Dean, College Development Council; Prof Naval Kishore, Department of Geology; Prof Hemant Batra, Principal-cum-Professor; Dr Harvansh Singh Judge, from Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital; Vikram Nayyar, Officiating Registrar; Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations; Jivesh Bansal, Librarian; and Vikram Singh, Chief of University Security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gatherings-banned-at-panjab-university-online-exams-to-continue-229519
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Coffee table book unveiled||UT Adviser Manoj Parida today unveiled a coffee table book in the presence of the Principal Home Secretary, Deputy Commissioner, Director Public Relation and others officers.The coffee table book contains the works done throughout the year starting from March 2020 till March 2021 by a team led by Satish Kumar Jain, SDM (South) in fight against Covid-19. The book starts with the war room meetings and then compiling all activities such as implementation of lockdown, setting up of quarantine centres, shramik trains, distribution of ration kits and food, shifting of mandis, testing at doorsteps, awareness campaigns, honouring the deserving and ending with vaccination.The coffee table book documents the relentless efforts of the UT Administration during 2020-21 to fight back the coronavirus. The book also salutes the indomitable courage of all frontline warriors.The Adviser praised the efforts of the SDM (South), overall project coordinator Vikas Goel and editor of the book Dr Nidhi Rana who brought about the book. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coffee-table-book-unveiled-229520
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Corrupt people like termites: CBI Judge||While saying that corrupt people are like termites who are eating up the roots of the societal and fiscal tree of the nation, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, has awarded four-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) to former head warder of the Model Jail, Burail, in a seven-year-old bribery case. The court also imposed a fine of Rs50,000 on the convict.The court had earlier held the accused guilty of offences committed under Sections 7 and 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act-1988. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had arrested the former head warder, Sarwan Kumar, in July 2014 while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs5,000 from a convict, Sandeep Kumar.The CBI had filed a chargesheet against the head warder in October 2014. As per the chargesheet, the accused allegedly demanded bribe in the shape of a water purifier or Rs5,000 from a jail inmate, Sandeep Kumar, in the last week of June 2014 in lieu of getting his duty changed from the visitors’ room and assigning him some easier duty. Sandeep was lodged in a barrack with co-accused Prem Singh Bisht.When Prem Singh Bisht came out on parole on July 9, 2014, he told his brother Pratap Singh Bisht that Sarwan was demanding bribe from Sandeep.Pratap approached the CBI, which registered a case against the accused. Sandeep gave the mobile number of Pratap to the head warder saying he was his brother and asked Sarwan to get in touch with him for money or the water purifier.When the accused called Pratap, he alerted the CBI. It laid a trap and caught the jail warder red-handed while taking the bribe from Pratap opposite a school in Sector 45, Chandigarh.Public prosecutor KP Singh argued for giving exemplary punishment to the accused. Singh said taking a lenient view in such matters would send a wrong message to the undesirable elements in society.After hearing the argument, the CBI court said persons of the ilk of the convict were termites responsible for eating up the roots of the societal and fiscal tree of the nation, thereby depriving the nation of the fruits of that tree. The court said in view of the fact that the conduct of the accused was highly deplorable, the accused did not deserve any leniency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/corrupt-people-like-termites-cbi-judge-229521
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sports Dept to assess situation before restricting gatherings||The UT Sports Department will assess the situation before restricting gathering of sportspersons at various sports complexes across the city, amid a spike in Covid-19 cases.The UT Administration today restricted the gathering of people to 100 or a minimum 50 per cent of the capacity.The sports complexes had started witnessing a good response from sportspersons and enthusiasts in recent times.“We will definitely follow the guidelines. The sports complexes have been opened for sportspersons and for sports lovers, and SOPs are being followed at every centre. We will assess the situation and take a call accordingly,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports.The sports complexes were recently thrown open to all trainees and members.“We have been getting a good response. However, we have to be extra cautious. The sportspersons have been following all the SOPs but we should now start calling them to centres in small batches,” said a coach.The other cause of concern is conducting championships as it’s difficult to follow Covid-19 protocols during competition.“The organisers must ensure the safety of players. In this phase, when everything is pre-planned, the championships could not be cancelled. However, it can be managed more effectively. The organisers should use their experience. Many championships are lined-up in the coming days,” said another coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-dept-to-assess-situation-before-restricting-gatherings-229522
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Residents write to MC chief, want compost pit removed||Residents have written to the MC Commissioner requesting him to stop the construction of compost pit in a green belt in Sector 21 here.The letter signed by 34 residents pointed out that the compost pit was being constructed adjacent to the houses and feared that the foul smell, which will emanate from it, would make their lives difficult.They also claimed that the pit would occupy a large area of the green belt which otherwise was being used by children and senior citizens.“The compost pit is being built adjacent to the back wall of my house. It will lead to foul smell and make our life tough. It is inhuman. The pit should be built in parks not in green belts,” said Vibha Pandey, a Sector 21 resident.The residents said the work was stopped after the complaint but insisted that the pit should be removed from the green belt. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-write-to-mc-chief-want-compost-pit-removed-229523
24-03-2021||Panchkula||82.5% targeted people vaccinated in 2 days in Panchkula||The Health Department had vaccinated 82.5 per cent of the targeted people during the past two days. As many as 6,606 persons had been inoculated against a target of 8,000.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said of the 6,606 persons vaccinated in two days, 3,765 were senior citizens and 1,943 were aged between 45 and 59. She said 118 healthcare workers received the first dose while 85 got the second dose. Similarly, 623 frontline workers were given the first dose and 132 inoculated for the second dose.A total of 48,578 persons have been vaccinated in the district to date which included 8,789 healthcare workers, 10,696 frontline workers, 24,065 senior citizens and 5,028 persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/82-5-targeted-people-vaccinated-in-2-days-in-panchkula-229524
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh departments told to fill all vacant posts||In a communication, the UT Department of Personnel has instructed the administrative secretaries, heads of departments, boards and corporations to take immediate steps to fill vacant posts on a regular basis.In the letter, the department stated that vide letter dated September 13, 2019, it had been requested to ensure that all vacant posts meant for direct recruitment or promotion in the departments under the control of the administrative secretaries, heads of departments or offices, boards and corporation under the Chandigarh Administration be filled in a time-bound manner.The department stated that it was observed that the instructions were not being complied with scrupulously by various departments, boards and corporations. As a result, a large number of posts of different categories were lying vacant and the official work was suffering.“Therefore, these posts need to be filled immediately for the smooth functioning of the official work,” stated the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-departments-told-to-fill-all-vacant-posts-229525
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration plans another old-age home at Indira Holiday Home||The UT Administration is mulling over setting up an old-age home with palliative care at Indira Holiday Home in Sector 24 here.During a meeting with the representatives of various organisations, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said they planned to convert Indira Holiday Home into an old age home with palliative care.The Department of Social Welfare and Women and Child Development, has invited expression of interest in this regard. Recently, Satya Pal Jain, chairman, Social Welfare Committee of the UT Administrator’s Advisory Council, had recommended the Administration to examine the setting up of another senior citizens home on the premises of Indira Holiday Home. Jain had stated that there were 14 big and small rooms where around 100 people could be adjusted easily. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-plans-another-old-age-home-at-indira-holiday-home-229528
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||MC workers axe tree, Sector 40 residents raise alarm||The Sector 40-D residents here raised an alarm after a couple of Municipal Corporation workers were caught on a video felling a tree in their neighbourhood.One of the residents made the video of the incident which has now got viral.The residents alleged that the workers did not possess a valid permission to cut the tree and claimed that it was done at the behest of an influential person of the area.A man in the video could be heard saying: “These people should be arrested and put behind bars. They are proudly saying ‘hamari video banao’. The man in the blue shirt is an MC employee. He is in charge of pruning trees. There is a small hut-type office in the Sector 40-D park, he sits there.”Meanwhile, the Horticulture Department officials said they would look into the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-workers-axe-tree-sector-40-residents-raise-alarm-229537
24-03-2021||Lalru||Youth electrocuted in Lalru||A 24-year-old youth was electrocuted when he tried to douse a fire caused by a short-circuit at his house in Sardar Pura Colony. He has been identified as Satta, a native of UP. The incident happened around 4:30 pm when he was alone in his house. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-electrocuted-in-lalru-229542
24-03-2021||Panchkula||Body found in Sector 20 showroom basement in Panchkula||BBMB ties up with Axis BankChandigarh: The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has signed a memorandum of understanding with Axis Bank for providing financial assistance to next of kin of BBMB employees in case of their death. Under the tie-up, BBMB employees can open an account in the bank. Among the benefits offered to them are financial assistance of Rs38 lakh in case of an accidental death and Rs3.5 lakh in case of a natural death. Under this scheme, Rajinder Kumar, Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, BBMB, on Tuesday handed over a cheque to the family of Dalel Singh, an upper division clerk, who had passed away suddenly. TNS112 units of blood collectedChandigarh: As many as 112 units of blood were collected during a blood donation camp held at the District Courts Complex in Sector 43 here on Tuesday. The camp was organised by an organisation, “Mission the Awakening”, in collaboration with the PGI. Advocate Rajesh Sharma, president of the organisation, said the camp was organised in the memory of martyrs Rajguru, Bhagat Singh and Sukhdev. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/body-found-in-sector-20-showroom-basement-in-panchkula-229560
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: New ceiling on gatherings; 200 for outdoor events, 100 for indoor ones||The Chandigarh District Magistrate issued orders on Wednesday restricting the number of guests at any mass gathering—a development that comes as the union territory’s active cases swell five times to stand past 2,000.An order from Chandigarh District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar says that mass gatherings, whether social, political or even weddings, must first have a sanction from Sub-Divisional Magistrates.Covid vaccine for all above 45 years of age from April 1Once allowed, such functions must strictly follow COVID-19 protocols. No indoor function can have more than 50 per cent of the venue’s capacity, with a limit of 100 people. Outdoor functions must similarly have no more than 50 per cent of the venue’s capacity, with a limit of 200 people.   Organisers must ensure guests or participants wear masks, and must make provision for adequate hand sanitizers at the venue. They must given a written undertaking promising to follow COVID-19 protocols strictly.States can impose local restrictions to check Covid spread: Home MinistryAdditionally, the district administration will not grant any new permission to hold exhibitions or fairs.The new order comes a day after the Chandigarh administration ordered educational institutions to be closed until March 31, placed new restrictions on hotels, restaurants and eating places, shut down places such as state museums, libraries and theatres indefinitely, and ordered limits on mass gatherings.As 81 per cent of Punjab samples show UK variant, Capt urges PM to widen vaccination ambit to cover younger populationChandigarh has been witnessing a second wave of COVID-19 cases. The city recorded 214 new cases on Tuesday and one death. The union territory’s total infection numbers since March last year stands at 24,667 cases, with 2,066 of these still active. Death toll now stands at 364.Chandigarh's rise in COVID-19 cases tracks a trend seen in several parts of the country including Punjab, and come at a time of an ongoing vaccination drive to help break the chain of transmission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-new-ceiling-on-gatherings-200-for-outdoor-events-100-for-indoor-ones-229427
24-03-2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka makes negative Covid report mandatory for Punjab, Chandigarh people||The Karnataka government on Monday decided to make a negative COVID-19 report not older than 72 hours mandatory for travellers from Punjab and Chandigarh.The government had already made the provision for those from Kerala and Maharashtra."In order to contain the second wave of COVID-19, the existing guidelines issued to incoming travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra to carry negative RT-PCR negative reports not older than 72 hours at the time of entering Karnataka have been extended to Punjab and Chandigarh," Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted.A government circular said that recently a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases has been witnessed in Punjab and Chandigarh.The Technical Advisory Committee recommended extending the same provision that existed for the travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra to those coming from Chandigarh and Punjab.The circular said the airlines should issue boarding passes only to those passengers who have the negative report.The railway officials and bus operators should ensure those entering Karnataka from these states have such a report.The deputy commissioners of the districts bordering Maharashtra and Kerala have been tasked with making arrangements to ensure that all the vehicles are checked for compliance of the order.Constitutional functionaries and healthcare professionals and children below two years old have been exempted from this provision. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karnataka-makes-negative-covid-report-mandatory-for-punjab-chandigarh-people-229344
