25-03-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Cat’s eye, signboards coming up at Radha Soami Chowk||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 24Five days after a speeding Mercedes car driven by a teenager killed three persons and injured three others at Radha Soami Chowk, the spot is now getting warning lines, cat’s eye (road studs) and signboards.According to road safety experts, the accident site is a designated black spot on Airport Road for a long time, but the authorities have only woken up after three sole earning members of their families lost their lives after being hit by a luxury car being driven at a speed of 140km/hr.Mohali DSP (City-1) Gursher Singh Sandhu said, “Warning lines, cat’s eye (blinkers) and accident-prone area signboards are being installed with the help of the Mohali Municipal Corporation at four spots — Radha Soami Chowk, Quark City Chowk, the Phase 7 light point and the PTL lights.”One at a time, wait for turnOnly after precious lives are lost in road mishaps at a designated blackspot, Mohali administration, GMADA and the Municipal Corporation wake up to address the problem. The administration turns a blind eye to several other black spots on this stretch and hopes in vain that another mishap will not occur at another place. It took three lives and five days to come up with the tokenism at Radha Soami Chowk today.Four months ago, a 43-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter from Bathinda were crushed to death under a tipper at the S-curve near Sector 70. It took more than a month to install rumble strips at the spot.2 accomplices elude policeSamrat Singh, the suspect driver in the Mercedes car crash at the Radha Soami Chowk, will be produced in a local court on Thursday after his two-day police remand gets over. The two accomplices are still at large.2 of 4 cameras non-functionalIt has come to light that the police do not have a conclusive CCTV footage of the accident even though cameras are installed on all four sides of Radha Soami Chowk. The police said, “Only two of the four cameras are functional here.” Under the Safe Mohali Project, launched by the Mohali SSP on December 30 last year, 32 automatic number plate detection and recording (ANPR) cameras were installed in the town, covering a nearly 18-km stretch under the Phase 1 and Mataur police stations. Approximately, Rs2 crore was spent on it, but there is no footage when needed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cats-eye-signboards-coming-up-at-radha-soami-chowk-229933
25-03-2021||---||2 pedestrians killed in road mishaps in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 24Two pedestrians lost their lives while another was injured in two hit-and-run accidents reported from different parts of the city.Complainant Kishore Kumar, a roadside vendor, reported that his worker Rohit (30) was crossing the road near the PGI chowk when he was hit by a CTU bus on March 23. The CTU bus sped away from the spot after hitting the victim.He was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where he later succumbed to his injuries. The police said the registration number of the bus involved in the accident could not be noted down.A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station.In the other case, complainant Sonu, an eyewitness who was riding a motorcycle, reported that two pedestrians were hit by a truck at Dariya on March 23. The truck driver stopped at the spot. However, on finding both victims seriously injured, the driver sped away from the spot.The complainant managed to note down the registration number of the truck. The police were informed following which one of the injured, Madan Lal, was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, while the other, Pinku (26), was shifted to the Government Medical Superspeciality Hospital, Sector 16, where he later succumbed to his injuries.The police have registered a case against the unknown truck driver at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-pedestrians-killed-in-road-mishaps-in-chandigarh-229934
25-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Cut in water tariff will trigger huge loss: MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 24Though the MC has sent a water tariff revision resolution of the House to the UT Administration, the MC Commissioner has sent a dissent note, stating that if the rates are reduced, the civic body will face a huge loss.“We have received a communication from the corporation with a dissent note. The UT Administrator will take a final call on the issue,” said a senior officer of the Administration.Taking a U-turn, the MC House, earlier this month, resolved to roll back the hike in the water tariff till the Covid situation eases.After the Covid period, the House had approved a cut in two domestic water tariff slabs and the sewerage cess from 30 per cent to 5 per cent on the tariff. The House also gave approval for adjusting the increased water tariff charges, which were effective from September last year.Rate revision agenda eyewash, says congIt had also resolved that rather than a 3 per cent annual increase, a one-time 5 per cent increase should be allowed after every three years. It also okayed that commercial units should be charged at the rate of Rs25 per kl on the actual consumption basis rather than fixed charges.Last year, the civic body had more than doubled the prices, giving residents a shock. However, this is the second time the MC has sought to revise the rates, but without success.Administrator to take callWe have received a communication from the corporation with a dissent note. The UT Administrator will take a final call on the issue. —A senior UT official“If the MC is able to save at least 3 to 5 per cent leakage in water annually, its coffers will be filled and there won’t be a need for an annual increase in the water charges. There is a need for a long-term plan rather than ad hoc decisions,” said RK Garg, an RTI activist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cut-in-water-tariff-will-trigger-huge-loss-mc-229935
25-03-2021||---||Administration imposes curbs in 14 more zones||Chandigarh, March 24To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration today declared 14 more containment zones in the city.District Magistrate (DM) Mandip Singh Brar said the issue of the Covid-19 outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared containment zones.The affected areas declared containment zones are parts of Sector 11, 15, 20, 29, 21, 22, 23, 27, 30, 30 (RBI Colony), 38-B, 41-A and 63 and Dhanas.Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted, he added.On March 22, the UT Administration had declared six containment zones in various parts of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-imposes-curbs-in-14-more-zones-229936
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Suicide bid by man in lock-up||A Mohali resident, who was arrested under preventive measures, reportedly tried to commit suicide in the lock-up at the Sector 36 police station.According to the police, Sandeep Kumar Khurmi, a resident of Sai Majra village, Mohali, was arrested under preventive measures for quarrelling at Attawa in Sector 42.He reportedly tried to commit suicide by inflicting injuries on himself in the lock-up on the intervening night of March 22 and 23. A police official said the man first started hitting his head against the wall after which he was brought out of the lock-up and made to sit in a room where he again inflicted injuries on his hand using a belt. The police took him to the GMSH-16, from where he was discharged after treatment.He was released on bail. A case under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the IPC has been registered against the man on a complaint of Home Guards volunteer Ravinder Singh at the Sector 36 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suicide-bid-by-man-in-lock-up-229937
25-03-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration shuts anganwadi centres till March 31, staff to come||Chandigarh, March 24Keeping in view a surge in the Covid-19 cases, the Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development, UT, has decided to shut all anganwadi centres with immediate effect till March 31. However, workers and helpers will attend the centres to carry out the field activities as usual.Meanwhile, the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for effective control of Covid-19 will be applicable in the UT from April 1 to 30. In the guidelines, the MHA emphasised strict enforcement of test-track-treat (TTT) protocol, Covid-appropriate behaviour and scaling up the vaccination drive to cover all target groups.For an effective enforcement of the TTT protocol, the MHA stated that the proportion of RT-PCR tests in the testing should be scaled up to 70 per cent or more. The new cases need to be isolated, quarantined and their contacts be traced at the earliest.Chandigarh Administration plans to close Sukhna on HoliThe UT Administration may keep the Sukhna Lake premises closed for visitors on Holi. A major destination for Holi revellers, the Administration wanted to discourage residents from gathering at the lake as the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing sharply. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said they were planning to close the lake for visitors on Holi, but the final decision would be taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore. The Administration has already announced a ban on all public gatherings for Holi and no clubs, hotels or restaurants will be allowed to host any ceremonial gathering on the occasion. Residents celebrating the festival at home are expected to follow the Covid-appropriate protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-shuts-anganwadi-centres-till-march-31-staff-to-come-229938
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Here is how Covid-19 spreads; UK variant may be behind spike||The new UK variant, B.1.1.7, that was found in nearly 80 per cent of the samples in Punjab has been the cause behind the faster spread of Covid-19 in the region. This increases the possibility of an increased surge in the city due to the same variant.Chandigarh Tribune spoke to PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram regarding how the virus transmits from one person to another.“People who are in proximity (within 6 ft) with a Covid-infected person or have a direct contact with that person are at a great risk of the infection. When Covid patients cough, sneeze, sing, talk or breathe, they produce respiratory droplets (larger droplets to smaller droplets). The smaller ones dry very quickly in the airstream. The respiratory droplets cause infection when they are inhaled or deposited on mucous membranes of another person in proximity with the infected person,” said Prof Jagat Ram.The concentration of these droplets decreases as the respiratory droplets travel further from the infected person. While the larger droplets fall on the ground quickly due to gravity, smaller ones spread apart in the air. Some infections can be spread by exposure to the virus in small droplets by particles that can stay in the air for minutes to hours. —Prof Jagat Ram, PGI director“The concentration of these droplets decreases as the respiratory droplets travel further from the person with Covid-19. While the larger droplets fall on the ground quickly due to gravity, smaller ones spread apart in the air. Some infections can be spread by exposure to the virus in small droplets by particles that can linger on in the air for minutes to hours,” he said.“These viruses also infect people who are more than 6 feet away, due to the airborne transmission. People with Covid seem to have infected others who were more than 6 feet away as the transmissions occurred within enclosed spaces that had inadequate ventilation.”Covid also spreads through contact with contaminated surfaces as the respiratory droplets can also land on surfaces and objects. “It is possible that a person could get the infection by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or eyes. That’s why there is more emphasis on frequent washing of hands,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/here-is-how-covid-19-spreads-uk-variant-may-be-behind-spike-229940
25-03-2021||---||Falsely implicated, claims accused; files bail plea||Chandigarh, March 24Alleging that he was falsely implicated by the police, Sanjeev Mahajan, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case in Sector 37, filed a bail application before a local court today.The court has issued the notice to the police, seeking a reply by Thursday.Mahajan, a former journalist, currently in judicial custody, was arrested by the police on March 2, along with another accused in the case.Mahajan, in the bail application filed through advocates Rajesh Sharma and Navdeep Malik, alleged that he was falsely booked in the FIR as he had exposed many wrongdoings of government officials, politicians and hardcore criminals as a journalist. He said he was forced to make a statement on the dictation of the police. He said he had recently exposed the case wherein certain files of properties were burnt at midnight in the Estate office, Chandigarh.He said the trial of the case might take a long time so no purpose would be served by keeping him behind the bars. He also gave an undertaking to abide by all such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the court while granting him the concession of bail in the present petition.All accused in the case are facing charges under Sections 452, 331, 365, 386, 420, 465, 477 and 120-B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/falsely-implicated-claims-accused-files-bail-plea-229942
25-03-2021||---||Application against Estate Office||Chandigarh, March 24Sudesh Mahajan (72), mother of Sanjeev Mahajan, has sought interim directions from the court to restrain the Administration from taking any adverse action related to the booth allotted to her deceased husband. The UT Estate Office, meanwhile, sought time from the court to file a reply in this regard.Sudhesh Mahajan filed the application for the grant of an ad-interim injunction, restraining the Estate Office and the Administration from interfering in the possession of the booth No. 54, rehri market, Sector 40.She said the Estate Office had already demolished the booth in the possession of her son without serving any notice.She alleged that the Estate Office had also threatened to demolish the booth in her possession. She expressed apprehension that the Estate Office may demolish her booth for the purpose of taking revenge from her son. The hearing of the case was fixed today, but the Estate Office had requested the court to defer the hearings to file the reply. The court will now hear the case on March 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/application-against-estate-office-229943
25-03-2021||Mohali||Balbir Singh Sidhu for regular blood donation||Punjab Minister for Health and Family Welfare Balbir Singh Sidhu has said that regular blood donation by a sufficient number of healthy people is needed to ensure that safe blood is available whenever and wherever it is required.He was speaking at a blood donation camp organised at Rayat Bahra University here today.The camp was jointly organised by the NSS unit, Red Cross unit, the Punjab Red Cross Society and National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists under the banner of Samvedna. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balbir-singh-sidhu-for-regular-blood-donation-229944
25-03-2021||---||Panel dwells on PU governing structure||Chandigarh, March 24The second meeting of a high-level committee of experts, headed by Prof RP Tiwari, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, was held today at Panjab University.The meeting was attended by all members. Prof VS Chauhan, Chairman, Executive Committee, National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC)- Nominee of Chairman, UGC Member, joined the meet through an online mode.Members took cognizance of the existing governing structure of the PU, its composition and manner of its constitution.The members also deliberated on the governance structure of other prominent institutes such as Guru Nanak Dev University (Amritsar), Kurukshetra University, Punjabi University (Patiala), Delhi University, IIT, IIM and others.The members also discussed the recommendations made by committees in the past on the issue of governance reforms of Panjab University.The committee further discussed that the online portal for receiving inputs was launched on March 12, which was to be closed on March 19, but extended till March 26.The committee also decided that if someone wanted to submit more comprehensive suggestions exceeding the limit, they can do so by emailing the same to the Registrar, Panjab University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-dwells-on-pu-governing-structure-229945
25-03-2021||---||Team formed for contact tracing||Panchkula, March 24  Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, in view of the recent spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, has constituted a team of officials to carry out intensive tracing of contacts of positive patients. The team, which would operate from the District Control Room, includes Uttam Singh, junior basic training (JBT) teacher at Government Primary School, Mandhna; Rajinder Singh, head teacher (HT) at Government Primary School, Nada Sahib; Devraj and Kukesh, JBT teachers at Sanskriti School, Sector 20; Baliram and Kehar Singh, JBT teachers at Government Primary School, Kharak Mangoli; and Kashmiri Lal, JBT teacher at Government Primary School, Balauti, Morni. The Panchkula Civil Surgeon will facilitate the team by providing contact details of Covid patients and his/her family members. 636 get vaccine dose As many as 636 beneficiaries were administered the Covid-19 vaccine at 16 government and private sites in the district today. Against the target of 1,000, the coverage rate stood at 63.6 per cent. Among the total beneficiaries who received the jab, 106 were between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities, 334 were above 60 years of age, 81 were healthcare workers and 115 were frontline workers.  Overall, 49,214 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/team-formed-for-contact-tracing-229946
25-03-2021||---||Where corruption begins, all rights end: CBI court||Panchkula, March 24Observing that where corruption begins, all rights end, the special CBI court in Panchkula today awarded five-year jail to an officer of the Agriculture Ministry in a graft case of 2016.The Special CBI Judge, Jagdeep Singh, also imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on the convict, Rajeev Kumar Gupta, for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs55,000 from a government counsel for clearing her bills.He has been convicted under Section 7 and 13(1) (d) with 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Ranjana Shahi, a resident of Chandigarh, who was a senior panel counsel to the Central Government in Punjab and Haryana High Court, had approached the CBI alleging that Gupta demanded the bribe for clearing her bills on account of legal fee or representing the government department.The CBI had laid a trap and arrested Gupta while receiving money from the complainant on May 21, 2016.Gupta had prayed the court to take a lenient view on the quantum of sentence citing various grounds, including his “unblemished service record’’ except the present case.However, Jitender Kumar, Senior Public Prosecutor for the CBI, argued that Gupta had demanded the bribe from the complainant, who was representing the Government before the High Court, so he be punished severely so as to send a signal to the other potential offenders.“Corruption in our country not only poses a grave danger to the concept of Indian democracy and the rule of law but also the magnitude of corruption in our public life is incompatible with the concept of a socialist, secular, democratic republic. It can’t be disputed that where corruption beings, all rights end. Corruption devalues human rights, chokes development and undermines justice, liberty, equality, fraternity which are the core values in our preambular vision,’’ the court observed.The plaintRanjana Shahi, a city resident, who was a senior panel counsel to the Central Government in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, had approached the CBI alleging that Rajeev Kumar Gupta demanded a bribe for clearing her bills on account of legal fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/where-corruption-begins-all-rights-end-cbi-court-229947
25-03-2021||---||2 held for Rs 60L fraud||Panchkula, March 24The Sector 19 crime branch of the local police has arrested two persons in connection with a demonetised currency exchange fraud case.The suspects have been identified as Sanjeev Kumar of Pinjore and Gurdeep of Kurukshetra district.In August 2019, the police had received a complaint from a local businessman, identified as Bhupendra Singh, that a person, whom he met at Herbal Park in Sector 26, promised to help him convert the demonetised notes into valid currency.According to the FIR, the primary suspect had claimed that one of his acquaintances, whose company is approved by the Government of India, could help the victim exchange the demonetised currency in any of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) offices located across the country.The complainant fell for the fake scheme and handed over the prime suspect Rs60 lakh demonetised currency notes in several instalments. However, he never received the valid currency in return.A case was registered under sections 406,420, 489C, 489D, 120B of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Specified Bank Notes Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-rs-60l-fraud-229948
25-03-2021||---||Students oppose closure of Panjab University library, stage protest||Chandigarh, March 24 Members of the Students For Society (SFS) staged a protest against the closure of AC Joshi Library at Panjab University today.  The PSU (Lalkaar) and others also joined in the protest.  Many students and scholars gathered in front of the library and protested the closure of the library.  Amid the rising cases of Covid-19, the university authorities had decided to close the libraries till March 31.  “The Vice-Chancellor, Dean, Student Welfare, and the Dean, University Instruction have adopted an adamant and dictatorial attitude towards the democratic demands of students. The university tried to intimidate research scholars by pressurising their respective guides. We condemn this intimidating behaviour of Panjab University authorities.  “We don’t want to ruin our precious study and research time. We must understand that an authoritarian lockdown is not a solution to Covid. Our protest will continue till AC Joshi Library is opened,” said a press note of the Students For Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-oppose-closure-of-panjab-university-library-stage-protest-229949
25-03-2021||Mohali||811 elderly persons get jab in Mohali||As many as 811 senior citizens and 131 persons in the 45-59 age group with comorbidities were administered the first shot of the Covid vaccine here today.In the healthcare workers’ category, 110 were given the first dose while 47 were administered the second shot. In the frontline workers’ category, 179 were given the first shot and 107 the second dose.A total of 18,772 senior citizens and 335 persons aged between 45 and 59 years have been vaccinated so far. Also, 8,593 healthcare workers have been given the first shot and 3,944 workers have received the second shot.Meanwhile, 7,300 frontline workers have got the first jab of the vaccine and 1,950 the second shot.The health department’s helpline 104 can be contacted for queries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/811-elderly-persons-get-jab-in-mohali-229950
25-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Finally, IOA validates COA faction headed by Bazaz||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 24Finally, the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) validated the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) body headed by Amarinder Singh Bazaz today.The two factions of COA, led by Bazaz and Maha Singh (former general secretary), had been at loggerheads claiming their respective hold over the association for a long time.Both factions had conducted separate elections and chosen their heads and other office-bearers.The IOA observer, Kuldeep Vats, who was present during the elections of both factions (March 8 and March 17), submitted his report on March 23.Today, the IOA President, Dr Narinder Dhruv Batra, issued a letter to Bazaz stating: “We are in receipt of the election report on March 23 from Kuldeep Vats, IOA observer, for the elections of COA. Accept my heartiest congratulations on getting re-elected as President of COA.”On March 17, Narinder Singh Thakur was elected general secretary, along with KS Bharti and Rahul Talwar (vice-president), Harish Kakkar (treasurer), Jugraj Singh (joint secretary), Lt Col PK Jetley, Major Deepak Chaudhary, Hem Raj and KP Singh (executive members).Meanwhile, in his report, Vats submitted: “Based on observations during the elections of COA held on March 8 and 17, I confirm that the elections on March 17 are the valid elections, which are conducted as per the bylaws of COA. Elections held on March 8 were conducted by a returning officer, who was appointed by the secretary of COA, which is a clear violation of the Model Election Guidelines. On account my observations and aforementioned reasons, I confirm that the elections held on March 17 are valid elections of COA.”He also mentioned that the proper protocol for calling a meeting and holding elections was not followed during the March 8 elections and he was informed that members (associations) did not get notice of the meetings. “This update will hopefully settle down the dust raised by power hungry COA officials. Now, they have to take the responsibility of moving ahead and do something for the good of sportspersons,” said an official.“The truth has prevailed over lies committed by some people, who were unaware about the rules and regulations. I hope this will bring all likeminded people who really wanted to promote sports at a single platform,” said Chander Mukhi Sharma, President, Chandigarh Basketball Association, who oversaw proceedings for the Bazaz group. What observer’s report saysIn his report, Kuldeep Vats stated: “Based on observations during the elections of the COA held on March 8 and 17, I confirm that the elections on March 17 are valid, which were conducted as per the bylaws of the COA. The elections held on March 8 were conducted by a returning officer, who was appointed by the secretary of the COA, which is a clear violation of the model election guidelines. On account of my observations and aforementioned reasons, I confirm that the elections held on March 17 are valid.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-ioa-validates-coa-faction-headed-by-bazaz-229951
25-03-2021||---||PCA Punjab beat Rest of Punjab (Red) by six wickets||Chandigarh, March 24PCA Punjab XI logged a six-wicket win over Rest of Punjab (Red) in the first of the three finals during the ongoing PCA Trident Cup Challenger Triangular Series, at IS Bindra Cricket Stadium, Mohali, today.Batting first, the Rest of Punjab (Red) team posted 267/7 in 50 overs.Gitansh Khera scored an unbeaten 78 runs with the help of Nehal Wadhera (51), Kuwar Pathak (29), Vishwa Pratap (25) and Mandeep Inder Bawa (24).Abhinav Sharma was the pick of the bowlers as he claimed three wickets. Vinay Chaudhary (2/34), Gaurav Chaudhary (1/6) and Ramandeep (1/7) were the other wicket takers for the bowling side.In reply, PCA Punjab XI scored 268/4 in 47.4 overs with the help of unbeaten contributions by Gaurav Chaudhary (97) and Parth Agarwal (40). Ramandeep Singh (43) and Abhijeet (39) were the other main scorers for the side. Sumit Sharma claimed two wickets while Ikjot Singh took one for the bowling side.Sia storms into semisMohali: Sia Mahajan blanked Akshdha Sharma 6-0, 6-1 to confirm her berth in the girls’ U-16 semifinals at the Roots-AITA (CS 7) U-16 National Ranking Championship on Wednesday. Rubani Sidhu defeated Shriya Singh 6-4, 6-1 and Radha Sadhra registered a stunning 6-3, 6-0 win over second seed Ananya Dogra. Meanwhile, in the boys’ U-16 semifinals, top seed Aditya Chauhan easily defeated Uday Batra 6-2, 6-2 and Sukhwinder Singh registered a comeback 3-6, 6-1, 6-1 win over Akshat Dhull. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pca-punjab-beat-rest-of-punjab-red-by-six-wickets-229952
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Shopkeeper held for selling fakes||Curfew 29 vehicles impounded in MohaliMohali: The police impounded 29 vehicles for violating the night curfew and Covid-safety guidelines on Tuesday. As many as 102 persons were challaned for not wearing a face mask in public places. TNSAthletics meet from March 27Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletic Association will organise the Senior State Athletics Meet 2020-2021 at the Sector 7 Sports Complex from March 27 to 28. Athletes, studying or residing in Chandigarh, will be allowed to participate in this state championship. TNSBoxing c'ship postponedChandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association has decided to postpone the Sub-Junior and Junior (Men and Women) Chandigarh State Boxing Championship, which was scheduled to be held from March 26 to 28 at The British School, Sector 44B. The decision has been taken in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. The championship will be rescheduled after normalisation of the situation in Chandigarh, said the officials concerned. TNSTiwari is netball assn vice-chiefChandigarh: The executive committee of the Netball Sports Promotion Association has appointed Suman Shankar Tiwari its vice-president. Tiwari said he would work towards development of the sport. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shopkeeper-held-for-selling-fakes-229953
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 249 found infected in Chandigarh||The city reported 249 new cases of Covid-19 and one death on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 2,178. The total number of cases in the UT has reached 25,130 and the toll 365. A total of 136 more patients were reportedly cured. TNSTwo die, 303 test positive in Mohali Mohali: Two persons died of Covid-19, while 303 new cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 158 patients recovered during the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 222 were reported from Mohali (urban) and 34 from Dhakoli. TNS95 contract virus in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported 95 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 12,180. The Covid toll remained at 150 with no fresh death. While 11,255 patients have recovered from the disease, 775 cases are active. The recoveryrate is 92.40 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-249-found-infected-in-chandigarh-229957
