26-03-2021||Mohali||1 hour silence in memory of Covid deaths to be observed every Saturday in Mohali||One hour silence will be observed every Saturday from March 27 onwards at 11 am in the Mohali district. Mohali ADC Ashika Jain appealed to all the residents of the district to observe this silence as a token of respect for Covid victims who lost their lives. Importantly, the public is also advised that intra city and inter district vehicular traffic should not be plied during this slated hour. The traffic police have been directed to allow traffic on state and national highways only. Members of the civil society and non-government organisations are requested to take lead in this observance and spread awareness for the same. Sirens shall be rung in the entire district to indicate the start and end of the observed silence. Management committees of gurdwaras, mandirs and all religious institutions are also requested to aid in observance of this silence and announce the start and end of the same.Since the start of the pandemic in the district, it has affected 25,215 persons out of which 419 succumbed to the disease. In memory of all those who lost their lives, silence is observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-hour-silence-in-memory-of-covid-deaths-to-be-observed-every-saturday-in-mohali-230816
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab and Haryana High Court Acting Chief Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar passes away at 71||Former judge of Supreme Court, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar, passed away on Friday morning, following a cardiac arrest. He was 71.The former Acting Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court was also the former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-acting-chief-justice-surinder-singh-nijjar-passes-away-at-71-230775
26-03-2021||Ambala||'Don't stop sick, commuters, milkmen', advises BKU chief as farmers' block Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway||Amid the nationwide 'Bharat Bandh', the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) Gurnam Singh on Friday has advised the farmers—who have blocked National Highways—to not stop local commuters, milkmen, and water tankers.  "On the call given, you have actively participated in the 'Bharat Bandh' in Haryana, but there have been complaints, that even sick people are not being allowed to travel, and milkmen and water tankers are being stopped". "I request you don’t stop sick people, and those travelling in emergency cases such as in case of death. Don’t stop local commuters, milkmen, water tankers, army vehicles and other essential services. You are doing well. We are protesting against the government. We have been struggling for the common people, so I request you to don’t displease them,” said Gurnam Singh. Farmers in Ambala have blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway, and Railway Track near Shahpur village, has also blocked NH-344 near Hema Majra village in Mullana, and roads in Karasan, and Saini Majra besides blockade at toll plazas. Commuters are facing an inconvenience due to the blockades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-stop-sick-commuters-milkmen-advises-bku-chief-as-farmers-block-delhi-chandigarh-national-highway-230751
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab DGPs discuss organised crime||A joint conference of senior police officers of Haryana, Punjab, and Chandigarh was held in Panchkula to discuss various issues and challenges to tackle organised crime in the region.The conference was jointly presided over by DGP Haryana Manoj Yadava and DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta which was also attended by senior functionaries of the Chandigarh Police, where emphasis was laid on creating an institutional mechanism to effectively coordinate, create common database, and sharing of information in real time to curb organised crime.DIG Chandigarh Omvir Singh and SSP Chandigarh Kuldeep Singh Chahal were also present on the occasion.Yadava said holding such coordination meetings would certainly be helpful in keeping tabs on the criminal activity of inter-state gangsters, detection of crime and more importantly, sharing of information in real time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-punjab-dgps-discuss-organised-crime-230633
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||On Holi, Sukhna, Sector 17 Plaza, parks out of bounds||As a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the UT Administration has ordered that all public parks, Sukhna Lake and the Sector 17 Plaza will remain out of bounds for the public for the Holi celebrations.The restrictions on entry to these places will remain in place from 6 am to 6 pm on March 29.Keeping in view the rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has already banned public gatherings for the Holi celebrations and advised residents to observe the festival of colours in their own house while strictly following the Covid protocol.The Administration imposed the restriction to dissuade people from gathering at the lake, parks and the Plaza, which are common places for Holi revellers. Clubs, hotels and restaurants in the UT have already been directed not to host any ceremonial gathering on the day of the festival.Following the surge in the Covid-19 cases, the Administration had already imposed restrictions on the number of people attending social, political or marriage functions and made it mandatory to obtain permission for holding such events.The authorities ordered that a maximum of 100 persons or 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue would be allowed for indoor gatherings and there would be a ceiling of 200 persons or 50 per cent capacity of the size of the open space for outdoor gatherings.The Administration authorised the SDMs to grant permission for holding such events in their respective jurisdiction.The SDM concerned will obtain an undertaking as per the prescribed format from the applicant or organiser to ensure adherence to the Covid-19 protocol during the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-holi-sukhna-sector-17-plaza-parks-out-of-bounds-230419
26-03-2021||Panchkula||In current surge, 42.6% +ve in 20-44 age group in Panchkula||As many as 42.63 per cent of those found positive for the coronavirus in the past week fall in the 20-44 age group, which is yet to be covered under the ongoing vaccination drive.Of the 652 cases reported from March 18 to March 24, 278 belonged to the 20-44 age group. They are the ones who step out of their houses for professional reasons and hence are more susceptible to the virus.While 22.39 per cent (146) were from the 45-59 age group, 17.02 per cent (111) were from the under-19 age group and 17.94 per cent (117) from the above 60 age group. At present, anyone above 60 is eligible to take the Covid vaccine. Besides, those between 45 and 59 with specific comorbidities can also receive the vaccine.From April 1, anyone above 45 years of age, irrespective of comorbid conditions, can get the vaccine shot.Recently, the Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase the vaccination coverage since the new mutant had been found to be infecting young people more.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “This particular age group is the most vulnerable to the virus due to its high rate of mobility. Those falling in this age group also seem to be casual in observing Covid appropriate behaviour.”There has been a surge in the daily Covid-19 cases in Panchkula, with the district reporting 129 Covid infections on March 19.To combat the fresh surge, the district administration, in coordination with the Health Department, has taken several measures, including scaling up Covid-19 testing and formation of a district-level team for intensive contact tracing of positive patients. The district has also ramped up the vaccination campaign.In a two-day mega vaccination drive held on Monday and Tuesday, a total of 6,606 persons were administered the Covid vaccine.Even though the target was to vaccinate 8,000 people, the Heath Department attributed the low turnout to bad weather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-current-surge-42-6-ve-in-20-44-age-group-in-panchkula-230421
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||5 more containment zones declared in Chandigarh||The UT Administration today declared five more containment zones in different areas of the city to prevent further spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar stated that the issue of the Covid outbreak was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared containment zones in the city. The affected areas declared containment zones are parts of Sector 22, 32, 40-A and 44.Also readAs many as 26 containment zones have already been declared in the city after the resurgence of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-containment-zones-declared-in-chandigarh-230423
26-03-2021||Mohali||Five days on, two suspects still at large||The Mohali police are still clueless about the whereabouts of the two suspects accompanying 18-year-old Mercedes driver Samrat Singh at the time of the car crash that occurred five days ago, killing three persons and injuring another three.Even after grilling the main suspect, who was at the wheel, cops were also clueless where the suspects consumed liquor and what they did in the few hours before the mishap.Meanwhile, the main suspect’s two-day police remand ended today. He was produced in a local court, which remanded him in judicial custody.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said raids were being conducted at the possible hideouts of the two suspects, one of whom was a minor. The two suspects were also students of a private school in Sector 26.One of the two suspects is a resident of Sector 9, Chandigarh, and son of a stockbroker, while another suspect is a resident of Phase 7, Mohali, and his father owns a hotel in Phase 9.The police have already added Section 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapon or means) of the IPC to the FIR, which was registered under Sections 427 and 304 at the Mataur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-days-on-two-suspects-still-at-large-230428
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Auction of leftover vanity numbers from April 7 to 9||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will hold an e-auction of leftover vanity/special registration numbers of various series from April 7 to 9.The registration for participation in the e-auction will start on March 31 and continue till April 6.The re-auction will be held for CH01-CD, CH01-CC, CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS series.Those who purchased their vehicles on a Chandigarh address will only be allowed to participate in the auction. The vehicle owner can register himself/herself on the national transport website https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy. The link is available on the UT Transport Department website www.chdtransport.gov.in. The detail of fee for registration for participating in the e-auction, the list of reserve price for each special number, the detail of leftover registration numbers and terms and conditions for the e-auction are available on the Transport Department website www.chdtransport.gov.in. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auction-of-leftover-vanity-numbers-from-april-7-to-9-230438
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hurry up! Swachh Survekshan feedback closes in no time||With Swachh Survekshan-2021 entering its last leg, city residents now have just a few days before the cleanliness feedback closes on March 31.So far, only 18.72 per cent of the city’s population has participated in the citizen feedback. Though this is an improvement over the last year, which saw only 3.29 per cent participation, the city still lags behind many towns in this aspect.Indore, which has been claiming the top spot for the past four consecutive years, has 31.38 per cent people rating the city. Mysore has 39.9 per cent, Chandrapur 47.76 per cent, Khargone 41.34 per cent and Jamshedpur 45.14 per cent. Several other cities are leading by a big margin in the citizen feedback category.Where you can give feedbackThere are seven channels for furnishing citizen feedback — VoteForYourCity App, Swachhata-MoHUA App, swachhsurvekshan2021.org portal, 1969 Swachhata Helpline, Outbound calls from SBM, mygov.in website and face-to-face random interactions.While Panchkula’s figures are baffling as it has exceeded its population at 125.64 per cent, Mohali is catching up at 9.35 per cent.Swachh Survekshan-2021, the sixth edition of the annual cleanliness survey, is being conducted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.A total of 4,374 cities are participating this year. One important component of the survekshan is getting citizen feedback on the progress made by cities in achieving sanitation and cleanliness.The data is collected under three broad components – service level progress (2,400 marks, 40 per cent weightage), certification (1,800 marks, 30 per cent weightage) and citizen voice (1,800 marks, 30 per cent weightage).The citizen voice component (1,800 out of 6,000 marks) comprises citizen feedback (600/1,800 marks).Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents’ Welfare Organisations, said: “The survey should remain ‘fact driven’ and shouldn’t become ‘data driven’.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hurry-up-swachh-survekshan-feedback-closes-in-no-time-230462
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Fiscal nearing end, Chandigarh MC yet to get funds from Administration||With less than a week for the financial year to end, the UT Administration is yet to release Rs75 crore under the revised Budget to the MC. The delay has hit several development works.The MC had received Rs425 crore under the 2020-21 Budget. However, it was assured of Rs75 crore more under the revised Budget, but till today, the civic body has not received any funds.Of the pending amount, Rs50 crore is for the development of villages and Rs25 crore for other civic works.“Due to the delay in the release of the funds, we could not start the works till now,” said an MC official.A few days after assuming the charge, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma had claimed that the Administration had given in-principle approval for the funds.“Whatever funds the corporation is getting are being used pay salaries and meet establishment cost. However, we don’t have adequate funds for the development of the city. The MC should either review its expenditure or fetch more funds from the Centre. Otherwise, the city will continue to suffer,” said Ravi Kumar, a resident of Sector 52.Councillor Satish Kainth said: “I have given details of several works that need to be carried out, but nothing has been executed. Funds remain only a promise on papers.”Meanwhile, the Mayor claimed: “The Administration has approved the funds. In a day or two, we will get the funds. We can use these even after March 31 as tenders for various works are already in progress.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fiscal-nearing-end-chandigarh-mc-yet-to-get-funds-from-administration-230478
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||3 deaths, 226 test +ve in Chandigarh||One fatality, 116 cases in Panchkulapanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 116 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 12,296. It also witnessed one virus death. A 71-year-old woman from Khol Fateh Singh, who had comorbidities, succumbed to the virus. The toll now stands at 151. While 11,265 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 880 cases are still active. The recovery rate is 91.61 per cent. —TNS Two succumb, 321 infected in MohaliMohali: Two more fatalities due to Covid-19 were witnessed during the past 24 hours in the district, taking the toll to 418. Meanwhile, 321 fresh cases surfaced till Thursday evening while 194 more patients were cured of the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-226-test-ve-in-chandigarh-230495
26-03-2021||Mohali||Mohali cops arrest 3 of thieves’ gang||The police have arrested three members of a gang involved in theft of vehicles and mobile phones in the tricity area.Those arrested have been identified as Gurjant Singh and Harsh Kumar, both residents of Mauli Baidwan village in Mohali, and Sher Singh, a resident of Sohana village in Mohali. The police recovered four stolen cars, two motorcycles and four mobile phones from their possession.Four suspects still at largeSuperintendent of Police (City) Harvinder Singh Virk said four suspects, who were at large, had been identified as Gurpreet Singh and Shanga, both residents of Mauli Baidwan, Pappu, a resident of Patton village in Mohali, and Rahul of Sunny Enclave in Kharar.Superintendent of Police (City) Harvinder Singh Virk said the gang of seven persons was active in Mohali, Chandigarh, Ropar and Baltana areas. The gang members used to steal vehicles from localities and park them in hideouts. They used to sell the stolen cars and motorcycles to persons in greed of money. They also used to snatch mobile phones from passersby.Virk said the police received information on March 16 that two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a mobile phone from a person in Kumbra village. With the help of the complainant, a police team, led by DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal and SHO of the Phase 8 police station Rajesh Kumar, arrested the prime suspect, Gurjant Singh, and recovered the snatched mobile phone from his possession.During interrogation, Gurjant confessed that his gang had also stolen several vehicles, which were parked in secret locations. The accused also disclosed the names of his accomplices, following which the police arrested Harsh and Sher Singh on March 19. After their arrest, the police recovered four cars – BMW, Verna, XUV 300 and Swift - two Splendor motorcycles and four mobile phones from various areas.The SP said four suspects, who were at large, had been identified as Gurpreet Singh and Shanga, both residents of Mauli Baidwan, Pappu, a resident of Patton village in Mohali, and Rahul of Sunny Enclave in Kharar.According to the police, Gurjant and Sher Singh were school dropouts, whereas Harsh was an LIC agent.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, SHO of the Phase 8 police station, said: “Gurjant is already in judicial custody. Harsh and Sher Singh were today produced before a court, which sent them in judicial custody”.A case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the suspects at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-cops-arrest-3-of-thieves-gang-230500
26-03-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula police issue traffic advisory||In view of the call for ‘Bharat Bandh’ tomorrow, the Panchkula police have issued a traffic advisory stating that people may face blockages on roads and highways in the district between 7 am and 7 pm.According to the advisory, traffic blockages may be witnessed on Yamunanagar-Panchkula Highway (NH-73), Ambala-Zirakpur-Panchkula-Kalka-Solan Highway (NH-22), Chandigarh-Ropar-Zirakpur-Panchkula Highway (NH-21), Pinjore-Nalagarh (NH-21A) and Patiala-Rajpura-Zirakpur-Panchkula Highway (NH-64).Mohit Handa, Deputy Commissioner of Police, said elaborate arrangements had been made by the civil and police administration in view of the Bandh call by farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws.“The objective of the arrangements is to maintain peace and order, prevent violence, maintain supply of essential items and facilitate the functioning of traffic and public transport system across the state. The instructions in force due to Covid have also been kept in mind,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-police-issue-traffic-advisory-230502
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||1,703 jabbed in Chandigarh||As many as 1,703 beneficiaries were given the Covid-19 vaccine at 54 sites in the city today. Among the total beneficiaries, a maximum of 790 were above 60 years of age, who got their first dose of vaccine. The beneficiaries also included healthcare and frontline workers. Over 71K beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the city so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-703-jabbed-in-chandigarh-230503
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Accused denied anticipatory bail||A local court has dismissed the anticipatory bail application of Saurabh Gupta, one of the accused in the property grab case of Sector 37. The police have named Saurabh Gupta, who bought the controversial property as one of the accused in the case.The police had booked nine persons in the alleged fraud case. It has been alleged in the FIR that some of the accused entered a two-storey house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 and took possession of the first floor in March 2017. The accused had allegedly taken signatures of Mehta on papers after torturing him. Rahul Mehta was later abandoned in Gujarat.The police said an imposter was produced before the office of the sub-registrar as Rahul Mehta at the time of the execution of the sale deed of the house.Meanwhile, the court deferred the hearing on the bail application filed by Manish Gupta, elder brother of Saurabh Gupta, till March 31. Manish Gupta was arrested, along with journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, in the case on March 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-denied-anticipatory-bail-230505
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration submits report to Centre||The UT Administration today submitted the progress report on the privatisation of the Electricity Department to the Centre.The UT Administration had on Monday opened the technical bids submitted by seven firms in the fray.A senior UT official stated in the report that the technical bids were being examined by an evaluation committee and the financial bids would be opened after scrutinising all technical bids.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department.As many as 20 intended bidders were issued the request for proposal (RFP), but only seven companies had submitted their bids by the last date on March 18.However, the UT Administration had recently extended the last date to submit the bids after making some changes in the request for proposal (RFP) conditions in the tender documents.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had, on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the department. The Bench was told that the process of privatisation could not be initiated at all, especially when the department was running in profits. The petitioner had stated that the sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years.However, On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the High Court and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.The UT Administration has proposed to give licence to a distribution company for 25 years under the privatisation of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-submits-report-to-centre-230507
26-03-2021||Mohali||Top seed Aditya wins tennis title||Top seed Aditya Chauhan faced a tough competition from Sukhwinder Singh before registering victory in the boys’ U-16 final of the Roots AITA (CS7) U-16 National Ranking Championship.Sia Mahajan won the girls’ U-16 title by defeating Radha Sadhra in straight sets. Umang Singh and Harwin Singh won the boys’ U-16 doubles title. Radha Sadhra and Akshita Vashisht won the girls’ U-16 doubles title. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-aditya-wins-tennis-title-230508
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court frames charges against ex-SHO, 4 others||The CBI Court has framed charges against Jaswinder Kaur, former SHO of the Mani Majra police station, and four others in a bribery case.The other persons against whom the charges have been framed are Sarbjit Singh, the then constable, and Bhagwan Singh, Randhir Singh and Narpinder Singh.The CBI filed a charge sheet in the case on January 19, 2021, in the CBI court. Jaswinder Kaur, former SHO of the Mani Majra police station, Chandigarh, was booked by the CBI on June 29, 2020, for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from a Mani Majra resident, Gurdeep Singh, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.An FIR was registered under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 7 and 7-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, against Kaur and Bhagwan Singh on the basis of a written complaint by Gurdeep Singh. It was alleged in the FIR that some people, including a few police personnel, had visited the complainant’s house and asked him to appear before Jaswinder Kaur at the Mani Majra police station.A criminal complaint was pending against Gurdeep Singh for allegedly cheating Rs28 lakh from Randhir Singh at the Mani Majra police station. In his complaint to the CBI, Gurdeep Singh alleged that Kaur, through Bhagwan Singh, demanded a bribe of Rs5 lakh from him for not pursuing the matter against him. When he had paid Rs2 lakh to Bhagwan Singh, a written “compromise” in Punjabi language was made between Gurdeep Singh and Randhir Singh at the Mani Majra police station.Gurdeep was again threatened to pay the remaining amount of Rs3 lakh to Bhagwan Singh. The CBI laid the trap. Bhagwan Singh was caught red-handed with a bribe amount of Rs1 lakh by a team of the CBI from Sangrur. Soon after the arrest of Bhagwan Singh, CBI personnel raided the room of SHO Jaswinder Kaur at the Mani Majra police station. They took away the CCTV camera recorder of the SHO’s room and sealed it. Jaswinder Kaur surrendered before the court on July 25, 2020. She was later granted a bail.Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, has framed the charges for offences punishable under Section 120-B of the IPC read with 467, 471 of the IPC read with Section 7 and 7-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act-1988 against all accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-frames-charges-against-ex-sho-4-others-230510
26-03-2021||Mohali||21K avail of health centre facility daily: Balbir Sidhu||As many as 151 Tandarust Punjab Health Centres have been dedicated to the people in the state, said Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health and Family Welfare Minister, here today.He was here to inaugurate one such centre at Bakarpur village. He said 2,820 health centres were operational in the state and around 21,500 people were availing of the health facilities on a daily basis. “Tele-consultancy facility has also been made available at these centres. Soon, 516 dispensaries will also be converted into health centres,” he said.He said the state government was not only uplifting the basic infrastructure in the health sector but also recruiting the staff on a large scale. He said around 11,000 health staff had been recruited and the process for further recruitment was underway. The minister said these centres were a boon for the rural population, especially the women. He said the centres would help in reducing the death rate during child birth.He disclosed that the Covid vaccination would also start at these health centres from April 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21k-avail-of-health-centre-facility-daily-balbir-sidhu-230511
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rest of Punjab (Red) win second match||Rest of Punjab (Red) levelled the three-match final by 1-1 in the ongoing PCA Trident Cup Challenger Triangular Series today. In the second match played today, Rest of Punjab (Red) defeated PCA Punjab XI by 28 runs.Batting first, PCA Rest of Punjab (Red) posted 258 runs before getting all out in 48.1 overs.Salil Arora (77), Ikjot Singh (55), Vishwa Pratap (31) and Kuwar Pathak (21) were the main run getters for the side.In reply, PCA Punjab XI scored 230 runs in 47.1 overs. Ramandeep was the top scorer of the team as he scored 100 runs. He was ably supported by Abhinav Sharma (66). The final match of the series will be played at IS Bindra PCA Stadium on March 26. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rest-of-punjab-red-win-second-match-230513
26-03-2021||Mohali||Cricket trials tomorrow||The Mohali District Cricket Association will organise trials to select the district’s U-19 team on March 27 (10 am) at the C-Ground, PCA Cricket Association.All players either born, studying or living in Mohali will be eligible to appear for the trials.The players must be less than 19 years of age as on September 1, 2021 (a player must be born on or after September 1, 2002).Who is eligibleAll players either born, studying or living in Mohali will be eligible to appear for the trials.Interested players must bring birth certificate in original and a certificate from the respective institute confirming their date of birth and the documents confirmingtheir eligibility from Mohali district at the time of the trials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-trials-tomorrow-230515
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Open-air gym at Sector 22 park||Bribe allegation video goes viralChandigarh: A video of two persons accusing two cops of demanding a bribe of Rs200 at the Industrial Area here has gone viral. A naka was laid at the Centra Mall light on Wednesday night. The person, who made the video, alleged that the two cops, including a Sub-Inspector, demanded a bribe of Rs200. The person, who is seen arguing with the cops, alleged that he was also thrashed by them. Police officials said the matter was being verified. TNSTwo booked for cheatingChandigarh: The UT police have registered a case of cheating against two persons for allegedly duping a person on the pretext of selling a house in Sector 41. Complainant Gajender Rohilla, a resident of Sector 15, Panchkula, reported that Madan Gopal Singh and Jaskirat Singh, both residents of Sector 41, and others took Rs16 lakh from him as the earnest money for the sale of the house they were residing in. However, the suspects neither executed the sale deed in his favour nor returned his money. A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSGold chain, ring stolenChandigarh: A gold chain with pendent and a solitaire ring were stolen from a house in Sector 37. The police have registered a case on the complaint of RP Raju at the Sector 39 police station. TNSFirst CTU head passes awayChandigarh: Hardeep Singh Sandhu, a civil servant, philanthropist and a social activist breathed his last in Chandigarh on Thursday. He died at the age of 86. Sandhu was the first director of the CTU. He held many other important assignments, including the post of the ADC-cum-SDM, DIG Jails, DC Excise and Taxation. His cremation will be held on Friday. TNSPara sports society joins federationChandigarh: The Para Sports Society of Chandigarh joined a mission with the Cerebral Palsy Sports Federation of India, an apex body providing athletes with a platform and opportunities to showcase their sporting capabilities. The society, which will join the federation as a recognised member, was formed to ensure a conducive ambience for the specially-abled kids. The society’s objective was to take cerebral palsy sports to every corner of Chandigarh, promote and popularise sports among persons with disabilities, said one of the spokespersons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-air-gym-at-sector-22-park-230520
26-03-2021||Panchkula||1,108 inoculated in Panchkula||As many as 1,108 beneficiaries were administered the Covid-19 vaccine at 25 sites on Thursday against a target of 1,300. Among the beneficiaries, 715 were senior citizens, 214 were between the age of 45 and 59 with comorbidities, 104 healthcare and 75 frontline workers. Over 50K beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-108-inoculated-in-panchkula-230587
26-03-2021||---||Chandigarh admn restricts entry to Sukhna Lake, Sector-17 Plaza, public parks on Holi||Chandigarh, March 25As a precautionary measure to prevent spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration has ordered that all public government parks, Sukhna Lake and Sector 17 Plaza will remain out of bound for public for Holi celebrations.The restrictions on entry to these places will remain valid from 6 am to 6pm on March 29.Keeping in view the rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has already banned public gatherings for celebration of Holi and has advised residents to observe Holi festival in their own house while strictly following Covid protocol.With coronavirus cases increasing sharply, the Administration has imposed the restriction to dissuade people from gathering at the lake, parks and plaza which are common places for Holi revellers.The Administration has already directed the clubs, hotels or restaurants not to host any ceremonial gathering on Holi festival.Over surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Administration had already imposed restrictions on the number of people attending a social, political or a marriage function and made it mandatory to obtain permission for holding such events.The authorities ordered that a maximum 100 people or 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue would be allowed for indoor gatherings and there would be a restriction of ceiling of 200 persons or 50 per cent capacity of the size of the open space for outdoor gatherings.The Administration authorized the SDMs to grant permissions for holding such events in their respective jurisdiction.The SDM concerned will also obtain an undertaking as per prescribed format from the applicant or organizer to ensure the compliance of all norms of Covid-19 pandemic protocols during the function.For effective control of coronavirus, the Centre had directed the UT to strictly enforce the Test-Track-Treat protocol and scaled up rapidly the ongoing vaccination drive.Keeping in view surge in Covid-19 cases, the Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development, UT, yesterday decided to close down all anganwari centres till March 31. However, all anganwari workers and helpers were to attend the anganwari centres to carry out the field activities as usual till further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-restricts-entry-to-sukhna-lake-sector-17-plaza-public-parks-on-holi-230393
26-03-2021||---||2 men shot dead in Ambala, 2 others injured||Ambala, March 25Two men were shot dead in a firing incident at Kalka Chowk in Ambala City on Thursday. Two others suffered bullet injuries.The deceased have been identified as Rahul and Pankaj. The injured have been identified as Ashwani and Gaurav, residents of Punjab.After getting information, DSP Headquarters Sultan Singh reached the spot.The injured were rushed to Civil Hospital, Ambala City.The incident is said to be fallout of a rivalry between two gangs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-men-shot-dead-in-ambala-2-others-injured-230322
