27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Road from Zirakpur-UT boundary to Behlana airport light point closed from March 27-29||The road from the Union Territory, Boundary Zirakpur to Behlana Light Point, (Airport Light Point) will remain closed from 27 March, 2021 to 29 March 2021 due to the re-carpeting of the road, the Chandigarh administration announced on Saturday.  Apologising for the inconvenience, the administration has requested to take an alternative route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-from-zirakpur-ut-boundary-to-behlana-airport-light-point-closed-from-march-27-29-231317
27-03-2021||Chandigarh/Mohali||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala highway; traffic jam on Zirakpur-Panchkula road||Farmer unions blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala Highway on Friday morning, observing the 'Bharat Bandh'. Massive protests broke out at the McDonald point in Zirakpur.Despite this, they also barred K-Area lights on Zirakpur-Panchkula road. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed here.Farmers union have also blocked National Highways in the Mohali district. The Zirakpur-Patiala road was also blocked by the protesting farmers from the Airport light points since this morning.Due to the Bharat Bandh, passengers in Chandigarh face an inconvenience as the Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express stopped at Chandigarh Railway Station as the farmers blocked the railway traffic during the nationwide 'Bharat Bandh', called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Also read: Meanwhile, the strike will be observed from 6 am to 6 pm.Local markets: Phase 7, 3B2, Phase 11 in Mohali wore a deserted look. Shopkeepers were spotted waiting outside their shops in Zirakpur, hoping the markets open till 10am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-chandigarh-ambala-highway-traffic-jam-on-zirakpur-panchkula-road-230750
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage items auctioned in Italy||In yet another auction of heritage items from the city, six chairs and a sofa were sold for Rs 18.46 lakh in Italy.In a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Ajay Jagga, member of the Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, stated that a set of six chairs was auctioned for Rs9.44 lakh and a sofa for Rs9.87 lakh by auction house Cambi Casa d’Aste in Milan on March 24.Jagga requested that the matter should be examined as to how these items reached Italy. He said the United States authorities on August 15, 2020, handed over 10 heritage artifacts to India, which were smuggled to the USA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-items-auctioned-in-italy-230878
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Shopkeeper booked in Chandigarh||In order to curb the illegal stocking, sale and use of subsidised domestic LPG cylinders at various commercial establishments, a team of Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology Department conducted a raid in various hotels and dhabas in the Burail area of Sector 45-C on Friday.The team booked M/s Dildar Sweets under 7 EC Act for using domestic LPG cylinder for commercial purpose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shopkeeper-booked-in-chandigarh-230879
27-03-2021||Panchkula||13 containment zones in Panchkula||In view of the increasing Covid-19 cases in Panchkula, the administration here today declared 13 containment zones and 12 surveillance zones in the district. The localities with 10 or more positive cases have been declared as containment zones while areas having less than 10 cases have been declared as surveillance zones, said Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-containment-zones-in-panchkula-230880
27-03-2021||---||Mohali to observe hour-long silence in memory of Covid-19 victims||Mohali, March 26An hour-long silence will be observed every Saturday in the Mohali district from March 27 onwards.The silence will be held from 11 am to 12 noon as a token of respect for all those who lost their lives to Covid-19, said Mohali ADC Ashika Jain.Jain also appealed to all the residents of the district to observe the silence.The intra city and inter district vehicular traffic will not ply during the slated time period. However, the traffic police have been directed to allow traffic on state and national highways only.Sirens will be rung in the entire district to indicate the start and end of the observed silence.Since the start of the pandemic, 419 people in the district have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-observe-hour-long-silence-in-memory-of-covid-19-victims-230881
27-03-2021||---||598 senior citizens get Covid vaccine in Mohali||Mohali, March 26As many as 598 senior citizens and 180 in the age group of 45 to 59 with comorbidities were administered the first shot of the Covid vaccine here on Friday. Besides, 110 healthcare workers were given the first shot and 18 the second dose.The first dose was also administered to 301 frontline workers while 43 got the second.A total of 20,212 senior citizens and 3,723 persons aged 45 to 59 have been jabbed in the district so far. Besides, 8,968 healthcare workers have been given the first shot and 4,018 the second while 7,816 frontline workers have got the first shot and 2,147 the second.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/598-senior-citizens-get-covid-vaccine-in-mohali-230883
27-03-2021||---||2,263 jabbed in Panchkula district||Panchkula, March 26As many as 2,263 beneficiaries were administered the Covid-19 vaccine here today. Among the total beneficiaries, 605 were between the age group of 45 and 59 years with comorbidities, 1,371 above 60 years, 111 healthcare and 176 frontline workers. Over 52K beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-263-jabbed-in-panchkula-district-230884
27-03-2021||---||Bharat bandh evokes mixed response in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 26The 12-hour Bharat bandh call by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a coalition of the farmers’ unions, against three farm laws evoked mixed response in the city today. Though commercial establishments remained open across the city, the Hallo Majra-Panchkula road was blocked near Mauli Jagran.Harbhajan Singh, a former member of the Zila Parishad, said residents of several villages, including Mauli Jagran, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra and Hallo Majra, assembled at the Mauli Jagran and Raipur Kalan light point around 9 am and staged a dharna there till 6 pm.He said the farmers would continue their protest until the Central Government withdraws the three farm laws.Meanwhile, members of various organisations staged protests in various parts of the city, including Matka Chowk, Labour Chowk and Sector 46-47 Chowk, in support of the farmers.Passengers faced problems as the strike badly disrupted inter-state and tricity bus service of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU).All long-route buses to Haryana, Punjab and Delhi were affected, while the local CTU buses to neighbouring towns of Mohali and Panchkula could run only to the border with these cities.Buses en route to Zirakpur and Dera Bassi dropped passengers at the Airport light point. Similarly, most buses to New Chandigarh couldn’t run and returned from Sarangpur, while buses to Mohali were able to run till YPS Chowk and Nayagaon buses could only run up to PEC. Passengers to Panchkula were dropped at Mani Majra. People going to Ambala also faced similar problems.Civil society members support bandhCivil society members here came out in support of protesting farmers. They marched across market areas in Sector 8, 9, 10, 11 and 15 and raised slogans against the farm laws. They requested shopkeepers to shut shops. Rajwinder Gill, who led the march, said, “We went to several markets and received an overwhelming response. People shut their shops in support of farmers. However, not a single shopkeeper shut business in the Sector 15 market area.” The civil society members also visited Mullanpur.Long-route buses hitThe strike disrupted inter-state and tricity bus service of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU). All long-route buses to Haryana, Punjab and Delhi were affected, while the local CTU buses to neighbouring towns of Mohali and Panchkula could run only to the border with these cities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-evokes-mixed-response-in-chandigarh-230862
27-03-2021||Panchkula||Massive support for Bharat bandh at Panchkula toll plazas||Farmers blocked the Zirakpur-Shimla highway at the Chandimandir toll plaza and the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway at the Jaloli toll plaza as a mark of protest against the three contentious farm laws during the “Bharat bandh” call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha today. The protest was observed from 6 am to 6 pm.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) block president Karam Singh, who was leading the protest at the Chandimandir toll plaza, said they were successful in generating massive support for the “Bharat bandh” call given by the farmers’ unions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/massive-support-for-bharat-bandh-at-panchkula-toll-plazas-230863
27-03-2021||---||Passengers a harried lot as trains cancelled, delayed in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 26The Bharat bandh call given by Samyukt Kisan Morcha against the farm laws today affected 750 Delhi-bound rail passengers.JP Singh, Station Superintendent, Chandigarh Railway Station, informed that the Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi, ferrying 340 passengers, halted at the Chandigarh station and was later cancelled, and so was the Una-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi, which was to carry 410 passengers.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Rajiv Kumar, a Chandigarh University student, said, “I live in Bihar and had booked a ticket to Delhi from Chandigarh. From there, I had to leave for Bihar. I wanted to be with my family on Holi, but my trip has now been delayed.”“It’s been four months since the farmers have been protesting. It’sthe government’s fault. Had they listened to the farmers, we would not have to go through this inconvenience.”JP Singh said, “The ticket money will be refunded to the passengers whose trains have been cancelled. Those who have partly travelled will be sent a TDR (Ticket Deposit Receipt) through post. It will have a voucher or a pay order for the untravelled rail journey, which can be refunded at the nearest railway station.”The Sachkhand Express and Paschim Express were also delayed, said JP Singh.“Unchahar Express Special, which runs between Chandigarh and Prayagraj, and Chandigarh-Lucknow Express will be originating from Ambala Railway Station,” he said, adding that the Chandigarh-Indore special train was also delayed.Lawyers back farmers’ callChandigarh: A group of advocates extended their support to the Bharat bandh call given by the farmers on Friday against the new agricultural laws. Ravinder Singh Bassi, former president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, said they opposed the agriculture laws because they were detrimental to the interest of the farmers. The lawyers also held meeting in which the laws were opposed. The functioning of the courts was also partially affected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passengers-a-harried-lot-as-trains-cancelled-delayed-in-chandigarh-230865
27-03-2021||---||Panchkula realtor nabbed||Panchkula, March 26The economic offences wing of the Panchkula police has arrested city-based realtor Vinod Bagai in connection with a 2019 case.Bagai was arrested on Thursday but was granted bail on medical grounds. The case, registered at the Sector 20 police station, pertains to one of the 18 FIRs filed against the Samar Estates MD and his family.The realtor has been accused of siphoning off investors’ money from his housing project ESS VEE Apartments and delaying the possession of flats.Two other accused in the case – Vinod Bagai’s brother Virender and wife Sunita Baghai, also directors of the firm – were arrested in February this year and are currently in judicial custody.The trio was booked on charge of fraud on July 31, 2019 and a special investigation team was constituted in August 2019 to probe the matter.However, before the SIT could submit its report, the nation went into lockdown due to Covid-19, said the police.Notably, Vinod Bagai had contested 2014 parliamentary elections as an Independent candidate from Panchkula but lost by a huge margin.The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Panchkula, had also issued arrest warrants against Bagai in February last year over non-compliance of court orders which had mandated him to appear in person before the authority.Based on a complaint from an investor, the police had registered the first case against Bagai and others on July 31 in 2019.In the subsequent FIRs, it was alleged that the company duped people of their money on the promise of delivering them three-BHK flats at Ess Vee Apartments in Sector 20.At least 400 people have been awaiting the possession of flats in Ess Vee Apartments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-realtor-nabbed-230871
27-03-2021||---||Traffic crippled, markets closed in Mohali district||Mohali, March 26Vehicular movement was severely hampered in the district and all major markets wore a deserted look today in response to the Bharat bandh call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha in protest against the three farm laws. The bandh was observed from 6 am to 6 pm.The Zirakpur-Ambala road was blocked near the McDonald’s point in Zirakpur. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed on the Zirakpur-Panchkula road near the K-Area light point in the morning. The Zirakpur-Patiala road was blocked by the protesting farmers at the Airport light point since morning. The approach to airport was blocked at multiple points, including Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara in Traffic crippled, markets closed in Mohali districtSohana, Sector 79, 82, Radha Soami Chowk, near IISER and other intersections.Harvinder Singh, numberdar, Sohana, Ward No. 4 councillor Baljeet Kaur and farmer leaders addressed the protesters. However, barricades were removed for ambulances and other emergency vehicles.In Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, PGI-bound patients and their attendants had a harrowing time convincing the protesters for passage to their private vehicles. At many places, protesters were scrutinising the medical reports and OPD cards to allow passage. Protesters forcibly downed the shutters of a liquor vend in Mullanpur. Protests were also organised on the Landran-Chappar Chiri-Kharar road, Bhagomajra and Jagatpura village.Deserted marketsMarkets wore a deserted look as shops were closed in Phase 7, 3B2 and Phase 11 in Mohali. In Baltana, shopkeepers waited outside their shops in the hope of opening of markets till 10 am.Groom’s kin made to raise slogansIn Zirakpur, a bridegroom’s car was given passage after the protesters urged the groom’s family members to raise slogans in support of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-crippled-markets-closed-in-mohali-district-230854
27-03-2021||Panchkula||Now, Holi gatherings banned in Panchkula||A day after the Chandigarh Administration imposed a ban on public gatherings during the Holi festival, Panchkula District Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja followed suit in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the district.“In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, District Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has issued an order restricting gatherings during Holi at public places/grounds/parks/markets/religious places” read a press release.The SDMs of Panchkula and Kalka will supervise the enforcement of orders in their jurisdictions.Any violation will attract penal action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the IPC and other applicable laws, the order said. — TNS131 cases, one death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Friday reported 131 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 12,427. It also witnessed one Covid death. A 64-year-old woman from Pinjore, who had comorbidities, succumbed to the virus. TNSFour die, 248 infected in UTChandigarh: The city reported 248 new cases and four deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, taking the number of active cases to 2,392. The UT tally has reached 25,604 and the death toll 372. A total of 138 more patients have been cured of the disease. — TNS1 death, 409 test +ve in MohaliMohali: The district on Friday reported the highest single-day spike in Covid cases as 409 persons tested positive for the virus. The district also saw a death due to the infection while 171 patients got better of the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-holi-gatherings-banned-in-panchkula-230855
27-03-2021||Panchkula||Liquor vend worker assaulted in Panchkula||Two men assaulted an employee of a liquor vend in Rajiv Colony and apparently make off with Rs 15,000 from the cash box around 6 pm today.In his complaint to the police, the victim, Pankaj, stated that the suspects had come to the vend to purchase liquor but entered in a heated argument over the price, which led to a brawl. They fled on a motorcycle, said a police official. The victim, who got blows in the face, was taken to the Civil Hospital for treatment. At the time of filing of the report, an FIR into the matter was yet to be registered. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-vend-worker-assaulted-in-panchkula-230885
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Property grab case: Reward of Rs 50,000 each on four accused||The UT police have announced a reward of Rs 50,000 each on four accused in the Sector 37 property grab case, who are absconding.Liquor baron Arvind Singla (41); builder Saurabh Gupta (37); Khalendra Singh (33), alias Kadyan; and Gurpreet Singh (33), alias Mani, are on the run.A police official said the reward was for providing information which would lead to the arrest of any of the four accused. Nine persons, including journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, Singla, Satpal Dagar (brother of a DSP), Kadiyan, Ashok Arora, Saurabh, the late Surjit Singh, Shekhar, Daljit Singh, and others were booked in the case on March 2. So far, Mahajan, Dagar, Manish and Inspector Rajdeep Singh have been arrested. A police official said though many accused were at large, the reward was announced on four of them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-reward-of-rs-50-000-each-on-four-accused-230886
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Centre rushes team to Chandigarh to check Covid surge||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has rushed a high-level multidisciplinary team to the city in view of a surge in Covid cases here.The team is led by Vijoy Kumar Singh, Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser, Ministry of Textiles, and has experts from Dr RML Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital, both in New Delhi.Also readIt will work with the UT Administration to know the reasons for the surge and recommend requisite Covid control and containment measures.This month, the UT has reported 3,834 cases and its weekly positivity rate stands at 11 per cent, the second highest in the country. In the past one week, the number of new infections grew by an average 0.9 per cent a day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-rushes-team-to-chandigarh-to-check-covid-surge-230887
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for theft at flat in Dhanas||Woman’s gold chain snatchedChandigarh: Unknown persons snatched a gold chain from a woman near an under bridge on the road separating Sector 11 and 15 here on Thursday. The victim, a resident of Nayagaon, reported that the suspects snatched her gold chain weighing 7.5 grams. A case has been registered. TNSWoman, family members bookedChandigarh: A woman and her family members, residents of Sector 40, have been booked by the UT police on the complaint of the woman’s husband, Amit Malhotra. The complainant alleged that the suspects caused hurt and planned to eliminate him and his parents. A case has been registered. TNSFoetus found near garbage binChandigarh: A foetus was found near a garbage bin at Ram Darbar, Phase II. Local residents found the foetus dumped near the mandi ground, following which the police were informed. The police said the foetus was around five months old. A case has been registered. TNSFour booked for Rs 52-lakh fraudZirakpur: The police here have booked four persons – Palwinder Singh Dhillon, alias Happy Dhillon; Gagandeep Singh Dhillon, Jatinder Singh, alias Billa, and Rishav Sharma – on charge of fraud. They have been accused of cheating a Balongi resident of Rs52 lakh. Complainant Ramandeep Kaur claimed that Palwinder had promised her of sending her sister and son to the USA in 2018. She said Dhillon took money and jewellery from her on various occasions and later stopped taking her calls and went missing. She complained to Mohali SSP following which a case has been registered. TNSWoman ends her life in Sector 50Chandigarh: A 31-year-old woman reportedly committed suicide by hanging at her parents’ house in Sector 50 here on Thursday evening. The victim, Shafali, was married to Sachin Goyal of Zirakpur in 2017. She, along with her son, came to stay at her parents’ house on March 21. She took the extreme step when her parents, along with her son, had gone to Sector 22. She left a suicide note on her cellphone asking her parents to take care of her son and forgive her. TNSExperts attend rehab meetMohali: Medical and dental experts from across the country participated in the two-day Neuro Socio Psycho Rehab conference organised by the Rayat Bahra University. The theme of the virtual conference was ‘Professional Ethics in Practice of Rehabilitation’. Experts and scholars presented their papers under dental, neuro, psycho, socio, linguistic, speech, language, audiology, nursing, MLT, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, music therapy, human factors and patient safety, pulmonary, pediatrics, ENT, psychiatry, nursing and general category either in the oral or poster modes, said the organisers. TNSCFI to have state chaptersChandigarh: The Coaching Federation of India will have state chapters across India, including in remote locations. A meeting was organised in this regard by the CFI which was attended among others by Anurag Aggarwal, state head, Daljeet Singh (state VP-academics), Harjinder Singh, (state VP-PR), Anjana Narang (state joint secretary) and Jahnvi Kwatra (women cell representative). The meeting decided that they would work closely with the state government to promote various free coaching programmes. TNSRs 75-crore grant released to MCChandigarh: UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore released Rs75 crore grant-in-aid to the Municipal Corporation here on Friday. During a meeting with Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma at Punjab Raj Bhawan, Badnore expressed concern over the completion of ongoing projects of the MC and released Rs 75 crore – Rs 50 crore for development works of 13 villages and Rs 25 crore for committed liabilities under revenue expenditure for 2020-21 fiscal – for the MC. — TNS Candle march for Merc crash victims Mohali: Family members of the three deceased and three injured in the Mercedes car crash will hold a candle march at Sector 17 in Chandigarh on Saturday to seek justice for the victims and pitch for the arrest of the two absconding accomplices of the car driver, Samrat Singh. It has been more than five days but the police have failed to arrest the duo. — TNS Structures removed in Dhanas areaChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation on Friday carried out an anti-encroachment drive in the Dhanas area even as some residents protested against it. During the drive, 25 challans were issued and 40 temporary structures were removed. The drive was undertaken to remove encroachments from vacant spaces of Milk Colony and small flats in Dhanas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-for-theft-at-flat-in-dhanas-230888
27-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Query on Chandigarh Chief Vigilance Officer functioning remains unanswered, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 26The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that its query on the functioning of the UT Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) was still in the realm of obscurity, with the Administration failing to provide a lucid answer.“This Court has put general query to the state counsel about the duties enjoined upon the CVO. He has produced list of live services. We have perused the same. However, our question regarding the functioning of the CVO remains unanswered,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted.The Bench also gave the UT counsel liberty of a fortnight to file short affidavit regarding the query as well. The case will now come for further hearing in the second week of April. The counsel appearing for the Administration and other respondents was earlier asked to seek instructions from the authorities concerned whether the duties were being discharged on a regular basis and that too promptly.The Bench had passed the directions after the UT counsel prayed for additional time to file a reply to the queries earlier raised by the Court. The UT Administration has already been asked to apprise the Bench whether a regular Chief Vigilance Officer was functioning in Chandigarh. It was also asked to come out with the details of a Vigilance inquiry, if pending, on a representation filed by the Marble Arch Residents Welfare Association.The Bench was earlier told that that the site for M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited was auctioned for approximately Rs108 crore. In the brochure issued thereafter, it was promised that 168 flats of three/four bedrooms would be constructed in nine towers.Believing the representation, the petitioner-association purchased the flats. Possession was, thereafter, handed over to the allottees and sale deeds were also executed. As the matter was being dealt with by the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, the petitioner-association was confident that the civic body would act in a transparent manner.The petitioner’s counsel added M/s Uppal Housing Private Limited did not undertake any activity for raising flats for the economical weaker section (EWS) category. In March 2016, however, they decided to raise another tower for the construction of flats for the EWS category. Even permission for this construction was granted by the authority concerned. Thereafter, the petitioner-association made representations and the Vigilance inquiry was also instituted. But the petitioner-association had no inkling about the fate of the Vigilance inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/query-on-chandigarh-chief-vigilance-officer-functioning-remains-unanswered-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-230882
