29-03-2021||---||Four more fatalities due to Covid-19 in Mohali; 290 new cases||Mohali, March 29Four more fatalities were witnessed in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the total count to 427.Meanwhile, fresh 290 Covid cases surfaced till Monday evening taking the total number of positive cases to 26,166 while 239 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the district.Out of the total fresh cases, 175 cases came were from Mohali urban, five each from Gharuan and Lalru, 8 from Kurali, 29 from Dhakoli, 31 from Kharar while 37 cases surfaced in Dera Bassi.As of now, 22,395 had been discharged. There are 3,344 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-fatalities-due-to-covid-19-in-mohali-290-new-cases-232136
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||274 new coronavirus cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Monday reported 274 fresh coronavirus cases, pushing the infection count in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana to 26,468, according to a medical bulletin.Meanwhile, no coronavirus death was reported from the union territory, where the infection has killed 377 people till now. The number of active cases rose from 2,633 on Sunday to 2,746 according to the bulletin.A total of 161 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 23,345, it said.As many as 3,08,086 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 2,80,594 tested negative while reports of 216 are awaited, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/274-new-coronavirus-cases-in-chandigarh-232135
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Virus scare dampens Holi mood in Punjab, Haryana||Holi celebrations remained muted across Punjab and Haryana on Monday as people stayed indoors with the authorities prohibiting gatherings at public places due to the coronavirus scare.In Chandigarh too, people celebrated the festival at home as the administration prohibited the celebrations at public parks, Sukhna Lake and the Sector 17 Plaza. Clubs and hotels were also barred from holding any gathering.The restrictions had been imposed in the wake of a recent surge in the virus cases in the region.Police personnel in adequate strength were deployed and barricades were set up at several places to prevent hooliganism, check drunken driving and ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour, said officials.A police official in Punjab’s Mohali said they impounded vehicles of those who indulged in hooliganism.Police personnel even carried out patrolling to check gatherings at public places, the officials further said.However, a large number of people paid obeisance at Gurdwara Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib on the occasion of Holla Mohalla, a religious fair.“Nihangs”, traditional Sikh warriors, displayed the “gatka”, a traditional martial art form.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted people on the occasion of Holi.“Wishing you all a very safe and #HappyHoli. I pray and wish the festival of colours heralds a year of joy and happiness for everyone, especially our farmers. Request everyone to observe all #Covid19 safety precautions in your Holi celebrations,” said Amarinder in a tweet.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also extended greetings to the people of his state on this occasion. May the festival of Holi bring immense happiness, prosperity and new enthusiasm in people’s lives, he tweeted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-scare-dampens-holi-mood-in-punjab-haryana-232122
29-03-2021||---||Roadmap to develop Panchkula being readied||Chandigarh, March 28The Haryana Government has prepared a roadmap for the overall and integrated development of Panchkula district. The district will be developed as a ‘Centre of Excellence’ in various areas, which will be ecological and eco-friendly.In this series, it is planned that a film city on about 50 acres to 60 acres in the HMT, Pinjore will be developed, where model studios will be developed.The Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, AK Singh, directed officers of the departments concerned to expedite various projects being implemented for the purpose of integrated development of the district.He said Panchkula district would be a centre for planned regional development and the focus would be on cultural activities, including tourism, entertainment, recreation, medicine, industrial development, sports and Ayurveda. For this, the forest, tourism and sports departments are working together.AK Singh said several projects had been started to improve connectivity here. Under ‘PR-7’, connectivity work would be expedited on the road proposed by Punjab to the Chandigarh Airport. In this series, the construction of a bridge on the Ghaggar river was going on to connect Sector 20-21 and Sector 24-26.He said he work would also be done to upgrade the Ramgarh-Mubarakpur-Derabassi road on the National Highway-73 for connectivity to Ramgarh.Besides, the road would also be widened from the Morni-Raipur Rani road on the NH-73 and from the Chandimandir T-junction to the Morni road on the NH-73. There is also a plan to connect Ramgarh to Himachal Pradesh by connecting Sector 32, Panchkula, to the DLF township in Pinjore, near Parwanoo.AK Singh said instead of concrete structures, the emphasis would be laid on temporary and nature-friendly constructions in terms of tourism. Besides, the possibility of paragliding in Thapli forest would also be explored along with camping and trekking. He added that structures of buildings such as Mountain Quail, Morni and Yadavindra Gardens, Pinjore, as well as Red Bishop would be used in the area to promote tourism. He said to promote medical tourism in the area, seven to 10 places would be identified for hospitals. The possibility of increasing cooperation with the PGI, Chandigarh, to provide medical facilities on the lines of Medanta, Gurugram, would also be explored. Similarly, the work would also be done to set up institutes such as an education city here. The pharma industry falling under the white, green and orange categories would be promoted here.Centre for planned regional development||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roadmap-to-develop-panchkula-being-readied-231980
29-03-2021||---||Covid fatalities in Chandigarh rise 40% this month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 28As the city feels the heat of the Covid-19 surge again, an increase of 40 per cent in the fatalities has already been recorded this month. Most Covid-19 deaths have been witnessed in the past few days.The city saw four deaths on Friday, the highest in a day in the past four months. In the past three days, nine persons have died of Covid in the city. Among the deceased, three were aged 55, another three above 65 years and yet another three above 85 years. These patients had comorbidities, including hypertension and type-2 diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, type 1 respiratory failure, chronic liver disease with Hepatitis B, acute respiratory distress syndrome and chronic kidney disease.So far, 25 deaths have been reported from the city this month. At present, 38 serious Covid patients from Chandigarh are being treated at the PGI.The month of February saw 18 deaths, whereas 17 deaths were recorded in January. During the last surge, September saw more than 100 deaths. At the beginning of the first peak in August, the reported number of deaths was 41.In November, 51 Covid patients succumbed to the disease, preceded by 64 in October. Around 10 per cent of the total cases in the city are active. The active case ratio of the city is the fourth-highest in the country. The weekly case growth rate of the UT has reached 1 per cent now, higher than the national average. The fatality ratio is 1.5 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-fatalities-in-chandigarh-rise-40-this-month-231934
29-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||In Mohali, 27% cases in 4 weeks||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 28Over 27 per cent of the total cases reported from the district so far surfaced in the past 28 days.The district tally, which was 20,315 on February 28, rose to 25,880 today. In addition, 557 per cent increase in active cases has been reported since February 28. From 592 active cases at the end of last month, the count reached 3,301 this evening.4 deaths, 287 casesMohali: The district witnessed four more deaths due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 423. Meanwhile, 287 fresh Covid cases surfaced from the district till Sunday evening, taking the tally to 25,880. Among the fresh cases, 213 were from Mohali (urban), three from Kurali, five from Lalru, 10 from Banur, 12 from Dera Bassi, 15 from Kharar and 29 from Dhakoli. TNSThe recovery rate in the district has declined from 95.19 per cent to 85.61 per cent in the same period, compounding the problem. The number of persons cured of the disease has gone up from 19,099 to 22,156.A random survey of the markets in the city and other places in the district revealed that people were exposing themselves to the virus by not wearing a mask.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the sudden spurt in Covid cases in the district was due to an increase in testing. She said people suffering from mild cough, fever and sore throat should get themselves tested for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-27-cases-in-4-weeks-231935
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||3 die, 296 catch infection in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-die-296-catch-infection-in-chandigarh-231936
29-03-2021||---||Panchkula sees biggest spike in six months||Panchkula, March 28The district on Sunday reported 169 fresh cases of Covid, taking the overall tally to 12,748. This is the highest spike in a day in the past six months. With no fresh death, the toll remained 154. While 11,630 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 964 cases are active. The recovery rate stands at 91.22 per cent.Play Holi safely with your family: Health DepartmentPanchkula Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “The Health Department appeals to residents to not to gather in large groups during the Holi celebrations. Stay at home and play safely with you family.” “Come forward and get vaccinated on Tuesday and Wednesday. A large number of sites are being planned for this mega drive,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-biggest-spike-in-six-months-231937
29-03-2021||Chandigarh March 28||BJP workers  go door to door in ‘search’ of  Congress councillor||In a unique way of protest, BJP activists, along with Sector 56 and Palsora residents, went door to door to search for Congress councillor Satish Kainth. They later also went to the police to report his “disappearance”.The protest was led by BJP’s city unit president Arun Sood.BJP district president Ravinder Pathania said the Palsora councillor was missing from his ward and people are looking for him.Sood said there were pits on Sector roads and other streets in Palsora village.At many places, sewage is flowing out of drains and mixing with the drinking water pipeline, and local residents are forced to drink the same water, he alleged. The maintenance of the park here is also not good. There is no proper lighting arrangement there, Sood added.“The residents here are struggling with all these problems and when they approach the councilor they find him missing from his ward,” said the BJP leader.“Actually, he has run away from his ward and has left the residents at the mercy of God,” he alleged. “We have assembled here with torches, lamps and lanterns to find him,” added Pathania.The Congress termed the act a “drama” and said the ruling party was trying to hide its failure. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-workers-go-door-to-door-in-search-of-congress-councillor-231940
29-03-2021||Are parents to be blamed for their kids driving recklessly on roads leading to accidents?||Parents’ role can’t be overlooked, their guidance matters||Amend laws to punish parents too?There is spurt in road accidents as teenagers drive recklessly on roads in the tricity. In Mohali, an 18-year-old boy killed three innocent bread earners. He didn't have a valid driving licence. This shows that parents of such children are not at all bothered about their as well innocent commuters' lives. Laws should be amended to punish parents, who allow their underage children to drive cars and two-wheelers. It's parents' fault as they pamper their kids to drive cars and other vehicles.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliDon’t spoil future of kidsParents are responsible for teenagers driving recklessly on the tricity roads. Super rich class gift expensive vehicles to their kids just to show off their wealth. Underage children drive vehicles of all sorts on roads without any fear. If one has extra money, he/she should donate for a noble cause instead of succumbing to desires of children and spoiling their future prospects.Rajan Dev Sharma, ChandigarhConvince schoolkids not to driveParents are to be blamed equally for giving car keys to their children, who are under the influence of liquor and don't have a valid driving licence. It is also important that schoolchildren are convinced to avoid driving till they get valid driving licence. Parents, whose children are caught on the wrong side of the law, must be penalised.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliRash driving common among teenagersTeenagers are full of energy and have an urge for adventures. Rash driving is common amongst teenagers. Parents should not teach their children to drive until they turn 18. Moreover, even 18 plus kids should not be given their own cars till the time their parents feel that they are grown up to drive safely.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhChildren are under peer pressureParents can be blamed to a certain extent as a teenage child is under the influence of his/her peers and may demand a car or two-wheeler from them. It's duty of parents to make their kids understand that underage driving is neither safe for them nor for other people on roads. Parents also need to understand that underage driving is dangerous for minors. Efforts must be made to make children aware of dangers of underage driving.Shefali Kanwar, MohaliParents of such kids embarrassed tooNo parent wants his/her teenage kid without driving licence turn into a dare devil speedster and risk his/her own life and that of other road users. It’s normally brats of effluent families, who violate laws. Such youngsters turn aggressive in a split second while driving and do not want to be left behind anyone, who overtakes them. This causes serious road accidents. Parents too find such kids embarrassing. But it’s too late for them as they have failed to instil level-headedness in their kids.SC LUTHRA, ChandigarhNone can be allowed to escape lawAccidents and injuries involving underage children happen every day. While youngsters are out looking for harmless fun parents are held accountable for their oversight and indulgence. Parents don't think that borrowing a vehicle to cover a short distance is a big deal. This is illegal and a case of parents' negligence. No one can be exempted from the law. So, to drive vehicle, even if it is for show, one must be 18 years of age and possess a licence.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhUndue affection spoils kidsRecent recklessly driving incident highlights upbringing of children. Parents are at fault for giving vehicle keys to their children when they are not fit for driving. Allowing children to sit behind steering wheel instead of giving hockey or bat to play or a book to read shows parents' undue affection. This often spoils kids. Easy money, luxury and show off cause accidents in which innocent lives are lost.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhPunish parents of erring childrenDue to increase in income during the last two decades almost every family has all sorts of vehicles. This has lead to increase in underage driving, which causes fatal accidents. Parents, who allow their underage children without valid licence to drive, should be punished irrespective of their status or influence in political circles. This will have a cascading effect and help in controlling accidents caused by underage drivers on city roads.KC Rana, ChandigarhStrict regulations can check underage drivingRoad accidents have become a headache for the public. Parents boast of their wealth and pamper their kids. Why parents permit their wards to drive vehicles when they don't have a valid driving licence? Parents should wake up and encourage their children not to drive till they have attained the right age. Strict regulations can check underage driving and reduce accidents in the tricity.MR Bhateja, NayagaonCounsel teenagers not to driveThe sight of children in school uniforms driving vehicles is common today. Teenage road accidents are on the rise. Their and fellow citizens lives are in danger. They have to be counselled on underage driving and the risks involved. Parents should keep in their children safe so that they can lead a healthy and prosperous life.Sanjana Sharma, ChandigarhLaw enforcement agencies must step inRash driving by teenagers is a problem faced by all parents. Teenagers zipping in busy streets on their motorbikes and in cars is a common sight in the city. Though the responsibility of parents is at writ large, the law making and enforcing agencies must step in to finish the problem forever.Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaParents responsible for kids’ activitiesYoungsters, who boast of owning luxurious vehicles, take to driving even if they possess valid driving licence or not. Similarly, some parents take pride while watching their kids drive without realising that it could lead to fatal accidents. In such situation, parents are responsible for all eventualities of their children's acts. They should be liable to bear all expenses of the victim's family.Gobind Ahuja, ChandigarhKeep children under controlOwning or driving vehicle is one of the most triumphant moment in a teenager's life and often dangerous too. There are many teenagers driving on the city roads. Parents do not follow the proper age limit rule when it comes to their children driving vehicles. Also, youngsters love the thrill of speed. The problem is with teenagers, who tend to be impulsive and fearless. It is parent's duty to control their wards.Akshar Kumar Singla, SangrurParents equally responsibleBlame lies on parents, whose children drive vehicles recklessly causing mayhem on city roads. Some parents give in to the pressure of their children, some do it to show off their affluence and some really are ignorant or unaware of the whereabouts of their kids and their cars. If accidents happen, in all cases parents should be deemed guilty.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhOnly parents can make the differenceChildren should be guided and advised by their parents about dangers of underage driving. The school authorities can also play a vital role in curbing this problem. Seminars regarding road safety, poster making competitions and debates on the issue should be held regularly in schools so as to inculcate the sense of safe driving among teenagers. But it is the parents only, who can make a difference by strictly not letting their children drive.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhTeenagers not mature enough to driveTeenagers are not mature enough to drive any vehicle. Parents are responsible for their teenaged children driving recklessly on roads. They are careless towards their children. They are so busy in their life that they forget about activities of their children. According to a view, two of the most common stereotypes in driving are the teenagers, who are maniacs behind the wheel, and the elderly, who are a menace.Adish Sood, AmlohEnsure teenagers know safety rulesParents are solely to be blamed for their teenagers driving without a driving license and under the influence of liquor. According to the law, teenagers, who have learner's license, aren't supposed to drive alone or without supervision. Parents must consider age limit when allowing their wards to drive. They must ensure that their wards are acquainted with road safety rules, before entrusting them keys of any vehicle.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhLessons are learnt the hard wayIt is carelessness on the part of parents to let their child sit behind the steering wheel and that too without driving licence. Behavioural counselling at schools can mould mindset at the tender age. All parents love their children. Parents need to learn from those, who have erred while dealing with their children. Or they would learn lessons the hard way.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaKeep sentiments under controlParents of teenagers driving recklessly are rather more responsible than their children. Parents hand over keys of vehicle to their children with a soft warning to drive slowly and safely. Sometimes parents even offer driving seat to a child when the family is travelling together. Parents should control their sentiments and not allow lapses on their part. They should educate their child about the consequences of underage driving.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliMostly pampered kids get into troubleNo doubt parents are fully responsible for reckless driving of their teenage children. How can children take away vehicles without parents' permission? Mostly, children of the rich and politicians are pampered and given enough money for partying and expensive cars, which often proves fatal.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhStrict action need of the hourParents allowing their underage children drive vehicles cannot be left out from blame. Children from well to do families with high end vehicles are the most dangerous on roads. How can parents allow their underage children drive without valid driving license? Also, children driving vehicles on roads in inebriated condition shows that they have no restrictions. Strict action should be taken on children and their parents to curb fatal accidents and prevent loss of lives.Wg Cdr Jasbir singh Minhas (Retd), MohaliGive exemplary punishmentOnly parents should be blamed for the reckless driving of their children because it's they, who handover car keys to them. No doubt youngsters don't follow law or rules. There is need to give exemplary punishment to both child and his/her parents so others do not dare to allow their underage ward to drive. People must rase their voice against accidents in which innocent lives are snuffed out.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaNo one willing to fix accountabilityRecently, innocent lives were lost due to reckless driving by a teenager. There have been similar instances in the past as well, but no one is willing to accept the blame or fix the responsibility. Alcoholism, substance abuse, mobile use while driving, sheer thrill of speeding are some of the reasons for reckless driving among the adolescents and teenagers. To a large extent parents are also responsible for inculcating such behaviour among the children. Primarily it's money, which spoils teenagers.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhDon’t give keys of vehicle to kidsUnderage driving is a major concern. Teenage children should be guided and advised by their parents about dangers of underage driving. Parents should not handover keys of their expensive vehicles to their wards. They are totally responsible for allowing their underage children drive without licence. Drinking and driving is a crime. So, parents must change attitude of children towards driving. They must not succumb to children's demands.Gurwinder Bhullar, ChandigarhDon’t bow to peer pressureMany lives are shattered by underage drivers going for a joyride in their parents or relatives vehicles. Parents should familiarise themselves with risks associated with underage driving. Teen drivers aged 16 to 19 years are four times more likely to crash than older drivers. Inexperience is the reason, why teenagers underestimate hazardous situations. Flouting law by underage drivers can be attributed to peer pressure. Tell children to avoid peer pressure.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliSociety must apprise parents of their dutiesUnderage driving proves that parents and society is negligent about their responsibility towards children. We allow our kids to drive high-end cars without apprising them about danger to their and others life on the road. Society must point out to negligent parents about their duties. This aspect of social parenting is important to prevent vulgar show off and safeguards those commuting on roads as well kids.Sukhpal Singh, ChandigarhBecome role models for kidsParents must become role models for their school going children. If children are allowed to drive and violate laws, they will not become law-abiding citizens when they grow up. It is parents' responsibility to educate them about traffic rules. Driving is not only about operating a machine, but also maturity and judgement. A new law to check underage driving should be enacted and implemented in letter and spirit.Lives are more importantFatal accidents on roads involving teenagers not eligible for driving have increased considerably. Parents allow their wards to undertake such misadventures by giving them keys of vehicles. They should educate their children about perils of underage driving. There are rules to punish parents for such acts of their children and these must be implemented strictly. Lives are important and must be saved.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhTeach lessons to spoilt bratsDeaths due to road accident is classified as homicide not amounting to murder and is bailable offence. There must be harsh punishment for guardians in case their underage wards are caught driving. Challaning speeding drivers at night would reduce fatalities. Imbibe self responsibility among teenagers. Instil fear of the law to control spoilt brats. Guardians are role models for their children. They should follow traffic rules.Charu Malhotra, MohaliBlame Parents for giving liberty to kidsParents are to be blamed because they give liberty to underage children to drive vehicles. Even in Ambala City children of 12 years have learnt to drive cars. They drive to their coaching centres on parents vehicles without knowing that slight judgement error could snuff out innocent lives.Simran Sood, AmbalaHold traffic rules awareness campsCertain traffic rules are frequently violated by commuters especially teenagers. Still people do not sensitise teenagers to traffic rules, which they flout with impunity. Normally, our parents take risk and give keys of their vehicles to children. We might not be sure that child is ready for driving on road. Parents should not allow their wards without a valid licence to drive vehicles. Schools and colleges must educate young students about road safety. Camps should be organised to apprise children about traffic rules.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONVaccination centres with the capacity of inoculating 10,000 persons per day are underutilised in Chandigarh. The UT Administration is able to inoculate only around 2,000 beneficiaries in a day. What steps should be taken to enhance the vaccination coverage in the UT?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-role-cant-be-overlooked-their-guidance-matters-231942
29-03-2021||---||30-yr-old nailed for raping minor||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, March 28A 30-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a 10-year-old girl on Saturday.The suspect has been identified as Sonu Kumar, a native of UP who was employed as a waiter at a marriage palace. The victim’s family lives in the same building where the suspect resides with his family on rent.Investigating officer Satinder Singh said the suspect’s wife, along with their child, was away for work when the incident took place. Three children, including the victim, were alone in their house as their parents had gone out for work. The suspect took the girl to his room and allegedly violated her, the officer said.The victim’s mother returned home in the evening and found the girl not feeling well. The victim’s family lodged a police complaint following which the suspect allegedly confessed to having committed the act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-yr-old-nailed-for-raping-minor-231946
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||69 more Covid deaths, 2,963 new cases in Punjab||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 6,690 on Sunday with 69 more fatalities, while 2,963 fresh cases took the infection tally to 2,31,734, a medical bulletin issued here said.The number of active cases increased to 23,917 on Sunday from 23,271 the previous day, it said.Of the new cases, Jalandhar reported the maximum 489 cases, followed by 437 in Ludhiana, 372 in Amritsar, 307 in Patiala, 291 in Mohali and 289 in Hoshiarpur, it said.Of the new deaths, Ludhiana recorded 10 fatalities, followed by Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur with eight fatalities each, the bulletin said.A total of 2,155 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 2,01,127, as per bulletin.A total of 36 critical patients are on ventilator support and 316 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 58,48,083 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. Punjab Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday said COVID-19 vaccine will be administered at all health and wellness centres, sub centres, homeopathy and ayurvedic dispensaries.He further said the vaccine will also be made available for everybody above the age of 45 years without any condition at all government health centres from April 1.In a statement, Sidhu said nearly 7 lakh people in the state have been vaccinated so far.He further said vaccination is being carried out in government health facilities on all the seven days of the week.Chandigarh reported 296 cases, the highest single-day spike this year, taking the total infection count to 26,194, a bulletin issued here said.On Saturday, the union territory had recorded 294 new cases.The death of three more persons took the toll to 377, according to the medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from to 2,633 on Sunday from 2,532 the previous day.A total of 192 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 23,184, the bulletin said.A total of 3,06,217 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,79,003 have tested negative while reports of 201 samples were awaited, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/69-more-covid-deaths-2-963-new-cases-in-punjab-231758
