30-03-2021||Chandigarh||65 more Covid deaths, 2,210 new cases in Punjab||Covid-19 claimed 65 more lives in Punjab in the past 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 6,813 on Tuesday while 2,210 new coronavirus cases raised the infection count to 2,36,790 in the state.The number of active cases, however, dropped from 24,143 on Monday to 23,731 on Tuesday, a Punjab government medical bulletin said.Maximum infections were reported from Amritsar at 331, followed by Ludhiana at 329, Jalandhar at 310 and Mohali at 273, among new cases.The districts which saw deaths included Hoshiarpur (10), Ludhiana (7) and Jalandhar (7).A total of 2,536 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,06,246, the bulletin said.There are 39 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 315 are on Oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 58,94,441 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh which has also been witnessing a surge, reported 265 cases, taking the total count to 26,733.The death of two more persons took the toll to 379 in the city, a medical bulletin issued by the Union Territory’s administration said.The number of active cases rose from 2,746 on Monday to 2,831 on Tuesday, it added.A total of 178 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 23,523, the bulletin said.A total of 3,09,840 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,82,078 tested negative while reports of 250 samples were awaited, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/65-more-covid-deaths-2-210-new-cases-in-punjab-232232
30-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh Administration designates 25 areas as containment zones||The Chandigarh Administration on Monday designated 25 areas as containment zones in the city to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.The order will remain in force till April 30.The new containment zones include parts of Sector 15, 22, 28, 30A, 32D, 35D, 38A, 40C, 41B, 42B, 42C, 43B, 44B, 45C, 46A, 49A, part of Sector 63 (Block 8 and 16) and part of village Khuda Ali Sher.Frequent sanitization of the areas will be undertaken by the municipal authorities, the order said and the people have been advised to follow social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-designates-25-areas-as-containment-zones-232126
30-03-2021||Mohali||Mohali club sealed, 30 held for violating night curfew||A club was sealed and 30 persons arrested for violating night curfew in Phase XI here on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The police raided the nightclub, Walking Street, around 2:30 am following a tip-off that a party was being organised there in a clandestine manner. During the raid, cops found that liquor and hookah were also being served to the customers.Chandigarh Administration designates 25 areas as containment zonesMohali DSP (City-2) Deep Kamal and Phase XI SHO Jagdeep Brar raided the club and arrested 30 persons. The club owner, Sajan Mahajan, allegedly managed to escape. Those arrested were later released on bail. The police impounded several vehicles from near the club even though some youth managed to flee. Brar said, “The main gate of the club was closed but youth were gaining entry through a backdoor.”The suspects were booked under the IPC and the Disaster Management Act. “The club has been sealed for now. The club owner and the party organiser will be arrested soon,” said DSP Deep Kamal.A commando posted in the Punjab CM’s security was shot outside the club in the wee hours of August 4, 2019. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-club-sealed-30-held-for-violating-night-curfew-231938
30-03-2021||---||Sharjah flight from Chandigarh International Airport twice a week||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 28Though no new international flight has been added to the summer schedule, the flight to Sharjah will now operate twice a week instead of once a week.Flight to Dehradun six days a weekIndiGo will operate a flight to Dehradun six days a week. The flight will depart fromthe city airport at 6.30 pm and reach Uttarakhand capital at 7.30 pm. It will take off from Dehradun at 8 pm and reach the city at 9 pm.Chandigarh International Airport now has a direct connectivity with Indore as the summer flight schedule was implemented today. The IndiGo flight to Indore departed from the airport at 6.35 am and reached Indore at 8.35 am. The flight will be operational for seven days.In the summer schedule, there are 10 flights to Delhi and eight for Mumbai. Instead of 38 flights, now 47 flights will operate from the city airport. The flight to the Union Territory of Leh has also been resumed and it will operate twice a week.IndiGo will operate a flight to Dehradun six days a week, which will depart from the city airport at 6.30 pm and reach there at 7.30 pm and will start from there at 8 pm and reach here at 9 pm. The IndiGo flight timings for Jodhpur and GoAir flight timings for Jammu are yet to be finalised.Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said they would also run flights to two more destinations — Jammu and Jodhpur — from the airport. The Jammu flight would start on May 1, while the date for the Jodhpur flight is yet to be decided, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sharjah-flight-from-chandigarh-international-airport-twice-a-week-231939
30-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Basic amenities a far cry in these Chandigarh villages||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 28Basic amenities such as proper drinking water supply, sewerage and metalled roads elude Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu and Khuda Lahora villages, which were merged with the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation over two years ago.Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu villages, which are situated near the PGI, are divided by a road. Khuda Ali Sher village is situated near PEC. Residents here were looking forward for ‘good days’ ahead in terms of development after these villages were merged with the corporation.Things did not improve here. Even a single development work could not be started here due to lack of funds with the civic body. The UT Administration recently released Rs50-crore funds for village development to the MC, which has raised the hopes of residents.Balwinder Sharma, former sarpanch of Khuda Jassu, said: “Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu are separated by a road. The sewerage system in the villages is around 30 years old and needs to be upgraded at the earliest. Roads are also in a poor condition. The road leading to the cremation ground is unmetalled. There is no problem of drinking water in Khuda Jassu but other villages face low supply.”“Whenever we approach MC officials, they rue fund shortage. There is no shortage of funds when the corporation is building its world-class office. With the release of funds, our hopes have revived as we have been told that tendering process is on for various works,” he said.Gurpeet Singh, former member of the Khuda Ali Sher panchayat, said: “There is a problem of low water supply here. During summers, our tube wells do not provide required water. We have requested the authorities to give us canal water and have also offered them land for the purpose. Roads in our village are in a poor condition.”Khuda Lahora residents rued that it had made no difference to them whether they were under the Administration or the MC. “Earlier, we used to get small works done with the help of the panchayat. Now, even panchayat system has been abolished. We have nowhere to go as officials do not listen to us or rue shortage of funds,” said Kuldeep, a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/basic-amenities-a-far-cry-in-these-chandigarh-villages-231941
30-03-2021||---||Punjab Cricket Assn christens Mullanpur stadium after Patiala's Maharaja Yadavindra Singh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 28The under construction stadium in Mullanpur has been named Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Cricket Stadium, a decision in this regard was taken by the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) here today.The name was proposed last year and was unanimously approved by the PCA General House, which met here today. The PCA also announced that there would be no minor or major district associations, and all the district cricket associations will be treated equally.The annual general body meeting of the PCA was held at IS Bindra Stadium here and was chaired by president Rajinder Gupta.“We are thankful to the royal Patiala family for allowing the PCA to name the new stadium as ‘Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Cricket Stadium’. He was as a Test cricketer and administrator par excellence,” said Gupta.The last ruler of the erstwhile Patiala state, late Maharaja Yadavindra Singh, played a solitary Test match for India in 1934.“The House also approved that all district cricket associations are equal and the concept of minor and major districts has been abolished. We are here to treat each and every player and district equally. We will make sure that infrastructure gets developed in each and every district,” said Gupta.The House, meanwhile, unanimously resolved to complete the stadium during this year. It also unanimously approved appointment of Justice HS Bhalla as ombudsman-cum-ethics officer of the PCA.The House applauded Gupta’s efforts and also approved the revised TA and DA rules for the members, selectors, coaches, officials and others, announced Deepak Sharma, chief executive officer, PCA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cricket-assn-christens-mullanpur-stadium-after-patialas-maharaja-yadavindra-singh-231943
30-03-2021||Zirakpur||Baltana: BJP workers’ face-off with farmers’ unions||BJP leaders and members of various farmers’ unions came face to face at the Kalgidhar Market in Baltana today during the protest against the attack on BJP MLA Arun Narang.The BJP workers had gathered to protest the attack on the Abohar MLA, but some members of farmers’ unions reached the spot and raised slogans against the BJP-led Centre Government.BJYM activists burn Punjab CM’s effigyBaltana unit president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) Hardeep Singh and Gurdeep Singh, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union, Dakounda, said unless the Modi government at the Centre agrees to the demands of the farmers, they will not allow the BJP leaders to hold any programme.The police force was rushed to the spot but they had a tough time maintaining the law and order situation. Later, Mohali SP (Rural) Dr Ravjot Grewal brought the situation under control. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baltana-bjp-workers-face-off-with-farmers-unions-231944
30-03-2021||Chandigarh||Nalin Acharya elected Chandigarh Press Club chief||Nalin Acharya was elected the president of the Chandigarh Press Club in the elections held today. Nalin defeated his arch-rival Ramesh Handa with a margin of 11 votes. He polled 294 votes and the latter 283.The nine-member panel, led by Handa, Saurabh Duggal and Rajinder Nagarkoti, won eight seats. Of the 706 voters, 580 exercised their franchise.Duggal won the post of senior vice-president by defeating Sandeep K Sharma with the highest margin of 123 votes. Nagarkoti was elected to the post of secretary general by defeating Rakesh Gupta with a margin of 105 votes.Other new office-bearers are Mona (vice-president-I), Rajesh Dhall (vice-president-II), Mansa Ram Rawat (secretary), Dushyant Singh Pundir (joint secretary-I), KS Rana (joint secretary-II) and Umesh Sharma (treasurer). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nalin-acharya-elected-chandigarh-press-club-chief-231945
