31-03-2021||---||Major fire at Chandigarh's Dadu Majra dumping ground; many face breathing problem||Chandigarh, March 31A major fire broke out at the waste dumping ground in Dadu Majra on Wednesday.  It led to great inconvenience to the residents, especially those residing in and around Dadu Majra. Residents of Sectors 38, 37, 25, Dadu Majra and other areas complained of smoke entering their houses.  They had a breathing problem and itching in eyes due to the poisonous smell. Besides, commuters had to face tough time as the smoke was witnessed in the sky even up to Sectors 17 and 21.According to officials, they got fire information at 2.30 pm. Following which, six fire tenders were pressed into service. Two tractor trolleys got damaged during the incidentJasmeet Singh, Sector 38 Fire Station Officer told Chandigarh Tribune, “We have controlled the fire from one side. But, now it has spread to other part of the dumping ground. More than the fire it is smoke which is causing trouble.”He believed the fire broke out due to hot weather, which often causes fire at the dumping ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/major-fire-at-chandigarhs-dadu-majra-dumping-ground-many-face-breathing-problem-232702
31-03-2021||Lucknow||Mukhtar Ansari's wife writes to President seeking security for him during transfer from Punjab jail to UP||The wife of jailed mafia don-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari has written to President Ram Nath Kovind urging him to ensure adequate security for him when he is transferred from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh following a Supreme Court direction.In her letter released to the media on Wednesday, Afshan Ansari claimed that her husband, who is a BSP MLA from Mau, is an eyewitness in a case and the accused BJP MLC is threatening to kill him in connivance with the government machinery.Afshan Ansari said she fears that her husband might be killed "in the guise of a fake encounter" during his transfer from Ropar jail in Punjab to Uttar Pradesh's Banda prison.According to the Supreme Court's March 26 order, her husband has to be transferred to Uttar Pradesh's Banda jail in two weeks. Ansari's wife said she is frightened because of the past actions of some officers of the Uttar Pradesh government and is deeply concerned about the safety of his life."If my husband is sent to Uttar Pradesh without fixing responsibility for the safety of his life, then surely he would be killed by creating a false story. Therefore, it is a plea to the President to order that my husband is protected," Afshan Ansari said in the letter.Also read: BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari produced in Mohali court in extortion, criminal intimidation caseShe also urged that if it is required to produce Ansari in court, the President should order the government to arrange central security force personnel "to accompany him from prison to court and back".Mukhtar Ansari has been in judicial custody since October 25, 2005 in a number of criminal cases.Alka Rai, the legislator wife of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai who was killed allegedly at the hands of the Mukhtar Ansari gang in 2005, had demanded that Ansari be transferred to a jail in Uttar Pradesh. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mukhtar-ansaris-wife-writes-to-president-seeking-security-for-him-during-transfer-from-punjab-jail-to-up-232656
31-03-2021||Mohali||Tentative list of housing societies being shared with hospitals: Mohali DC||Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan on Wednesday informed all SDMs and DSPs to facilitate all frontline workers, including bank employees, volunteers who performed duty the nationwide lockdown, curfew, and other Covid duties like chemists, karyana owners, pump operators, municipal cleaning, sanitation workers, teachers in schools, service-food industry, such as delivery boys, etc.The tentative list of the Hosing society, corporate, institutes with eligible beneficiaries are being shared with the hospitals. Hospitals are advised to send their Mobile teams to these locations.He has requested private hospitals to increase the Covid bed capacity with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tentative-list-of-housing-societies-being-shared-with-hospitals-mohali-dc-232619
31-03-2021||Mohali||BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari produced in Mohali court in extortion, criminal intimidation case||BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari was produced in a Mohali court on Wednesday afternoon in a case related to extortion and criminal intimidation amidst heavy police presence.The gangster-turned-politician was brought from Ropar jail and waited for some time in an ambulance bearing a UP registration with police escorting the vehicle. He was taken to the court on the third floor in a wheelchair.The Supreme Court on March 26 ordered the shifting of Ansari from Ropar jail to a jail in Uttar Pradesh where he was wanted in several criminal cases.Allowing the state of Uttar Pradesh government’s petition seeking transfer of the alleged gangster, a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had directed that Ansari’s custody should be handed over to UP authorities in two weeks.Also read: Mukhtar Ansari's wife writes to President seeking security for him during transfer from Punjab jail to UPAnsari’s plea to transfer the cases pending against him in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi was dismissed.The top court had said he shall be lodged in Banda Jail where the Jail Superintendent will extend him medical facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsp-mla-mukhtar-ansari-produced-in-mohali-court-in-extortion-criminal-intimidation-case-232617
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Snatchers target 2 in Chandigarh||Club manager held, 2 bookedChandigarh: The owner and managers of a club, Mobe, in Sector 26 were booked for violating social distancing norms during a Holi party. According to the police, one of the managers was later arrested. TNSGroup clash at Bapu DhamChandigarh: Two groups of youth clashed with each other on Holi at Badu Dham Colony, Sector 26. According to the police, the complainant, Rajesh Kumar of the colony, reported that Subham, Harun, Sahil, Joshan, Ajay, Baljinder, Gaurav, Sharukh, Nasrin, Vishal, Vijay and around six others, committed affray and pelted stones on each other. The complainant’s wife was injured during the incident following which she was admitted to the GMSH-16. TNSTheft at house in Sector 15Chandigarh: Valuables were stolen from a house in Sector 15. The complainant, Rohit Bhutani, reported that unknown person stole two mobile phones, a laptop, two iPads and a watch from his house. A case has been registered. TNSAbhishek ranks 106 in GATE examChandigarh: Abhishek Kaushik of CCET has bagged 106th rank in the GATE 2021 examination. He had appeared in the exam in the computer science stream. Piyush secured 158th position, while Gulshan and Kamalpreet ranked 658 and 949, respectively. In electronics engineering, Parneet Kaur from UIET, Panjab University, bagged 316th rank. I In civil engineering, Amit Singh ranked 564, Tarun Kumar 1078. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-target-2-in-chandigarh-232540
31-03-2021||---||Race walkers Jaswant, Sandhya clinch gold||Chandigarh, March 30Jaswant Kumar clocked 2.16:56s to win the men’s 20km race walk competition in the ongoing Chandigarh Senior State Athletics Championship at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here today.Vimal Kumar (2.22:34s) claimed second spot, while Rahul Yadav (2.26:40s) finished third.In men’s discus throw event, Omkar topped the podium with a 43.80m effort. He followed by Varinder Singh (43.57m) and Sumit (42.80m) in second and third positions respectively.Akahsdeep Sindhu (51.41s) dominated the field in the men’s 400m contest. Mahendra Kumar (52.71s) pocketed the silver, while Ankush (54.60s) took home the bronze medal.In men’s 5000m competition, Yashraj raced to gold in 17.38:94s. Sahul (17.51:75s) clinched the silver, while Sahil (18.27:39s) had to be content with the bronze medal.In the women’s category, Sandhya clocked 2.20:16s to top the podium in the 20km race walk competition.She was followed by Aarti (2.30:20s) in second place, while Sneha (2.30:45s) bagged the third position.Aditi Bugad (46.10m) dominated the field in discus throw. Harleen (34.52m) and Khushi Rana (31.20m) finished second and third respectively.In the women’s 400m contest, Akanksha (1.06:93s) clinched the gold medal, while Simran (1.10:97s) returned with the silver. Sita (1.19:03s) bagged the bronze medal.Sakshi clocked 25.42:63s to win the women’s 5000m gold. Arti (26.20:55s) finished with the silver, while Anu (26.34:92s) returned home with the bronze medal.Surabhiy (55.00m), Kirandeep Kaur (21.70m) and Rupinder (10.80m) claimed the top-three positions respectively in hammer throw.Simran Kaur (12:72s) scampered to gold in the women’s 100m dash. She was followed by Sunaina (15:22s) and Garima Singh (15:82s) in second and third positions, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/race-walkers-jaswant-sandhya-clinch-gold-232539
31-03-2021||Mohali||Pranab runs 90km in 10 hrs||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pranab-runs-90km-in-10-hrs-232538
31-03-2021||Dera Bassi||Three injured in Pragpur clash||Three persons were injured as a group of around 15 persons assaulted them in Pragpur village over an old enmity, on Monday evening.The injured have been identified as Ajmer Singh and his sons, Harpreet Singh (35) and Manpreet Singh (28).On Manpreet’s complaint, a case has been registered against Sukhjit Singh, alias Johnny, Harjit Singh Kaka, Rajinder Singh Lucky and Buta Singh of Pragpur village and eight residents of Mahmadpur village, at the Dera Bassi police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-injured-in-pragpur-clash-232537
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Start-up from Chandigarh partners with news broadcasters’ body||A city-based start-up, Webnyay, has partnered with the News Broadcasters Federation (NBF) to collect, collate and address complaints on the content in news TV channels.“The partnership will facilitate viewers of the channels and broadcasters to build a credible news information network and address any anomalies virtually by NBF’s Professional News Broadcasting Standards Organisation,” said R Jai Krishna, Secretary-General of the federation.The NBF-PNBSO is a self-regulatory organisation for the news broadcasting sector in India. It is chaired by former Chief Justice of India Justice Jagdish Singh Khehar. “NBF–Webnyay partnership will allow viewers to raise any complaint against a news channel in their own language. It will be resolved online,” said Ishita Jindal, co-founder of Webnyay. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/start-up-from-chandigarh-partners-with-news-broadcasters-body-232536
31-03-2021||---||10 liquor vends go under hammer for Rs48.54 crore in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30The UT Excise and Taxation Department has earned revenue of Rs48.54 crore during the e-auction of leftover liquor vends. The department had received 19 bids against 10 of the 16 liquor vends. The collection was 16.16 per cent over the reserve price of Rs41.79 crore.The highest bid of Rs6.61 crore was received for a vend in the Sector 11 market against the reserve price of Rs5.50 crore. The lowest bid of Rs3.25 crore was received for a vend in Sector the 34-C market against the reserve price of Rs3.10 crore.In the e-auction held earlier on March 19, the department had allotted 80 liquor vends out of the total 96. The e-tenders were then invited for allotment of the remaining 16 licensees for retail sale of liquor. A liquor vend in Dhanas had received the highest-ever bid price of Rs11.55 crore in the e-auction held on March 19.The department has collected a total revenue of Rs446.58 crore from the 90 liquor vends in the shape of licence fee against a reserve price of Rs359.10 crore, registering an increase of approximately 24.36 per cent. It also received Rs6.33 crore as participation fee. An analysis of the successful bidders revealed that no single entity was allotted more than eight vends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-liquor-vends-go-under-hammer-for-rs48-54-crore-in-chandigarh-232535
31-03-2021||Sandeep Rana||Over a decade on, Chandigarh MC to hire 172  on regular posts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30After a gap of over a decade, the local Municipal Corporation is filling 172 vacancies on regular basis.The MC is hiring employees for posts, including sub-divisional engineer (SDE), junior engineer (JE), fireman, clerical staff and driver. Of the total 172 posts, 68 are of general pool, 20 are reserved for SC, 31 for OBC, 39 for ex-servicemen, 13 for EWS (general) and one for physically challenged.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said, “We have advertised these posts and they will soon be filled.”According to the MC recruitment notice, all details regarding the hiring will be available on its website from April 8. Interested candidates will be able to apply between April 8 and May 3. The last date for submission of fee will be May 5. Only online applications will be accepted.An MC official said it was way back in 2010 that regular vacancies were filled. Then, firemen, SDEs and JEs were appointed. For other posts, last regular recruitment was done in 2004. For the past few years, the MC has been hiring on contractual and outsourcing basis. “The posts are being filled so that these don’t get lapsed,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-a-decade-on-chandigarh-mc-to-hire-172-on-regular-posts-232534
31-03-2021||---||54 challaned at Sector 48 motor market of Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30The Municipal Corporation (MC) and the UT Estate Office held a joint anti-encroachment drive at the motor market in Sector 48 here today and issued 54 challans.Cops accompanied the officials conducting the joint drive which was held from 10 am to 2 pm. The authorities also seized dumped cars and spare parts kept there for a long time. Each encroacher will have to pay Rs2,000 to clear the challan and get the confiscated material back.Such drives were conducted earlier too, but the situation did not improve. It seems paying a fine of mere Rs2,000 for encroaching a huge space is not proving to be a deterrent for the violators.Interestingly, the MC issues a challan of Rs10,000 with no goods return policy in case of encroachment by illegal vendors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/54-challaned-at-sector-48-motor-market-of-chandigarh-232532
31-03-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Not installing DTH connection costs company dear||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, March 30Failing to install a DTH connection despite taking charges from a person cost M/s Independent TV Limited, Mumbai, dearly.Terming the act “deficiency of service”, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, not only directed the company to refund the entire fees but also told it to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation and litigation cost to the consumer.Ranjit Keer, a resident of Ram Darbar, Chandigarh, had approached the commission after the company failed to install the DTH connection at his house despite taking the required fees from him.In his complaint, Keer said he had paid Rs 1,999 on November 13, 2018, for installation of DTH connection at his house under a scheme floated by M/s Independent TV Limited.Next day, he received a text message from the company saying the DTH connection will be installed within 10 to 15 working days. But the company failed to install the connection for over a month.Keer said M/s Independent TV Limited, vide e-mail dated January 30, 2019, apologised for the delay and assured him of installing the DTH connection on an urgent basis, but neither the installation was done nor the money deposited by him was refunded.The commission served the notice on the company seeking its version, but nobody appeared on its behalf. Therefore, the matter proceeded ex parte.After hearing the arguments, the commission held the M/s Independent TV Limited guilty of the deficiency of services and directed it to refund the booking amount of Rs 1,999 to the complainant.The commission also directed the company to pay Rs 5,000 as compensation for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, and another Rs 5,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-installing-dth-connection-costs-company-dear-232526
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Woman offered lift in car, loses 2 gold bangles in Chandigarh||A three-member gang stole two gold bangles from a woman by making her sit in a car on the pretext of offering her a lift to her house in Sector 37.According to the police, victim Raj Kumari reported that three suspects — a man and two women — offered her a lift from near Sanatan Dharam Mandir, Sector 37, to her house.The police said one of the women asked the victim that another woman sitting in the car was calling her. The victim walked up to the car and the suspect told her that she knew her and would drop her home.The victim initially refused, but on being insisted, she sat in the car and the man started driving on a road which did not lead to her house. She objected following which the suspects dropped her near the Sector 37 market and left.She soon realised that her two bangles were missing. The police were informed, who reached the spot. The police scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area. Meanwhile, a case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station.Similar incidents have been reported from across the tricity in the recent past. The police suspect the same gang is behind all incidents.Recent incidentA gang had targeted a 65-year-old woman after making her sit in a car on the pretext of dropping her home in Sector 44 in February. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-offered-lift-in-car-loses-2-gold-bangles-in-chandigarh-232521
31-03-2021||---||Panchkula DC pushes for accident-free roads||Panchkula, March 30The district administration here today directed the road construction agencies to identify seven stretches of 5km each and develop them as ‘model roads’ which are free of accidents.Presiding over the monthly meeting of the District Road Safety Committee, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said roads with maximum intersections and light points should be developed as ‘model roads’.He directed the road construction agencies to submit a road safety audit report before the next meeting of the committee.Ahuja said in their audit reports, the agencies would not only mention the accident prone points but also suggest corrective measures.He said in case of fatal road accidents, a team comprising SDM concerned, Regional Transport Authority and police officers would personally inspect the spot so that appropriate steps could be taken to prevent the re-occurrence of such incidents.Expressing concern over the road accidents in front of educational institutions, the DC directed the officials concerned that all establishments along the national and state highways and district roads should be reviewed from road safety point of view.Ahuja also directed the road construction agencies to furnish the details of lighting on roads falling under their jurisdiction, along with the number of lights in working condition.He said apart from providing information about the CCTV cameras installed on the roads, they would also identify new points where there is a need to install CCTV cameras.Ahuja further directed the Kalka SDM to launch a special drive with the assistance of the police department to remove the roadside encroachment between Kalka and Pinjore.He also said ambulance service number 108 and police helpline number 100 should be printed and pasted behind auto-rickshaws so that more and more people could get information about the same.At present, about 6000 auto rickshaws are operational in the district.Additional Deputy Commissioner Mohd Imran Raza; Panchkula SDM Richa Rathi; Kalka SDM Rakesh Sandhu; Secretary, RTA, Panchkula, Amarinder Singh; DDPO Kanwar Daman Singh; and officers of various other departments were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-dc-pushes-for-accident-free-roads-232502
31-03-2021||---||Chandigarh records hottest March day in 4 yrs||Chandigarh, March 30The city today witnessed the hottest day of March in four years.The maximum temperature today rose to 36.5°C, which is five degrees above normal. Last year, the highest temperature was 29.4°C on March 24. While in 2019, it was 34°C on March 31. In 2018, it was 34.5°C on March 29.However, 2017 had witnessed a higher temperature of 37°C on March 30.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature was 19.2°C, which is four degrees above normal.In the coming days, the weather is expected to be clear. The maximum and minimum temperature is likely to come down by a small margin, as per the Meteorological Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-hottest-march-day-in-4-yrs-232418
31-03-2021||Panchkula||Three held in Panchkula for violating ban on gathering||The police on Monday nailed three persons for violating an order of the District Magistrate, which prohibited a gathering of people at a public place on Holi.A police spokesperson said the police post in Sector 10 had received information that Purple Frog, a restaurant in Sector 9, was open beyond 11.30 pm on Monday without seeking prior approval of the administration. He said a police team, led by post incharge Narinder Singh, raided the restaurant and arrested its manager Mohit Dhiman, a resident of Budhanpur in Sector 16, and Abhinav Bansal of Sector 21.A case under the IPC, the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, was registered against the two at the Sector 5 police station.In another case, the Amrawati police post received information that the owner of the Highway Flavour near Burj Kotian, Rakesh Kumar of Mani Majra, was serving liquor to his customers after 11.30 pm. The suspect was arrested and a case under the IPC and the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, was registered against him at the Pinjore police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-in-panchkula-for-violating-ban-on-gathering-232400
31-03-2021||---||Curbs in 25 more areas in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 30To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration has declared 25 more containment zones in the city.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said the issue of the outbreak of Covid-19 was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as containment zones in the city.Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and residents were advised to strictly observe social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.On March 25, the UT Administration had declared 14 containment zones in various parts of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-in-25-more-areas-in-chandigarh-232399
31-03-2021||---||From tomorrow, all those aged 45 & above eligible for vaccine||Chandigarh, March 30The Covid vaccination drive in the city has been further expanded to include all persons aged 45 and above from April 1.According to an official statement by the UT Administration, the vaccine is available free of cost at all government facilities and for Rs250 per dose at private centres. The citizens are requested to register on the Co-WIN portal using the link www.cowin.gov.in.“Alternatively, on-the-spot registration facility is also available at all Covid vaccination centres. As the positivity rate is increasing in the city, early vaccination will help in reducing the transmission of virus and help reduce the morbidity and mortality,” the UT stated.Where to get jabbedGovernment facilitiesPrivate centres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-tomorrow-all-those-aged-45-above-eligible-for-vaccine-232398
31-03-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali eyes target testing at education centres, housing societies||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 30In view of surge in Covid cases, the district administration has decided to start the target testing of students at educational institutions and residents of housing societies.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said mobile teams would visit the identified beneficiaries of housing societies and service industries to increase the vaccination coverage. He said SDMs had been asked to identify the hospitals and housing societies closer to each other and to prepare a seven-day schedule for the targeted vaccination drive.Trace and test orderDeputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the Health Department had been directed to trace and test a minimum of 20 contacts of each positive patient, besides ensuring availability of enough Covid beds.All private hospitals had been requested to start vaccination as early as possible. The hospitals would be allocated one housing society/service industry each for Covid vaccination, said Dayalan.Dayalan said the Health Department had been directed to trace and test a minimum of 20 contacts of each positive patient, besides ensuring availability of adequate number of Covid beds. The hospitals would be allocated one housing society/service industry each for Covid vaccination, he added.The DC said Health Department had been directed to vaccinate all those above the age of 45 from April 1. He said the Civil Surgeon had been directed to motivate all healthcare workers and frontline workers to get themselves vaccinated and those who do not get vaccinated, should be strictly directed to undergo Covid testing every week to ensure that they do not get infected and thereby spread infection to others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-eyes-target-testing-at-education-centres-housing-societies-232395
31-03-2021||Panchkula||BJP workers burn Punjab CM’s effigy||The BJP workers here today burnt the effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to protest the assault on party MLA Arun Narang in the Malout area of Punjab on Saturday.Led by district president Ajay Sharma, the BJP workers gathered at the Sector 17-18 roundabout and raised slogans against the Punjab Government.Hitting out at the Congress-led Punjab Government Sharma said that the assault on elected representative was a shameful act.The Punjab Government failed to protect the MLA, he said, adding that Saturday’s incident proved that the protest the new agriculture laws was sponsored by the Congress and other political parties.Sharma said the Congress had stooped to cheap tactics as it foresees losing its political base in the state.He said the BJP would continue to protest against such incidents.Sharma said not only the Punjab BJP but every citizen of the country had criticized the attack on the MLA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-workers-burn-punjab-cms-effigy-232392
31-03-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Sports Department starts process to fill Joint Director’s post, coaches upset||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30The UT Sports Department has finally started the process for filling the post of Joint Director, which has been lying vacant since October 2019.The move though has disappointed local coaches as the Sports Department has decided to appoint a person from outside, by way of transfer or on deputation, to the post.In a letter issued earlier this month, the department had invited applications from the interested candidates for the post. The applications needed to be sent within 21 days.Sports Department circularThe appointment of Class I officer (Joint Director) will be made by way of transfer/deputation.The person should not be above 55 years of age (as on January 1, 2020) and should be a postgraduate in Physical Education or equivalent in any sport, with administrative experience, especially in the field of sportsThe person should be active in sports and physically fit and presentableAccording to a Sports Department circular, the appointment of Class I officer (Joint Director) will be made by way of transfer/deputation.The person should not be above 55 years of age (as on January 1, 2020) and should be a postgraduate in Physical Education or equivalent in any sport, with administrative experience, especially in the field of sports, the circular stated.The person should be active in sports and physically fit and presentable, added the circular which has been sent to Chief Secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and all the heads of the UT Administration.As per existing norms, the post of Joint Director Sports should be filled by a Class-I officer of the state or the Centre having an experience and background of sports or sports administration.No effort has been made to promote coaches even after an initiative of the Ministry of Home Affairs in 1997.Though the authorities in the past had maintained that they approached the Union Public Service Commission for setting up criteria for filling the post (Joint Director Sports), old norms have been continued to be followed by the department, thus restricting coaches from getting experience of the administrative works.As per the Punjab Civil Service rules, also followed by the UT for filling the Joint Director Sports post, a minimum of 15 years of service in administration or filed of sports is required, said a source. But in the current circular, nothing has been mentioned about years of experience.Interestingly, no coach has been promoted to the rank of Joint Director Sports since the UT Sports Department came into being in 1984.“Since the formation of this department, no coach has been promoted to the rank of Joint Director Sports,” said former District Sports Officer KS Bharti, who was given the additional charge of JDS for a year.“In my case, I was given additional charge for only one year, despite fulfilling the criteria. The same happened with my successors. The draft rules submitted to the UPSC for promotion of UT cadre (Sports Department) were never reviewed by the administration,” Bharti pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sports-department-starts-process-to-fill-joint-directors-post-coaches-upset-232391
31-03-2021||Panchkula||HCS officer’s house in Panchkula burgled||Valuables worth lakhs of rupees were reportedly stolen from the Sector 21 house of the Haryana Agro Industries Corporation (HAIC) Managing Director Rohit Yadav.The incident came to light this evening when Rohit Yadav along with his driver returned home after Holi celebrations in Gurugram. They found the lock on the main door broken and immediately informed the police.Rohit Yadav, an HCS officer, is the son-in-law of former minister Capt Ajay Yadav.At the time of filing this report, the police were investigating the matter. The dog squad was also pressed into service and police claimed that they would solve the case and nab the accused.The police said Rohit Yadav along with his family had gone to Gurugram on Friday and after celebrating Holi returned to his house at 7 pm today.The lock on the main door was found broken. The thieves had also broken the doors of almost all the almirahs in the house, the police said. Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Capt Ajay Yadav claimed that the thieves had decamped with diamond jewellery, including a solitaire, and several costly watches from the house.He said the house was owned by his wife and they had been living here since 2002. Captain Yadav said after they shifted to Gurugram his son-in-law was staying at the house, which was refurbished recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hcs-officers-house-in-panchkula-burgled-232390
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hit by auto, motorcyclist dies in Chandigarh||A motorcyclist was killed while the pillion rider was injured after an auto hit the motorcycle in Sector 56.According to the police, complainant Pritam, a resident of Sector 29, reported that he was riding the motorcycle as pillion, while his cousin Rakesh Kumar of Badheri village was riding it.He said the auto, which was being driven by Naseem Ali, hit the motorcycle near a government school on March 27 following which he and his cousin were injured.The duo was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where Rakesh succumbed to the injuries. The police registered a case against the auto driver at the Sector 39 police station. The driver was arrested and later released on bail. — TNSPoliceman Hit by motorcycle, injuredASI Ashok Kumar, posted at the Sector 61 police post, was injured after a motorcycle sped away after hitting him at Sector 52 on Holi. He was trying to stop the motorcyclist for a violation. The police said the 19-year-old suspect, Bobby, a resident of Sector 70, was later arrested. A case has been registered against him at Sector 36. He was released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-auto-motorcyclist-dies-in-chandigarh-232382
31-03-2021||---||452 take traffic rules for ride on Holi in Chandigarh, challaned||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30A total of 452 traffic challans were issued and 41 vehicles impounded by the traffic police for various violations on Holi. Meanwhile, 425 TVIS (traffic violation information slip) challans — 351 for over-speeding and 74 other violations — were also issued.As many as 459 traffic police personnel and Home Guards volunteers were deployed in the city during the festival. The police has set up 23 special nakas in different parts of the city, besides three mobile teams to check traffic violations.During the drive, 452 vehicles — 234 two-wheelers, 211 four-wheelers and seven three-wheelers — were challaned for various traffic offences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/452-take-traffic-rules-for-ride-on-holi-in-chandigarh-challaned-232362
31-03-2021||---||Youth shot dead, 3 hurt at Holi party||Mohali, March 30A 23-year-old youth was shot dead while three persons were injured in a clash between friends during a Holi party near Majra village on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Satnam Singh. The main suspect, Sukhbir Singh, alias Billa, Jagjeet Singh and Inder were injured in the gunfire.Fight over old issueEight persons have been booked. The clash took place during a Holi party among a group of friends. The fight started over an old issue. One person was killed and three injured. The police are investigating the matter. — Bikramjeet Singh, DSP, Kharar-2 (Mullanpur)According to the police, 14 persons were present at the party. Satnam, along with six friends, was also present and entered into arguments with eight persons of the other group over an old issue. Suspect Billa, who was reportedly in an inebriated condition, fired on Satnam and one of his friends, Jagjeet. Jagjeet recieved a gunshot wound on his hand. The weapon, a licensed. 32 bore pistol belonging to Billa, has been seized.Satnam was shot in the chest following which he was rushed to the PGI where doctors declared him brought dead. The injured have been admitted to the Kharar Civil Hospital. The police have registered a case against eight suspects under Section 302 of the IPC and under the Arms Act at the Mullanpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-shot-dead-3-hurt-at-holi-party-232346
31-03-2021||Mohali||One succumbs to Covid-19 in Mohali district||Another patient succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the toll in Mohali district to 428. Meanwhile, 273 fresh cases surfaced in the district till Tuesday evening and 364 patients recovered. There are 3,252 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-mohali-district-232331
31-03-2021||Panchkula||102 test positive in Panchkula||As many as 102 fresh Covid cases — 52 males and 50 females — surfaced during the past 48 hours in Panchkula district. However, no new death was reported till Tuesday evening. So far, 12,936 cases have surfaced in the district and out of these, 11,778 have been cured of the virus. There are 1,004 active cases with 154 deaths in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/102-test-positive-in-panchkula-232330
31-03-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh: March sees 487% jump in Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30The month of March has seen around 5,000 Covid cases against 845 in February, registering an increase of 487 per cent. At 4,963, the number of cases recorded this month is the highest in five months since October and the second highest ever since the pandemic began. The number of tests conducted this month is the highest till date.Chandigarh sees two more deaths, 265 casesChandigarh: With two more deaths reported on Tuesday, the UT toll now stands at 379. As many as 265 fresh cases were reported, taking the case tally to 26,733. The number of active cases is 2,831 — the highest ever in the city. TNSWhat is more worrisome is that the weekly positivity rate of the city continues to remain the second highest in the country at 12.8 per cent after Maharashtra.For every 100 confirmed cases in Chandigarh, 11 are currently infected, while 88 have recovered from the virus. In the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 1.01 per cent every day. The national growth rate stands at 0.49 per cent.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “We have enhanced our daily testing and RT-PCR capacity by pooling in private laboratories. It is high time people adhered to the Covid norms and wore masks to avoid transmission as many fatalities have taken place recently. The Covid beds in hospitals are again occupied by moderate to severe patients. The load on hospitals has again increased, which is worrisome. Whenever people will take the pandemic for a ride, cases will start rising.”Recently, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had rushed a high-level multidisciplinary team to Chandigarh in view of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. 4||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-march-sees-487-jump-in-covid-cases-232329
