03 November 2021||glasgow,||World leaders pledge to save forests, cut methane emissions||Leaders at the COP26 global climate conference in Glasgow have pledged to stop deforestation by the end of the decade and slash emissions of the potent greenhouse gas methane to help slow climate change. The inability of major powers so far to agree more broadly on rapid reductions in the use of fossil fuels, the main cause of man-made global warming, has upset the poorer, smaller countries likely to suffer its worst effects. Surangel Whipps Jr, President of Palau, a Pacific state of 500 low-lying islands under threat from rising sea levels, told the leaders of the G20 industrial powers in a speech: “We are drowning and our only hope is the life-ring you are holding.” Nearly 90 countries have joined a U.S.- and EU-led effort to slash emissions of methane 30% by 2030 from 2020 levels, a senior Biden administration official said ahead of a formal announcement on Tuesday. Methane is more short-lived in the atmosphere than carbon dioxide but 80 times more potent in warming the earth. Cutting emissions of the gas, which is estimated to have accounted for 30% of global warming since pre-industrial times, is one of the most effective ways of slowing climate change. The Global Methane Pledge, first announced in September, now covers emissions from two-thirds of the global economy, according to the U.S. official. Among the signatories is Brazil — one of the five biggest emitters of methane, which is generated in cows’ digestive systems, in landfill waste and in oil and gas production. Three others — China, Russia and India — have not signed up, while Australia has said it will not back the pledge. $19 billion for forests In 2020, the world lost 258,000 sq. km of forests — an area larger than the U.K., according to the Global Forest Watch. The conservation charity WWF estimates that 27 football fields of forest are lost every minute. Over 100 national leaders pledged to halt and reverse deforestation and land degradation by the end of the decade, underpinned by $19 billion in public and private funds to invest in protecting and restoring forests. The agreement vastly expands a commitment made by 40 countries as part of the 2014 New York Declaration of Forests, and promises more resources. “Let’s end this great global chainsaw massacre by making conservation do what we know it can do and deliver long-term sustainable jobs and growth as well,” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said. COP26 aims to keep alive a receding target of capping global warming at 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels to avert still greater damage from heatwaves, droughts, floods and coastal damage that climate change is already causing. Under the agreement, 12 countries pledged to provide $12 billion of public funding between 2021 and 2025 for developing countries to restore degraded land and tackle wildfires. At least $7.2 billion will come from private sector investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/world-leaders-pledge-to-save-forests-cut-methane-emissions/article37315717.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,||No building plans approved by BBMP since early August||Not a single building plan has been approved by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) since early August. This is after the High Court of Karnataka declared that the bylaws, under which ground rent, licence fee, building plan approval fee, scrutiny fee, and security deposit are levied, are “unenforceable” and contrary to the provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976. The development has had a bearing on not just construction activity in the city, but has larger legal and financial implications for the BBMP. The levy of various charges and fees constituted a substantial percentage of the civic body’s revenue. Following the HC ruling, the civic body has not been levying the charges or approving the building plans. The civic body’s Town Planning Department has now submitted a proposal to the State Government seeking amendments to the KMC Act, 1976, and the BBMP Act, 2020, that will allow it to levy these charges and fees. Several citizens are reportedly running from pillar to post in the hope of getting their building plans approved. However, with the State Government yet to take a call on the issue, the wait will be longer. What next BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said it would not be an “indefinite wait” for citizens. Acknowledging that the development had serious financial and legal implications for the BBMP, he said the civic body was working on remedial steps that will have the legal backing on the schedule of payments. “There have been several rounds of discussions on the issue with legal experts and with the Government. We have already submitted the proposal for amendment to the KMC Act and BBMP Act to the Government,” he said and added that the proposal would first have to be approved by the Cabinet, following which a gazette notification will have to be issued by the State Government. The process, he said, is already in motion. Refund issues While delivering its verdict on the levy of various fees, the HC had also directed the BBMP to refund crores of rupees deposited by the petitioners, who included land owners and real estate developers, while applying for building licences. The deadline for the same was set at 12 weeks from the date of receiving representations from the petitioners. Mr. Gupta confirmed to The Hindu that several applications seeking refunds had been received by the BBMP. However, he said, he would not be able to quantify the amount that would have to be refunded to the applicants. “We are still examining the legal issues for the same,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-building-plans-approved-by-bbmp-since-early-august/article37315740.ece
03 November 2021||Belagavi,||BJP defeats Cong. by over 30,000 votes in Sindgi||The BJP won the Sindgi bypoll by defeating its nearest rival Congress by over 30,000 votes on Tuesday. When counting ended, Ramesh Bhusnur, former MLA and BJP nominee, had secured 93,380 votes against 62,292 of the Congress nominee Ashok Managuli. The winning margin was 31,088 votes. This is the third victory for Ramesh Bhusnur, the only legislator to be chosen three times from Sindgi. The Janata Dal(S), which had held the Sindgi seat since 2017, lost its deposit. The party candidate, Naziya Angadi, remained a distant third, garnering around 4,321 votes. With this, the number of Janata Dal(S) MLAs elected from North Karnataka has reduced to five. The bypoll became necessary after Janata Dal(S) MLA M.C. Managuli died in January this year. His son, Ashok Managuli, switched over to the Congress, along with his brother, Shantaveer Managuli. Though there were six candidates, the fight was between the BJP and the Congress. Between them, they secured 95% of votes. The BJP obtained about 57% of the total votes polled [1,62,852]. The Congress received 38% of the votes. The Janata Dal(S) got 2.6% of the votes, while NOTA stood at 1,029 votes (0.6%) splitting the rest 1.8 per cent among the other three candidates. As many as 69.5% of the 2.34 lakh voters expressed their opinion on polling day. The BJP workers celebrated on the road in front of the counting centre. There were celebrations in Sindgi too. Mr. Bhusnur told journalists that the Janata Dal(S) had become irrelevant after this elections. “I knew I would win, but I am pleasantly surprised by this huge margin,” he said. He said that he received Muslim votes too which proved that the BJP is not an anti-Muslim party, as being portrayed by the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-defeats-cong-by-over-30000-votes-in-sindgi/article37315923.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,||G.O. issued to set up T.N. Forest and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau||The State Government on Tuesday issued orders for setting up the Tamil Nadu Forest and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau with four zonal offices in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Ramanathapuram. Through another order, issued on Monday, it constituted a committee for formulating a draft policy on ecological restoration of forest areas infested with invasive plant species. The Tamil Nadu Forest and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (TNFWCB) shall develop and maintain State-wide data on forest and wildlife offences, forest offenders and wildlife smuggling incidences, the G.O. said. It would use information technology practices and forest and wildlife crime information in conjunction with various intelligence agencies. "This will help in better adaptation to changing crime and criminal practices in the current context," it added. The Bureau is expected to create a cadre of well-trained officials from among government departments for effective monitoring of illegal trade. Improving investigation quality for better appreciation of evidence contributing to better investigation and control of illegal wildlife trade, building informant networks among local communities that live in close proximity to forest and wildlife habitats, and mapping poaching and illegal trade hotspots in the State for better action are among the objectives. ‘Formulate SOP’ The government also constituted a committee to draft a policy on ecological restoration of forest areas infested with invasive plant species in the State. The panel would also identify, demarcate and assess the extent of area infested with invasive alien species and formulate a Standard Operating Procedure for removal, disposal and eco-restoration of infested areas. “Most of the exotic tree species like wattle, pine and eucalyptus were introduced in forest areas of Tamil Nadu to satisfy industrial/commercial needs. However, they have had an adverse impact on the ecology of the area, particularly in terms of modifying/affecting hydrology, forest/grassland community and wildlife, and could lead to intensified man-wildlife conflict,” the G.O. noted. The invasion by these species was regarded as one of the major threats to biodiversity and, indirectly, the non-native species suppressed native species by disrupting the food web in an ecosystem by restricting or replacing native food sources, it added.  The Bureau shall develop and maintain State-wide data on forest and wildlife offences, forest offenders and wildlife smuggling incidences. It will use information technology practices and forest and wildlife crime information||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/go-issued-to-set-up-tn-forest-and-wildlife-crime-control-bureau/article37315819.ece
03 November 2021||KADAPA,||Thumping victory for YSRCP in Badvel||The ruling YSRCP on Tuesday retained the Badvel (SC) Assembly constituency by securing a clear edge in every round of counting, and registered a thumping majority of 90,533 votes. The counting began at 8 a.m. and the results were out faster than expected in every round. Of the 2,16,206 votes in the constituency, which included 914 service votes, 1,47,163 had exercised their franchise on the polling day. YSRCP’s Dasari Sudha bagged 1,12,211 votes while BJP’s Panathala Suresh bagged 21,678 votes. Indian National Congress candidate P.M. Kamalamma secured 6,235 votes, while 3,650 voters preferred NOTA. The voting percentage was as follows: YSRC 76.24%, BJP 14.73%, Congress 4.23%, and NOTA 2.38%. When the by-election had been necessitated by the demise of MLA G. Venkata Subbaiah during the second wave of COVID-19, the ruling party pitted his wife in the fray. The YSRCP team, led by Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, camped in the constituency along with district MLAs and MLCs for over a fortnight to devise the winning strategy. Many public representatives were made in-charge of the seven mandals in the constituency, and they vowed to ensure a winning margin of one lakh votes in a bid to impress Chief Minister and party president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Not to be left behind, the BJP also roped in prominent faces, including Union Minister L. Murugan, and made clear inroads into the TDP vote bank. The saffron party, which had never been in the reckoning in the constituency, showed progress with over 20,000 votes, most of them being first time votes cast in its favour. The BJP - Jana Sena combine benefited from the absence of TDP in the race and ensured conversion of votes in its favour. Poll pundits had predicted that the BJP, even if considered as the main opposition party in the race, would score less than 10% of votes, but Mr. Suresh breached the figure. Though Badvel was once a Congress bastion, the party came a distant third, with the former legislator Ms. Kamalamma nowhere in the race. The BJP leaders had made levelled charges of irregularities against the ruling party on the polling day, but the latter called it a clear mandate for its “pro-people policies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-retains-badvel-assembly-seat-in-ap/article37315664.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Seven involved in chain snatching cases arrested||The police on Tuesday arrested seven men said to be involved in 21 crimes, including 13 cases of chain snatching, reported in the city since July this year. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar gave names of the accused as Abdul Ishaam (26), Safwan (29), Mohammed Tousif (30), Abdul Khader Sinan (30), Mohammed Fazal (32), Arshad (34) and Mujahidul Rehman (23). Mr. Kumar told reporters that the first three arrested persons were directly involved in chain snatching and other crimes, while the others were involved in planning theft and disposal of stolen articles. The police are on the lookout for two associates of the arrested men. They are said to have fled to Qatar and Saudi Arabia, respectively, after crime. The police have also launched a search for goldsmiths who are said to have helped the accused in disposing of stolen gold ornaments. The police have so far recovered 210 grams of gold ornaments and three two-wheelers from the accused. The first of a series of chain snatching incidents that the arrested persons committed was on July 29 when they snatched the chain of a bank employee in Kotekani in Urwa Police limits. Then, they snatched chains at 13 different places in the city between August and October. In this period, they were also involved in five chain snatching attempts, three motorcycle thefts, two cases of robbery and a case of carrying out an assault on policemen. Mr. Kumar said that the accused made use of stolen two-wheelers for snatching chains. “In the absence of CCTV camera footage and other technical evidence, it was really tough for the police to trace these accused,” Mr. Kumar said. Six police teams led by Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar and B.P. Dinesh Kumar and comprising Assistant Commissioners of Police P.A. Hegde and S. Mahesh Kumar worked for one month to trace the accused. Bajpe Police Inspector Sandesh arrested Ishaam a few days ago leading to the arrest of the other accused persons. Mr. Kumar announced a reward of Rs. 25,000 for the members of the six police teams involved in the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-involved-in-chain-snatching-cases-arrested/article37316114.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Our intention is to extend a helping hand to aided institutions, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday asserted that the government intended to carry forward the spirit with which aided institutions had been started, and would further improve them in the days to come. “We are only extending a helping hand to these institutions,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while addressing a review meeting. The Chief Minister said the intention was to do good and help the managements, teachers and students of aided institutions by improving their prevailing conditions. Referring to certain media reports, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy brushed them aside as false propaganda, saying that these institution were lacking in proper infrastructure and staff. “Based on the demand by many teachers for a long time, we have decided to extend a helping hand to them by merging these institutions with the government,” he said. He sought to clarify that the government wanted to take over only the institutions that were in a state of neglect and improve facilities in them under the Nadu-Nedu scheme by giving an option to surrender the teaching staff to the managements that were unable to address the teachers’ issue. Tracing the history of these institutions, he said, in the past, wealthy people had donated lands on which aided schools and colleges were built. But soon the managements faced monetary issues in running the institutes. Staff shortage The government also did not fill the vacant posts in the last 25 years as part of policy decisions, resulting in shrinking of the staff. He said, over a period, the institutions had become near defunct with dilapidated buildings. The managements were unable to fill posts of teachers who retired as it involved money. Even if there were replacements, the quality was poor, he said. The Chief Minister said the institutions where teachers wanted to become part of the government school set-up, the managements could surrender them and run their institutions as a private entity. They also had the option to continue to run them as they were now, and the managements who agreed to hand over the staff earlier but had and a change of mind now, could take back their proposal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/our-intention-is-to-help-aided-institutions-says-jagan/article37315712.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Blow to BJP in Himachal bypolls||Byelection results on Tuesday threw up a mixed bag for the BJP and the Congress, with the BJP losing all four Himachal Pradesh seats to the Congress, but securing its victory in Assam with the help of defectors from the Congress. The Trinamool Congress swept the four West Bengal Assembly seats. The results to the byelections to three Lok Sabha seats and 29 Assembly seats in 14 States and one Union Territory were a mixed bag for the BJP. The party lost the Himachal Pradesh Lok Sabha seat of Mandi, which is the home district of its Chief Minister Jairam Thakur, to the Congress’ Pratibha Singh, wife of late former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. However, the BJP and its ally won all five seats in Assam. In Haryana, the Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala won the Ellenabad Assembly seat. The YSRCP was leading in one seat in Andhra Pradesh, while the BJP was ahead in one seat in Telangana. The Janata Dal (United) won the two Bihar Assembly seats. In Karnataka, the BJP and Congress won one seat each. The Congress won one seat each in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, where the BJP picked up two wins. In Meghalaya, the National People’s Party won two and the United Democratic Party one seat. Mizo National Front and Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party won one seat each in Mizoram and Nagaland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blow-to-bjp-in-himachal-bypolls/article37315715.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Scrapping of COVID Brigade cuts into pandemic fight||All COVID-related activities across the State, including testing, data management and reporting, have been seriously hit, now that the State Government has fully disbanded the COVID-19 Brigade as of October 30. When the pandemic was at its worst, the Government had put together additional human resources of nearly 20,000 persons across all categories – ambulance drivers, nurses, paramedical staff, lab technicians, data entry operators and so on – who formed the COVID brigade. They were recruited on a temporary basis and their salaries were being paid from the COVID management funds provided by the Centre (which got exhausted in July). Big role Throughout the pandemic, all district health administrations leaned heavily on these staff who were deployed in hospitals, labs, COVID war rooms and control rooms for additional tasks. Now that they have been withdrawn, the major activity that seems to be hit is COVID testing and data management. The loss of technicians, electricians and data entry operators seems to have affected microbiology labs in medical college hospitals (MCH) that were functioning round the clock . The Thiruvananthapuram MCH, which has been handling RT-PCR samples for the entire district, initially declared that it would no longer be able to work round the clock. Special arrangements However, when contacted, the hospital authorities claimed that they had made special arrangements now, pulling lab technicians from all other departments, to ensure that the microbiology lab can work 24 hours a day. “We lost about 750 personnel and we have requested that at least 25% of the staff be retained to help tide over the times,” said A. Nizaruddin, superintendent, Thiruvananthapuram MCH. Districts have now been asked to reduce the number of samples sent for RT-PCR testing. Private labs are doing a chunk of the daily tests now. According to sources, the Government will retain only a small proportion of the COVID brigade – less than 700 persons – to be deployed in districts/areas where shortage of personnel is acute. Senior officials said that the system had about 40% of additional workload due to COVID and that at least in some areas, additional personnel would be required since activities such as testing, vaccination and patient management linked to COVID had to continue as the pandemic has not ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scrapping-of-covid-brigade-cuts-into-pandemic-fight/article37315990.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||UDF accuses Centre, State of ‘tax terrorism’||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition walked out of the Assembly on Tuesday, accusing the Central and State Governments of fuel “tax terrorism”. The UDF dared the Government to forsake the State levy on fuel to cushion the fallout of spiralling petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices. Congress legislator Shafi Parambil sought the leave of the House for an adjournment motion to discuss the ripple effect of soaring fuel prices on household budgets, the transport and freight sectors and essential commodities.  He said the price for a litre of petrol in neighbouring Sri Lanka was Rs. 67 while it touched Rs. 110 in Kerala on Monday. The international price for gasoline was merely Rs. 47 per litre, and the rest was prohibitive Centre and State taxes. The previous UDF Government had abandoned State fuel tax to soften the blow on citizens, and the Left Democratic Front should do the same, he said.  Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said the State had not increased local levy on fuel since 2016. The fuel price in Kerala was far lesser than Congress-ruled States. Govt. clarifies The previous UDF Government had hoodwinked people into thinking that it had renounced fuel tax only to hike it several times on the sly. The Congress had erroneously blamed the State for the actions of the Centre, he said. The Centre had lowered the basic excise duty on fuel, depriving States of their revenue share. Simultaneously, it slapped cess and additional special duty on fuel. The additional revenue is exclusively for the Centre and not for States. Charge against Centre The Centre has also dismantled the fuel price regulation mechanism and allowed the free market to determine the going rate. The Centre has ensured that any reduction in the international price of crude would not benefit citizens, he said. Mr. Balagopal said the previous United Progressive Alliance Government had set an example for the BJP to emulate by scrapping the oil pool account that helped the Central Government balance fuel price via market intervention and subsidy. Satheesan’s demand Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Government could easily relinquish the Rs. 690 crore it got from State tax on fuel. It could further blunt the effect of the fuel price hike by subsidising public transport further and deploying the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation to ferry children and teachers to school for free, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udf-accuses-centre-state-of-tax-terrorism/article37315992.ece
03 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Victory is proof of ‘people’s power’, says Srinivas Mane of Congress||Congress candidate in the Hangal byelection Srinivas Mane has said that his victory in Hangal is proof of “people’s power” against what he said “money power”. Speaking to presspersons after the results were declared in Haveri on Tuesday, Mr. Mane said that he will bow down before the people of Hangal as they have chosen to elect him in defiance of what according to him was “money power”. Meanwhile, in his tweet on the bypoll results, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that he will humbly accept the verdict of the people of Hangal and congratulate Mr. Mane on his win. He has also said that the government will continue to extend cooperation to facilitate the overall development of Hangal. As per official announcement, Mr Mane secured 87,490 votes, while BJP candidate Shivaraj Sajjanar, a former MLA from Haveri, finished with 80,117 votes. Janata Dal(S) candidate Niyaz Shaikh ended with 927 votes. There were 13 candidates in the fray — six from political parties and seven Independents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/victory-is-proof-of-peoples-power-says-srinivas-mane-of-congress/article37315925.ece
03 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Tribal people ‘resist’ destruction of ganja crop||Mild tension prevailed at Rachaveedhi of G. Madugula mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency on Tuesday when tribal people resisted destruction of ganja crop by a special team that comprised the police, the SEB and the Excise personnel. The tribal people demanded that the officials first show them an alternative model of cropping before taking up the drive. Speaking to The Hindu , Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao said it was “more of a dialogue between the tribal people and the officials rather than a resistance.” We had roped in the district administration and the departments such as Forest and Horticulture to create awareness and help the tribal people in finding an alternative, he said. “We have informed the same to the tribal people, and also highlighted the consequences of ganja cultivation under the NDPS Act,” he said. After the tribal people relented, about 25 acres of ganja crop was destroyed in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribals-resist-destruction-of-ganja-crop/article37315713.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality drops to ‘very poor’ level||The Capital’s air quality worsened to the “very poor” level on Tuesday and is expected to remain in the same category for the next two days, according to official data. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi is expected to go up from 6% on Tuesday to 20%-38% on Deepavali and the next two days, said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research) in a statement. The number of active fire counts in the region was 1,795 on Tuesday. “Delhi’s AQI is in the very poor category and likely to remain so for the next two days,” said SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 303 on Tuesday, up from 281 on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours and is considered the day’s AQI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/citys-air-quality-drops-to-very-poor-level/article37315863.ece
03 November 2021||Chennai,||Woman constable dies as tree falls at Fort St. George||A woman constable was crushed to death and another constable was injured after a huge tree fell on them near the Chief Minister’s Special Cell inside Fort St. George on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Kavitha, 47, head constable attached to the traffic wing, Muthiyalpet. The injured person has been identified as Murugan, 48, from the traffic wing, Royapuram. The personnel were assigned duty at Gate 4 of Fort St. George, which houses the Secretariat, Legislative Assembly and other offices. At 9.10 a.m., she was sitting on the stairs leading to the Chief Minister’s Cell and having breakfast. A source said, at the time, another constable Thirumugam, who was around, noticed the tree falling. He alerted her to move away, but even before he finished, the tree fell on her. She was caught under the tree and crushed to death. Murugan, who was standing near the tree, was also injured. Five bikes, including Mr. Tirumugam’s, and a car were also damaged. Later, the staff of the secretariat and police personnel retrieved the body with the help of personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services. While removing the tree branches, Senthil Kumar, 51, a Fire Service personnel, was also injured. Mr. Murugan and Mr. Senthil Kumar were sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Senior officers, including Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, visited the spot. The Fort police registered a case in connection with the incident. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin expressed shock over the death and also conveyed his condolence to the victim’s family. He ordered a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to her family and Rs. 5 lakh for the injured. Later in the day, Mr. Stalin accompanied by officials visited the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and paid floral tributes to the mortal remains of the policewoman. He also visited Mr. Murugan, who was being treated in the hospital. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, MPs S. Jagathrakshakan, Kalanidhi Veerasamy, Home Secretary S.K. Prabakar, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal and Chennai Collector J. Vijay Rani accompanied the Chief Minister. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu visited the spot and inquired with officials. Later in the evening, workers were seen pruning the trees. An official working in one of the departments in the Secretariat told The Hindu a huge tree had fallen near the CSD canteen due to rain on Saturday last, and officials should have taken a cue from that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/constable-dies-another-injured-as-tree-falls-at-fort-st-george/article37315782.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,||BJP will introspect, says Kateel||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Tuesday that the party will introspect why it has lost the by-election to Hangal Assembly constituency. Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of an official function here, Mr. Kateel exuded the confidence that the party will be able to win the same seat in the 2023 Assembly election. The party witnessed a tremendous victory in the Sindgi constituency, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-will-introspect-says-kateel/article37316112.ece
03 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Anil Deshmukh arrested in corruption case||Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday on charges of corruption and money laundering. A holiday court in Mumbai remanded him in ED custody till November 6. Senior advocate Vikram Chaudhry represented Mr. Deshmukh before Judge P.B. Jadhav. On Monday, Mr. Deshmukh had appeared before the ED and was questioned for 12 hours. The ED probe had reportedly revealed 13 companies directly controlled by members of Mr. Deshmukh’s family. Another set of 14 companies in the names of the family’s close associates and controlled by the family members have also come to light. It has been alleged that Mr. Deshmukh parked his money in these entities. Additional Solicitor-General Anil Singh, appearing for the ED, sought Mr. Deshmukh’s custody for 14 days. Mr. Chaudhry opposed this citing his health condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anil-deshmukh-arrested-in-corruption-case/article37316138.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,||DGP issues advisory for Deepavali||The Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Tuesday issued an advisory, appealing to the public to burst crackers during Deepavali in adherence to the Supreme Court guidelines. He said the crackers should be burst from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. and from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Mr. Babu urged people to celebrate Deepavali peacefully and safely, adhering to all COVID-19 norms. He also said that they should not buy banned crackers and that children should burst crackers under the supervision of elders. In case of any emergency or fire accident, people have been advised to contact emergency numbers, 101, 100 and 112. People have been advised to pass on any information about suspicious persons in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dgp-issues-advisory-for-deepavali/article37315798.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUCHI,||‘Efforts on to bring back 23 T.N. fishermen’||Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting and Fisheries L. Murugan on Tuesday said the Centre was taking steps to bring back 23 Tamil Nadu fishermen arrested in Sri Lanka. “We are in touch with the Union External Affairs Minister and complete details of the arrested fishermen have been sought from the Tamil Nadu government,” Mr. Murugan told reporters during his visit to Thanjavur and Tiruchi. Replying to a query, Mr. Murugan said over 600 Tamil Nadu fishermen were killed by the Sri Lankan Navy prior to 2014. Not a single firing incident on fishermen had been reported after 2014 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed charge, he claimed and added that the Centre was concerned about the welfare of the fishermen. The Centre had granted Rs. 20,000 crore for the benefit of fishermen and there was no compromise on their welfare. The Centre had taken up modernisation of fishing harbours, including the facility at Kasimedu in Chennai, and fish landing centres with a view to improving their economic lot. The Centre’s policy was to provide Kisan Credit Card to every poor fisherman and the standard operating protocols were being readied. The Union Minister said there was no opposition to the three new farm laws except in a couple of States. The laws allowed the farmers to fix the prices of their agricultural produce and the laws were enacted heeding the long-pending demand of the farming community. The farm laws were being opposed for “political reasons”. The resolution passed against the farm laws by the DMK government was unnecessary and a waste of time of the Legislative Assembly. “We only see the resolution as anti-farmer,” he said and claimed that no farmer in Tamil Nadu said they did not want the farm laws. T The suicide of farmers after 2014 had been completely stopped and aRs. 6,000 per year was being directly deposited in the bank account of every farmer. To a query, Mr. Murugan said the DMK government had come out with many “unwanted” announcements. It was silent till now on providing Rs. 1,000 to housewives as promised in the run up to the Assembly election. Replying to another query, he said the interests of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu would be looked into and steps taken accordingly to share Cauvery water without affecting both States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/efforts-on-to-bring-back-23-tn-fishermen-held-in-sri-lanka/article37315818.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sundown in Srinagar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sundown-in-srinagar/article37315955.ece
03 November 2021||Madurai,||MP seeks more MGNREGS funds||Shortage of funds for implementing MGNREGS in 21 States was affecting the livelihood of over 15 crore people in rural areas in the country, said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. In a memorandum addressed to Union Minister for Rural Development Giriraj Singh, he said though the last financial year an expenditure of Rs. 1.11 lakh crore under the scheme, the budgetary allocation was envisaged at only Rs. 73,000 crore for 2021-22. “COVID-19 ordeals of the poor are not yet over, and the exodus from urban areas to villages has not yet returned fully. Hence, the demand is higher for MGNREGS jobs and a higher allocation has to be ensured...,” he said. States were facing an acute shortage of funds and wage payments to MGNREGS workers had become difficult. Mr. Venkatesan said the Ministry of Rural Development had promised to provide additional allocation. Referring to the letter of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin addressed to the Prime Minister on this, Mr. Venkatesan said the already-released fund of Rs. 3,524.69 crore was exhausted in mid-September and Rs. 1,178.12 crore was further expenditure as on November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-seeks-more-mgnregs-funds/article37316092.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sundown in Srinagar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sundown-in-srinagar/article37316097.ece
03 November 2021||Mangaluru,||22 new cases in twin districts||Dakshina Kannada reported 18 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. With 32 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 238. Test positivity rate was put at 0.4%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,07,46,870 has so far been collected in 88,539 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported four new cases of which two each were from Kundapur and Karkala taluks. Two patients are in home isolation, while the remaining two are in government health care facility. With four patients discharged, there are 39 active cases in the district. With 5,617 people vaccinated on Tuesday, the total number of people covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 23,87,210. Of these, 15,31,928 have received their first dose and 8,55,282 their second. In Udupi 3,386 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 14,53,528 of which 9,19,549 have received their first dose and 5,33,979 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/22-new-cases-in-twin-districts/article37316113.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Set up police complaints bodies: NHRC||Fifteen years after the Supreme Court issued directions for police reforms, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Union Home Ministry and the State Governments to set up police complaints authorities as per the judgment inPrakash Singh vs Union of India, 2006. The NHRC’s core advisory group on criminal justice system reforms has said there is an “immediate need to set up police complaints authorities at the State/UT and district level” as per the Supreme Court’s directives, according to the minutes of its meeting published on Tuesday. The core group, which met on August 18, recommended to the MHA and the States that the status of compliance should be displayed on the websites of the Ministry and the State Home Departments. The NHRC group also said the MHA and the Law Ministry should consider implementing the recommendations of the 113th report of the Law Commission to add Section 114 B to the Indian Evidence Act. This would ensure that in case a person sustains injuries in police custody, it is presumed that the injuries were inflicted by the police and the burden of proof to explain the injury lies on the authority concerned. The core group also recommended making the legal framework technology-friendly to speed up the criminal justice system. “Presently the legal framework is not suitable for adoption of technology in the criminal justice system,” the minutes said. The group also recommended that the SC’s December 2020 order to install CCTV cameras with night vision in all police stations should be “implemented immediately” to ensure accountability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/set-up-police-complaints-bodies-nhrc/article37315708.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pak. NSA to skip Indian meet on Afghanistan||Calling India a “spoiler” in Afghanistan, Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf said he would not accept the Modi Government’s invitation to the meeting of regional security chiefs being organised in Delhi next week. “I won’t go,” said Mr. Yusuf in response to questions in Islamabad about Pakistan’s decision. “A spoiler cannot try to become a peacemaker,” the Pakistan’s National Security Adviser added. Mr. Yusuf was speaking to the Pakistani media after a meeting with Uzbekistan’s Secretary of the Security Council Lt. Gen. Viktor Makhmudov, who was in Islamabad for the Establishment of a Joint Security Commission with Pakistan, and has also been invited to the conference in Delhi. Confirmations Diplomatic sources said Gen. Makhmudov is likely to attend the conference. India has also received confirmations from other invitees, including Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan. The Chinese Government has not yet confirmed if it will send a security official to the conference, mainly because of strict quarantine regulations in place there, an official told The Hindu.  India is pursuing a videoconference appearance if no Chinese delegate travels to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pak-nsa-to-skip-indian-meet-on-afghanistan/article37315718.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Call to hike climate funds||Climate finance cannot continue at the levels decided in 2009, and should be at least $1 trillion, India said at a meeting of developing countries.page 14||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-to-hike-climate-funds/article37315741.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||India to help small islands||India on Tuesday launched an ambitious initiative — Infrastructure for Resilient Island States — for developing the infrastructure of small island nations that face the biggest threat from climate change.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-to-help-small-islands/article37315720.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||One Solar Grid announced||Green Grids Initiative — One Sun One World One Grid group — an India-United Kingdom initiative to tap solar energy and have it travel seamlessly across borders — was announced in Glasgow.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-solar-grid-announced/article37315721.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sundown in Srinagar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sundown-in-srinagar/article37315875.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Talks held with Israel, Nepal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held two important bilateral meetings with his Nepal counterpart Sher Bahadur Deuba and Israel Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on the sidelines of the COP26 meet in Glasgow on Tuesday.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/talks-held-with-israel-nepal/article37315719.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Schools fully open in 22 States, U.T.s||Schools have reopened for Classes I to XII in 22 States and Union Territories, the Education Ministry said on Tuesday, adding that 12 States and UTs have opened schools for older children. The only States where schools are still completely closed are West Bengal and Manipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-fully-open-in-22-states-uts/article37315861.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Desks and benches for schools under SKDRDP||Minister B.C. Nagesh on Tuesday flagged off in Dharmasthala a goods vehicle transporting desks and benches to government schools in Belagavi, Haveri and Uttara Kannada districts under SKDRDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/desks-and-benches-for-schools-under-skdrdp/article37316115.ece
03 November 2021||Srinagar,||J&K gets new anti-terror body for ‘speedy probe’||The J&K Government has set up a new State Investigation Agency (SIA) for “speedy and effective investigation and prosecution of militancy- related cases in the Union Territory”. The People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration has expressed concern over its formation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jk-gets-new-anti-terror-body-for-speedy-probe/article37316058.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||DAC clears proposals worth Rs. 7,965 crore||The Defence Acquisition Council, which met on Tuesday, cancelled a tender for procurement of naval guns from the U.S. and added the quantity to an existing upgraded Super Rapid Gun Mount being manufactured by BHEL. The council accorded Acceptance of Necessity for capital acquisition and modernisation proposals estimated at Rs. 7,965 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dac-clears-proposals-worth-rs-7965-crore/article37316059.ece
03 November 2021||Guwahati,||Assam, Meghalaya CMs to visit areas of friction||The Chief Ministers of Assam and Meghalaya are expected to visit some of the disputed areas along the boundary between the two States. There are 12 areas of dispute along the border but the Governments have targeted six of the “less complicated” areas for resolving. Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma said he had a telephonic conversation with his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-meghalaya-cms-to-visit-areas-of-friction/article37315859.ece
03 November 2021||Mumbai,||Modi, former CAG must apologise: Congress||Slamming former CAG Vinod Rai after his apology to former Congress MP Sanjay Nirupam, the party on Tuesday demanded that Mr. Rai apologise to the nation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should also join Mr. Rai as he, too, was part of the “sinister plan”, the party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-former-cag-must-apologise-congress/article37316060.ece
03 November 2021||KALABURAGI,||State plans to bring out semiconductor policy||As part of a plan to attract semiconductor-based start-ups in the State, the government will shortly come out with a semiconductor policy, a first of its kind in the country, Minister of Large and Medium Industries Murugesh Nirani has said. Addressing a meeting of office-bearers of the BJP in the city on Sunday, he said that the policy will be designed to attract companies, especially start-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-plans-to-bring-out-semiconductor-policy/article37315928.ece
03 November 2021||Mysuru,||382 teaching posts vacant for years at UoM||As many as 382 teaching posts in the University of Mysore (UoM) are vacant for many years and the existing student-teacher ratio affected the chances of the century-old university getting higher NAAC grades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/382-teaching-posts-vacant-for-years-at-uom/article37316127.ece
03 November 2021||Chennai,||AIADMK to stage protests on Mullaperiyar||The AIADMK said it will organise agitations in Theni, Madurai, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram on November 9 to condemn the “indifferent attitude” of the State Government over the storage of water in the Mullaperiyar dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-to-stage-protests-on-mullaperiyar/article37315876.ece
03 November 2021||Glasgow,||India to help countries prone to climate change||India on Tuesday launched an ambitious initiative for developing the infrastructure of small island nations, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying it will give a new hope, a new confidence and satisfaction of doing something for the most vulnerable countries facing the biggest threat from climate change. Mr. Modi was joined by his British counterpart Boris Johnson on the second day of the COP26 climate summit here. The launch of Infrastructure for Resilient Island States (IRIS) was also attended by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. “The last few decades have proved that no one is untouched by the wrath of climate change. Whether they are developed countries or countries rich in natural resources, this is a big threat to everyone,” Mr. Modi said. Stating that the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) face the biggest threat from climate change, Mr. Modi said it was a matter of life and death for them, it was a challenge to their existence. Mr. Modi congratulated the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) for the initiative, saying for him the CDRI or IRIS is not just about infrastructure thing but it is part of a very sensitive responsibility of human welfare. The Prime Minister said India has made special arrangements for cooperation with the Pacific islands and Caricom countries in the wake of the threat of climate change. He said India’s space agency ISRO will build a special data window for them to provide them timely information about cyclones, coral-reef monitoring, coast-line monitoring through satellite. Describing the launch of IRIS as “very important”, Mr. Modi said through this initiative, it will be easy for SIDS to mobilise technology, finance necessary information faster. “Promotion of quality infrastructure in Small Island States will benefit both lives and livelihoods there,” he added. Britain’s gratitude “I assure you that India will fully support this new project, and will work closely with CDRI, other partner countries and the United Nations for its success,” he said. Speaking on the occasion, British Prime Minister Johnson said he was “very grateful to my friend, Narendra Modi – the Prime Minister of India, for his leadership on the Coalition for Disaster Resilient infrastructure. He has been out in front on this for a long time.” “Last year, 600 billion tonnes of ice melted away in Greenland. It’s incredibly cruel that these incredibly small island states are right in the frontline of the loss and damage that is caused by global warming,” he said. “They have done virtually nothing to cause the problem, they didn’t produce the huge volumes of CO2 to be pumped into the atmosphere,” Mr. Johnson said as he urged countries to join this campaign and help. Mr. Johnson said that the U.K. is contributing financially to the initiative IRIS. “We are stomping up as well.” The Australian Prime Minister thanked India and the U.K. for their leadership of the CDRI. “I acknowledge the Quad support, including the U.S. and Japan support for India's CDRI,” Mr. Morrison said. The IRIS initiative is a part of the CDRI that would focus on building capacity, having pilot projects, especially in small island developing states. “That would also involve in some senses, setting up norms and standards for resilient infrastructure… with infrastructure loss from cyclones etc, especially small island states and coastal areas are vulnerable to these ravages of climate change, and this [IRIS] is an effort to try and equip countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate change,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said. Small islands The new initiative is the result of cooperation between India, the U.K. and Australia and included the participation of leaders of small island nations such as Fiji, Jamaica and Mauritius. India’s Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) welcomed the launch of IRIS as a recognition of the severity of climate risks which can unravel decades of development, especially for the most vulnerable countries and communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-help-countries-prone-to-climate-change/article37315653.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||DAC clears proposals worth Rs. 7,965 cr.||The Defence Acquisition Council, which met on Tuesday, cancelled a tender for procurement of naval guns from the U.S. and added the quantity to an existing upgraded Super Rapid Gun Mount (SRGM) being manufactured by Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL). The council accorded Acceptance of Necessity (AoN) for capital acquisition and modernisation proposals estimated at Rs. 7,965 crore. A defence source said the SRGM was earlier proposed to be procured under the U.S. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) category. “But now this will be given to BHEL to promote ‘Make in India’. This measure will result in a saving of Rs. 3,000 crore,” the source said. “Key approvals of procurement from domestic sources include 12 light utility helicopters from Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL), Lynx U2 fire control system from the Bharat Electronics Ltd. (BEL), which will enhance the detection, tracking and engagement capabilities of warships and mid-life upgradation of the Dornier aircraft from HAL to increase the naval capacity of coastal surveillance…,” the Defence Ministry said. In November 2019, the U.S. had approved the sale of 13 MK-45 127 mm naval guns built by BAE Systems estimated at around $1 billion. These bigger guns with larger range and firepower over the current main gun on warships were to become the mainstay of frontline ships under construction at various shipyards in India. The deal for which the contract negotiations were under way has been cancelled because “the cost has gone by over 50% from the estimated price and there is also limited technology transfer”, the source said. Niche capabilities “These SRGMs provide niche capabilities of engaging fast manoeuvring targets using guided munitions and range extensions and are to be fitted on the warships of the Navy. All of these proposals are under ‘Make in India’ with focus on design, development and manufacturing in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dac-clears-proposals-worth-rs-7965-cr/article37315628.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Warning bells for BJP as bypolls bring mixed bag||Bypoll results on Tuesday brought mixed results for the BJP — a victorious sweep of all five Assembly seats in Assam to the worrying trend in Himachal Pradesh where the party lost all three Assembly and the one Lok Sabha seats up for grabs. Questions on whether the losses were all about intra-party factionalism or the effect of high prices of fuel and edible oils are also being raised. Party leaders countered the argument that the BJP lost in Himachal Pradesh due to the high cost of fuel and edible oil, to point to the narrowing of the lead of Abhay Singh Chautala in Ellenabad in Haryana (the epicentre of the farmers protest) from 12,000 votes to just over 6,000 votes. “Bypolls are largely fought on local issues. If price rise can be termed an issue in Himachal, can Mr. Chautala’s narrow margin of victory and the Congress coming third in Ellenabad not be termed as the waning of the farmers movement,” said a national office-bearer. Prestige seats The loss in Himachal Pradesh, however, will rankle in the BJP for a while as it lost not just the three Assembly seats in the fray, but also the Lok Sabha seat of Mandi, previously held by the party. Mandi is the home district of Chief Minister Jairam Thakur and Himachal Pradesh is the home State of BJP national president J.P. Nadda. While local leaders are attributing the loss to issues such as price rise, the intra-party wrangling is being pointed out by senior leaders in Delhi. “The seat in Jubbal-Kotkhai was lost as Chetan Bragta was not given the ticket and he turned rebel. It was not handled well,” said a senior leader, while no explanation was given for the loss in Mandi. The party needs to introspect on why the Congress, considered enfeebled in Himachal Pradesh, was able to defeat the ruling BJP, and this introspection needs to take place before the State goes in for the Assembly election in late 2022. In Karnataka, too, newly appointed Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai faced embarrassment when the BJP could not win the Hangal seat in the home district of the Chief Minister and where he had invested much time. Gracefully acknowledging the defeat in Hangal and thanking party workers for their work in both Sindgi (where the BJP won handsomely) and Hangal, Mr. Bommai gave due credit to the Congress candidate, Srinivas Mane, who, he said, had been rewarded by the people for his work during the COVID-19 pandemic. On the question of his own leadership and the mixed results for the party, he pointed to former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s own patchy bypoll record in the past. “Mr. Siddaramaiah also faced such loss and wins, so elections pertain to a particular time and particular issues and are not a verdict on the entire tenure.” But the reference to Mr. Mane’s work during the pandemic is an important pointer to where Mr. Bommai should expend his energies. The victories in Assam (five seats), Telangana (one seat, Huzurabad) and Madhya Pradesh (where the BJP managed to win the Jobat Assembly seat, a Scheduled Tribe seat where the party had managed to win only twice in the last 70 years), brought some cheer to the party, with BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh tweeting his congratulations to Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. This year, which saw a procession of BJP Chief Ministers make their way to various Raj Bhawans to tender their resignations, the question remains whether the bypolls will restart that queue before the Assembly elections in these States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/warning-bells-for-bjp-as-bypolls-bring-mixed-bag/article37315646.ece
03 November 2021||Pune,||Uddhav showers praise on Pawar||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday lavished praise on Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and the Pawar family, remarking that while the Shiv Sena and the NCP may have been political opponents in the past, everybody was aware of the famed friendship between late Sena founder Bal Thackeray and Mr. Pawar. Mr. Thackeray, speaking during the inauguration of an incubation and innovation centre and scientific research institute in Mr. Pawar’s stronghold Baramati (in Pune district), took jibes at the Sena’s estranged partner, the BJP as well as his bete noire , Union Minister and senior BJP leader Narayan Rane. “In politics, there will be opponents and criticism is needed… we [the Sena] too were your [the NCP’s] opponents all these years and used to criticise you, but the entire world knows about the friendship between Mr. Pawar and Balasaheb Thackeray. Balasaheb used to tell us that we should go to Baramati and see what Sharad Babu has done over there,” said the Chief Minister. Remarking that it was not in Maharashtra’s political culture for parties or leaders to create obstacles to stymie progress and good work, Mr. Thackeray, in a veiled jibe at the BJP and Mr. Rane, said even if one could not openly support, it was not right to thwart one’s efforts Speaking about the newly inaugurated incubation centre, the Chief Minister alluded to the 25-year-old alliance between the BJP and the Shiv Sena which finally unravelled after the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls. “There ought to be an incubation centre in politics. We [the Sena] had opened one 25 years ago, but also hatched some unwanted eggs. Everyone knows what happened later,” quipped Mr. Thackeray. Lauding Mr. Pawar’s tireless commitment to development, Mr. Thackeray called the NCP chief a “youthful leader”. “Mr. Pawar is leading the State, he is leading several such institutes here, and while he is continuously working, his family, too, is working towards one obsession, and that is development,” he said. In a humorous vein, Mr. Thackeray said Deputy CM Ajit Pawar told him that Baramati was on the way to becoming the ‘number two’ centre in education in the State after Pune. “According to me, as far as teaching lessons in politics is concerned, Baramati is already number one,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhav-showers-praise-on-pawar/article37316062.ece
03 November 2021||MUMBAI,||ED arrests Deshmukh in corruption case||Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday on charges of corruption and money laundering. A holiday court in Mumbai remanded him in ED custody till November 6. Senior advocate Vikram Chaudhary represented Mr. Deshmukh before holiday Judge P.B. Jadhav. On Monday, Mr. Deshmukh had appeared before the ED and was questioned for 12 hours. 13 companies Investigations by the ED had reportedly revealed 13 companies directly controlled by members of Mr. Deshmukh’s family. Another set of 14 companies in the names of the family’s close associates and controlled by the family members have also come to light. It has been alleged that Mr. Deshmukh parked his money in these entities. Additional Solicitor-General Anil Singh, appearing for the ED, sought Mr. Deshmukh’s custody for 14 days. However, Mr. Chaudhry opposed this, citing Mr. Deshmukh’s health condition. He said Mr. Deshmukh had dislocated his shoulder and needed constant support. He had contracted COVID-19 in February and he suffered from heart ailments and hypertension. The remand application submitted by the ED stated, “By virtue of his position as Home Minister, he has received amounts of Rs. 470 crore collected from Orchestra Bar owners/managers for smooth functioning of bars and the said bribe money was used by him through his son Hrishikesh for providing cash to Delhi-based paper companies and, after layering, the same was routed to a Trust in the garb of donation, managed and controlled by Mr. Deshmukh”. The agency has relied upon statements of dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze currently lodged in Taloja Central Jail, who said he was called to Mr. Deshmukh’s official residence and asked to collect Rs. 3 lakh every month from bars and restaurants. It mentions statements of Mr. Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and private assistant Kundan Shinde who are also lodged in Taloja Central Jail. Mr. Singh argued that Mr. Deshmukh played a crucial role in the offence of money laundering and had not cooperated with the investigation. He had not provided information regarding “the laundering of proceeds of the crime”. Charges of corruption against him dates back to March 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anil-deshmukh-held-in-graft-case/article37315630.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Results reflect mood against Centre’||The clean sweep in the Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan bypolls and the wins in Karnataka and Maharashtra on Tuesday prompted the Congress to claim that the results reflect the mood against the Narendra Modi Government. With Himachal Pradesh scheduled to have its Assembly election around November next year, the bypoll results are of special significance for the party since the State witnessed a direct contest between the ruling BJP and the Congress. “The win in the Mandi Lok Sabha seat, which was not only a BJP stronghold but also part of the Chief Minister’s home district, indicates that the vote is against the Union Government. If you look at the data of the Lok Sabha elections in Himachal Pradesh, the BJP had got a 70% vote share. We have not only bridged that deficit, but got more to win a seat,” All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Himachal Rajeev Shukla said at a press conference. Most leaders attributed the BJP’s loss to “runaway inflation, all-time high fuel prices and the three farm laws”. Party Deputy Leader in the Rajya Sabha and senior leader from Himachal Pradesh, Anand Sharma, said the victory, despite “the massive use of power, authority and resources”, was a clear rejection of the anti-people policies of the BJP and a betrayal of the mandate. “The tide has turned, and the countdown has begun for the BJP,” Mr. Sharma, said on Twitter. The Congress said even in the Opposition’s defeat in Bihar, there was a lesson to be learnt. “It is a self-evident reality that if the Opposition stays united, its victory is sure,” Mr. Shukla said at a press briefing, referring to the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) losing both the seats. The RJD leadership, including Lalu Prasad, had slammed the Congress for demanding one seat to contest. Eventually, the Congress contested both the seats that were won by the ruling party in Bihar. While the results were encouraging in Rajasthan amid the on-going leadership tussle, the most worrying news came from its previous stronghold, Assam. Of the five seats that went to the polls in Assam, the party not only failed to retain the two seats it won in May but also registered a blank. In fact, the Congress MLAs of these two seats — Thowra and Mariani — who switched to the BJP within months of winning on the Congress ticket, managed to retain their seats for the BJP. “We have been hollowed out as an organisation,” said a leader from Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/results-reflect-mood-against-centre/article37315648.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Schools fully open in 22 States, U.T.s||Schools have reopened for Classes 1 to 12 in 22 States and Union Territories, the Education Ministry said on Tuesday, adding that 12 States and UTs have opened schools for older children. The only States where schools are still completely closed are West Bengal and Manipur. Over 92% of schoolteachers across the country have been vaccinated, and 86% of non-teaching staff in schools, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said after conducting a review of the vaccination status. “With rapid vaccination at-scale in the country, we are looking at a future with restored normalcy and vibrancy in our schools and other educational and skilling institutions”, he said, in a tweet, after the review. Schools in Ladakh, Punjab, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Nagaland, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu have opened for Classes 6-12, while those in Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Puducherry, and Andaman and Nicobar have opened for Classes 9-12 only. Apart from West Bengal and Manipur, where schools remain closed, all remaining States have opened schools for all classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/schools-fully-open-in-22-states-uts/article37315638.ece
03 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder Singh quits Cong.||Former Punjab Chief Minster and Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) on Tuesday tendered his resignation from the party, stating that he was hurt by the conduct of party president Sonia Gandhi and her children — Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. He also announced the name of his new party — ‘Punjab Lok Congress’. It would be formally launched later, he said. In his letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, Capt. Singh said: “I actually felt deeply hurt by your conduct and that of your children who I still deeply love as much as my own children, having known their father, since we were in school together since 1954, which is for 67 years now.” He said he hoped that no other senior Congressperson was subjected to the ignominy that he was put through. In his letter, Capt. Singh revealed that Congress leaders were involved in illegal sand mining. “As far as the issue of illegal sand mining was concerned, the offenders unfortunately were the substantive bulk of Congress MLAs and Ministers, including an overwhelming number in the current Government. One of my enduring regrets would remain as to why I did not take some of them to task. The thought that it would embarrass the party held me back. However, I intend on making the list of these people public as this has been provided to me by the Government of Punjab and State Intelligence from time to time,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-singh-quits-cong/article37315699.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India’s climate commitments are bold, but meeting them will be a challenge, say experts||India’s headline announcement at COP26, to become carbon neutral by 2070, suggests that it has committed itself to decisive action to curb runaway greenhouse gas emissions from mid-century. However, experts say that much will become clear only after India submits its updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC). This document spells out the minutiae on how exactly it plans to go about achieving these targets. India’s five-fold plan, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi spelt out on Monday, says India’s non-fossil energy capacity will reach 500 GW by 2030; it will meet 50% of its energy requirements with renewable energy by 2030; it will reduce its total projected carbon emissions by a billion tonnes by 2030; and reduce the carbon intensity of its economy to less than 45% and achieve net zero by 2070. Net zero is when a country’s carbon emissions are offset by taking out equivalent carbon from the atmosphere, so that emissions in balance are zero. Peaking year However, achieving net zero by a specific date means specifying a year, also called a peaking year, following which emissions will start to reduce. Though there is no clarity yet from the Government, experts in the run-up to COP26 have wrestled with these questions. A March 2021 study by analyst Vaibhav Chaturvedi at the Council for Energy, Environment and Water suggested that for a 2070 net zero year and peaking year of 2040, India would have to reduce the emissions intensity (emissions per unit GDP) by 85% — it has so far reduced it to 24% from the 2005 levels. The share of non-hydro renewable energy has to increase to 65% from the 11% today; the share of electric cars in passenger sales has to go from 0.1% today to 75% by 2040; and the share of fossil energy in primary energy has to decrease from 73% to 40%. For a peaking year of 2030, these targets would be stiffer. India, as part of its NDC in 2015, had committed itself to installing 175 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2022. Till February 28, 2021, the country had achieved 94 GW, comprising 25% share in total installed capacity for power generation. If large hydro installed capacity is included (45 GW by February 2021), then India’s non-fossil energy capacity is 139 GW — close to 38% of installed capacity — according to the Centre for Science and Environment. Diplomatic compulsions likely forced India to announce a net zero date as it was the only one among major economies not to have specified a net zero year until now. India, however, should have said that it will reach net zero by 2070, only if other developed countries themselves commit to reaching net zero before 2050, said Navroz Dubash, Professor, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi. There is also no clarity on how many of the announced targets are unconditional and how many are conditional. Professor Dubash said the billion tonnes of carbon dioxide reduction in the next decade also needed more clarity. The billion tonnes would be premised on a reference point that shows what the emissions would be in a business-as-usual scenario. “We don’t yet know what scenario has been considered. This is the time we should have more careful and broad modelling,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-climate-commitments-are-bold-but-meeting-them-will-be-a-challenge-say-experts/article37315658.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||As schools reopen, study warns of deepening divides||As almost 26 crore children return to physical classes after 18 months of school closures, a business as usual approach will lead to a deepening of existing educational inequity, warned the National Coalition on the Education Emergency in a report released online on Tuesday. The NCEE cited data from the recent SCHOOL survey conducted in 15 States, which showed that 72% of elementary age children did not do any regular studying by any method during the lockdown, with only 8% of rural children able to access online classes. An NCEE survey of teachers in a sample of Karnataka schools found that 85% of Class 8 teachers thought that most of their students were not at their grade level in mathematics and language. Three-fourths of Class 10 teachers agreed. The worst affected are children of the rural and urban poor, migrants, minorities, Dalit, adivasi and other backward communities, many of whose families faced a health and livelihood crisis during the lockdown apart from a lack of educational access. “When schools reopen, it cannot be about pouncing on children to make them learn the three R’s. We can’t just go on from where they left off two years ago, or expect them to match up to the regular syllabus at their new grade level with some sort of short bridge course”, said Shantha Sinha, former head of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, speaking at the report of the release. “So much has happened since then, and there needs to be a focus on children’s mental health and self-esteem before anything else”. The report, “A Future At Stake -- Guidelines and Principles to Resume and Renew Education”, suggests specific ways to bring children back to school, communicate with parents and teachers and processes to support the most disadvantaged. Till lower secondary level, curriculum need to be redesigned with a focus on socio-emotional development, language and maths skills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-schools-reopen-study-warns-of-deepening-divides/article37315634.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to scrap caste-based payments for MGNREGA||The Centre has decided to scrap the system of caste-based wage payments in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme after complaints from State Governments. In an order dated November 1, the Finance Ministry directed the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) to “revert to the previous system of generating single muster, single FTO [or Fund Transfer Order] and transferring money into a single NeFMS [or National Electronic Fund Management System] account”. However, a revised accounting procedure will now be implemented to allow expenditure to be captured under three Minor Heads for Scheduled Castes and Tribes and others, through a single FTO, said the order, which The Hindu has seen a copy of. The MoRD has been told to set a date on which the new process will come into effect.  The Hindu had reported that the Centre planned to revoke its controversial caste-based wage system after the State Governments warned of rising social tensions in an October 11 meeting. The contentious directive issued on March 2 by MoRD, on instructions from the Finance Ministry, had asked the States to generate three separate FTOs for each of the three caste groups for every muster roll at an MGNREGA worksite. Three sanctions would then be generated and then payments would be made into three separate accounts of the State Government. In a meeting with the Finance Secretary and Expenditure Secretary on October 11, MoRD Secretary N.N. Sinha said that “many States have conveyed difficulties being faced by them due to the new process”, said a note attached to the Finance Ministry order. “This has not only multiplied the work at all levels but also resulted in payments going at different times to different communities,” it added. In many villages, there were social frictions among communities who got paid as much as two months later than others from the same muster roll, according to reports from workers’ unions. A study by LibTech India analysing 18 lakh FTOs over the last six months in 10 States found that SC and ST workers were getting paid significantly faster than those from other communities. Several State governments, including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, raised the issue with the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-scrap-caste-based-payments-for-mgnrega/article37315636.ece
03 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||INLD’s Chautala defeats BJP to retain Ellenabad||Indian National Lok Dal’s (INLD) Abhay Singh Chautala on Tuesday defeated his nearest rival and BJP nominee, Gobind Kanda, by over 6,000 votes in a close contest to retain the Ellenabad Assembly seat in Haryana. However, the BJP managed to narrow the margin of defeat to almost half compared to 2019. The Congress’s Pawan Beniwal polled 20,904 votes to finish a distant third. In an election fought under the shadow of the farmers’ agitation, Mr. Chautala had a clear edge over his rivals, with Ellenabad being the fortress of the Chautala clan. However, Mr. Kanda, the joint candidate of the BJP-JJP (Jannayak Janta Party), put up a tough fight, with the margin of votes between the two narrowing down to less than 3,000 after the tenth round of counting. While Mr. Chautala polled 65,992 votes in 16-round counting of votes, Mr. Kanda got 59,253 votes, as per the Election Commission of India app. Campaigning against the BJP-JJP nominee, Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Rakesh Tikait had, in a broad hint, asked the voters to ensure victory for Mr. Chautala with an improved margin. In the first reaction to the results, Home Minister Anil Vij said, “Abhay Chautala has won this election technically, but lost on moral grounds”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inlds-chautala-defeats-bjp-to-retain-ellenabad/article37315641.ece
03 November 2021||Glasgow,||India calls for hike in climate finance to $1tn||India on Tuesday said that climate finance cannot continue at the levels decided in 2009, and emphasised that it should be at least $1 trillion to meet the goals of addressing climate change. Speaking at the Ministerial meeting of Like-Minded Developing Countries (LMDC) at the 26th international climate conference under way in Glasgow, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav also called upon the LMDC countries to work closely to protect their interests. “Climate finance cannot continue at the levels decided in 2009. It should be at least $1 trillion to meet the goals of addressing climate change and there should be a system to monitor climate finance as we have for monitoring mitigation,” Mr. Yadav said at the meeting. The meeting, attended by representatives from China, Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela and others, was presided over by Bolivian President Luis Alberto Arce Catacora. Underlining the unity and strength of LMDCs as fundamental in the UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) negotiations to preserve the interest of the Global South in the fight against climate change, Mr. Yadav highlighted that recognition of the current challenges being faced by developing countries required intensified multilateral cooperation, not intensified global economic and geopolitical competition and trade wars. The Minister requested the LMDC members to join hands with India to support the global initiatives it has pioneered, including the International Solar Alliance (ISA), Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) and the Leadership Group for Industry Transition (LeadIT). He also appreciated the efforts of the Third World Network (TWN) for its support to LMDC, and expressed the need to ensure resources to TWN. The countries collectively underscored that it needs to be ensured that the voices of the LMDC countries are heard loud and clear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-calls-for-hike-in-climate-finance-to-1tn/article37315701.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi holds discussions with Nepal PM Deuba||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held two important bilateral meetings with his counterparts from Nepal and Israel on the sidelines of the COP26 meet in Glasgow on Tuesday. The meeting between Indian and Nepalese Prime Ministers was the first since Sher Bahadur Deuba was appointed by the Supreme Court of Nepal in an extraordinary judicial intervention in July. “The two leaders noted the excellent cooperation between India and Nepal during the pandemic particularly through the supply of vaccines, medicines and medical equipment from India to Nepal as well as by ensuring the flow of goods across the borders,” said the Ministry of External Affairs in a statement after the meeting. Pandemic aid Nepal was part of the first group of countries to receive India’s Covishield vaccine as part of New Delhi’s vaccine diplomacy but the vaccine supply to Nepal was interrupted for months once India was hit by the second wave during April-May 2021. The situation improved in October when the Government of India allowed the Serum Institute of India to export 10 lakh doses of Covishield each to Nepal, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Mr. Modi had earlier spoken to Mr. Deuba in July after the coalition government in Kathmandu had proved its majority in the Nepalese Parliament. Significant meeting The meeting is being interpreted as a significant one as both sides are also in talks for exchange of high level visits. Mr. Deuba last month sent former Foreign Minister Prakash Sharan Mahat as his emissary to Delhi to reset ties between Delhi and Kathmandu. Mr. Modi also met Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett for the first time on the sidelines of COP26. Talks on technology The official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Arindam Bagchi said that the two leaders reviewed bilateral ties and discussed “high technology and innovation”. Mr. Modi had visited Israel in July 2017 and was hosted by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Mr Bennett replaced Mr Netanyahu in June this year. Mr. Modi invited the Israeli leader to visit India to mark the 30th anniversary of the establishment of full diplomatic relations between India and Israel. India established formal diplomatic ties with Israel in January 1992 under Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and both sides are preparing plans for celebrating three decades of diplomatic and defence ties in 2022. Apart from national leaders, Mr. Modi also met Bill Gates of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The MEA said in a statement that Mr. Modi appreciated the work of the Foundation in India and discussed emerging opportunities in areas like “green hydrogen, aviation fuels, battery storage, and vaccine research” in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-holds-discussions-with-nepal-pm-deuba/article37315662.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Set up police complaints bodies’||This would ensure that if a person sustains injuries in custody, it is presumed that the injuries were inflicted by the police. The burden of proof to explain the injury lies on the authority concerned. The core group also recommended making the legal framework technology-friendly to speed up the criminal justice system. “Presently the legal framework is not suitable for adoption of technology in the criminal justice system,” the minutes said. The group also recommended that the Supreme Court’s December 2020 order to install closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras with night vision in all police stations should be “implemented immediately” to ensure accountability. Among the recommendations were the involvement of trained social workers and law students with police stations as part of community policing and incorporating community policing in police manuals, laws and advisories. According to data provided by the Home Ministry to the Lok Sabha in March, 16 States and Union Territories (UTs) had implemented police complaints boards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/set-up-police-complaints-bodies/article37315625.ece
03 November 2021||Guwahati,||Assam, Meghalaya CMs to visit areas of friction||The Chief Ministers of Assam and Meghalaya are expected to visit some of the disputed areas along the boundary between the two States towards a permanent settlement. There are 12 areas of dispute along the 884.9-km border but the Governments have targeted six of the “less complicated” areas for resolving. Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma said he had a telephonic conversation with his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma. “We will choose one or two locations for a joint visit by November 15,” he said. The two Governments had, a few months ago, formed regional committees comprising the local MLAs and officials. These committees were tasked with meeting the villagers in the disputed areas, recording their views and submitting reports for perusal and discussion at a higher level. Submission delayed The reports were scheduled to be submitted on October 30, but got delayed because of the byelections to eight Assembly seats in the two States. They are likely to be submitted after the two Chief Ministers visit any two of the three locations both have listed. The joint visit has been planned as a confidence-building measure, officials said. Assam and Meghalaya have agreed to resolve the boundary disputes amicably under a give-and-take policy. The six areas of differences are Tarabari, Gizang, Hahim, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilangkata and Ratacherra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-meghalaya-cms-to-visit-areas-of-friction/article37315626.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bokaro firm places lowest bid for V-P house||A Bokaro-based firm, Kamladityya Construction Pvt. Ltd., on Tuesday emerged as the lowest bidder for the Central Public Works Department’s project to construct a new residence for the Vice-President. The firm bid 3.52% below the CPWD’s estimated cost of Rs. 214.03 crore with a bid of Rs. 206.49 crore, beating five other firms. The new complex is proposed to come up near Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bokaro-firm-places-lowest-bid-for-v-p-house/article37315631.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak. NSA to skip Indian meet on Afghanistan||India is pursuing a videoconference appearance if no Chinese delegate travels to Delhi. Iran, which did not include India in a meeting of Foreign Ministers from Afghanistan’s neighbouring countries and is believed to have taken External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s participation in a quadrilateral with Israel-UAE-U.S. amiss, “welcomed the invitation”, said a source, indicating it is likely to send a delegate. Mr. Yusuf also blamed India for holding up regional security processes, while declining India’s invitation. “I think the region’s obstacles are in front of you, there is no need for debate on this. On one hand India, [...] unfortunately [because of] the government's behaviour and ideology there, I don't see how this [peace] process will move forward — not just for Pakistan but the region,” Mr. Yusuf was quoted saying by the Dawn Newspaper. The Ministry of External Affairs declined a request for a response to Mr. Yusuf’s remarks. Invitations to the regional conference on November 10-11 were sent out in October by the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) through each countries’ embassy in Delhi. Officials said plans for the two day conference were in full swing, including a dinner event hosted by Mr. Doval. The sessions would discuss regional and shared threats of terrorism emanating from groups in Afghanistan, as well as the problem of drug trafficking, refugees, and connectivity amidst a growing economic and humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. India’s plans to provide wheat and other assistance, which were discussed between MEA officials and the Taliban Deputy Prime Minister Abdul Salam Hanafi on the side-lines of the Moscow format conference last month have also been held up, pending possible discussions on sending the assistance by road through Pakistan. The government has not invited any officials from the acting Taliban government in Kabul, which has not been formally recognised by any country. However, officials did not rule out the presence of Afghans associated with the dialogue process based in Doha where the Indian Ambassador to Qatar held a meeting with Taliban negotiators in August. Significantly, a delegation led by Turkmen Foreign Minister Rashid Meredov and his delegation met with Taliban Prime Minister Mullah Hassan Akhund and other ministers in Kabul over the weekend to discuss the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) gas pipeline project as well as other connectivity projects, but it remains to be seen if India will bring up the project during the NSA conference. The invitations sent by the NSCS to both Pakistan and China had raised eyebrows given deep tensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-nsa-to-skip-indian-meet-on-afghanistan/article37315639.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI,||CBI charges six for leaking confidential information||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed two chargesheets against six persons, including a serving Navy commander and two retired officers, for allegedly sharing confidential commercial information related to the Kilo Class submarines’ refit and upgrade programme to unauthorised persons for illegal gratification. “In the first chargesheet, Commander (retired) S.J. Singh and Commodore (retired) Randeep Singh have been arraigned. The agency had seized about Rs. 2.40 crore in cash, including Rs. 2.90 lakh that the retired Commodore was handing over to Commander (retired) Singh,” said a CBI official. Commander Singh worked for a Korean company. The second chargesheet has been filed against six persons, including the two retired officers and one serving Commander, Ajit Kumar Pandey. The other three accused are directors of Hyderabad-based Allen Reinforced Plastics Private Ltd. They have been identified by the agency as T.P. Shastri, N.V. Rao and K. Chandrashekar Rao. The CBI has invoked various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Prevention of Corruption Act against the accused. The Navy is also conducting an internal inquiry into the allegations. In September, the CBI arrested five persons and also searched multiple locations in Delhi, Noida, Mumbai and Hyderabad. Commander Jagdish, who was arrested on September 21, has not yet been chargesheeted as the agency has 18 more days before the 60-day time limit expires. The serving commanders were posted at the Western Naval Command headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-charges-six-for-leaking-confidential-information/article37315643.ece
03 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Tehsildar found having five PAN cards||A government revenue official, allegedly involved in corruption cases, was found to be in possession of five permanent account number in Odisha. Ramachandra Jena, in-charge of sub-registrar and tehsildar of Nimapada in Puri district, and his younger brother Laxman Jena have been arrested. The Vigilance officials intercepted the brothers with Rs. 4.5 lakh cash for which they were unable to give any satisfactory explanation. During a search, the Vigilance officials found five PAN cards in his name with different numbers. In two cards, his father’s name was different.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tehsildar-found-having-five-pan-cards/article37316065.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab CM, Sidhu visit Kedarnath||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday put up a united face by visiting the Kedarnath shrine together. On a day when the Punjab Cabinet had announced a cut of Rs. 3 per unit of electricity, Mr. Sidhu said people didn’t want “lollipops”, but development. Mr. Channi hit back by reversing his decision on Advocate-General A.P.S. Deol who had reportedly resigned, one of the key demands of Mr. Sidhu. “At Kedarnath, the heavenly abode of Lord Shiva,” Mr. Sidhu tweeted, along with a photograph of him with Mr. Channi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-sidhu-visit-kedarnath/article37315649.ece
03 November 2021||Srinagar,||Anti-terror agency set up in J&K||The J&K Government has set up a new State Investigation Agency (SIA) for “speedy and effective investigation and prosecution of militancy-related cases in the Union Territory”. However, the Peoples Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration, a conglomerate of regional parties, has expressed concern over its formation. The SIA will be a nodal agency for coordinating with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other Central agencies, a Government Order said on Monday. The head of the CID wing shall be the ex-officio Director of the SIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-terror-agency-set-up-in-jk/article37315650.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||DCW notice on threat to Kohli’s child||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday issued notice to the Cyber Crime Cell of the Delhi Police regarding online rape threats against Indian cricketer Virat Kohli’s daughter on social media. DCW chief Swati Maliwal, in a press note, said that the commission took suo motu cognisance of media reports stating that Kohli’s daughter has been receiving threats after India’s loss to Pakistan in the T20 World Cup. The Indian captain lashing out against those trolling pacer Mohammed Shami on the basis of his religion has further infuriated them. In the notice given to Delhi Police, DCW has asked for a copy of the FIR against those who issued rape threats and other details pertaining to the accused persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dcw-notice-on-threat-to-kohlis-child/article37315698.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||FB official to meet panel of Delhi House||Facebook India’s representative has been allowed to appear before the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony on November 18 since the company requested an extension of 14 days to find the right person “best placed to provide the Committee with the data required”. According to the Delhi Assembly, in a response to the summons issued by it to the social media giant on October 27, Facebook India has requested an extension of 14 days to appear before the Committee on Peace and Harmony headed by MLA Raghav Chadha. The committee is examining what it termed “unprecedented communal disharmony and violence in Delhi” in February 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fb-official-to-meet-panel-of-delhi-house/article37315632.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Procedural delay of bail unacceptable’||Delay in releasing undertrials from jail merely because the court order granting them bail has not been either received or processed on time by jail authorities is a travesty of justice, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud has said. Justice Chandrachud was speaking at the e-inauguration of virtual courts and the e-Sewa Kendra at the Allahabad High Court and the district court. He also highlighted the problem of huge pendency in the lower courts. The Supreme Court judge said the issue has to be addressed on a war-footing. “This touches upon the human liberty of every undertrial,”he said. Mr.Chandrachud referred to an initiative of the “e-custody certificate” launched by Orissa High Court Chief Justice S. Muralidhar. The certificate would electronically contain the details of an undertrial and would immediately convey the information to grant bail to the prison authorities and thus speed up the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/procedural-delay-of-bail-unacceptable/article37315633.ece
03 November 2021||PUNE,||Assets linked to Ajit Pawar attached||The Income Tax Department has provisionally attached assets worth Rs. 1,000 crore allegedly linked to Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. The move follows the searches last month on businesses and properties belonging to Mr. Pawar’s relatives and aides. The assets include a sugar factory in Satara (Rs. 600 crore), a residential property in South Delhi (Rs. 20 crore), an office in Mumbai’s upmarket area (believed to be Nirmal Tower in Nariman Point, Rs. 25 crore), a resort in Goa (Rs. 250 crore) and land in different parts of the State, said sources, adding that the department had seized the properties under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assets-linked-to-ajit-pawar-attached/article37315640.ece
03 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘Modi, former CAG must apologise’||Slamming former Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG) Vinod Rai after his apology to former Congress MP Sanjay Nirupam, the party on Tuesday demanded that Mr. Rai apologise to the nation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should also join Mr. Rai as he, too, was part of the “sinister plan” to destabilise former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s Government, the party said. “Mr. Rai has joined the elite club of ‘ Maafi Jeevi ’. Does it now not appear that the then CAG was the agent provocateur? He had authored a CAG report that threw a presumptive loss of Rs. 1.76 lakh crore, a sensational number, to the exchequer in the grant of the 2G spectrum licences. The report was a figment of the imagination and a flight of fancy,” said Congress leader Ajay Maken. He was speaking to presspersons in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-former-cag-must-apologise-says-congress/article37315642.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Weapon must for dacoity conviction: SC||The Supreme Court has held that possession and display of a deadly weapon to strike terror in the hearts of victims is essential to convict a person of dacoity with intention to murder. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah was interpreting Section 397 (robbery/dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The judgment pertained to an appeal filed by a man who claimed he did not have a deadly weapon in his hands during an attempted robbery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weapon-must-for-dacoity-conviction-sc/article37315644.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||One Sun, One World, One Grid for seamless energy||On the second day of COP26, an initiative by India and the United Kingdom to tap solar energy and have it travel seamlessly across borders was announced. It includes a group of Governments called the Green Grids Initiative — One Sun One World One Grid group — and was announced at COP26 by summit host United Kingdom’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the presence of other heads of government, including U.S. President Joe Biden, the two Prime Ministers presented the One Sun Declaration, endorsed by more than 80 countries, setting out the group’s aims. Clean energy “All the energy humanity uses in a year is equal to the energy that reaches the earth from the sun in a single hour,” Mr. Modi said. “The sun never sets — every hour, half the planet is bathed in sunshine. By trading energy from sun, wind and water across borders, we can deliver more than enough clean energy to meet the needs of everyone on earth,” Mr. Modi added. Mr. Modi said at the gathering that the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) had developed an application that could compute the potential solar energy at any point on earth and help decide if it would be suitable for solar energy installations. A Ministerial Steering Group will work towards accelerating the making of large solar power stations and wind farms in the best locations, linked together by continental-scale grids crossing national borders. Members of the group The Ministerial Steering Group includes France, India, the United Kingdom and the United States, and will also have representatives from Africa, the Gulf, Latin America and Southeast Asia, said an accompanying press statement by the Green Grids Initiative. Germany attended the first meeting as an observer, while post-election negotiations on a new government continue, as did Australia. Research support for the Green Grids Initiative is being provided by the Climate Compatible Growth consortium of universities, which includes Cambridge, Imperial College, Oxford and University College London. The Green Grids Initiative Working Groups made up of national and international agencies have already been established for Africa and for the Asia-Pacific region. Their membership includes most major multilateral development banks, such as the African Development Bank (AfDB), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the World Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-sun-one-world-one-grid-for-seamless-energy/article37315660.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||BJP wins Sindgi while Cong. gets Hangal||In what is being seen as a bittersweet result for the ruling BJP in Karnataka, the saffron party won the Sindgi Assembly segment, but lost the Hangal seat to Congress, in the bypolls to two constituencies held on October 30. The BJP’s loss in Hangal is seen as a setback to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, as it is the neighbouring constituency to his Shiggaon Assembly segment in Haveri district. This was also the first major electoral challenge for Mr. Bommai, after taking charge as Chief Minister in July this year. The Congress seemed to be satisfied with its performance and tried to project the results as a precursor to the 2023 Assembly polls. The JD(S) that had fielded Muslim candidates in both constituencies, came as a distant third, and even lost the deposits. According to the results, Ramesh Bhusanur of BJP won in Sindgi seat by a margin of 31,185 votes, by securing 93,865 votes, while his closest rival, the Congress’s Ashok Managuli, secured 62,680 votes. In Hangal, the Congress’s Srinivas Mane won by a margin of 7,373 votes, securing 87,490 votes, while his closest rival Shivaraj Sajjanar of BJP bagged 80,117 votes. Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi of the JD(S) from Sindgi and Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal came a distant third, by securing 4,353 and 927 votes respectively. The bypolls to these two seats was necessitated as they had fallen vacant, following the death of Sindgi JD(S) legislator M.C. Managuli and BJP’s C.M. Udasi from Hangal. With the loss in Hangal being projected as a setback to him, Mr. Bommai said, “elections are won and lost... these byelections are fought on particular time and issues, and its outcome is not a complete verdict. However, I have taken this election setback very seriously and we will do all the corrections.” State Congress Chief D.K. Shivakumar said the results indicate that people of the State are desiring for a change, they have lost faith in the BJP and are looking towards Congress, “so in 2023 it will be the administration of the people through Congress.” Terming defeat in Hangal as “loss of face” not only for Chief Minister, but the entire BJP Government, he said, compared to previous elections, the Congress was satisfied with the results in Sindgi, despite losing it. Terming the bypolls results as a “warning bell” to the ruling BJP, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said, it shows that people are desiring for change, and the BJP’s image and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity is coming down. Despite actively campaigning for bypolls, especially in Sindgi, the JD(S) could not make much impact in the bypolls. Noting that party has lost deposit in both Sindgi and Hangal Assembly segments, its leader H.D. Kumaraswamy said he has not lost hope and the complete focus will now be on coming to power independently after 2023 Assembly polls, by strengthening the party organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-wins-sindgi-while-cong-gets-hangal/article37315679.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 antique idols seized from popular art gallery in city||The Idol Wing CID has seized five antique idols from a luxury life store and art gallery located on Nungambakkam High Road and its departmental store from Thanjavur on charges of illegal possession and alleged involvement in attempting to sell them to the tune of Rs. 110 crore. The police also arrested two of the gallery staff and launched a search for the owner. Following credible information, the Additional Director General of Police, Idol Wing CID, K. Jayanth Murali, deputed a special team of police personnel to conduct a search at Cottage Industries Exposition Pvt. Ltd., Nungambakkam High Road. On searching the premises, the team found that the gallery was selling antique idols illegally. Mr. Jayanth Murali told The Hindu , “We have conducted a thorough search and seized a Nataraja idol, which is 1,000 years old. A lot of sale documents were seized from there. Our investigation led to its branch in Thanjavur and also the seizure of two more antique idols, used in the temples of east Asian countries. They are worth around Rs. 60 crore.” Idol Wing CID, Tiruchi, seized the two antique idols of Vishnu with eight hands that were hidden at Saga Departmental Store, Keelaraja Veedhi, Thanjavur. Cambodian origin The idols are of Khmer style, and are suspected to have been bought from Cambodia. Mr. Murali said, “Our investigation revealed the proprietors of the gallery had illegally bought the antique idols that were stolen from temples. They also tried to display and sell them. These antique idols would be shown only to genuine buyers. When we demanded antiquity certificates, they did not submit them. These people were selling antique items to foreigners for 10 years.” The police arrested — S. Anand, of Thirunindravur, 45, who was the manager of the gallery, and S. Venkatesan, 47, of Kumbakonam, a cashier, and seized two more idols from them. “We are going to investigate the trail of other items that they have sold. We have launched a search to nab the prime suspects in the case. We have seized five idols, and we are going to have more seizures in the days to come,” Mr. Murali said. Superintendent of Police, Idol Wing CID, R. Ponni said, “The arrested said that negotiations were on to sell the Khmer style Vishnu idols for Rs. 60 crore and the Nataraja idol for Rs. 50 crore.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-antique-idols-seized-from-popular-art-gallery-in-city/article37315787.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Last-mile connectivity eludes many Metro Rail commuters||Two years ago, thousands of commuters heaved a sigh of relief when Metro Rail began share autorickshaw and car services from several stations. But today, a commuter has to pay more for an autoriskshaw, walk or wait to take a bus to reach the nearest station as there are no last-mile connectivity options after services resumed post lockdown. Though the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has tied up with Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) to run mini-bus services, it will be available at just four stations — Wimco Nagar, Chennai Airport, Koyambedu and Alandur. While a section of commuters is looking forward to this facility, others are disappointed that it was not extended to all stations. The Metro has nearly 1.10 lakh passengers travelling on an average during weekdays, and Chennai Central witnesses the most number of passengers, with a daily average of 9,000. Thirumangalam, High Court and Guindy are the next popular stations, each with 5,000 people. Yet, none of these was included in the list of stations to get the mini-bus feeder services. Thirumangalam station, for instance, helps hundreds of passengers who come from areas like Padi, Mogappair and even Ambattur. S. Venkatesan of the Elango Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, Padi, said, “If they run a dedicated mini-bus service from Thirumangalam to Collector Nagar, Elango Nagar bus terminus, DAV School and Mogappair East and West, commuters can get a hassle-free ride to the station.” “While the system has been maintained well and has been gradually picking up over the years, it will not make much sense for a public transport to exist without integrating it with other modes, and giving options of first- and last-mile connectivity like mini-buses or share autorickshaws. Mini-buses can run trips every 15 minutes, and the number of people travelling through the Metro will exponentially increase because many travel to Parrys Corner and Chennai Airport,” he said. S. Ravichandran, a resident of Ambattur, said it would help if last-mile connectivity was extended till Ambattur. People without a private vehicle had to take autorickshaws to reach Thirumangalam Metro station. “Travelling to the airport and Parrys Corner is time consuming because of traffic congestion; that is one of the primary reasons many prefer travelling by the Metro. In six years since the service started, Ambattur has not been covered for the last-mile connectivity,” he added. Similarly, those in south Chennai, residing in areas like Adyar and Thiruvanmiyur, said Little Mount was the closest station to them, and requested CMRL to operate mini-bus services. Residents said since the construction of Metro’s phase II project would soon begin in south Chennai, they would have to grapple with congestion every single day. “These mini-buses should operate every 15 minutes so that people who disembark from the trains do not have to wait for long to catch one,” said K. Subramanian, a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/last-mile-connectivity-eludes-many-metro-rail-commuters/article37315794.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain to continue||Widespread rain with moderate intensity will continue over the State till Deepavali day. Some areas in four districts are likely to receive very heavy rain on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department. The low-pressure area, persisting over the Comorin area and its neighbourhood, is likely to move north-northwestwards. Its movement is likely to influence rainfall over the State and Puducherry. Moreover, a trough from the weather system runs to west-central Bay of Bengal, off the south Andhra Pradesh coast, across the Gulf of Mannar and the Tamil Nadu coast. The weather systems will help the rain spell last till Saturday. However, the intensity of rain would relatively reduce after Thursday, officials said. According to IMD, very heavy rain is likely to occur in isolated places of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvannamalai districts on Wednesday. Several other districts may experience heavy rain in one or two places. Most other places, including Chennai, may receive moderate rainfall. On Deepavali day, isolated heavy rain is likely over many districts. Chennai may experience intermittent, moderate rain. During the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Marakkanam in Villupuram district recorded very heavy rainfall of 20 cm — the highest in Tamil Nadu for the day. During the day too, rain lashed several places in the State. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said this October, the State had received 23 cm of rain — 29% more than its monthly average. The October rain constitutes the sixth highest quantum of rainfall received by the State in the last two decades. This year, 25 districts have so far received largely excess or excess rain from the northeast monsoon. In its long-range forecast, IMD has predicted that the south peninsular region, including Tamil Nadu, is likely to record above-normal rain, which may be 122% more than the long-period average, in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-to-continue/article37315797.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. will deploy over 1,000 workers to close potholes||The Greater Chennai Corporation will start closing potholes on roads to reduce the risk of road traffic accidents during the monsoon, according to officials. This follows the death of a motorcyclist after hitting a pothole on a stretch of a highway in the city recently. Each of the 15 zones have received allocation of Rs. 10 lakh for closing potholes. Officials have been asked to prepare a list of stretches where potholes have been found. Corporation officials will deploy more than 1,000 road workers for the restoration of damaged stretches. Large potholes, more than 40 mm in depth, will be closed using concrete while smaller ones will be filled using cold mix. Stretches damaged by agencies such as Metrowater will also be restored. Roads having high density of traffic will be prioritised. An official said the civic body has also decided to prune trees along all the roads in the city. Residents can call the helpline 1913 to report about potholes, dug-up roads or trees that have not been pruned. Work on pruning of trees is expected to gain momentum after Deepavali. Chennai Collector J. Vijaya Rani has advised residents to avoid bursting crackers near hospitals, places of worship and institutions for senior citizens. The Collector urged residents to reduce air pollution and pollution caused by crackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-will-deploy-over-1000-workers-to-close-potholes/article37315780.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Explanation sought from Highways Dept. on fatal accident caused by a pothole||The Traffic Investigation police have written to the authorities of the Highways Department seeking an explanation on the alleged negligence, which caused the death of a 32-year-old software engineer in Little Mount on Monday morning after losing control over his motorcycle when it hit a pothole. Incident report The deceased, Mohammed Yunus, of Ramapuram, was passing Rainbow Hospital on Anna Salai, near Little Mount, when he lost control of the bike after hitting a pothole. The bike crashed into the middle of a Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus and Yunus came under the rear wheel of the vehicle. CCTV footage of the incident went viral over social media. A senior police officer said, “The cause of the accident is a pothole on the road. Now, we have written to the authorities to pinpoint who is responsible for the accident. Further investigation is on. Based on what we find out, we will decide on the further course of action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explanation-sought-from-highways-dept-on-fatal-accident-caused-by-a-pothole/article37315783.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases stay below 1,000 for the 2nd day||For the second consecutive day, fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu stayed below the 1,000-mark, as 973 people tested positive on Tuesday. While 12 districts logged under 10 cases each, Perambalur reported none for the second day in a row. Cases dropped to 109 in Chennai, taking the city’s tally to 5,54,881. Coimbatore recorded 114 cases, Chengalpattu 84, Erode 71, Tiruppur 65 and Salem 59. Forty-five people tested positive in Namakkal and 40 in Thanjavur. Of the 12 districts that clocked cases in single digits, Tenkasi saw two and Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar logged three each. Tamil Nadu’s tally stood at 27,04,586. Twenty-one more people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,157. All of them had co-morbidities. Chennai recorded five deaths, while there were two deaths each in Chengalpattu, Namakkal and Thanjavur. Twenty-four districts reported no deaths. As many as 1,114 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,57,282. The State’s active caseload dropped to 11,147. As many as 1,15,219 samples were tested, taking the total count to 5,13,94,614. Launching an initiative to vaccinate people at their homes through mobile camps in villages in Chengalpattu district, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said the eighth mega vaccination camp would be held on Saturday and 50,000 camps would be set up. Another 95,552 persons were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the coverage in government centres to 5,66,78,533. Of those inoculated, 56,808 people were aged 18 to 44 and 23,050 people were in the 45-59 age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-stay-below-1000-for-the-2nd-day/article37315800.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vinod Rai, PM must apologise to nation, says Cong. leader||Former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) Vinod Rai and those who “maligned” the Congress in the 2G scam must apologise to the nation, former Union Minister Salman Khurshid said in Chennai on Tuesday. He asked why Mr. Rai, the chairman of the Banking Recruitment Board, had not uttered a word about the thousands of crores of banking frauds in the country. “Mr. Rai, General V.K. Singh, Kiran Bedi [former Lt. Governor of Puducherry], Baba Ramdev, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Anna Hazare [all were part of the anti-corruption movement against the UPA], the BJP-RSS and those who maligned the Congress must apologise to the nation. The conspiracy has cost the nation dearly,” Mr. Khurshid said, addressing a press conference. The Congress leader said Mr. Rai’s affidavit to party leader Sanjay Nirupam, stating that what he said at the time of the 2G issue was untrue, showed that a man holding a Constitutional position had thrown all morality, honesty and decency to the wind and many of them were playing a game against the Congress. “Mr. Rai has not uttered a single word on the Rs. 13,500 crore PNB fraud either, or on the thousands of crores lost in bank frauds and the escape of Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi, Lalit Modi, Vijay Mallya and many others, despite being the chairman of the Banking Recruitment Board,” he said. He said the final aim of the campaign against the 2G spectrum issue was to somehow install a BJP goverment led by [Prime Minister] Narendra Modi. Mr. Khurshid wanted Mr. Modi to apologise to the countrymen [for having used the CAG report to attack the Congress]. The impact of what happened some years ago continues today, he said. On the affidavit filed by Mr. Rai, Mr. Khurshid said it exposed the conspiracy to malign, defame and bring down the Congress-led UPA government. He said the court did not find any evidence of wrongdoing in the 2G spectrum allocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vinod-rai-pm-must-apologise-to-nation-says-cong-leader/article37315813.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates arts college at Kolathur||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday inaugurated the Arulmigu Kapaleeswarar Arts and Science College at Kolathur. The college will function from a building belonging to a private school for the current academic year, and thereafter will move to a five-acre property belonging to the Somanathaswami temple. The detailed project report is under preparation for the college. Mr. Stalin presented books and bags to students. A total of 210 students have enrolled. This year, the cost of books and fees of the students would be borne by Mr. Stalin. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) P.K. Sekarbabu had announced in the Assembly the setting up of 10 arts and science colleges in the State to be managed by various temples. Colleges at Namakkal and Dindigul are expected to commence classes soon. RMK Group’s R.S. Munirathnam presented Rs. 10 lakh towards the Department’s general fund. Madras University Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri presented Rs. 5 lakh from her personal funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-arts-college-at-kolathur/article37315789.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No T.N. candidate in top 20 NEET ranks||This year, no candidate from the State was placed in the top 20 ranks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test’s (NEET) merit list. The first candidate from Tamil Nadu is ranked 23 in the country. S.A. Geethanjali, who scored 710 marks, shares the spot with M. Pravin, S.K. Prasenjithan and R. Arvind, all of whom have scored the same marks, but have been ranked further down. T. Archithaa and M.B. Hayagrivas, both with a score of 705, will probably qualify for the second rank in the State merit list. Medical education officials said they would wait for clarification from the State government on the reservation policy, before issuing a notification regarding admissions. The minimum qualifying mark to be eligible for admission this year for the unreserved (general category) is 138, as against 147 the last year. For other communities, it is 108. Last year, it was 113. In 2020, the qualifying marks for the category was reduced to 134, during the mop-up round counselling for deemed universities, by the Director General of Health Services. It is possible that a similar scenario will pan out this year as well. This means that qualifying marks could drop by a few points.  With a total of 9,100 seats, including 1,560 in deemed universities, the State is comfortably poised to accommodate more students. This could, to some extent, also reduce cut-off marks for candidates aspiring for medical admissions. “Since we have 11 new colleges and students from other parts of the country will not opt for them, it is safe to assume that our students will take all 1,450 seats in the new colleges,” said R. Prasad Manne, who has been coaching students from under-privileged backgrounds. Only when the Education Department releases the details of students who have qualified from government schools, will a clearer picture of their performance and eligibility emerge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-tn-candidate-in-top-20-neet-ranks/article37315810.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TIIC, SIDM, CII sign agreement to facilitate defence manufacturing in MSMEs||A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed on Tuesday between the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Limited (TIIC) Limited, the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) and the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) to proactively catalyse and facilitate defence manufacturing in the MSME sector. The MoU was signed in the presence of Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu. Through this partnership, in the first phase ‘Champion MSME Industries’ in each of the five nodes of the Tamil Nadu Defence Corridor in Chennai, Tiruchi, Coimbatore, Salem and Hosur will be identified. They will be enabled with guidance and support for enhancing their managerial and technical capabilities to meet the demands of the defence sector, an official release said. “The partnership intended to address the needs of the MSME sector in meeting the defence indigenisation and manufacturing requirements, skillset development, infrastructure buildup and investment promotion in defence manufacturing ecosystem in the State,” it said. TIIC chairman and managing director Hans Raj Verma, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam, Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. chairman and managing director Pankaj Kumar Bansal, President of SIDM and Senior Executive Vice-President for L&T's Defence Business Jayant D Patil, Chairman, CII - Tamilnadu State Council S. Chandrakumar, Director General of SIDM Sunil K Misra, CII's Southern Regional Director N.M.P Jeyesh and CII – Tamilnadu Director & Head S. Kannan were present. Eminent defence scientist A. Sivathanu Pillai shared his views.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiic-sidm-cii-sign-agreement-to-facilitate-defence-manufacturing-in-msmes/article37315817.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Passenger survey by CMRL long overdue’||According to urban planning experts, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) needs to conduct a survey to identify the profile of its commuters, and zero in on the additional facilities required to encourage more people to start using the services. Six years in, CMRL has not taken up any survey so far. Sources said they were planning to do one two years back, but it never saw the light of the day. Experts said any mass rapid transit system should do a survey or a quick market research to understand its passengers’ needs. They could also do a customer satisfaction survey, like the Delhi Metro Rail, and get their feedback on aspects, including accessibility, reliability and quality of service. T. Elangovan, former Director of the National Transportation Planning and Research Centre, said CMRL should at least do a quick market research to better understand its commuters. “They should know who is travelling in their system, their age group, how they commute to the station and where they head to and other such details. It will aid in formulating measures to increase ridership or to add comfort to passengers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passenger-survey-by-cmrl-long-overdue/article37315791.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to hold protests over dam||The AIADMK on Tuesday said it would organise agitations in five districts on November 9 to condemn the alleged “indifferent attitude” of the DMK Government over the storage of water in the Mullaperiyar dam. Agitations will be organised in Theni, Madurai, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts. In a joint statement, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said whenever the DMK had come to power, the rights of the State had been compromised due to political pressure and the party’s selfishness. “It is condemnable that the DMK Government remains a silent spectator when the Supreme Court judgment [over storing water in the Mullaperiyar dam] is being questioned,” the AIADMK leaders said. Only if the water is stored at 152 feet, will remote areas in Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram receive water for irrigation and domestic consumption, they said. “Submitting to the Kerala government, which has been repeating unfounded claims over the dam, the Tamil Nadu Government raised the sluices...,” the leaders said, adding that the act had led to questions over the rights of Tamil Nadu over the dam. They said the DMK government should be mindful of its duties and act to protect the livelihood of farmers, keeping in mind the State’s rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-to-hold-protests-over-dam/article37315801.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS slams DMK over schemes for SL Tamils||Countering Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s charge that the AIADMK Government had not implemented any welfare measure for Sri Lankan Tamils in the State, Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday hit out at the ruling DMK. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran had stood by the Sri Lankan Tamils in the 1980s. “At the same time, Tamils globally know who created TESO and TELO and brought a divide among the Sri Lankan Tamils and used them for political means,” he said. No amount of false claims can eclipse the various measures taken by the AIADMK Governments under MGR and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa for the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamils, he said. Alleging that former DMK leader and Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had undertaken a “seven-hour fasting drama” during the Eelam war in 2009, he said, “It is hard to forget that many innocent Sri Lankan Tamils were killed in the bombardment by the Sri Lankan military after they came out of the bunkers on the statement made by Karunanidhi that the Sri Lankan military had announced a ceasefire.” He said during the AIADMK regime, various welfare measures for the Eelam Tamil refugees were undertaken through the Commissionerate of Rehabilitation and Welfare of Non Resident Tamils, since June 2011. Besides ensuring basic amenities in the rehabilitation camps and financial aid for them, essential commodities from PDS shops were also being given. Free education and free laptops were given to the Sri Lankan Tamils. Financial aid under various social security schemes were also extended to them, he said. He said when he was the Chief Minister, he had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah to seek dual citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees in India. “The AIADMK was never ‘double-faced’ like the DMK,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-slams-dmk-over-schemes-for-sl-tamils/article37315802.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People throng five bus termini ahead of Deepavali||Nearly 2 lakh passengers have travelled from the city to different destinations in the State in the past two days, ahead of Deepavali, through regular and special buses operated by the State Transport Department. Around 1.1 lakh passengers have pre-booked tickets for buses that will be operated till Wednesday. A senior official of the State Transport Department said 10,000 buses, including special one, would be operated from the city to various parts of the State from November 1 to 3. As part of the special operations in the past two days, 4,800 buses have been operated till Tuesday evening. While the number of passengers was low in the morning, the five bus termini witnessed heavy rush in the evening, he said Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan, along with senior officials of the department, inspected the operation of special buses at the Koyambedu bus terminus on Tuesday evening. During his inspection, he interacted with passengers to get feedback on the facilities. The department is operating special and regular buses from five bus termini, including Madhavaram (bound for Uthukottai via Red Hills, Ponneri and Gummidipoondi), K.K. Nagar (Puducherry and Cuddalore via ECR), Tambaram MEPZ (Tindivanam, Vikravandi, Panruti, and Kumbakonam), Poonamallee (Kancheepuram, Vellore, Arani, Arcot, Thirupathur, and Dharmapuri) and Koyambedu (Nagapattinam, Velankanni, Tiruchi, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Salem, and Coimbatore). Similarly, the department will be operating nearly 10,000 buses from various parts of the State to the city from November 5 to 8 to help passengers return from their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-five-bus-termini-ahead-of-deepavali/article37315822.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Attendance registers should be only in alphabetical order: Corpn.||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Tuesday issued a circular directing all schools under its control to list the names of students in their attendance registers only in alphabetical order, a senior official said. The Corporation’s directive to all schools comes a day after The Hindu published a report that one of its school listed students in the attendance register on the basis of caste classification and not in alphabetical order. However, the circular to the schools was not made available in the public domain as yet. The headmistress of the primary school which had the controversial attendance registers has been transferred, an official said. “In case the school management needed to maintain details of the students’ caste categories for administrative or scholarship purposes, a separate register has to be maintained, and it cannot be merged with the attendance register,” the official said. The Corporation runs 281 primary, middle, high and higher secondary schools. Meanwhile, a source said the school in question withdrew its batches divided on the basis of the old attendance register, and fresh batches were formed with new attendance registers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attendance-registers-should-be-only-in-alphabetical-order-corpn/article37315795.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur boy scores 710, secures AIR 43||A candidate from Thanjavur, R. Arvind, has scored 710 in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). He has been ranked 43 in the country. A student of Blossoms Public School, Arvind has cleared NEET in the first attempt. He aims to be admitted to Thanjavur Medical College. “My mother did D. pharm in Thanjavur Medical College. Since I was in class 8, whenever we passed through the college my mother used to tell me about it. She wanted me to go to the college as a legacy. It was in class 11 that I started preparing for NEET. Since I could not go out anywhere I used most of my time to prepare for NEET,” he said. After completing the syllabus, he began working out the NEET test papers of 2019 and 2020. “They said it was an easy paper and so I worked them out. In the last two months I used flash cards. I aligned my preparations with NCERT. The main focus was on NCERT and stay true with it for facts,” he said. “In the last few days I used to take a lot of tests.. I used flash cards to revise notes for the last two months. I expected the marks that I got. I suspected I had made mistakes in two questions and when I checked at home I had made mistakes in those two questions,” he added. His mother Velambal who is currently employed as an LIC employee, said he had prepared on his own. Her husband, Ravichandran, is an assessment officer in the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. His sister is doing her third year in National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-boy-scores-710-secures-air-43/article37315895.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health centre gets new dialysis machine||A new haemodialysis machine was inaugurated at TANKER (Tamilnad Kidney Research) Foundation Dialysis Centre functioning at the urban community health centre, Perungudi, on November 1. According to a press release, TANKER Foundation, a non-profit charitable organisation, runs 12 dialysis units in the State, helping 670 patients with free and subsidised dialysis. The 12th machine in the Perungudi unit was inaugurated by Additional Director General of Police K. Jayanth Murali. The Perungudi dialysis unit started with 10 machines TANKER Foundation’s founder-trustee Georgi Abraham pointed out how donations were vital for the organisation to serve the underprivileged. Managing-trustee of the foundation Latha A. Kumaraswami said so far, TANKER has done more than 4 lakh free and subsidised dialysis through their 12 dialysis centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-centre-gets-new-dialysis-machine/article37315790.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No change in Tamil New Year’s day||The DMK Government will continue to observe April 14 as Tamil New Year, going by the list of public holidays for the year 2022, notified in a government order on Tuesday. During the last Karunanidhi regime (2006-11), the first day of the Tamil month ‘Thai’ (around January 14) was declared as Tamil New Year instead of April 14 (Chithirai). However, this decision was reversed by the subsequent Jayalalithaa government. The government on Tuesday announced the list of 23 public holidays for the government offices and all commercial banks, including cooperative banks across the State under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 for 2022. The public holidays for 2022 are: New Year's Day (January 1, Saturday), Pongal (January 14, Friday), Thiruvalluvar Day (January 15, Saturday), Uzhavar Thirunal (January 16, Sunday), Thai Poosam (January 18, Tuesday), Republic Day (January 26, Wednesday), Annual closing of Accounts for Commercial Banks & Co-operative Banks (April 1, Friday) Telugu New Year's Day (April 2, Saturday), Tamil New Year's Day, Dr. B.R.Ambedkar’s Birthday and Mahaveer Jayanthi (April 14, Thursday), Good Friday (April 15), May Day (May 1, Sunday) Ramzan (Idul Fitr) (May 3, Tuesday), Bakrid (Idul Azha) (July 10, Sunday), Muharram (August 9, Tuesday), Independence Day (August 15, Monday), Krishna Jayanthi (August 19, Friday), Vinayakar Chathurthi (August 31, Wednesday), Gandhi Jayanthi (October 2, Sunday), Ayutha Pooja (October 4, Tuesday), Vijaya Dasami (October 5, Wednesday), Milad-un-Nabi (October 9, Sunday), Deepavali (October 24, Monday) and Christmas (December 25, Sunday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-change-in-tamil-new-years-day/article37315803.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘My duty is to fight for quota restoration’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday urged Vanniyar youth not to lose heart over the Madras High Court’s verdict quashing the 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyars within the 20% Most Backward Classes quota and said that it was his duty to fight for its restoration. In a letter addressed to Vanniyar youth, he said: “We have not been defeated. It has been announced that we have been defeated. That’s all. The Madras HC verdict is not beyond criticism. There are several holes in the judgment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/my-duty-is-to-fight-for-vanniyar-quota-restoration/article37315814.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore city receives good rain at the start of North East Monsoon||Coimbatore city received the maximum rain in the district at 52 mm on Monday, showed the rainfall data recorded by the Agro Climate Research Centre at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. Monday’s rainfall exceeded the rainfall received in Cincona, Valparai, Chinnakalar, Sholayar and a few other places that very often recorded good precipitation. And, this marked the arrival of North East Monsoon, said sources. The overnight rainfall saw water entering low-lying areas and inundating underpasses. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation said all underpasses in the city – Avinashi Road, North Coimbatore, Kaleeswara Mill, Ramnagar-Shastri Road, SIHS Colony, and Ondipudur Weavers’ Colony were filled with rainwater. The Corporation started the work to pump out water from most underpasses only on Tuesday morning. Barring the Avinashi Road underpass, it was able to remove water after a couple of hours of working the motors. At the Avinashi Road underpass, so much was the water stagnation in the morning that it was only a foot or two beneath the casing covering the railway track. The Corporation hoped to completely remove the water only by late afternoon, but it would not be able to if rain resumed, the sources said. The Corporation had closed the underpass for traffic. The Corporation sources also said water entered a few houses in Konavaikalpalayam, Muthusamy Colony, Brindha Nagar near Ponnaiahrajapuram, Pullukadu, CMC Colony on Variety Hall Road and a few other localities. The civic body deployed sullage lorries to draw out water. No major case of inundation of houses was reported, the sources said. The Corporation had readied sandbags as a precautionary measure. Sources in the Water Resources Department said Kolarampathi, Narasampathi, Krishnampathi, Selvampathi, Kumarasami, Selvachinthamani, Ganganarayana Samudram, Sottaiandikuttai, Kuniamuthur Sengulam, Ukkadam Periyakulam (Big Tank), Valankulam, Kurichi, Vellalore, Singanallur, Odderpalayam, Kannampalayam, Irugur, Sulur Big Tank and Semmandampalayam – all tanks in the River Noyyal system – were full. Following Monday’s rain, the Department had opened sluices in those tanks and was continuously monitoring the situation. The rainfall recorded at 8 a.m. on Tuesday for the preceding 24 hours was - Annur 4mm, Mettupalayam 29.1mm, Cincona 3mm, Chinnakalar 19mm, Valparai PAP area 6mm, Valparai Taluk 5mm, Sholayar 10mm, Aliyar 11mm, Sulur 35mm, Pollachi 35mm, Coimbatore South 52mm, Airport 26mm, P.N. Palayam 14.20mm and TNAU 51mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-city-receives-good-rain-at-the-start-of-north-east-monsoon/article37315838.ece
03 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||High cotton and yarn prices hit textile units||With a steep hike in cotton yarn prices by some of the textile mills recently, the value-adding textile units have sought measures to bring down the prices. The garment units are expected to slow down purchase of yarn for the next few days and the mills are also expected to bring down cotton purchase for two weeks, till cotton arrivals pick up. The price of 40s count cotton yarn increased 60 % in the last one year, said A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council. Apparel exporters are unable to book orders and the textile mill associations should urge their members to bring stability to yarn prices, he said. The governments should also take steps to control yarn exports and talk to all the stakeholders, he said. The South India Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association said the Cotton Corporation of India should ensure that MSME textile mills get cotton at affordable prices and it should not increase prices of cotton when the arrivals slow down. The Central and State governments should ensure stability of cotton and yarn prices, it said. According to K. Gopalakrishnan, president of Karur Textile Manufacturers and Exporters’ Association, the yarn price hike threatens to stifle the growth of the entire textile sector. The cost of other inputs are also on the rise and the exporters are losing the confidence of the international buyers. Ravi Sam, chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association, said price of Sankar-6 variety of cotton has increased from Rs. 55,000 per candy during the beginning of September to Rs. 67,000 per candy now. On the recent yarn price increase by a few spinning mills manufacturing hosiery yarn in the State, Mr. Ravi Sam said these mills had not increased the yarn price for the past three months though the cotton price increased over Rs. 12,000 per candy during the same period. Though these mills were hoping for reduction in cotton prices to maintain the same yarn price, spurt in cotton prices have forced these mills to increase the yarn price by around Rs. 50 per kg. Majority of the hosiery yarn manufacturing spinning mills increased the yarn prices steadily and the increase is to the tune to Rs. 60- Rs. 70 per kg for the same counts especially in North India. He also advised the spinning mills to be cautious and extend full cooperation to the downstream sectors. T. Rajkumar, Chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, has appealed to the Prime Minister to intervene to stabilise the cotton prices. He sought Cotton Price Stabilisation Fund Scheme comprising 5% interest subvention or loan at NABARD rate of interest and reduction in margin money from 25% to 10% apart from increase in the cotton working capital limit from three to nine months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-cotton-and-yarn-prices-hit-textile-units/article37315823.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Overcoming odds, girl from tribal settlement clears NEET||A girl belonging to a Scheduled Tribe (ST) from a settlement near Pichanur in Coimbatore district has cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in her second attempt, scoring 202 out of 720 marks. M. Shangavi, 19, from the Malasar tribal community, who became the first person to complete Class XII in her tribal settlement in 2018, has now become the first to clear NEET in her settlement. Currently residing near Rottigounden Pudur in Madukkarai taluk, she was in the news in 2020 for her long-drawn struggle to receive community certificate, which she later got after intervention from the Collector. She told The Hindu on Tuesday that amid a two-year struggle to get her community certificate last year, her father died and her mother was undergoing treatment for cataract in both eyes. Through assistance from various NGOs, Ms. Shangavi enroled at a private coaching institute in Saravanampatti earlier this year, but could not continue attending physical classes due to the lockdown. “I prepared using State Board textbooks and the study materials provided by [the coaching institute],” she said. She attempted NEET in 2018 after completing Class XII, but could not clear the exam. She studied Class XI and XII at the Government Higher Secondary School in Pichanur. The cut-off score for ST candidates who appeared for NEET 2021 ranges from 108 to 137. Having scored above the cut-off range, Ms. Shangavi said she aspires to study medicine at a government-run medical college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overcoming-odds-girl-from-tribal-settlement-clears-neet/article37315808.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore industries pay bonus||Almost all the industries in Coimbatore have paid bonus to workers, say trade union leaders here. M. Arumugam of AITUC said most of the private textile mills had paid bonus at least 2 % to 3 % higher than last year. “Textiles sector is doing good and they have paid bonus higher than last year,” he said. NTC The Regional Labour Commissioner at Mumbai held talks with management of the National Textile Corporation and the trade union leaders last week and asked the NTC to pay bonus to the workers. The NTC officials said that they were waiting for funds from the Union government, he added. With regard to the engineering units, the union leaders pointed out that just about 10 % of the industries had trade unions. In the units that had unions, the workers received the same level of bonus as last year or slightly higher. Even pumpset units that were facing a slump in demand paid bonus to the workers, said C. Duraisamy, general secretary of engineering workers union, CITU. Legal course On the construction front, the unions had placed a demand to the builders’ association. If there was no response, the unions planned to take the legal course so that all workers in the sector got bonus. “Conservancy workers on contract with the Coimbatore Corporation and the construction workers should be brought under bonus,” said Selvaraj of the construction workers union affiliated to AITUC. Micro units The micro units in the district paid whatever amount they could as bonus. “It is impossible to retain the workers if we do not pay bonus. So each unit owner has managed to pay at least the minimum bonus by arranging finance through different sources,” said J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cotton and Tiny Enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-industries-pay-bonus/article37315831.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ex-policeman nabbed during burglary||Residents of Senthil Nagar at Karumathampatti near here caught an ex-policeman who attempted to escape with his accomplice after burgling a house in the area on Tuesday. R. Muneeswaran (35), who was ousted from the police force in 2019 for wrongdoings, was caught in the act. A native of Thiruppuvanam in Sivaganga district, Muneeswaran was arrested in December 2020 for snatching gold chains from two women. He came out of prison on bail a few months ago, said the police. Muneeswaran and another man broke open the house of K. Nirmala at Senthil Nagar around 12.20 a.m. on Tuesday. Ms. Nirmala had gone to her mother’s house. One of the neighbours heard sounds from Ms. Nirmala’s house and alerted others in the locality over phone. As neighbours rushed to the house, the burglars attempted to escape They caught Muneeswaran while his accomplice managed to escape, the police said. The burglars had taken a laptop and silver articles from the house. The police have intensified searches for Muneeswaran’s accomplice. According to the police, Muneeswaran belonged to the 2011-batch and he was initially attached to Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion IV at Kovaipudur. Later, he was moved to the Armed Reserve of Coimbatore City Police. He was expelled from service in 2019 following his involvement in various offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-policeman-nabbed-during-burglary/article37315832.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man gets three years jail for murder attempt||The Second Additional Subordinate Court, Coimbatore, on Monday sentenced a 25-year-old man to undergo three years of imprisonment for attempting to murder his relative in 2016. The Madukkarai police had arrested Dinesh Kumar of Valukkuparai near Madukkarai on June 3, 2016 on charges of attempting to murder his aunt’s sister Amritam (58). According to the police, Ms. Amritam was staying with her sister and brother-in-law Palanisamy at Valukkuparai. Kumar, Mr. Palanisamy’s nephew, used to visit the house and ask money from Amritam for his coconut business. The police said Kumar went to the farm belonging to Mr. Palanisamy on June 3, 2016 and collected coconut which Ms. Amritam questioned. Kumar pushed down the woman and assaulted her on head with a stone. The Madukkarai police arrested Kumar based on a complaint lodged by Mr. Palanisamy. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 3,000 on Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-three-years-jail-for-murder-attempt/article37315840.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 12,000 petitions received in Makkal Sabai events in Coimbatore||Over 12,000 petitions were received at the Makkal Sabai events conducted in the district in the last two days, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji said here on Monday after participating in the events in Coimbatore Corporation West Zone. A release from the civic body said the Minister participated in events held in six wards in the Zone and received petitions from the residents there. Following Chief Minister’s order to meet the public at their locality to redress their grievances, there would be 100 Makkal Sabai events at one each a ward in the city and 50 in areas outside the city. All State government department officials would be present at the events. Mr. Senthilbalaji said he had instructed officials to act at once on petitions seeking old age pension. Likewise, he would take to the Chief Minister the problems reported by those in the jewellery business to provide a permanent solution. Water supply One of the issues that had come to his attention in the last two days was disparity in water supply in the city. Wherever the water supply was once in nine days, he had asked Corporation officials to look into it and ensure that all wards received water once in two days. Drainage Likewise, he had also asked the Corporation engineers to draw up a scheme to provide underground drainage service to those areas that were excluded from UGD coverage. The Corporation release also said the Minister highlighted various achievements the State government had made since assuming office in May this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-12000-petitions-received-in-makkal-sabai-events-in-coimbatore/article37315839.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform police about absence during holidays’||In the wake of continuing housebreaks in urban and rural areas, the police have appealed to people to inform them about long absence from homes during Deepavali holidays. Residents can inform Coimbatore City Police at 94981-81213 (control room) and 81900-00100 (WhatsApp). Coimbatore District (Rural) Police can be reached at 94981-81212 (control room) and 77081-00100 (WhatsApp). In case of emergencies, the public can dial 100. Rural Police said that residents could also share the information about their locked houses via SaKo (Safe Kovai) mobile application. Based on the alerts received, each police station would check locked houses in its limits during patrols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inform-police-about-absence-during-holidays/article37315833.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant attacks mahout in ATR||A mahout was injured in the attack of a camp elephant at the Kozhikamuthi elephant camp of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve near Top Slip on Monday. A Forest Department official said the mahout, Jayachandran (45), was attacked by the elephant when he was taking care of it. Jayachandran was admitted to a private hospital at Pollachi. His condition was stable, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-attacks-mahout-in-atr/article37315824.ece
03 November 2021||Coimbatore/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Take precautions while celebrating Deepavali: people told||The Coimbatore district administration has urged people to celebrate Deepavali with safety precautions. In a release, the administration said crackers and fireworks should be used at open places after ensuring there were no inflammable materials nearby. While storing fireworks, it should be kept in closed containers and children should light those only under the supervision of elders in the family. At the place of lighting fireworks, there should be a bucket of water in the vicinity and after completing lightworks, children should dump those only in a bucket with water, the release said. The release further said children should not light crackers on hand, not place crackers near lit candles, not wear silk or easily inflammable clothes and not throw crackers on those moving on road. ‘Don’t use sanitisers’ And, it added that people should not use sanitisers while lighting crackers or fire workers. Tiruppur Collector S. Vineeth appealed to the residents of Tiruppur district to burst only green crackers between 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. In a release, he said the public must avoid bursting joined crackers (sara vedi) and bursting any crackers near fire-prone areas such as huts. “Let us celebrate this Deepavali as a festival of light in an environment-friendly manner rather than bursting noise and smoke emitting crackers,” Mr. Vineeth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-precautions-while-celebrating-deepavali-people-told/article37315830.ece
03 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Only green crackers allowed for Deepavali: TNPCB||The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has issued directives on bursting of firecrackers on Deepavali in the district. The Board has flagged the effects of firecrackers on health and environment. Bursting of firecrackers would cause temporary or permanent deafness, and severe respiratory diseases. The pollution caused by crackers would affect air, land and water and the high decibel noise causes trauma to animals, the Board has said. In its wake, only ‘green crackers’ may be used to celebrate the festival. Citing the Supreme Court order of October 2018 that forbid bursting of polluting crackers with high emissions and called for sale and use of “green crackers”, the TNPCB has urged the public to use “only low emission, less polluting green crackers”. Less polluting, low decibel, low emission crackers shall be used between 6 a.m to 7 a.m and 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Deepavali. Bursting of firecrackers is prohibited in silence zones such as hospitals, schools, courts, religious places and in the vicinity of vulnerable structures such as huts and fire-prone areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-green-crackers-allowed-for-deepavali-tnpcb/article37315908.ece
03 November 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Team of officials inspects school buses||A team of officials from various departments, led by Collector S. Visakan, inspected school buses for road worthiness here on Tuesday. As the schools are being reopened in phases, the school buses were being inspected to ensure safety for the travelling students. The inspection was held at the RTO office ground on the Collectorate premises. The Collector said that the officials would check whether the buses complied with the safety norms as per the Motor Vehicles (Regulation and Control of School Buses) Special Rules 2012. During the joint inspection, the officials would check for effectiveness of braking system, the condition of tyres, footboard, doors and windows. Besides, the officials will also check whether the emergency exits were in working condition and also the stability of the bus floor. The officials will also ensure that the buses had speed governors, fire-fighting equipment, first-aid box and closed circuit television cameras. They would also check whether the drugs in the first-aid box had validity for usage and whether the fire extinguishers were properly maintained. Stating that the bus drivers should not speak on their mobile phone while driving, the Collector said that phone numbers of the school should be displayed on the back of the buses to help members of public to lodge complaints in case of rash driving by the drivers. Besides, the contact numbers of the local police station and the RTO office number should also be displayed. A total of 718 buses would be inspected by the officials from RTO, police, Fire and Rescue Services, and only those buses that complied with all the rules will be given permission to operate them, he said. Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan, Additional Collector (DRDO) C. Dinesh Kumar, RDO (Dindigul) M. Kasiselvi were among those who were present.  The officials will check effectiveness of braking system, tyre condition, footboard, doors and windows Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-of-officials-inspects-school-buses/article37315902.ece
03 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Buses diverted to ease traffic flow in Erode||To ensure free movement of shoppers and to prevent traffic congestion, buses were denied permission to ply through bazaar areas here from Tuesday afternoon. Buses from Salem, Tiruchengode, Namakkal moving towards Erode through Pallipalayam were diverted through Cauvery Road, K.N.K. Road, Moolapattarai Krishna Chetty Street to reach the bus stand. Buses moving through Manikoondu to reach the bus stand were diverted through Panneerselvam Park, Saveetha Junction and Vasuki Street. Likewise, buses from Coimbatore and Tiruppur coming through Perundurai were diverted through Perundurai Road, M.G.R. Statue Junction, Mettur Road, Royal Theatre and reach the bus stand. Buses from Dharapuram, Kangeyam, Kodumudi, Karur and Dindigul were diverted through Kalaimadu Silai Junction, M.G.R. Statue Junction, Mettur Road and Royal Theatre to reach the bus stand. Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release asked the bus drivers and conductors not to run their vehicles jam-packed and to halt vehicles only at bus stops. Since vehicle parking is a major concern during festival season on R.K.V. Road, at Panneerselvam Park, Manikoondu and other locations where commercial establishments are located, the district administration has created temporaray parking spaces on school grounds. Two-wheelers can be parked at the Government Girls High School on K.N.K. Road, near Gandhi Statue, at the Government Elementary School on K.N.K. Road, at Krishna Theatre on R.K.V. Road and at C.S.I. Higher Secondary School. Four wheelers can be parked at Star Theatre on Park Road and at C.S.I. Higher Secondary School premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buses-diverted-to-ease-traffic-flow-in-erode/article37315916.ece
03 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,200 policemen deployed across Erode||To prevent incidents of crime and to ensure a safe Deepavali, the district police have deployed over 1,200 police personnel across the district. A release from the Police Department said that in view of continuous holidays for the festival, people were commuting in large numbers and the market areas were witnessing heavy crowd. To prevent incidents of crime, over 1,200 personnel monitored by Superintendent of Police V. Sasimohan have been deployed across the district. Additional personnel have been posted in the city to prevent traffic congestion and they were being assisted by volunteers. For swift action in case of fire accidents during the festival, steps were taken for working in coordination with the Departments of Fire and Rescue Services and Health. The release said that awareness programmes were conducted for the people for safe celebration of Deepavali. The release also added that 15 watch towers were installed in the city to monitor crowd and safety messages were disseminated through public address systems. Police personnel were deployed in Sathyamangalam, Perundurai, Gobichettipalayam, Anthiyur, Bhavani and Kodumudi for crowd monitoring. The release requested people to burst crackers only during the permitted time without causing any inconvenience to the neighbours or disrupting vehicle movement. People were asked to follow COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1200-policemen-deployed-across-erode/article37315911.ece
03 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted income found during IT raid on SKM group||The Income Tax Department has detected unaccounted income of over Rs. 300 crore during the raid carried out at SKM Group of companies, from October 27. A release from the Central Board of Direct Taxes said that searches were carried out at the group, which is engaged in the manufacture of animal feed, poultry, farming, edible oils and export of egg products. Raids began on October 27, covering 40 premises located in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala, during which several incriminating documents and materials in the form of electronic data were found and seized. The seized documents indicate that the group is involved in suppressing its income in different ways such as inflating expenses, including booking bogus purchases, under-invoicing of sales and also by non-reflecting scrap/by-products sales in their regular book of accounts. The analysis of seized documents also shows that unaccounted income generated has been invested in acquisitions and construction of various immovable properties and also in meeting of unaccounted-for expenses. The search has resulted in the seizure of unaccounted-for cash of Rs. 3.3 crore and the detection of unaccounted-for income exceeding Rs. 300 crore, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-income-found-during-it-raid-on-skm-group/article37315825.ece
03 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 71 new cases, one death||Erode district on Tuesday reported 71 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,04,441. While 82 persons were discharged, 747 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 687. Salem district reported 59 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,00,013. While 58 persons were discharged, 589 are under treatment. Namakkal district reported 45 cases and the overall tally rose to 52,335. While 52 persons were discharged, 482 are under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 500. While 114 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday, Tiruppur district recorded 65 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-71-new-cases-one-death/article37315909.ece
03 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Ganja found in train||The Criminal Investigation Division of the Southern Railway found nine kg ganja in an unclaimed bag in train no.13351 Dhanbad - Alappuzha Express at the Erode Railway Junction. Inquiries revealed that ganja was smuggled from Andhra Pradesh.   A 45-year-old man who had stocked firecrackers without licence was arrested by the police at Arachalur here on Tuesday. Based on a tip-off, the police raided the house of Paramasivam at Kongu Nagar in Arachalur and found firecrackers worth Rs. 40,000. Police seized the crackers and arrested the man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganja-found-in-train/article37315920.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Cricket betting gang busted||The Special Operations Team of Madhapur Zone on Tuesday announced the arrest of seven persons accused of organising cricket betting of the England–Sri Lanka T20 cricket match. Police identified the accused as 44-year-old Dharam Singh, 36-year-old Ashish Kaliya, 42-year-old Manoj Kumar, 26-year-old Yogesh Singh, 41-year-old Arun Kumar Sharma, 34-year-old Mahender Singh and 32-year-old Kamal Kumar Meena. All the accused are residents of Hyderabad, except Meena who is from Jaipur, Rajasthan. The main organiser, identified as Kashif Umar, a resident of Maharashtra, Chanrapal and Azhar, both from Hyderabad are absconding, police said. According to police, bookies Dharam Sing, Ashish and Manoj Kumar, who are connected to several other bookies, were organising cricket betting from Gachibowli. They instructed Mahendar Singh and Meena, Arun and Yogesh to operate the communicator board, and laptop which are connected through main line. The accused allegedly got in touch with punters from Dhoolpet, Puranapool, and Nampally areas and on the instructions of bookies, these punters allegedly placed bets. “The profit and loss of the gamblers/punters can be seen from time to time in the online betting apps like ‘Live Line Guru, Cricket Buzz and Cricket Mazza, among others,’ which is provided by the agents,” police said in a statement. As much as Rs. 15.10 lakh in cash, 11 smartphones, a communicator board, three laptops, a car, and two wheelers were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cricket-betting-gang-busted/article37315663.ece
03 November 2021||Idukki,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reduces discharge to Periyar to nominal level||Tamil Nadu reduced the discharge of water to the Periyar to a nominal level on Tuesday evening following a decline in the water level at the Mullaperiyar dam. Spillway shutters 1, 5 and 6 of the dam were closed in the morning, with shutters 2, 3 and 5 remaining open at 50 cm. The water discharge stood at 453 cusecs in the morning, which was reduced to 158 cusecs at 5 p.m. on Tuesday. The water level at 5 p.m. was 138.10 ft and the tunnel discharge stood at 2,305 cusecs. The five-member subcommittee under the supervisory committee appointed by the Supreme Court visited the dam on Tuesday. The subcommittee consists of Central Water Commission Executive Engineer Saravanakumar, engineers of Kerala Water Resources Department N.S. Praseed and Harikumar (representing the State) and Tamil Nadu Public Works Department engineers Sam Irvin and Kumar (representing Tamil Nadu). The water level in the Idukki reservoir downstream of Mullaperiyar dam declined to 2,398.26 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-reduces-mullaperiyar-discharge-to-nominal-level/article37316043.ece
03 November 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 18 lakh stolen from shop||In a major heist, Rs. 18 lakh was stolen from the locker of a textile showroom here in the early hours of Tuesday. The crime came to light on Tuesday morning when the workers returned for duty. Police said the shop was closed by midnight of Monday. The cash was kept in the locker and the keys were with the cashier. When the workers reported for duty at around 9 p.m., they found the locker broken open. However, the locks of the shutter of the shop were intact. The police suspect that the burglars could have gained entry into the shop from the terrace. They were perplexed as to how the culprits could act with so much of precision in terms of the limited period of time they had to break several locks to lay their hands on valuables. The hard disc of the closed circuit television camera network from the shop was also taken away by the burglars. Karaikudi North police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-18-lakh-stolen-from-textile-shop/article37315898.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Adoption case: Kerala HC turns down Anupama’s plea||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday declined to entertain a habeas corpus petition filed by Anupama S. Chandran, former Students Federation of India leader and daughter of a Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader in Thiruvananthapuram, seeking to produce and hand her over the child who has been given up for adoption by her parents. The Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice C. Jayachandran orally observed that there were no reasons why the court should become proactive as the child was not in any illegal custody as of now. In fact, as per an order of the Child Welfare Committee, the child was with a couple in Andhra Pradesh. Moreover, the Thiruvananthapuram family court was already seized of the matter and taking steps on the issue. There was no need for the High Court to interfere in the matter. The court asked counsel for Anupama to think of withdrawing the petition and posted the case on Wednesday to enable the petitioner to take a call. ‘No grounds’ Meanwhile, the relatives of Anupama who were accused of kidnapping her newborn were granted anticipatory bail by the Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram, as the court could not find any grounds to substantiate her allegation. Allowing the plea of her mother, sister, brother-in-law and two others, Sessions Judge Mini S. Das held that though the woman complained that her father forcefully took away the baby and kept her in wrongful confinement, the statement of witnesses showed that even after the incident, she was found comfortable with her parents and relatives. She had also participated in the marriage of her sister in February 2021. The case diary revealed that the woman had occasions to make such a complaint even when residing with her parents. It was also revealed that she had given two affidavits certified by a notary public for the entrustment of the child and taking it back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adoption-case-kerala-hc-turns-down-anupamas-plea/article37315667.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination policy creates two classes of citizens: Kerala HC||Observing orally that the Centre’s vaccination policy has created two classes of citizens — those who received Covaxin and whose movements are restricted and those who received internationally approved Covishield and can go anywhere — the Kerala High Court on Monday said this was violative of the fundamental rights of a citizen. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan made the observations when a writ petition filed by Girikumar Thekkan of Kannur seeking permission to revaccinate himself with Covishield came up for hearing. The court observed that the Centre should resolve the issue within one month or the court would have to direct the Government to pay the salary earned by the petitioner from a company in Saudi Arabia where he could not go as he had received Covaxin. The plight of a Non-Resident Indian who was unable to return to his workplace due to the administration of Covaxin was a clear case of infringement of his fundamental right to movement. His very right to movement was restricted. A citizen was suffering due to a State-sponsored vaccination scheme, the court orally observed. Counsel for the Centre submitted that the COVID-19 vaccination programme was an evolving one guided by constant and systematic review, taking into account emerging scientific evidence, vaccine availability, experience on the ground, and global best practices. Counsel pointed out that a similar case was pending before the Supreme Court in which the apex court had decided to wait for the approval of the vaccine from the World Health Organization before finalising a decision in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-policy-creates-two-classes-of-citizens-kerala-hc/article37315671.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||File affidavit on temple annuity: HC to Govt.||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State Government to file an affidavit in response to a writ petition seeking a directive to the Government to pay the arrears of annuity due to the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple, Thiruvananthapuram. The petition was filed by Shilpa Nair, president, People for Dharma. No revision According to her, the Government had taken over the vast stretch of land in possession of the temple, following the implementation of the Kerala Land Reforms Act, with an assurance of payment of perpetual annuity. An annuity of Rs. 58,500 had been fixed in 1971 in lieu of the compensation for the loss of rent on such land. The annuity had not been revised since then. Now with the COVID-19 crisis, the temple was not in a position to meet even the daily expenses, and had to impose salary cuts. Donations from the public had also fallen drastically. The temple was in dire straits. She sought a directive to the Government to revise the annuity being paid to the temple. A representation was given to the Chief Minister demanding revision of the annual rent on the temple’s properties. It sought to fix the amount at Rs. 25,000 per acre annually and an upward 25% revision every four years. Non-farm land The representation also urged the Government to explore the option of giving back the non-agricultural land, but there had been no response. The functioning of the temple had been severely impaired, infringing the fundamental right of the devotees, the petitioner said. The court also allowed a petition seeking to implead the executive officer of the temple in the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-affidavit-on-temple-annuity-hc-to-govt/article37315673.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Maradu flat owners paid compensation||The 110 apartment owners of Maradu, who had purchased housing units in the demolished apartments, were reimbursed the money they paid to the builders for buying the flats. Of the Rs. 120 crore the apartment owners paid to the builders, Rs. 90 crore was reimbursed. While a part of the money was provided by the State Government, as interim compensation to the apartment owners, a share also came from three of the four builders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maradu-flat-owners-paid-compensation/article37315706.ece
03 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Burns ward set up at govt. hospital in Krishnagiri||A 10-bed serious burns ward has been set up at the government headquarters hospital here on Tuesday. The Krishnagiri Medical College Headquarters Hospital administration has issued guidelines for safe celebration of Deepavali. According to the hospital, children should only be allowed to burst child-friendly crackers in the presence of elders. Bursting of crackers with hands smeared with sanitizers is dangerous and shall cause fire accidents. Children upon lighting sparklers should be guided to discard the remains in a bucket filled with water. Adults should also ensure that water supply is kept nearby to deal with fire accidents. Nylon, and synthetic clothes should be avoided while bursting crackers, the hospital administration has said. Public may contact the emergency number 9499966133 for fire related injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burns-ward-set-up-at-govt-hospital-in-krishnagiri/article37315919.ece
03 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Low-lying areas spotted||Madurai district administration has identified 27 low-lying areas that could be affected during monsoon rain, according to Additional Secretary and Commissioner of Revenue Administration, K. Phanindra Reddy. Among them 12 are in Madurai Corporation limits, one in town panchayat and 14 in rural areas. Chairing a review meeting on state of preparedness to mitigate rain-related adverse impact here on Tuesday, Mr. Phanindra asked the officials to remove all encroachments and wild growth on tanks and desilt drainage channels to ensure free flow of rainwater. The officials should ensure that rainwater is stored to the maximum possible extent without wasting it. Besides, the garbage dumped on the channels should also be removed, he said. He directed the Highways officials to immediately attend to repairs on the roads. Engineers from the Department of Agricultural Engineering were instructed to to repair the checkdams wherever required. The officials of various departments should keep all men and materials for works related to rescue and relief. Public Works Department officials should make arrangements to prevent rainwater entering residential areas. The local bodies must clear water without allowing it to stagnate in low-lying areas. Officials of TANGEDCO should work swiftly to restore power at the earliest when uprooted trees damage electric poles and overhead cables. Adequate number of men and stock of materials should be maintained for that. The Commissioner of Revenue Administration asked the officials to create awareness of preventing loss of lives during rain, and lightning. Efforts should be taken to prevent spreading of water-borne diseases. The district administration is ready with 50 temporary relief camps across the district. Earlier, the officials, along with Collector, S. Aneesh Sekhar, Corporation Commissioner, K.P. Karthikeyan, District Revenue Officer, G. Senthilkumari, and Executive Engineer (Periyar-Vaigai basin division), V. Sugumar, inspected various tanks and channels in and around the city where desilting works have been taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-lying-areas-spotted/article37316110.ece
03 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t burst joined crackers’||Madurai district police have appealed to the Deepavali revelers not to burst joined crackers and burst crackers only during the permitted two hours of time on Deepavali day. In a statement, Madurai Rural District Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said that the State government had permitted bursting of crackers between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. He advised the people not to burst crackers near thatched-roof huts and also where inflammable materials were stocked. Children should not wear loose dresses and also dresses with inflammable material like terrycotton and teylene. ‘Keep water nearby’ People should ensure that a bucket of water is kept ready at the place of bursting crackers and bursting of crackers by children should be under the supervision of elders. Parents should ensure that children do not hold the crackers on their hand while bursting and not amidst crowd. Crackers should be avoided near hospitals and petrol bunks and animals should not be harassed with the crackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-burst-joined-crackers/article37316108.ece
03 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea alleges illegal sand quarrying, river water use||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered notice to the State on a public interest litigation petition that alleged illegal sand quarrying and extraction of water along the Tamirabharani by owners of some brick kilns. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered the notice on the petition filed by G. Pachaiperumal of Thoothukudi district, seeking a direction to authorities concerned to prevent illegal sand quarrying. Main irrigation source The petitioner said the river that flowed through Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts was the main source for irrigation and power generation in these districts. Recently, the State government allocated funds to build a check dam across the river near Sriparankusanallur in Thoothukudi district. The owners of some brick kilns having patta lands near the check dam site were quarrying river sand and using the river water for making bricks. They also encroached on the water catchment area, he said. The petitioner said they were influential people and were running the operations without licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-sand-quarrying-alleged/article37316104.ece
03 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Boy falls down from 5th floor of showroom||A 6-year-old boy fell down from the 5th floor of a multi-storey textile showroom at Palanganatham here after he slipped through a gap along the escalator facility on Tuesday. The boy, M. Nitish Dheena, has been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital with head injuries. After reaching the 5th floor, when the boy was standing on the floor, he touched the moving handrail of the escalator and was pulled. He slipped through a gap and fell on the ground floor at around 11 a.m. The boy who was admitted to first standard had gone to school on Monday when it reopened. On Tuesday, his mother, Kousalya (25), and his aunt, Rathinapriya (28) took him for shopping. Even as they were looking at the products, the boy slipped. “Before, we could reach the ground floor, the boy was taken to a private hospital from where we brought him to the Government Rajaji Hospital,” his aunt said. The women blamed the improper upkeep of the escalator area which was unsafe for children that led to the accident. Subramaniapuram police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-falls-down-from-5th-floor-of-showroom/article37316107.ece
03 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea in High Court seeks permanent building for library||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the authorities to construct a permanent building for the Karambakudi branch library in Pudukottai district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice in the petition filed by S. Shanmugam of Karambakudi. The petitioner said that the library as of now was functioning from a rental building that lacked adequate infrastructure. People were finding it difficult to access the library, he said. Site earmarked He said that a place was already earmarked for the construction of the permanent building in 2014. But, steps were yet to be taken to construct the permanent building. The permanent building should be constructed with adequate infrastructure for the benefit of the students who are preparing for the competitive examinations and the general public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-in-high-court-seeks-permanent-building-for-library/article37315888.ece
03 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Install CCTV cameras at Tahsildar office’||Pointing out the two recent chain snatching incidents within the premises of Ilayangudi Tahsildar office in Sivaganga district, a public interest litigation petition filed before Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday sought a direction to authorities to install CCTV cameras on the office premises. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice in the petition filed by P. Radhakrishnan of Ilayangudi, Sivaganga district. He sought a direction to the authorities to install CCTV cameras at all vantage points in the Tahsildar office and also in government offices where they were not installed. He said that the State government had already issued a government order making it mandatory for the installation of CCTV cameras in all public buildings. The main objective behind this was to prevent corruption and control crime. Since the CCTV cameras were not installed at the Tahsildar’s office, miscreants took advantage of the same and indulged in chain snatching, he said. First, the gold chain of a differently abled woman was snatched within the premises of the Tahsildar’s office and within months, the gold chain of an elderly woman was snatched inside the same office premises. The police officials are unable to identify the accused as there was no CCTV camera on the office premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/install-cctv-cameras-at-tahsildar-office/article37315899.ece
03 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Additional coaches for three trains||Southern Railway has augmented Mysore-Thoothukudi, Chendur and Kollam special trains with additional sleeper coaches to meet the Deepavali rush. Train No. 06236 Mysore - Thoothukudi special scheduled to leave Mysore from November 1 to 3 and Train No. 06235 Thoothukudi - Mysore special scheduled to leave Thoothukudi from November 2 to 4 will have an additional sleeper class coach. Train No. 06105 Chennai Egmore - Tiruchendur Chendur special scheduled to leave Chennai on November 3 and Train No. 06106 Tiruchendur - Chennai Egmore Chendur special scheduled to leave November 7 would have an additional sleeper class coach to and from Tirunelveli. Train No. 06101 Chennai Egmore - Kollam special scheduled to leave Chennai on November 3 would also have an additional sleeper class coach upto Sengottai.  Southern Railway will run the following special trains to clear rush between Chennai and southern districts during the festival holidays: Train No. 06037 Chennai Egmore - Nagercoil Superfast special fare special will leave Chennai Egmore at 10.05 p.m. on November 3 and reach Nagercoil at 11 a.m. the next day. In the return direction, Train No. 06038 Nagercoil - Chennai Egmore Superfast special fare special will leave Nagercoil at 3.10 p.m. on November 5 and reach Chennai Egmore at 5.20 a.m. the next day. Train No. 06040 Tirunelveli – Tambaram special fare special will leave Tirunelveli at 7 p.m. on November 7 and reach Tambaram at 7.55 a.m. the next day. Train No. 06039 Tambaram - Tirunelveli special fare special will leave Tambaram at 4 p.m. on November 8 and reach Tirunelveli at 3 a.m. the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-trains-get-additional-coaches/article37315897.ece
03 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 138.20 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,952 cusecs and a discharge of 2,188 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 62.20 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,940 cusecs and a discharge of 1,369 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,080 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37315900.ece
03 November 2021||Mandya,TAMIL NADU||Finish work on replacing KRS sluice gates: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed the Irrigation Department officials to complete the work on replacement of sluice gates of KRS reservoir before the 2022 deadline. Addressing a gathering after offering bagina to KRS reservoir in Srirangapatna on Tuesday, he said he found that the work on replacement of 136 sluice gates of the dam situated at a height of above 100 ft that had been taken up by the Irrigation Department was proceeding at a slow pace. He directed the officials to take up the work on a ‘war footing’. While paying tributes to Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and his administrator Sir M. Visvesvaraya for building the reservoir, which has become the lifeline of people of Mysuru and Mandya for the last 90 years, Mr. Bommai said protecting and modernising the sluice gates was very much necessary if the dam should continue to be of use to the people for the next 100 years. He recalled that the work on replacement of the sluice gates was taken up in 2008 when he was the Minister for Water Resources. “About 300 cusecs of water was flowing from the dam even when the sluice gates of were closed. And, empty gunny bags were stuffed at the gates to prevent the water from flowing”, he pointed out. The engineers told him that the gates were good enough only for 35 years, but had already been used for 75 years. Hence, a decision was immediately taken to replace the gates, Mr. Bommai recalled. Similarly, Mr. Bommai said all the anecuts in the region, built during the regime of the erstwhile Maharajas, were in a very bad shape. So, immediately directions were issued to take up work on modernising 11 anecuts. “I presume the remaining anecuts too have been modernised now”, he said. Mr. Bommai emphased the need to modernise the Visvesvaraya canal and ensure that the water reaches the tail-end farmers in Malavalli and Maddur. He promised to issue administrative approval for taking up work on renovation of the irrigation canals. The Chief Minister reiterated his government’s resolve to take forward the Mekedatu project. The project will ensure that additional water, after releasing Tamil Nadu’s share, will be impounded in the reservoir and made use for drinking water purpose. The water stored in the reservoir can also be shared equitably between the riparian states during distress years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finish-work-on-replacing-krs-sluice-gates-cm/article37315666.ece
03 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal students make it big in NEET||Two students from Namakkal have topped the NEET rank list in the State with a score of 710 out of 720. S.A. Geethanjali and M. Pravin, both had enrolled at the Green Park coaching centre in Namakkal, and ranked 23rd and 30th respectively at the All-India level.  Another student T. Archithaa scored 705 out of 720 and bagged the second rank in the State. Ms. Geethanjali said she had not expected a State rank. Rigorous preparation led to the success, she said. Attributing his success to regular coaching and effective time management, Mr. Pravin said he wanted to become a cardiologist. He said that his focus on objective type questions from Class IX helped him secure the rank. Mr. Pravin hails from Sandaipettai Pudur in Namakkal. His father, M. Madheswaran, rents out construction material and his mother, M. Jaya, is a homemaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-students-make-it-big-in-neet/article37315828.ece
03 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Credit potential of Rs. 11,330 cr. envisaged for Cuddalore district||The Potential Linked Credit Plan for 2022-23 prepared by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has assessed the credit potential for Cuddalore district at Rs. 11330.63 crore, a projected growth of about 11.6% more than the projections for the current financial year. The PLP (Potential-Linked Credit Plan) forms the basis for finalisation of the Annual Credit Plan (ACP) of the district. The PLP document was released by Cuddalore Collector K. Balasubramaniam at a recent credit outreach programme. R. Vijayalakshmi, Zonal Manager, Indian Bank, M. Vijay Neehar, DDM (District Development Manager), NABARD, P. Aguilane, Lead District Manager (LDM), other bankers and government officials, SHG/JLG members participated in the meeting. Releasing the document, the District Collector advised the banks to allocate more targets towards medium and long-term credit in agriculture as there is good potential to promote farm mechanisation, micro irrigation systems and animal husbandry sector in the district. Mr. Neehar said the PLP projection that was 11.6% more than the ACP target for the 2021-22 fiscal was one of the high points of the current estimates. The PLP for the district, which evolved out of consultations with officials at the Block, District and State-level departments in the government, banks and NGOs, also reflected the national priorities of the Government of India to scale up lending to various sectors of the economy, he said. The share in the PLP estimates - 2022-23 for agriculture sector is Rs. 8,068.16 crore. Keeping in view the recent policy initiatives of Government of India to provide a push to the MSME sector, an amount of Rs. 1,332.97 crore has been estimated for the district. Mr. Aguilane said that based on the potential estimated in the PLP for the coming year, a background paper will be circulated by the lead bank, along with the block-wise / activity-wise potential identified in the plan. Banks will prepare their branch-level credit plans so as to finalise the Block Credit Plans and then District Credit Plan for the year 2022-23. He also indicated that the critical issues and constraints faced by the banks as well as government departments and strategies to be adopted to realise the estimated credit potential have been described in the plan document. He requested the banks to utilise the plan document for achieving their targets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/credit-potential-of-rs-11330-cr-envisaged-for-cuddalore-district/article37316228.ece
03 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Emphasis on time-bound implementation of master plan||The first meeting of the recently-reconstituted governing board of Auroville Foundation has placed emphasis on a time-bound implementation of the master plan (2025-26) that reflects the original vision of the universal township set up in 1968 by Mirra Alfassa, reverentially called “The Mother”. The governing board, which met under the new chairman and Tamil Nadu Governor R. N. Ravi on Tuesday, discussed ways to carry forward the goals in sectors ranging across housing, infrastructure and greening initiatives in Auroville. The board’s endorsement of a renewed thrust on fast-tracking Auroville’s master plan vision also ties in with the year-long 150th birth anniversary year celebrations of Sri Aurobindo, The Mother’s spiritual mentor. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who is also on the nine-member board, also participated in addition to Jayanti Ravi, Secretary, Auroville Foundation. “The message was very clear that the implementation of the master plan has to be expedited,” Ms. Jayanti Ravi told The Hindu . Apart from mooting strengthening of economic activities, especially increasing youth engagement and inviting people who are aligned with the ideals to join Auroville, the board also decided on further greening of the township to offset any potential loss from embarking on the development initiatives. The board members symbolically launched the greening drive by planting saplings near the Bharat Nivas. They also visited the Matrimandir and had interactions with members of the Sri Aurobindo International Institute of Educational Research (SAIIER), the Working Committee and the Town Development Council. An interaction with the Aurovilian community took place at the Unity Pavilion. Auroville’s galaxy plan broadly envisages establishment of four zones — industrial, cultural, residential and international — growing radially out of the Matrimandir, the soul of the township, rather like concentric circles. The zones, each reflecting specific aspects of community life, would be interconnected through what is termed the ‘Crown’, the second circular road around the Matrimandir. The Crown area which will share common land arcs with the four main zones has been conceived as a special feeder zone providing service facilities to support the activities across zones. Also central to the master plan is ringing the city area with a green belt consisting of forested areas, farms and sanctuaries with scattered settlements for those involved in agrarian pursuits. While under the 2025 perspective plan, Auroville would house an integrated global community of 50,000, the focus is now on readying built-up infrastructure to accommodate at least around 15,000 residents who share the Auroville philosophy, a spokesman said. The township now has about 3,000 residents from 54 nations. “The board has conveyed the full support of the Centre in nurturing the township project in accordance with the founding vision because of its international character,” he added. Auroville was conceptualised as a place on earth belonging to none in particular but rather to humanity as a whole, that fosters unending education and serves a bridge between the past and the future. “The board will have quarterly meetings to review the progress of projects in the township”, said Ms. Jayanti Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emphasis-is-on-time-bound-implementation-of-master-plan/article37316230.ece
03 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records one death, 21 fresh cases||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 21 fresh cases from about 2,000 tests on Tuesday. With Puducherry reporting the fatality, the cumulative toll went up to 1,859. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,453), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (47). Puducherry logged 12 of the new cases, which were detected from 1,986 tests, followed by Karaikal (2), Yanam (3) and Mahe (4). The test positivity rate was 1.06%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.25%. With 51 patients recovering from COVID in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 388. Of these, 87 patients were in hospital and 301 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,28,077 cases against 1,25,830 recovered patients.  Meanwhile, 1,110 persons took the vaccine against COVID in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered 11,31,212 vaccine doses. Vellore The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,901 with 20 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 48,581 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 188. In Ranipet district, 8 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,458. Tirupattur district also recorded 8 new cases on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,317. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 15, taking the total to 55,003. Out of this, 54,157 have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-new-covid-19-cases-in-ut/article37315893.ece
03 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Declare Nov. 5 a local holiday in U.T.: Siva||Opposition leader R. Siva urged the government to declare November 5 as a local holiday in the Union Territory. Many employees are from far off places and it would be difficult for them to report for duty next day after celebrating Deepavali, he said in a statement. To compensate for the local holiday, government offices and educational institutions could function on some other day, he said and added that the T.N. Government had declared November 5 as a local holiday. Holiday declared A holiday has been declared on Friday and Saturday for all govt., aided and private schools in Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declare-nov-5-a-local-holiday-in-ut-siva/article37316231.ece
03 November 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in wall collapse||A. Rethinammal, 75, of Thailapagam South Street was killed when a wall of her house collapsed in the early hours of Tuesday. The woman was alone in the house when the wall collapsed. Her head was crushed by the falling debris. Overnight rain is said to have triggered the collapse. Rainfall recorded in the district in the last 24 hours (in mm) is: Ramanathapuram 9.60; Mandapam 20.20; Rameswaram 38.20; Pamban 18.60; Thangachimadam 13.80; Pallamorkulam 5; Tiruvadanai 7; Theerthandathanam 7; Thondi 3.70; Vattanam 3.2; R. S. Mangalam 5; Paramakudi 35.40; Kamuthi 7.6; Kadaladi 10.8;||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-in-wall-collapse/article37315904.ece
03 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC’s special buses run to full capacity||Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has begun operating special buses to clear Deepavali rush. To help people working in other districts reach their native for the festival, the TNSTC Salem Division had announced operation of special buses from Salem and other districts from November 1 to 8. Most of the buses that reached the Salem New Bus Stand from Chennai were fully occupied, while buses from Salem to Namakkal, Karur, Tiruchi and Madurai districts were full from noon. Buses proceeding to Mettur, Edappadi, Erode, Attur and Tiruchengode were fully occupied by passengers who had arrived in Salem city for Deepavali shopping. In Erode, over 200 special buses were operated to Namakkal, Karur, Madurai and Tiruchi starting Monday. Buses to Sathyamangalam, Gobichettipalayam, Mettur and Talavadi were fully occupied. TNSTC officials said that the crowd would be maximum in special buses till November 4. Based on the patronage, more buses would be operated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstcs-special-buses-run-to-full-capacity/article37315914.ece
03 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Six, including SSI, held for cheating finance firm owner||Six persons, including a Special Sub-Inspector, were arrested on charges of cheating a finance firm owner here on Tuesday. The police said that Annachi alias Periyasamy of Ammapettai in Salem promised the victim, M. Palani (36) of Tiruvannamalai district, to provide gold coins at a lesser rate for his gold chit schemes. On Monday, Palani and his friend Bhaskar reached Omalur with cash and were waiting in front of a hotel to collect the coins from Periyasamy. Periyasamy (65), his son Jegan (33) and his brother-in-law Baranidharan arrived in a car and gave the gold coins to Palani. While Palani was counting the coins, two persons reached there on a motorcycle and introduced themselves as police. They took away Rs. 10 lakh from Palani and asked him to come to the police station for inquiry. Suspecting their activities, Palani and Bhaskar nabbed a man, identified as Udhayashankar (28). They took him to the Omalur Police Station. Inquiries revealed that Periyasamy, Jegan, Baranidharan, Udhayashankar, Vijayakumar and an SSI Saravanan of Kondalampatti Police Station were a team involved in cheating Palani. A case was registered and the six were arrested. Police also seized Rs. 5 lakh in counterfeit currencies from the car in which the three accused had arrived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-including-ssi-held-for-cheating-finance-firm-owner/article37315912.ece
03 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rise in water level at Mettur Dam||Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam is nearing 112 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet on Tuesday. Discharge PWD officials said that at 8 a.m. Tuesday, the inflow was 10,858 cusecs and the discharge 500 cusecs into the canal and 100 cusecs into River Cauvery. The water level stood at 111.68 feet, while the storage was 80.81 tmc against the capacity of 93.50 tmc. At Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode district, the inflow was 2,811 cusecs and the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal and 500 cusecs into the Arakkankottai - Thadappalli canals. At 8 a.m. Tuesday, the water level stood at 102.02 feet against the maximum storage level of 105 feet. The storage was 30.33 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-water-level-at-mettur-dam/article37315917.ece
03 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ leader Duraimanickam no more||V. Duraimanickam, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the Communist Party of India, died in Chennai on Tuesday. He was 76. Paying tributes to the departed leader, CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan said Mr. Duraimanickam was born in Ambalampattu (South) village at Orathanadu taluk in Thanjavur district and remained in public life for more than five decades. He participated in agitations and served in different capacities in the party’s different units such as Youth Wing and Farmers Wing. He also served as State executive committee member. Mr. Duraimanickam is survived by his wife and two daughters. The mortal remains of the farmers’ leader would be brought to his residence at Papanadu in Orathanadu on November 3 and the funeral rites would be performed at Papanadu.  Chief Minister M.K. Stalin paid floral tributes to the mortal remains of the late leader at the CPI State headquarters. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said Duraimanickam had lent his voice for farmers and took party in the struggle for ensuring their rights over the Cauvery and was a friend of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-leader-no-more/article37315821.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Puthanatham readymade garments cluster on path of recovery||The readymade garments manufacturing cluster at Puthanatham, a village near Manapparai, is slowly recovering from the severe economic impact of the pandemic. Business is not fully back to normal to pre-pandemic levels, but there are signs of recovery this festive season. The village has grown into a readymade garments manufacturing cluster over the past three to four decades. The small business units mainly produce shirts, trousers, churidhars and night dresses, besides school uniforms. They source the raw material (cloth) from places such as Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad and Delhi. The annual turnover of Puthanatham cluster was estimated to be about Rs. 50 crore before the pandemic. The units were providing employment to about 2,000 workers. Usually, during the festive season hundreds of people from Tiruchi and other places throng the village to purchase ready-to-wear garments offered at wholesale prices. Though online trade has had some impact on the industry, about 120 units continue to produce garments and market them throughout Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Like all other sectors, the units too have been badly hit by the pandemic and faces delayed payments from buyers and rise in price of raw material. The units resumed operations following relaxation of lockdown restrictions. Some manufacturers say business has been dull this year. “Business has not been brisk; we are not able to say why,” rues T.A.K. Hidayathulla, secretary, Readymade Clothing Manufacturers Welfare Association, Puthanatham. Association vice-president K. Sadakathulla is more forthcoming: “There is some improvement, but business is not back to normal fully. People are just overcoming the fear of COVID-19. Yet, given the general price rise, they are not inclined to spend much on clothes. Many restrict their purchases. We are managing with whatever wholesale orders we have got from other States, but they are not enough to meet our full capacity. It is important for us to retain our workforce,” he contends. However, with encouraging approach and support from government officials and institutions post-COVID 19, the cluster is looking for better days ahead. “Some of the units are looking to diversify and plan to produce a few inner wear products. We are exploring scope for doing job works for exporters in other centres. We plan to take on nominal rent a government building and use it as a common marketing and training facility for the cluster. The building meant for the readymade cluster has been lying in disuse for several years and is being refurbished now,” he adds. The cluster is looking for better infrastructure too, especially strengthening of Thuvarankurichi- Manapparai Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puthanatham-readymade-garments-cluster-on-path-of-recovery/article37315882.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Security scheme put in place for Deepavali, says Tiruchi SP||Six special teams have been constituted by Tiruchi Rural Police to monitor the activities of anti-social elements as a precautionary measure in connection with Deepavali celebration, Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Pa. Moorthy has said. Five other teams have been formed to curb illegal sale of liquor and fire crackers in the district, he told reporters here on Monday. A separate security scheme had been drawn up for Deepavali as a precautionary measure, which was put into place on November 1, the senior police official said A total number of 300 police personnel had been involved under the scheme. Adequate police personnel were deployed at places where the public gathered in large numbers to curb crowding. Revamped Rounds System had been introduced as a crime control measure in the district. Thirty-six beat systems had been introduced and beat officers were being deployed in shifts. Tiruchi Rural Police booked 5,78,490 Motor Vehicle petty cases in the current year up to October 31 and realised fines amounting to Rs. 3.5 crore. The traffic violation cases additionally booked were 1.72 lakh cases in 2021 as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year when the police had booked 4.06 lakh cases and realised fines amounting to Rs. 2.43 crore. The Tiruchi Rural Police recovered stolen properties valued at Rs. 2.92 crore from January to October 31. Goondas Act Forty rowdies had been detained under the Goondas Act so far this year in an effort to maintain order and 52 other rowdies involved in various cases were arrested. Mr. Moorthy said life sentence had been secured for the accused involved in three murder cases in the current year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-scheme-put-in-place-for-deepavali-says-tiruchi-sp/article37315890.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||141 fresh cases in central region||The Central region on Tuesday reported 141 fresh cases of COVID-19. There was no fresh case in Perambalur district, and four other districts reported new cases in single digits. Fire more deaths due to the viral infection were recorded in the region, as per the bulletin of the State Health Department. Two persons from Thanjavur and one each from Karur, Nagapattinam and Tiruchi succumbed to the virus. Forty people tested positive in Thanjavur district on Tuesday and 33 in Tiruchi. Karur reported 22 fresh cases, Tiruvarur 21, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai eight each, Mayiladuthurai six and Ariyalur 3. Thanjavur had the most number of active cases in the region with 483 patients under treatment including home treatment. Tiruchi came close behind with 424 active cases followed by Tiruvarur with 248 active cases. Karur had 222 active cases, Nagapattinam 159, Pudukottai 130, Mayiladuthurai 65, Ariyalur 46 and Perambalur 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/141-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article37315884.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NEET: students from central districts put up spirited show||The central districts in the State have produced a spirited show in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2021. At least three students from the central districts have scored more than 700 marks out of 720. R. Arvind of Blossoms Public School in Thanjavur made it to the top rank in the State by securing 710 marks. About 50 candidates have secured more than 600 marks this year. Most of them have cleared NEET in the first attempt. A student of Monfort School in Tiruchi has scored 695. Quite a few students have secured more than 650 marks in the city. Most of the top scorers have studied in private coaching centres, who had tied up with some schools affiliated with Central Board of Secondary Education in Tiruchi and Thanjavur. “Though there were challenges in the beginning due to the absence of physical classes, I adapted to online classes gradually. It ultimately saved time and energy and helped me focus on the target,” said AVA. Abhi Nandakumar of Kamala Niketan Montessori School, who secured 680 marks. “I took the online mock test seriously and honestly. Hard work has paid dividend,” says B. Sadhana, who had scored 641 in Tiruchi. Though the exact number of candidates, who have cleared NEET in the region not known clearly yet, the available results show that the number of high scorer has gone up this year in spite of the hurdles caused by the pandemic in attending physical classes. At the same time, it is observed that it has not gone well for the average and below average students. “We notice that the number of high scorers has gone up in Tiruchi and Thanjavur than the pre-pandemic period. Most of them were dedicated and self motivated,” says R.V.S. Muralidhar, founder, Seekers, a coaching institute for competitive examinations in Tiruchi. He said that though the pandemic threw physical classes out of gear for most part of 2020-21, it came good for self-motivated students, who made use of the opportunity well by learning through online. But the online education miserably failed to help the average and below average students, who required intense physical coaching. A representative of another coaching institute in Tiruchi observed that the performance of candidates from the State, especially in Tiruchi, in NEET has been increasing in each passing year. Many have adopted to online education as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-students-from-central-districts-put-up-spirited-show/article37315896.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow shops to remain open at night today’||The Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has urged the City Police Commissioner to allow shops in the city to remain open through the night on Deepavali eve. In a representation addressed to the Commissioner and released to the media, Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary of the organisation, observed that the general public, especially the middle income group, was still struggling to recover from the impact of the pandemic and the lockdown. The rapidly widening e-commerce in the country had also affected traders including textile traders. “The intermittent rain has also affected business this festive season much to the shock of the traders, who have invested heavily and are faced with debts,” he said. The State government had lifted restrictions on business hours taking into account the situation and the move was widely welcomed by traders. Mr. Govindarajalu requested the police to facilitate unhindered business for 24 hours from 6 a.m. on Wednesday. Besides ensuring public safety, they should desist from asking traders to close the shops on the eve of Deepavali. Traders should be treated with dignity, he added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-shops-to-remain-open-at-night-today/article37315892.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Firecracker outlets on school grounds, at marriage halls raise safety concerns||The temporary licence given to sell firecrackers on school grounds and in marriage halls in the city has raised safety concerns among the people. According to sources, temporary licences have been given to about 60 traders to sell firecrackers in the city. The traders, who have secured the licence, have set up shops in different parts of the city. While a section of traders set up wholesale shops on Quaid-e-Milleth Road in Palakkarai, temporary shops have sprung up in different places including Srirangam, Cantonment, Ariyamangalam, Kattur, Woraiyur, Thillai Nagar and K.K. Nagar. With just a day left for the Deepavali, people are flocking to the shops to buy crackers to celebrate the festival. What is of concern is the establishment of firecracker outlets on a few school grounds and in marriage halls. Large flex boards have been put up in front of the marriage halls and schools, inviting the people to buy crackers at a discount price. According to the rules and regulations governing the sale and stock of explosives, permission should not be given to sell crackers on the premises of schools, colleges, cinema halls, or places of assembly. But cracker shops have come upon a school ground in Cantonment and some marriage halls in Chathiram Bus Stand area and Srirangam. Several traders appear to have violated the rules on storing crackers and size of the outlets. Size of shops According to the rules, the size of the temporary outlets should not exceed 270 sq ft. They should not stock beyond 500 kg of crackers. But some of the outlets are big in size. “I did not notice firecracker outlets on any school ground in the past. It is disheartening to note the sale of crackers on school grounds and some marriage halls,” said K. Janardhanan, a retired forest department official in Tiruchi. Another activist alleged that the licensing authorities have failed to follow the rulebook while granting licences to the traders. The practice should be stopped immediately. It should not be taken as a precedent in issuing licences in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firecracker-outlets-on-school-grounds-at-marriage-halls-raise-safety-concerns/article37315886.ece
03 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Primary, middle schools reopen||Classes from I to VIII reopened in all 1,216 primary and middle schools in Tirunelveli district on Tuesday. Though schools were scheduled for reopening after 19 months on Monday, November 1, the district administration was forced to declare a holiday owning to incessant rain. On Tuesday, Collector V. Vishnu gave a warm welcome to students at the Panchayat Union Primary School at Reddiyarapatti and Ramasubbu Government Higher Secondary School, with sweets. Accompanied by Chief Educational Officer (in charge) E. Vasantha, he also inspected the basic facilities at the school. The Collector said that all COVID-19 standard operating procedures were being done for all students as a precautionary measure. The teachers have been asked to keep watch on the health of every student and advised to get medical attention immediately in case of any adverse health situation. Ms. Vasantha said that the students would be entertained with songs, story telling, drawing pictures and dancing to keep their morale high. “We have a refresher module for each class so that the children pick up the basics in all languages and subjects before they go for regular classes,” Ms. Vasantha said. Nagercoil Classes I to VIII reopened in 1,125 schools in Kanniyakumari distric on Tuesdays as Monday remained a closed holiday for the district owing to the anniversary of Kanniyakumari joining Tamil Nadu. Minister for Information and Technology Mano Thangaraj, distributed sweets and flowers to students at Travancore Government Middle School and Mathur Government Middle School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/primary-middle-schools-reopen/article37316290.ece
03 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tvl water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 135.35 feet (permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,225 cusecs and a discharge of 1,034 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 82 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 460 cusecs and nil discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvl-water-level/article37316291.ece
03 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain leads to minor landslips in Nilgiris||Heavy rain led to minor landslips and tree falls in three areas in the Nilgiris on early Tuesday morning. According to officials, an average of 28.51 mm of rain was recorded across the district, with Avalanche and Kinnakorai receiving the highest, 66 and 65 mm respectively. Heavy rain was also reported in Udhagamandalam, Gudalur, Coonoor and Kotagiri, with Coonoor town receiving the highest amount of rain. According to officials from the State and National Highways, a minor landslip occurred in Dottacombai in Mel Kundah near Manjoor, while trees were uprooted in Alakkarai near Kotagiri. The Highways Department mobilised staff and workers to clear the landslip and trees from the road, and managed to clear the debris before 9 a.m. Low-lying areas in Udhagamandalam town and Coonoor did not witness much flooding as water managed to recede quickly due to the desilting works currently ongoing in the sewage drains and the Kodappamund Channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-leads-to-minor-landslips-in-nilgiris/article37315842.ece
03 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||INDCOSERVE staff to receive Deepavali bonus||Around 1,000 staff employed at the 16 INDCOSERVE tea factories would receive their Deepavali bonus, a release from INDCOSERVE said. INDCOSERVE, India’s largest Tea Cooperative Federation, had 30,000 small tea growers as its members. There were 16 Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories under INDCOSERVE and approximately 1,000 workers and staff were employed with these 16 Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories, a release said. “By Government Order, 8.33% bonus and 1.67% ex-gratia has to be given to the workers and staff every year. However, due to the steep fall in the price of tea in the market in recent times, INDCO Tea Factories are unable to pay Deepavali bonus to their staff and workers for 2021,” the release added. On coming to know the situation, Ms. Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary and Chief Executive Officer, said that financial assistance amounting to Rs. 60 lakh would be given to the tea factories by INDCOSERVE so that staff and workers could get their bonus from the factories on time. B.B. Sivakumar, Chairman of INDCOSERVE, expressed his thanks on behalf of all INDCOSERVE factory workers and employees to Ms. Sahu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indcoserve-staff-to-receive-deepavali-bonus/article37315835.ece
03 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||CM launches schemes for SL Tamils||Calling himself a sibling of Sri Lankan Tamils, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the DMK government had always stood with them through ups and downs, and would continue to do so. Launching a slew of welfare schemes, he said 7,469 houses would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 317.40 crore for the Sri Lankan Tamils living in camps. In the first phase, 3,510 houses would be built at a cost of Rs. 142.16 crore, with each house measuring 290 sq.ft. Basic facilities including electricity, toilets, stormwater drains, roads and drinking water would be provided at a cost of Rs. 30 crore. A ‘Sri Lankan Tamils Lives Improvement Scheme’ with an allocation of Rs. 5 crore was also launched. As the allocation of kerosene to the families living in these camps was inadequate, and they were not in a position to get gas connections under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, the State Government would provide each family free LPG connection and a stove at a cost of Rs. 7 crore. The families would also get Rs. 400 as a subsidy for five LPG cylinders. The government would allot Rs. 3.80 crore every year for the purpose. It would also provide 20 kg of free rice to these families. At present, 19,496 Sri Lankan Tamils are living in 106 rehabilitation camps in the State. A total of 34,087 people are living outside the camps. “You [Sri Lankan Tamils] are not orphans or refugees. Instead, you have been rehabilitated in the State. We always stand with you,” Mr. Stalin said. Sri Lankan Tamils had been coming to the State since 1983, and were rehabilitated in the camps over the years. Basic facilities in these camps were not adequate for many years till 1997, when former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi provided some amenities, Mr. Stalin said. “Yet, over the years, they haven’t been able to gain access to all necessary facilities. Hence, the DMK government has come up with a comprehensive plan to fulfil their basic needs in relation to jobs, civic amenities, skill development, education and LPG connections,” he said. Accusing the previous AIADMK government of ignoring the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamils, Mr. Stalin said that despite having been in power for a decade, the party had done nothing for their welfare. On the other hand, the DMK government, soon after assuming office, made an announcement under Rule 110 in the Assembly, renaming refugee camps for Sri Lankan Tamils as rehabilitation camps. The Chief Minister said the government would fully bear the higher education and hostel expenses of 50 Sri Lankan Tamil students in camps, based on their marks. It would also meet the education and hostel fees of the first five students pursuing agriculture and agricultural engineering courses and all postgraduate students. An employment skill development programme for 5,000 youths in the camps was also launched by the Chief Minister on Tuesday. Mr. Stalin later visited a rehabilitation camp at Melmanavoor village in Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-schemes-for-sl-tamils/article37315805.ece
03 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Stalin meets kin of deceased NEET aspirant||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin met the parents of the NEET aspirant, who was found dead in her house in September, at the Circuit House in Vellore, on Tuesday. The Chief Minister visited the Fort Town to launch welfare measures for Sri Lankan Tamils residing in rehabilitation camps in the State. During his interaction with the parents of the NEET aspirant, Mr. Stalin consoled them for the loss of their daughter. The 17-year-old girl, T. Soundharya, who had written the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) , was found dead in her house in Vellore, three days after she took the examination. She lived in Thalayarampattu village in Katpadi and was a Class 12 student at the Thottapalayam Government Girls Higher Secondary School in 2020-21. Her father, Thirunavukkarasu, and mother, Rukmini, are daily wage labourers. Soundharya had secured 510 marks out of a total 600 in her Class 12 exams and took the examinationfor the first time.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-meets-family-of-deceased-neet-aspirant-in-vellore/article37315829.ece
03 November 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Youth falls into container of hot oil, dies||A 25-year-old youth died of burns after he fell into a large vessel containing hot oil kept at Sunday Market in Kottaripet, Mailam. Police identified the victim as Siva, a local resident. According to the police, he swooned and fell into the large container of hot oil kept by a temporary snacks outlet on Sunday. He wastaken to Government Medical College in Mundiyampakkam and later to Kilpauk Medical College hospital in Chennai, where he died. The Mailam police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-falls-into-hot-oil-dies/article37316226.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ACP among six policemen suspended||The entrepreneur, Rajesh, had filed a complaint against the six police personnel. He said he had entered into a business venture with two friends a couple of years ago, but later wound up operations. Though the monetary settlement was done among the partners through bank transfers, he claimed that the ACP and other personnel, acting at the behest of one of the partners, took him to the Thirumangalam Police Station during September/October 2019 and threatened him to part with more money. Mr. Rajesh alleged that in May 2019, a police team, along with some civilians, abducted him, his fiancée and members of his family and kept them in illegal confinement at a farm house in Red Hills. He claimed that the police threatened to physically harm him and the others unless they transferred the ownership of certain properties to his erstwhile business partner, Srinivasa Rao. Civilians’ involvement It was on the complaint of Mr. Rao, who claimed that Mr. Rajesh owed him Rs. 5.5 crore, that the police team comprising the accused carried out the alleged abduction and threat. Mr. Rajesh claimed that Venkatesh, Siva Srinivasa Rao, Tarun Krishna Prasad and ‘Kodambakkam’ Sree, all civilians, were also involved. Originally, Mr. Rajesh filed a complaint with the Anna Nagar Police. Alleging that no action was taken on his complaint, he approached the then Director General of Police. The DGP reviewed the complaint and forwarded it to the CB-CID a few months ago. The CB-CID then registered a case against 10 persons, including the six policemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/acp-among-six-policemen-suspended/article37315811.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prayers for the departed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prayers-for-the-departed/article37316106.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Moment of honour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moment-of-honour/article37316293.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 114 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 114 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The Health Department said 129 persons recovered from the disease on Tuesday and the district had 1,261 active cases. An 80-year-old man from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 31, taking the toll to 2,420. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.2 % on Monday. Tiruppur district had 65 new cases. As many as 67 persons were discharged on Tuesday and active cases stood at 750. Tiruppur district had a TPR of 1.6 % on Monday. In the Nilgiris, 22 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 33,607. The toll stood at 212 while 191 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-114-new-covid-19-cases/article37315834.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the news item ‘T.N. government declares local holiday on November 5’ that appeared on November 2 (Tuesday), it should have been November 20 instead of November 21. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article37315806.ece
03 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||JD(S) faces a humiliating defeat||From having won the seat by securing over 44% of the votes in the last Assembly elections to losing deposit in Sindagi now, Janata Dal (Secular) loss in the byelections is nothing short of humiliating. In Hangal, the party candidate could not even garner 1,000 votes. The tally of JD(S) legislators in north Karnataka districts is now down to five from six. In Sindgi, JD(S) candidate Naziya Angadi lost her deposit. The late M.C. Managuli of the party had won the seat in 2018 by 70,865 votes. Ms. Angadi got only 4,321 votes, around 2.6% of the total polled votes. In Hangal, JD(S) nominee Niyaz Shaik could get only 927 votes. JD(S) leaders, having fielded both minority candidates, had argued that theirs was the real secular party and that the Congress had exploited minorities all through. JD(S) leadership was also upset with M.C. Managuli’s sons Ashok Managuli and Shantaveer Managuli joining the Congress after the death of their father. In campaign speeches, both JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda and the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had asked the voters not to favour the “deserters”. The general allegation against the JD(S) by the Congress was that it had fielded Muslim candidates only to split the secular votes. However, the results show that the JD(S) made no impact even on that count, given its miniscule vote share. Mr. Kumaraswamy’s plan of expanding the party base with Muslim candidates hardly had any impact on the electorate. Some said that in Sindagi, Muttahida Mahaj, a federation of voters, had appealed against voting for the JD(S), which would ultimately benefit the BJP by splitting secular votes. However, Tanveer Ahmed, a spokesperson for the federation, denied the reports. “The federation does not support or oppose any party. Its main agenda is to create awareness about the election process and strengthen local political outfits,” he said.  The Congress, which ran a smear campaign against us that we had contested to help the BJP win, may have got an answer in the number of votes our party has got in both the seats. The Congress hijacked our candidate in Sindgi and weakened our party. But I am not demoralised by these results. H.D. Kumaraswamy,JD(S) leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-faces-a-humiliating-defeat/article37315764.ece
03 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Civil society urged to unite against hate crimes||The fact finding and solidarity committee that looked into the murder of Arbaz Mulla, a Muslim youth in Khanapur, who was said to have been killed by Sri Ram Sena Hindustan members for falling in love with a Hindu girl, has urged civil society members and citizens to unite against hate crimes. The young man’s decapitated body was found thrown on the railway lines, with his hands tied in the back, near Desur village in Belagavi district on September 28. Two days before that, Sri Ram Sena Hindustan leaders had held a meeting to resolve the issue and asked the lovers to stop seeing each other. Then, 12 days later, the police arrested 10 persons, including the girl’s parents, on the charge of the youth’s murder. The police said that it was a case of supari murder and that the girl’s parents had paid Rs. 10 lakh to Sri Ram Sena Hindustan leaders to eliminate the boy. The boy’s mother, however, has maintained that it was a hate crime, as her child was targetted only because he belonged to the minority community. Sri Ram Sena Hindustan founder Ramakanth Konduskar has denied that his associates killed the youth. However, he told The Hindu that his organisation “proudly interferes” to stop such inter-faith relationships. “The report by the fact finding committee is an appeal to fellow citizens to come together to not only ensure justice for Arbaz Mulla but also to respond comprehensively to the rising communal politics. It is an appeal to launch a broad-based campaign to ensure justice for Muslim, Christian and other persecuted brothers and sisters, to stand in solidarity with each other and especially, with victims of Hindu nationalist violence and work towards rebuilding social harmony in the State,” the committee members said. “This is not possible unless the silent Hindu majority witnessing saffron violence proactively stands in solidarity with the victims of such violence and also shoulder to shoulder with non-Hindu citizens against Hindu nationalism in all its forms. We appeal to one and all to take up the task of rebuilding communal harmony as a peoples project,” the committee members said. The committee has expressed concern that while the girl’s parents might have had a role to play in the murder, the statement by Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi could also be a ploy to shift the bulk of the blame from the Sri Ram Sena Hindustan to the family, thereby making the murder appear to be a contract or supari killing and not a communal, honour killing. The report describes the threats faced by the boy’s family after the interference of the Sri Ram Sena Hindustan. It speaks in detail about the heinous crime, its preparations and the aftermath. The committee also traces the rise of right wing forces in parts of Belagavi and how there has been a shift from language chauvinism to religious fundamentalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civil-society-urged-to-unite-against-hate-crimes/article37315944.ece
03 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Gurukul students shine||Students of Sri Channabasaveshwar Gurukul PU Science College in Karadyal village, Bidar district, have done well in NEET examinations. Over 100 students have become eligible to get MBBS seats in medical colleges. Basavaprajnya Sangashetty and Bheemashankar Hanumantrao have scored 675 out of 720 marks. The other toppers are Bala Ganesh, Rahul Sateesh and Maruti with more than 600 marks. Those who have scored more than 500 are Shashidhar, Sahana, Nagaraj, Sakalesh, Shivaleela, Ritesh, Abhishek, Sangashetty, Channabasava, Satveer, Ankita, Vineet, Rakshita, Rahul, Abhishek, Gouresh, Sagar, Shivam, Vaishnavi, Jyoti, Nikita, Aishwarya, Vinayak, Tushar, Siddeshwar, Bhavani, M. Chaitra, Shreya, Prajwal, Pranali, Sudeep, Revanasiddu, Tujeshwari, Gurunath Reddy, Srinivas, Amisha, Soundarya, Kunti, Ashwini, Santosh, Deeksha, Neha, Vinod, Shruti, Maneesha, Yash Patil, Mahendra, Ankita and Chandrashekar. And, Vinod, Abhilash, Basava, Swati, Shweta, Sachin, Mallikarjun, Krishna, Bharat Kumar, Bhagyashree, Trupti, Sachin Kavale, Shivanand, Mahalakshmi, Reshma Attar, Shweta, Kavya, B. Rachana, Ananya, Supreet, Parameshwar and Giriraj have scored over 480 marks but less than 500. Founder of the institution Sri Basavalinga Pattaddevaru has congratulated the students, parents, teachers and staff, according to a press release from college principal Basavaraj Molkeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gurukul-students-shine/article37315933.ece
03 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lakhamagouda students excel||Students of Raja Lakhamagouda PU Science College in Belgavi have done well in NEET examinations. Mohammad Kaif Mulla has secured all India 384th rank with 691 out of 720 marks. He has secured the 88th rank in his category. Rashmi Patil has obtained 2,039th rank, Misbah Pathan 10,512th rank, Tarun Kaulgud 58,848th rank and Soham Chipre has secured the 59,177th rank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lakhamagouda-students-excel/article37315932.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Illegal constructions have now percolated to rural areas too’||Observing that the menace of illegal constructions has not remained limited only to the cities but have now percolated to the areas of panchayats, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the State Government to regulate constructions in the panchayat areas by enforcing the building bylaws, which the panchayats have failed to adopt even six years after their enactment. The court issued the direction after noticing that no panchayat in the State had adopted the Karnataka Panchayat Raj (Zilla Panchayats, Taluk Panchayats and Grama Panchayats Control over erection of Buildings) Model Bylaws, 2015, which came into force on May 8, 2015. Justice M. Nagaprasanna, while dealing with a petition related to illegal construction in Maddur gram panchayat area of Mandya district noticed that GPs, TPs, and ZPs, though have obligation in law to adopt within three months the model bylaws notified by the Government, have failed to do till date. “It is in public domain that there are mushrooming of construction activities in all the areas coming under the GPs, TPs, and ZPs. The violation of known norms of law in construction is not limited to areas in the city corporation limits. It has percolated into the areas of panchayats,” the court observed. Therefore, the court said, “The time has arrived for the Government to regulate the constructions undertaken in the panchayat areas as well. The Government has notified the bylaws. The bylaws cannot remain on paper and the constructions in the panchayat areas can go on unabated violating every known norm of law.” Observing that the Karnataka Grama Swarajya and Panchayat Raj Act empowers the Government to issue directions to the panchayts to adopt the model bylaws, the court directed the Government to take immediate steps to ensure that the building bylaws are enforced by every panchayat within a reasonable time to stall chaotic constructions coming up in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-constructions-have-now-percolated-to-rural-areas-too/article37315756.ece
03 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hangal defeat a caution bell for BJP, CM ahead of 2023 polls||Byelections to two seats of a 224-member Assembly cannot be seen as a pointer to people’s mandate in the 2023 elections. There is, however, no underplaying the fact that the Congress candidate humbled the might of the ruling BJP that deployed its full resources, led by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai himself, in its bastion of Hangal. It should serve as a caution bell for the BJP ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections. The byelections have thrown up a mixed bag, with the BJP wresting the Sindgi seat from the JD(S), but losing its own Hangal seat to the Congress. The joy of winning Sindgi appears to be overshadowed by the defeat in Hangal for the BJP, particularly the Chief Minister, who spearheaded the party’s campaign in the same district where his Assembly seat of Shiggaon also lies. Larger role These bypolls had drawn the attention of the entire State as they were the first political test for the new Chief Minister, who has been chosen by the BJP high command to lead the 2023 poll campaign. The party high command had declared Mr. Bommai to be the long-term leader for the party, which had caught many senior aspirants off guard. Despite being known as politically shrewd, Mr. Bommai had to taste defeat in Hangal which was represented by the party’s veteran leader late C.M. Udasi for decades. A clean sweep in both the seats would have sent a strong message to the detractors of Mr. Bommai within the party as well as the BJP’s opponents. However, the defeat in Hangal has now thrown up the old question of whether the new dispensation in the BJP, which suffers from an undercurrent of internal differences, will be able to take all the factions together, particularly the loyalists of the former Chief Minister and Lingayat strongman B.S. Yediyurappa whose son and BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra is trying to emerge strongly in the State political scene. Hindutva plank Also, some political observers believe that it is a message to the BJP organisation as well as the Government that hardcore Hindutva ideology may play a spoilsport by tilting the political balance in a constituency such as Hangal where minorities, Dalits, and OBCs form a sizeable number. The run-up to the byelections were marked by a series of episodes in different parts of the State that showed the new dispensation as more strongly Hindutva-oriented. The Hangal defeat has also highlighted the fact that the Congress candidate endeared himself to people of the constituency through his work during the pandemic much against the allegations of slack response by Udasi. These factors have shown that the BJP and Mr. Bommai have to set right various aspects both in terms of organisation as well as administration to make the party battle-ready ahead of the 2023 elections. The saffron party now faces a Congress emboldened by the Hangal victory, ready to sharpen its campaign against the BJP dispensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hangal-defeat-a-caution-bell-for-bjp-cm-ahead-of-2023-polls/article37315770.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Around 500 objections over loss of green cover along metro line||The authorities have received around 500 objections and suggestions from citizens over the loss of nearly 4,000 trees along the alignment of the ORR-Airport Namma Metro project that will link Kempegowda International Airport to the city centre. Under Phase II a and b of Namma Metro, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has proposed to build a 55-km network. Public notices have been issued in batches for removal of trees from the alignment that starts from Silk Board and goes via K.R. Puram, Nagawara, Hebbal to the airport. Deputy Conservator of Forest (DCF) Govindaraju V. told The Hindu that most of the responses were general objections, pleas to realign the metro project to save trees, and suggestions for afforestation. “Since May 2021, we have issued public notices and for each notice, around 100-120 objections or suggestions were received. We have replied to them after seeking necessary information from the BMRCL,” said Mr. Govindaraju, adding that most of the people had suggested ways to save the trees by way of translocation and or through alignment changes. “In addition to this, there are people who also asked BMRCL to complete the metro project at the earliest and reduce traffic congestion in the city,” the official said. A tree officer has submitted a report to the tree committee. “After conducting a field inspection, experts in the committee will come out with further instructions on the issue,” he added. “The forest cell of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike issues public notices for the removal of identified trees located on the median as well as along the side of the road. For rest including private properties, public notices are issued by the DCF of Bengaluru Urban district.” Many experts and environmentalists have raised concerns over the adverse impact. “The BMRCL has been very rigid when it comes to metro alignment. Small changes in the alignment would save many trees. Through tree canopy manipulation, many trees could be saved along the corridor. Unfortunately, BMRCL sees everything from an engineering point of view,” said environment expert A.N. Yellappa Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/around-500-objections-over-loss-of-green-cover-along-metro-line/article37315745.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Victory in Hangal segment provides a new momentum to Congress||The Congress victory in Hangal and its much improved performance in vote share in Sindgi constituency are expected to provide a new momentum for the party’s preparations for the 2023 Assembly elections. Surprisingly, polarisation of votes did not happen on religious lines in both the constituencies and the minority voters, particularly Muslims, largely appeared to have backed the Congress. The JD(S), which fielded candidates belonging to minority communities — in an apparent bid to divide votes — was decimated and lost deposits in both the constituencies. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah’s appeal to minority voters not to “waste” their valuable votes by supporting the JD(S), which was incapable of fighting the BJP, too seems to have worked for the Congress. In Hangal, Congress sources said, party candidate Srinivas Mane’s relief work during the COVID-19 pandemic and floods in 2019 outsmarted the BJP’s campaign led by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in his home turf. Moreover, the Congress successfully brought truce with Manohar Tahasildar, former MLA, when he was denied ticket. KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed spent more than a month in the constituency to ensure support of Mr. Tahasildar and his supporters to Mr. Mane. The party had run a systematic campaign at the constituency and booth levels in Hangal by focusing on local issues that affected the voters most during the pandemic. Leaders ensured unity among the booth-level leaders by avoiding groupism among the camps of different State-level leaders, sources said. Yediyurappa’s exit Sources said the unceremonious exit of B.S. Yediyurappa from the Chief Minister’s post had also helped the Congress, and the party had virtually dubbed it as an “insult” to the politically powerful Lingayat-Veerashaiva community. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar had said “tears shed by Mr. Yediyurappa will lead to the fall of the BJP in the State”. In Sindgi, it is said absence of an understanding between Congress and JD(S) workers at the booth level was one of the reasons for the party’s defeat. Ashok Managuli, who was in the JD(S) and joined the Congress a few months before the byelection, emerged as the runner-up. Mr. Managuli, son of former MLA late M.C. Managuli of the JD(S), secured 62,292 votes. However, the Congress had secured only 21,818 votes in 2018. But the party’s much improved performance owes much the pathetic performance of Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi of the JD(S). The JD(S), which won the seat in 2018, is pushed to the third place by securing a mere 4,321 votes as against 70,865 votes it got in 2018. Reacting to the results, Congress leaders said it indicated people of Karnataka were “looking for a change” and exuded confidence about the party returning to power after the 2023 Assembly elections.  The actual candidate for BJP in Hangal was Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The result in Hangal shows that people have voted against the Chief Minister and the State Government. Though we lost in Sindagi, we have won the hearts of people. Siddaramaiah,Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/victory-in-hangal-segment-provides-a-new-momentum-to-congress/article37315769.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Puneeth Rajkumar’s fans allowed in Kanteerava Studios||Fans of Puneeth Rajkumar, who had gathered outside Kanteerava Studios, were allowed inside to pay their respects to the late actor on Tuesday evening after the family conducted the fifth-day ritual. “The public will be allowed to pay their respects at the actor’s tomb between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. from Wednesday, which are the official timings of the Dr. Rajkumar Foundation,” a senior police official said. The actor’s sudden death on October 20 sent shockwaves across the State and nation. He was buried on Sunday. Actors from the Telugu and the Tamil film industries, who could not make it to the funeral, visited the Rajkumar residence in the city to offer their condolences. Telugu actor Akkineni Nagarjuna visited the family on Tuesday and consoled them. Speaking to media persons later, he said he was “shocked that Appu is no more” and he could only say “God has been unkind”. Tamil actor Shivaji Prabhu visited the family on Monday and recounted his association with Puneeth Rajkumar. “He was so affectionate and used to meet me often. I would call him an ambassador of affection,” he said. Meanwhile, the Kannada film industry is planning an event in honour of the actor. “We are planning to hold an event involving the entire industry to pay our respects to the departed soul; many from neighbouring industries and the Chief Minister of Karnataka may also participate. The event is still being planned and may be held on November 14,” said D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. The Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy also flagged off an online Puneeth Rajkumar film festival on Tuesday. It will showcase 10 films till November 20, including some of his big hits like Bettada Hoovu , Bhakta Prahlada , Prithvi , Appu , Abhi , Arasu, and Milana .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/puneeth-rajkumars-fans-allowed-in-kanteerava-studios/article37315750.ece
03 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa to tour State to strengthen party||Soon after the results of the bypolls to two Assembly seats were announced on Tuesday, throwing up a mixed bag for the ruling BJP, the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa maintained that all the leaders should share responsibility for the defeat in Hangal. “We faced the bypolls under collective leadership. Hence, all the leaders should take responsibility for the results. Nobody can question Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s leadership on the basis of the Hangal bypoll results,” Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters here. Asking Congress leaders not to bask in the glory of their victory in Hangal, Mr. Yediyurappa said, “Let there be no doubt that the BJP will win more than 140 seats (of the total 224) in the 2023 elections to the Assembly, and retain power in Karnataka.” In 15 days The BJP veteran, who had earlier put his State tour plan on hold, said he would embark on the tour in about 15 days to strengthen the party. “I will visit all the districts and hold consultations with party leaders and workers on the measures to be taken to strengthen the party,” he said. He said that party leaders would soon hold consultations to identify reasons for the defeat in Hangal. “The defeat was unexpected, as things were favourable for the party in Hangal,” he said, and noted that the party leaders would rectify shortcomings, if any, in strengthening the party organisation in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-to-tour-state-to-strengthen-party/article37315772.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Autorickshaw drivers seek fare revision||Auto drivers are unhappy with the State Government’s delay in announcing revised fares even as fuel prices continue to rise. The Auto Drivers’ Union affiliated to CITU on Tuesday announced that it will stage a protest on November 9 if the authorities continue to delay announcing the fare revision. C.N. Sreenivas, general secretary of the union, demanded that the State Government revise fares at the earliest as auto drivers are reeling under the steep rise in LPG rates. The price of LPG jumped from Rs. 58 to Rs. 66 per litre on November 1, he said. “Where will we go if the State Government increases LPG by Rs. 8 per litre? It is becoming extremely difficult to run autos with such a price hike. Fuel prices increase every month but auto fares have not been revised for years,” said an autorickshaw driver. Autorickshaw drivers were expecting a revision to be announced in the first week of October. Transport Minister B. Sriramulu told presspersons in September that he would discuss the revised fares with the Chief Minister and announce them after a week. At the time, sources said the minimum fare was likely to be hiked to Rs. 30 from Rs. 25, while the per kilometre rate was expected to increase to Rs. 15 from Rs. 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/autorickshaw-drivers-seek-fare-revision/article37315746.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bound and gagged body found in gunny bag||The body of an unidentified man was found in a gunny bag next to a rajakaluve in D’Souza Nagar, Rajarajeshwari Nagar police station limits, on Tuesday. “The victim was between 20-25 years old. His hands and legs were bound, and his mouth and nose gagged with adhesive tape. We suspect that he died due to asphyxiation but we are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said a senior police officer. The R.R. Nagar police have stepped up investigation to identify the victim. The body was discovered by a rag-picker. While efforts are on to establish the identity of the deceased first, the police have not ruled out the possibility of kidnap and murder. “It is suspected that the youth was murdered elsewhere and the body was dumped near the rajakaluve at midnight,” the police said, adding that they are gathering information on missing persons as part of the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bound-and-gagged-body-found-in-gunny-bag/article37315747.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC directs Govt. to make changes to registration portal||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the State Government to immediately make necessary changes to ensure that the registration portal, https://kaverionline.karnataka.gov.in, accepts the sale deeds of lands without insisting on the production of survey sketch of the land or land survey map in Form 11E of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act. Justice S.R. Krishna Kumar issued the direction after noticing that the Stamps and Registration Department’s portal is not accepting the sale deeds of certain types of lands for registration even though the High Court way back in March 2016 had quashed the Government’s 2009 notification imposing conditions, including production of survey sketch in Form-11E, for registration of documents. “The State Government is directed to carry out/ make necessary changes/ corrections in the website https://kaverionline.karnataka.gov.in to enable uploading registered documents on the aforesaid website without insisting on production of 11E sketch and even in the absence of ‘11E’ sketch by incorporating suitable changes/corrections as expeditiously as possible,” the court said. The survey sketch in Form 11E reflects the mutation (of specified types – sale, partition, gift) involving part extents of a survey number and denotes boundaries of newly carved out lands on sale, partition or gift. In common parlance it is called ‘11E sketch’. The court passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Vaishali of Bagalkot district questioning the action of the Department of Stamps and Registration in not giving her the registered sale deed of a land, which she had purchased in 2010, even in 2021 for the reason that 11E survey sketch was not produced while presenting the document for registration in 2010. Also, the court directed the Government to provide the petitioner within one month the registered sale deed without insisting on the 11E survey sketch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-directs-govt-to-make-changes-to-registration-portal/article37315757.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Customs officials accused of stealing gold||Four Customs officials, including two superintendents and two inspectors, have been booked for allegedly stealing 1.7 kgs of gold valuables. The items, which were seized a few years ago, were stored in the Customs godown. The incident came to light on Saturday when Srinivas Gopal M., Superintendent of Customs (Vigilance), conducted an inspection and realised that the items were missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/customs-officials-accused-of-stealing-gold/article37315748.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Public notice||On October 29, the DCF of Bengaluru Urban district issued a public notice for the removal of the 236 trees for metro work between Dooravani Nagar and Kempapura Cross. The trees identified for the removal include Mahogany, Paper Mulberry, Bevu, Dalichandra and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-notice/article37315751.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 239 new cases||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 239 new cases of COVID-19. With this, the total number of cases reported was 29,42,272. Five patients also died of the virus on the day, raising the toll to 38,089.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-239-new-cases/article37315754.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bescom employee arrested for stealing Rs. 1.4 lakh||The Kengeri police on Tuesday arrested a 22-year-old contract employee of Bescom for allegedly stealing Rs. 1.4 lakh from his office on Friday. The money was payment towards electricity bills. Hemanth allegedly confessed to the crime and said he was in dire need of money. He has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bescom-employee-arrested-for-stealing-rs-14-lakh/article37315758.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parts of traffic lights stolen||Parts of traffic lights, worth Rs. 1.15 lakh, were stolen from Shahi Garments junction which falls under the Hulimavu police station limits. The police discovered the theft on Monday when a constable complained that the signal was not working. They found that the battery, controller, and other parts of the signal had been stolen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parts-of-traffic-lights-stolen/article37315760.ece
03 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivarajkumar to dub for Puneeth’s last film James?||Puneeth Rajkumar’s two films were under production when he died: James directed by Chetan Kumar and Dvitva directed by Pawan Kumar. The actor had finished shooting for James , but was yet to dub for it. Mr. Chetan Kumar has announced that the film will release on March 17, 2022, as scheduled to mark Puneeth’s birthday. Reports suggest the film may be released with the late actor’s brother Shivarajkumar dubbing for the character essayed by Puneeth. “Nothing is finalised yet. But I will do whatever I can to finish the film and release it for the fans. I will be happy and proud to dub for Puneeth,” said Mr. Shivarajkumar Puneeth was yet to start shooting for Dvitva . It was scheduled to begin at the end of November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivarajkumar-to-dub-for-puneeths-last-film-james/article37315752.ece
03 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Talks only way out for farmers’||Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje has said the farmers’ issue could be resolved if they came to talks. “Nothing will sort out if they continue to hold protest on the streets”, she said. She told presspersons in Hassan on Tuesday that the Central Government had held talks with farmers 11 times. But, the issues had not been resolved. “Instead of continuing the protest, if they come to talks, we can find a solution”, he said. Regarding the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, she said a committee had been constituted to probe the incident. The truth would be out once the committee presented its report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/talks-only-way-out-for-farmers/article37316132.ece
03 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Protest against C.T. Ravi’s remarks||Chikkamagaluru district unit of Kurubara Sangha took out a protest march in Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday against BJP MLA C.T.Ravi, condemning his recent tweets on former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. The protesters demanded that the MLA apologise for his remarks. The members of the Sangha took out a protest march from Hanumanthappa Circle and assembled at Azad Park. Along the march, they raised slogans against the MLA. Former president of Chikkamagaluru Zilla Panchayat A.N. Mahesh said the BJP MLA had forgotten the role of the Kuruba community in his electoral victory. If he did not seek apologies for his remarks, the community would “teach him a lesson” in the next election. Referring to Mr. Ravi’s comments, Mr. Mahesh wanted to know if that was the culture and education he picked up from Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Former MLA G.H. Srinivas, former MLC Gayathri Shante Gowda, JD(S) state vice-president H.H. Devaraj and others led the protest. ‘Congress ploy’ Mr. Ravi, reacting to the protest, said he did not comment on the Kuruba community. People of the community had been with him. “The Congress people have brought in the issue of caste to gather people for the protest, as people would not have responded otherwise”, he said. Further, he said he had no inhibition to seek an apology if he had committed any mistake. “Let Siddaramaiah seek apology for his comments on Deve Gowda, who gave him a career in politics. Let him apologise for his comments on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has been respected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-ct-ravis-remarks/article37316129.ece
03 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘We will accept poll verdict’||Chikkamagaluru MLA C.T.R avi has said the BJP will accept the people’s verdict in the by-elections. “We have won one and lost one. We have got a mixed response’, he told presspersons. The defeat in Hanagal should not be seen as people’s verdict against the Chief Minister or the BJP administration. The delay in selecting the BJP candidate could have played a role, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-accept-poll-verdict/article37316131.ece
03 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Of Mane’s ‘good work’ and other factors||Many from within his party and even his opponents have said that the “good work” done by Congress candidate for Hangal Srinivas Mane, MLC, stood him in good stead. He had worked hard in the constituency after his loss in the 2018 Assembly elections and particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic. In fact, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who was handed out a “shocker” from the electorate of his home district, was quick to attribute the loss in Hangal to Mr. Mane’s individual work. Political observers feel that the rapport Mr. Mane built with the electorate during the pandemic was certainly a contributing factor, but not the sole reason for his victory. “Candidate’s image is one factor, but we had to answer questions on price rise and other developments,” said a BJP worker on condition of anonymity. Chairman of the KPCC Campaign Monitoring Committee for Hangal and former Minister H.K. Patil termed Mr. Mane “a good legislator” who had done tremendous service during the pandemic when the ruling party failed to even admit the miseries that it had inflicted upon the commoners through its wrong policies. Congress leaders, including Mr. Patil, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, during the campaign, had highlighted the issue of price rise and welfare measures that had been discontinued by the BJP Government. These factors, apart from the anger against BJP nominee Shivaraj Sajjanar with regard to handling of affairs of cooperative sugar mill at Sangur, also worked in favour of the Congress, said a BJP leader.  People power has won over money power in Hangal. I thank the voters for making this choice despite the entire Government led by the Chief Minister camping in the constituency. It is a reflection of people being fed up of the BJP’s anti-people policies, including farm laws and price rise. Srinivas Mane||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/of-manes-good-work-and-other-factors/article37315767.ece
03 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sharnbasveshwar students perform well in NEET||Sharnbasveshwar Residential Composite PU College performed well in National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) conducted in September this year with 905 students getting eligibility for medical admissions across India. Ajay Kulkarni topped the institution by scoring 664 marks out of 720, followed by Prabhuling Kalshetty with 654, Sumit Kulkarni 644, Satvik Mailapur 643, Sripad Joshi 640, Mohammad Imran 624, Nagangouda 623, Mohammed Uzair Patel 619, Akhilesh Desai 603 and Pratik Sugoore with 602. The institution has 46 students who have scored between 550 and 600 marks, 74 students who have scored between 500 and 550 marks, 103 students who have scored between 450 and 500 marks and 99 students who have scored between 400 and 450 marks. Sharnbasveshwar Vidya Vardhak Sangha president Sharnbaswappa Appa, chairperson Dakshayani Awwa and secretary Basvaraj Deshmukh congratulated the successful students and wished them a bright future. Principal of the institution N.S Devarkal, in a media release, attributed the success to hard work of students coupled with valuable guidance by in-charge Shrishail G. Hogade. Shaheen Academy Shaheen NEET Academy in Kalaburagi, a coaching arm of the Bidar-based Shaheen Group of Institutions, which commenced classes this year, also made a significant achievement. As per the media note released by the institution, 12 students from the academy are expected to qualify for the medical seats. Mohammed Adnan topped the institution with 585 marks followed by Vishal A. Chintakindi with 538, Daniya Rahaf 511, Alok Gouli 503, Rakesh 496, Shruti Mahadevappa 494, Afifa Zoha 494, Ananya Kulkarni 481, Shaista Batool 466, Manasi S. Kavalgi 458 and Mohammed Feroze with 458. Chairman of Shaheen Group of Institutions Abdul Qadeer has congratulated the students for their outstanding performance and wished them for their future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharnbasveshwar-students-perform-well-in-neet/article37315934.ece
03 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State plans to bring out semiconductor policy||As part of a plan to attract semiconductor-based start-ups in the State, the government will shortly come out with a semiconductor policy, a first of its kind in the country, Minister of Large and Medium Industries Murugesh Nirani has said. Addressing a meeting of office-bearers of the BJP in the city on Sunday, he said that the policy will be designed to attract companies, especially start-ups, in the field of semiconductors by offering incentives and concessions. “Once the policy is up for implementation, many small and big companies will come and invest in the State. These investments are expected to generate over one lakh new jobs. We have a plan to ensure that a major portion of the investments comes to Kalaburagi. As Bengaluru has developed into India’s silicon valley, Kalaburagi will become India’s semiconductor city,” Mr. Nirani said. Mr. Nirani also said that his government has plans to establish a workshop and aircraft servicing unit near the Kalaburagi Airport. “We are exploring the possibilities of establishing units for plane servicing and manufacturing plane parts in Kalaburagi. We need around 500 acres of land near the Kalaburagi Airport for this purpose. If we get land, our plans will immediately be materialised,” Mr. Nirani, who is also in-charge Minister for Kalaburagi district, said. Mr. Nirani said that a workshop to encourage and train local and budding entrepreneurs will be organised in Kalaburagi on November 11 and 12. The event, he added, is expected to see thousands of participants from across the Kalyana Karnataka region. “Successful entrepreneurs will narrate their stories and share their experiences. They will interact with enthusiasts of entrepreneurship and guide them in their journey to become successful. entrepreneurs. On November 12, an interaction on ‘Our dream Kalaburagi’ will be held. Apart from experts from different fields, common people will share their views on developing Kalaburagi into an advanced and developed district in the State,” Mr. Nirani said, exuding the confidence of raising the district’s position to one among the top 10 districts in the SSLC examination results. Mr. Nirani also said that he has plans to invite farm scientists from Israel, which is known for reaping rich dividends with minimum investments and resources, to guide and train farmers in the district. Legislators Basavaraj Mattimadu, Avinash Jadhav and Shashil G. Namoshi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-plans-to-bring-out-semiconductor-policy/article37315936.ece
03 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ashes immersed in the Krishna||A part of ashes of farmers, who died during the protest against “anti-farmer” laws in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, were immersed in the Krishna near Kollur village in Shahapur taluk of Yadgir district on Sunday. Congress leader and former Aland MLA B.R. Patil, who is associated with Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a conglomerate of farmers organisations leading the agitation on border near Delhi against the farm laws, took the ashes to the spot along with other farmer leaders and immersed them in the waters after performing the necessary rituals. Kalaburagi district president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Umapathi Patil, social activist Shoukatali Alur, farmer Sharanappa Bhirnoor and others accompanied him. “We have immersed a part of ashes of farmers Lovepreet Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Daljeet Singh and Nachattar Singh who died after an SUV ran over them when they were protesting against the anti-farmer laws last month in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri,” Mr. Patil told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashes-immersed-in-the-krishna/article37315935.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Desks, benches for schools in Belagavi, Haveri, Uttara Kannada districts||Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh on Tuesday flagged off in Dharmasthala a goods vehicle transporting desks and benches to government schools in Belagavi, Haveri and Uttara Kannada districts being provided by Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP). The project will be providing 2,370 pairs of desks and benches to 311 government schools in the three districts at a rate of eight to 10 pairs for each school. Mr. Nagesh appreciated the gesture of the project in joining hands with the government. He said that the Sri Kshetra has been extending a helping hand to the government wherever there is a need. Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade said that the Sri Kshetra has been implementing several initiatives under its Jnaana Deepa Shikshana programme. The initiatives include providing honorary teachers to schools where there is shortage, including 600 teachers this academic year; construction of classrooms, drinking water provision, construction of toilets, repair of school buildings, compound construction, etc. So far, SKDRDP has provided Rs. 20.7 crore grant towards these initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/desks-benches-for-schools-in-belagavi-haveri-uttara-kannada-districts/article37315942.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Puttur girl shines in NEET||Fighting against odds, a girl from Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district got the second rank at the national level in NEET 2021 in persons with disabilities (PWD) category, the results of which were announced on November 1. Sinchana Lakshmi, a second-year student at Vivekananda PU College in Puttur, scored 658 out of 720 in the qualifying examination. Among all the 16 lakh-odd medical seat aspirants, she is in 2,856th position (All India General Category). Sinchana has been bright in academics, said her father, Muralidhara Bhat, an agriculturist from Mundur in Puttur taluk. She stood second in the SSLC exam, scoring 624 out of 625. Her performance in JEE and KCET was also remarkable: 96.16 percentile in JEE; 530th rank in B.Sc. agriculture, 974th rank in BNYS, 974th rank in veterinary, and 1,582nd rank in KCET engineering. Sinchana told The Hindu that special coaching had been arranged by her college. Though she did not maintain specific study hours, she was consistent in studies. She hopes for a seat in the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. Mr. Bhat said Sinchana underwent a series of surgeries when she was in class V till class IX to correct a birth defect in the spine. The management, principal, and staff members of Vivekananda PU College congratulated Sinchana for her performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/puttur-girl-shines-in-neet/article37315766.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone for Coast Guard academy soon||Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Tuesday that the foundation stone for setting up Indian Coast Guard’s Training Academy will be laid in the city in a few days from now. Addressing a gathering at a function organised by Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) to lay the foundation stones for building an indoor stadium for kabaddi and shuttle badminton at Urwa Market and a multi-level car parking-cum-retail space project at Hampankatta, Mr. Kateel said that a proposal to develop a waterfront from Netravathi bridge at Jeppinamogaru to the Phalguni bridge at Kuluru is still active. It might take about three years for the proposed project to move forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foundation-stone-for-coast-guard-academy-soon/article37316119.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Jashan Chabra wants to study in AIIMS, Delhi||Jashan Chabra from Mount Carmel Central School, Konchady, here, who has secured fifth rank in NEET, said on Tuesday he would like to pursue a career either in emergency medicine or want to become a cardiologist or a general surgeon. Jashan told reporters that it was his dream to pursue medicine. “I will study at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi,” he said. The student, a native of Punjab, moved to the city along with his parents eight years ago. After his father left them, his mother, Anita, brought him up. “Till Class X, it was I who taught him after school hours,” said a beaming Ms. Anita, who was happy with her son’s feat. During lockdown, Jashan said he received good support from his schoolteachers, staff of Aakash Institute in Mangaluru, his friends, and his mother. This helped him to be better prepared for the exam. “I kept myself motivated and never dropped my energy during preparation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jashan-chabra-wants-to-study-in-aiims-delhi/article37316123.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||ISRO Chairman to deliver NIT-K convocation address||As many as 1,681 candidates will be awarded degrees at the 19th annual convocation of the National Institute of Technology (NIT-K), Surathkal, on Saturday. The convocation will be conducted in the virtual mode at 11 a.m. Union Minister for Education Dharmendra Pradhan will be the chief guest. And, Department of Space Secretary and ISRO Chairman K. Sivan will deliver the convocation address. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, director of the institute K. Umamaheshwar Rao said that the candidates to be graduated will include 120 Ph.D, 766 post0graduate and 795 B.Tech students. “The institute will confer Doctor of Science ( Honoris Causa ) degree for the first time to its highly distinguished alumnus, now District Magistrate of Gautham Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, and a silver medallist at the 2021 Tokyo Paralympics, Suhas L. Yathiraj, during the convocation,” he said. Mr. Rao said that nine B.Tech students and 30 post-graduate students will receive gold medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/isro-chairman-to-deliver-nit-k-convocation-address/article37316118.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi to have association of auto dealers||The Dakshina Kannada Automobile and Tyre Dealers Association, Mangaluru, on Sunday promised support for an association for Udupi district and also mentor it. This assurance was given at the 37th annual general body meeting of the Dakshina Kannada Association in response to demand from members of Udupi district. Members from Udupi said that the banner of Dakshina Kannada did not have official acceptance in the local administration of Udupi, leading to practical problems. This came to the fore during the COVID-19 lockdown, the members said. Responding on behalf of the managing committee, treasurer Shashidhar Pai Maroor, who is also president of the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), said that it is a genuine problem experienced by all trade bodies after the bifurcation of the erstwhile Dakshina Kannada and the formation of Udupi district in 1998. Office-bearers of the Dakshina Kannada association were re-elected unanimously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-to-have-association-of-auto-dealers/article37316117.ece
03 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Speech contest for youth||The Udupi District Nehru Yuva Kendra will conduct Union government-sponsored speech competitions intended to bring out talent among the youth and to create awareness about their role in nation building. Competitions will be held at taluk, district, State and national levels with contestants expected to speak in English or Hindi on “Patriotism and Nation Building” with the theme of Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas (Together We Grow, We Prosper, Together We Build a Strong and Inclusive India) for a duration of up to10 minutes. Taluk-level contest will be held for Kundapur and Byndoor on November 25, 10.30 a.m., at Bhandarkars College, Kundapur. Contact NSS Officer Arun Kumar on Ph: 9480396456/ 9972404202. For Udupi, Kaup and Brahmavar, it will be held on November 26, 11 a.m., at MGM College, Udupi. Contact NSS Officer Suchith Kotian on Ph: 8884323443/9739430331. The competition will be held for Karkala and Hebri on November 27, 11 a.m., at Bhuvanendra College, Karkala. Contact NSS Officer Suchithra on Ph: 8197488357. Details can be had from Nehru Yuva Kendra, Udupi, on Ph: 0820-2574992 or email:dyc.udupi@- gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speech-contest-for-youth/article37316121.ece
03 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||6.84% candidates clear K-SET||A total of 4,779 candidates have qualified to become assistant professors in colleges across the State by clearing the Karnataka State Eligibility Test (KSET) the results of which were announced here on Tuesday. The University of Mysore, the nodal agency for KSET recognised by the UGC, said 69,857 candidates out of 83,907 had appeared for the test held in July this year. Among them, 2,470 male and 2,309 female candidates have secured the eligibility. The pass percentage is 6.84 per cent, which is less by 0.05 per cent compared to last year’s test results. The next KSET is expected to be conducted either in February or March, and thereafter the University is likely to seek renewal of permission (once in three years) from the UGC for conducting the KSET for three more years. KSET was conducted in 41 subjects in 20 cities, including Mysuru, Bengaluru, Belagavi, Davangere, and Mangaluru, and the highest number of candidates who have qualified were from Mangaluru with 9.72 per cent results followed by Bengaluru with 9.36 per cent and Mysuru with 8.08 per cent. However, the number of candidates who appeared for the KSET were highest in Mysuru (15,059) followed by Bengaluru (13,630). A total of 4,573 candidates wrote the test in Mangaluru. Sharing the results at a press conference here on Tuesday, Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar said the Steering Committee and the Moderation Committees appointed by the UGC reviewed the results and approved the KSET 2021 cut-off and results that were processed based on the final answer keys. To qualify for the selection list, the candidate must have appeared in both papers (300 marks) and secured at least 40 per cent aggregate marks taken together for general (unreserved) category candidates and 35 per cent aggregate marks in both papers taken together under reserved category candidates. The number of candidates to be qualified (total slots) for eligibility for assistant professors shall be equal to 6 per cent of the candidates appearing in both the papers of KSET, he said. The candidates who cleared the test will get a certificate which will have a lifetime validity. There was a tie in results and the number of candidates who scored equal marks were 588, including 256 candidates in general category. K-SET Coordinator H. Rajashekar said the University has been conducting KSET since 2011, and the next test will be conducted in 2022 before seeking renewal from the UGC for holding the test in the subsequent years. “There is also a discussion on whether the test can be conducted online. This may require at least around 80,000 to one lakh computers. But, nowhere in the country, such tests are done online,” he said. The category-wise KSET results of candidates are: 2,351 (GM), 739 (SC), 144 (ST), 191 (CAT-I), 700 (CAT-IIA), 194 (CAT-II B), 206 (CAT-III A) and 254 (CAT-III B). The highest number of candidates who wrote the test was 14,063 in commerce and the lowest was 25 in Linguistics. As many as 888 candidates have become eligible in commerce stream to become assistant professors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/684-candidates-clear-k-set/article37316133.ece
03 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||CM says decision soon on park near Kabini dam||Landscaping and development of a park at Kabini Dam on the lines of Brindavan Gardens and a Disneyland-type project at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) were resurrected from cold storage during the traditional thanksgiving at the two dams by the Chief Minister, Basavaraj Bommai, on Tuesday. Mr. Bommai, who offered bagina at Kabini dam in H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district consequent to the reservoir getting filled to the brim (2,284 ft), said the proposal to develop a park at Kabini was before the government. Though it is being conceived as a PPP model, it is also being proposed that the government should fund it entirely on its own and a suitable decision would be taken in due course, said Mr. Bommai. The proposal was also included in the State Budget for 2021-22 tabled by the then Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa in February this year and Rs. 50 crore was allocated for it and nearly 300 acres of land is available for park development. However, it is pertinent to note that the project at Kabini was mooted many years ago but is yet to gain any traction though budgetary allocation had kindled fresh hopes for its revival. Tourism experts have averred that the project at Kabini had a better potential to attract tourists compared to the Brindavan Gardens as tourists can club the visit with jungle safari at the Kabini backwaters abutting Nagarahole and Bandipur. Mr. Bommai later visited the KRS in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district to offer bagina consequent to the dam attaining the full reservoir level of 124.80 ft. The district in-charge Minister, K.C.Narayana Gowda, and Srirangapatna MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah sought to revive the concept of Disneyland-type park at the KRS and urged the Chief Minister to expedite it so as to promote tourism in the region. Mr. Narayana Gowda said that nearly 1 crore people visit the KRS every year and a Rs. 1,800 crore project under PPP model was conceived in 2018 but has not made any progress. He urged Mr. Bommai to revive the same so as to give a thrust to the project which, he said, would given an impetus to tourism in the region and benefit lakhs of people. MLA’s appeal Mr. Ravindra Srikantaiah also raised the issue and urged Mr. Bommai to sanction the project so as to help promote tourism in Mysuru-Mandya belt. He also drew attention of the CM to pending canal link works in his constituency and said though the DPR had been approved and the tenders finalised, the works have been dropped and wanted them to be revived. Mr. Srikantaiah said Mr. Yediyurappa had notified as a revenue village the cluster of settlements inhabited by those relocated during the construction of the KRS dam and appealed to Mr. Bommai to complete the civic amenities in the newly declared revenue village. Water use Minister for Water Resources Govind Karjol stressed upon the judicious use of water and to ensure that farmers living in the tail-end region of the canals get adequate water for irrigation. He said water was a precious commodity and time was not far when states and countries would be fighting each other on cloud seeding so as to harness water in their respective territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-says-decision-soon-on-park-near-kabini-dam/article37316130.ece
03 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||382 teaching posts vacant for years at UoM||As many as 382 teaching posts in the University of Mysore (UoM) are vacant for many years and the existing student-teacher ratio affected the chances of the century-old university getting higher NAAC grades. “Out of 664 sanctioned teaching posts, 382 posts continue to remain vacant. As many as 12 professors will be retiring this year. With 282 professors, associate professors and assistant professors, the academic activities are being run along with the support of 700-plus guest faculty,” said Vice-Chancellor G .Hemantha Kumar. Speaking to reporters here, he said the issue has been brought to the notice of the State Government as the vacant posts may affect research activities in a longer run in the absence of permanent faculty for guiding research students. The University had aimed for ‘A’ plus grade in NAAC accreditation. However, it lagged behind in two parameters after having successfully cleared other parameters. “If the vacant posts had been filled and the student-teacher ratio was improved, the chances of getting higher NAAC grades were more.” Prof. Kumar said guest lecturers cannot guide research students as per the UGC rules. Therefore, at least the faculty can be appointed on contract basis so that they could guide the research scholars, improving research activities on the campus. The last time the University appointed teaching faculty was in 2007. Another reason why research activities have been affected was non-release of research grants from the UGC to professors, in the form of projects. “The grants for projects have been stopped for the last three years. This has crippled research with no funds for carrying research activities,” he said. The student-teacher ratio should be 1:15 but the current ratio stands at 1:19.56 in the wake of vacant teaching posts. The University of Mysore was recently given ‘A’ Grade by the National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) in the 4th cycle. The University had expected a higher grade of A-Plus. The dearth of faculty affected the ratio though the university has well-established infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/382-teaching-posts-vacant-for-years-at-uom/article37316134.ece
03 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Will make necessary corrections: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the BJP had taken the party’s defeat in Hangal seriously and would do the “necessary corrections”. After offering ‘bagina’ to the Cauvery at the Krishnaraja Sagar, he told reporters that the party would work out strategies to convert the setback into victory in the next elections. All necessary political steps would be taken in this regard, he said. Rival’s ‘good work’ The reasons identified by Mr. Bommai for the BJP’s loss in Hanagal included the “good work” of Congress candidate Srinivas Mane during the last two to three years, particularly during COVID-19 pandemic. “People have stood by him for the work he has done,” he said. The BJP was not able to win the support of all the people who had voted in favour of the former Minister C.M. Udasi, whose death necessitated the byelection. However, Mr. Bommai said party leaders and workers had tried hard to win in the constituency. He sought to downplay the impact of the results in Hangal on his leadership or the Government.He observed that the Congress had won the byelections for Nanjangud and Gundlupet that were held during the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s tenure, but lost both the seats in the subsequent Assembly elections in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-make-necessary-corrections-bommai/article37315774.ece
03 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Action council plea to hand over man-missing case to CBI||An action council demanding a fair probe into the mysterious disappearance of CPI(M) branch committee member K. Sajeevan has urged that the man-missing case be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Mr. Sajeevan, 56, of Thottappally has been missing since September 29. The investigation in the case is being carried out by a 10-member team led by Ambalappuzha Circle Inspector Dhwijesh S. The investigators have questioned a number of people including local CPI (M) members. However, it has not yet made any breakthrough in the case. M.H. Vijayan, vice-president of the action council, alleged here on Tuesday that the ongoing police investigation was a total farce. “Sajeevan had actively participated in a protests against mineral sand-mining at Thottappally. His party, on the other hand, has supported sand-mining. We suspect his disappearance has something to do with the nexus between the CPI (M) and mining contractors,” Mr. Vijayan said. According to Mr. Sajeevan’s family members, he went to sea for fishing at 5 a.m. on September 29 and returned to the Thottappally harbour at 11 a.m. Later, people saw him alighting from an autorickshaw at Thottappally around noon, before he went missing. Delegate A member of the CPI (M) Poothoppu branch committee, Mr. Sajeevan was to attend the branch committee conference of the party as a delegate on September 30..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-council-plea-to-hand-over-man-missing-case-to-cbi/article37316083.ece
03 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Probe into alleged rape of girl||The Ramankary police have launched a probe into an alleged gang rape of a minor girl at Muttar in Kuttanad. The alleged incident happened on Monday. According to the police complaint, the girl, a Plus Two student, was returning home from school when a five-member gang attacked and sexually assaulted her around 1 p.m. The girl, from a Dalit community, revealed the incident to her parents after reaching home and the family lodged a police complaint. “We have registered a case based on the complaint. Her statements have been recorded and she will be subjected to a medical examination. She has given contradictory statements,” said an official, adding that they were yet to corroborate the authenticity of the allegations. The police have collected CCTV visuals from nearby places and started examining it. District Police Chief G. Jaidev, Ambalappuzha Dy.SP. S.T. Suresh Kumar and other police officials visited the place where the alleged incident took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-alleged-rape-of-girl/article37316084.ece
03 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||A record of Wayanad’s heritage||Writer Kalpetta Narayanan has said that Charithramurangunna Wayanad , a two-volume historical reference book on Wayanad, prepared by the Wayanad district Kudumbashree Mission, was the encyclopaedia on the hill district. Speaking after releasing the book here on Tuesday, Mr. Narayanan said that the book marked the footprints of the cultural heritage of various tribespeople in the district as it was able to explain the minute details of their rituals and ceremonies. The Kudumbashree movement was the greatest revolution in the history of post-Independent India, Mr. Narayanan said. It made a revolutionary change in the outlook of the rural womenfolk in the country. The poverty alleviation mission had already proved its calibre in women empowerment, but now it was able to prove its mettle in cultural empowerment through the reference book, he said. It took three years to complete the book, P. Sajitha, district coordinator, Kudumbashree Mission Wayanad, said. All the topics related to the district such as politics, struggles, culture, health, education, migration of settler farmers, history, and tribal life have been incorporated into it. The data for the book was collected by the Balasabha members of the mission after interviewing notable persons in their localities, Ms. Sajitha said. They also referred available books for the completion of the work, she said. District Panchayat President Samshad Marakkar inaugurated the programme. Kalpetta Municipal Chairman Keyam Thodi Mujeeb presided over the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-record-of-wayanads-heritage/article37315995.ece
03 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Call to resume north Malabar train services||Even though life has become normal after the government relaxed the norms following a dip in COVID-19 cases, the Palakkad division of Southern Railway is yet to restart all the passenger train services, creating innumerable problems for the people, especially those commuting for work. In contrast, the Thiruvananthapuram railway division has already started several passenger trains and MEMU services. The Palakkad division has started just three passenger trains and two MEMU services from Kannur. There were 11 passenger trains that were operated by the division prior to the spread of COVID. However, following the outbreak, the services were stopped. Season tickets According to senior Railway officials, more than 6,000 season tickets were issued at the Kannur station a month before the COVID-19 outbreak. There was an equal number, or even more number of passengers, who travelled on current or reserved tickets everyday, especially to towns in Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod districts. However, the numbers have gone down drastically due to the non-availability of trains and fewer than 2,000 people now buy season tickets. Dinu Mottammal, coordinator of the North Malabar Railway Passengers’ Coordination Committee, said that owing to the COVID outbreak, many trains had been redesignated as special trains and were charging exorbitant fares. Mr. Mottammal said that passengers were forced to queue up for long to buy tickets. Even during the rush hours, the Railway officials were not ready to open more counters. Similarly, increasing the platform tickets fare from Rs. 10 to Rs. 50 had further burdened the people, who came to see off their loved ones, he said. Mohammed Nizar Peruvad, president of the Kumbala Railway Passengers’ Association, Kasaragod, said that just one train with unreserved coaches was being run towards Kasaragod and Mangaluru. Most other trains with unreserved coaches and MEMU that had been allowed in recent months, end their services at Kannur. He said many government employees and teachers working in Kasaragod arrived by train, especially from Kannur. However, in the absence of train services, they were forced to buy reserved tickets every time or travel by road. Similarly, students studying in education institutions in Kasaragod and Mangaluru relied on these trains. As a result, roads were now flooded with vehicles and traffic blocks had become a daily occurrence, he said. He said trains there were no unreserved compartments in Mangaluru-Chennai Egmore Express, Malabar Express, Mangaluru-Chennai Superfast, and Ernad Express, which had huge patronage by commuters during the peak hours.  Meanwhile, M.K. Gopinath, Public Relations Officer, Palakkad division, said that the Railway would resume the train services in a phased manner. A few more trains would be begin services from November 10, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-resume-north-malabar-train-services/article37315993.ece
03 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Body of missing man found in river||The body of K.K. Sunil, a carpenter from Thrissur, who went missing, was found in the Olavara river on Tuesday. The body was found by locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-missing-man-found-in-river/article37316008.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Drones may be deployed to expedite crop insurance claim settlements||Agriculture Insurance Company (AIC) of India Limited, the public sector organisation engaged in providing insurance cover for various crops, is in discussions with various commodity boards for exclusive crop-specific insurance schemes. A senior official of the Agriculture Insurance Company said that one of the goals of the company was to speed up settlement of insurance claims by farmers and the company was exploring new technology, including deployment of drones, coupled with conventional claim assessment methods for speedy settlements. This would also enhance the accuracy of granular level claim assessment even in calamity-like situations where human intervention may not be possible. Though there were around 20 lakh farmers in Kerala, only about one lakh came under crop insurance cover. The massive gap in insurance coverage was mostly because Kerala had more plantation crops like coconut, rubber, cardamom, coffee and tea that were not covered under insurance. At the same time, there was a big need for insurance cover for plantation crops due to the ever-changing climatic conditions, the official added. New schemes The official also said a scheme for cardamom would be launched shortly in association with the Spices Board. Likewise, a scheme was being devised for rubber plantations in consultation with the Rubber Board. “Technology integration in crop insurance is promoted strongly by the Union government and it is of great significance for the success of crop insurance,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drones-may-be-deployed-to-expedite-crop-insurance-claim-settlements/article37316012.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Funds of shelved Sarovaram project to help augment city water supply||The Kochi Corporation’s decision to drop the “unfeasible” Sarovaram project is likely to benefit the city dwellers as the funds earmarked for the project will be utilised for enhancing the water supply. A portion of the Rs. 9.33 crore earmarked for the project, which was caught in a series of issues including the violation of the Coastal Regulation Zone rules, would be used for the construction of a 40-lakh-litre-capacity water storage tank at Kaloor. The funds will also be utilised for replacing some of the old water supply pipelines in the city. The Kerala Water Authority has mooted the water tank construction and re-laying of water supply pipelines. The water supply projects that are implemented in the city under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) will benefit from the dropped project, according to civic authorities. The LDF-led civic administration decided to drop the project, which was pushed by the previous regime headed by Soumini Jain, as the project landed in trouble. The UDF regime had planned a cycle track and walkway across the Chilavannoor Lake. However, the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority declined permission for the project, citing the violation of rules. The Kerala High Court had also ordered that the earthen bund, which was constructed along the lake, should be removed as it was apprehended that the bund would lead to flooding in the area. According to Mayor M. Anilkumar, the project would require acquisition of land even if the original project, which was conceived during the period of former Kochi Mayor C.M. Mani, was implemented. No funds were available under the AMRUT projects for land acquisition. Hence, the decision to drop the implementation of the project from AMRUT, he said. The guidelines of the mission insist that the funds from the sector can be utilised only for drinking water projects. The funds that would be saved from the Sarovaram project will be thus utilised for the water supply schemes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/funds-of-shelved-sarovaram-project-to-help-augment-city-water-supply/article37316029.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Doctors involved in medical test of sexual abuse survivor booked||The Crime Branch (CB) probing the case involving alleged fraudster Monson Mavunkal has booked two doctors of the Government Medical College, Kalamasserry, for allegedly threatening a sexual abuse survivor during the course of a medical examination last week. The survivor of the case registered against Monson under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was brought to the outpatient (OP) wing of the gynaecology department of the hospital for medical examination on October 27. Two doctors, including an assistant professor, was entrusted with her examination behind closed doors. The Kerala Government Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA) has strongly objected to the CB action dubbing it as foisting fabricated cases on doctors discharging their duties in compliance with the law. The survivor had lodged a petition with the city police alleging that she was locked up in the hospital, grilled about unwanted details, and accused of fabricating the story, which she felt was on account of the fact that Monson’s son had worked at the hospital. The city police forwarded the complaint to the CB. However, in a release issued, KGMCTA said that a preliminary inquiry by the association had found the accusations baseless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-involved-in-medical-test-of-sexual-abuse-survivor-booked/article37316032.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Maradu apartment owners paid compensation||The 110 apartment owners of Maradu, who had purchased housing units in the demolished Maradu apartments, were reimbursed the money they paid to the builders for buying the flats, according to a communication. Of the Rs. 120 crore the apartment owners paid to the builders, Rs. 90 crore was reimbursed. While a part of the money was provided by the State government as interim compensation to the apartment owners, a share also came from three builders. The Supreme Court-appointed committee to oversee the distribution of compensation, which was headed by K. Balakrishnan Nair, former judge of the Kerala High Court, had also recovered an amount of Rs. 28.41 crore from three builders, namely Golden Kayaloram, Jain Coral Cove and Alfa Serene. The State government chipped in with a contribution of Rs. 62.75 crore, said a communication issued by the committee. However, the fourth builder, H2O Holy Faith, which owes Rs. 42.15 crore, has not made any payments including the compensation for the apartment owners. In his report to the Supreme Court, the Ernakulam District collector had submitted that the assets of the builder was worth only Rs. 7.62 crore. The report was submitted to the apex court, which had sought a report from the Collector on ways to recover the money from the builder through revenue recovery. The case will come up before the apex court on November 10, the communication said. An application of the State government for recovering the expenses of the demolition of the apartments and the functioning of the committee from the builders is also pending before the Supreme Court, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maradu-apartment-owners-paid-compensation/article37316010.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Free angioplasty for 100 needy patients||Around 100 needy patients will undergo free angioplasty as part of the “Hridayathil Hibi Eden” project to be inaugurated by Veena George, Health Minister, on November 6. Mr. Eden, MP representing Ernakulam Lok Sabha constituency, said in a release that the project was being implemented in association with the Indira Gandhi Co-operative Hospital, Kadavanthra, Karunya Hrudayalaya, and Sowkhyam Charitable Trust. Free registration can be done on the phone number +914843503177. The beneficiaries will be selected by a medical board led by M. I. Junaid Rahman, former District Medical Officer. The procedure will be carried out at the Indira Gandhi Co-operative Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-angioplasty-for-100-needy-patients/article37316016.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Trial run of renovated STP gets under way||The trial run of the revamped sewage treatment plant (STP) has started at the Government Medical College, Ernakulam. The delay in the completion of the work has come under the radar of the National Green Tribunal and the State Level Monitoring Committee on Solid Waste Management. Senior officials of the State Pollution Control Board said that the commissioning work of the plant began two weeks ago. The renovated plant has a capacity to treat 500 kilo litres per day. The estimated generation of effluents is around 500 kilo litres per day, as per the board. The renovation work of the STP was undertaken by Infrastructure Kerala Ltd. (INKEL). The board will assess the efficiency of the renovated plant after one week. Samples will be taken to ascertain whether the facility is operating as per the environmental standards prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board. The consent to operate issued by the board will be based on the performance assessment. The plant at the medical college was functioning properly till 2018. The board had not given its nod to operate the facility afterwards as the plant failed to meet the norms. The delay in the commissioning of the renovated plant had prompted the board to suggest that effluents could be processed at the STP managed by the Greater Cochin Development Authority at the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium at Kaloor. The proposal was not taken forward as the commissioning process of the renovated STP at the hospital had started around two weeks ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-run-of-renovated-stp-gets-under-way/article37316035.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Swapna Suresh, other accused get bail||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Swapna Suresh, Sarith P.S. and six other accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case registered against them by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice C. Jayachandran passed the verdict while allowing the appeals filed by the accused against the Ernakulam NIA Special Court's order rejecting their pleas for bail. The NIA case is that the accused with the requisite knowledge and intention to threaten and destabilise the economic security of the country had conspired with each other, recruited persons, formed a terrorist gang, raised funds, and smuggled gold from the UAE in large quantities through the diplomatic channel. Thus, they had committed terrorist activities punishable under Sections 16, 17, 18 and 20 of the UAPA. Allowing the appeals, the Bench observed that as of now, the facts narrated and the charges alleged did not “commend us to find the accused having any connection with any terrorist act under Section 15 of the UAPA, least of all, a threat to the economic security of the nation.” The court added that on a deeper investigation, there was no element of terrorist activity unearthed, and, as of now, the accusations and allegations were summarised in the case chargesheet which, but for the interspersed words of a terrorist act, did not reveal any such act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swapna-suresh-other-accused-get-bail/article37316036.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Couple operating ‘no halal’ restaurant, two others held||The Infopark police have arrested four persons, who have been on the run for nearly a week, after being booked in three cases in connection with an incident involving the assault of two youngsters at a cafe in Nilampathinjamugal near Infopark Kochi last month. The arrested were identified as Thushara Ajith Kallayil, 40, her husband Ajith Kallayil, 39, and their two accomplices Appu alias Vinoop, 31, of Udayamperoor, and Sunil, 39, of Vazhakkulam. They were picked up from a hideout at Ponkunnam in Kottayam district during the early morning hours of Tuesday. Appu was an accused in six other cases. Though the accused tried to resist, the police team overpowered them and brought them to Kochi where their arrests were recorded following an identification parade. A team led by Infopark Inspector P. R. Santhosh, sub inspector V. J. Jacob, senior civil police officer M. R. Ajayakumar, women civil police officers K. M. Beevathu and Shabna K. Kamal made the arrest. Thushara had created a flutter when she dramatically came live on Facebook aboard a moving ambulance, claiming to be mercilessly assaulted for putting up a “no halal food” sticker at what was supposed to be her soon-to-be-opened restaurant. However, shortly after her Facebook post, it emerged that it was actually her two accomplices, Appu ans Sunil, who had hacked and injured two youngsters - Nakul who runs the cafe and his friend Binoj. Thushara had allegedly created provocations by taking away a kiosk outside the cafe, and when the youngsters questioned it, they were attacked by her accomplices, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-operating-no-halal-restaurant-two-others-held/article37316033.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Just a click now to get spatial data of local bodies||A year after releasing maps demarcating the boundaries of all local bodies in the State, the Open Data Kerala, a collective of organisations and individuals working towards making all data on Kerala and Malayalam as open source data, has now come out with more elaborate and downloadable maps of local bodies with nearly ten different data sets. A wide array of data from ponds to farmlands, petrol pumps to ATMs and educational institutions to emergency services within a local body limit can be downloaded with their locations in a single click from the portal map.opendatakerala.org. Data is categorised under amenities, education, emergency, nature, politics, public transport, recreation, religion, and tourism. While these data are already available on Google Map, they cannot be downloaded. “What we have released is an alpha version of the map. The public can correct the wrong data or fill in the missing data by going to openstreetmap.org and it will get automatically uploaded in the portal. This open source data will come in handy in view of the recurring natural disasters and health emergencies like the pandemic,” said Manoj Karingamadathil, programme coordinator. Decade-long effort The elaborate and downloadable map is the fruit of about a decade of efforts by public-spirited individuals under the Open Street Map initiative to make such data easily accessible in the public domain. The realisation that the enormous data with the government is not easily accessible to the public led to such an initiative. “From administration and data visualisations to research, the uses of these open source maps are limitless. We are planning to add even more data sets downloadable in multiple formats,” said Arjun Ganghadharan, an active volunteer of Open Data Kerala. The maps released by Open Data Kerala last year were used by the government for fighting COVID-19 and Nipah and by media houses for data visualisation during local body and Assembly polls. “GIS-based mapping at considerable investments either goes inaccessible to the public or is rendered useless without periodic updates,” said Naveen Francis, an open data activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spatial-data-of-local-bodies-now-downloadable-in-a-click/article37316014.ece
03 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC declares void bylaws banning pets in apartments||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday held that the clauses in bylaws of residents associations banning owners/occupiers of residential apartments from keeping pets of their choice or accessing the elevators and common facilities in apartment buildings are void and unenforceable in law. The Bench comprising Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Gopinath P. passed the order on a petition filed by the People for Animals challenging the bylaws of the associations that prohibit residents from keeping pets of their choice in their individual apartments. The court, however, made it clear that the residents associations could stipulate reasonable conditions that must be adhered to by owners/residents of individual apartments while keeping pets. The Animal Welfare Board of India had issued a letter on February 26, 2015 containing the guidelines in this regard. They could be adopted by the residents associations. The court added that time had indeed come to nudge our citizenry into respecting the claims of other living beings that too had rights in our shared ecosystem. The court observed that compassion and empathy were the very essence of civilization and “we must strive to preserve these values as part of our culture”. “ The State and its institutions of governance must take appropriate measures to inculcate a spirit of accommodation towards animals amongst our people, preferably by introducing animal awareness programmes at the school-level in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-declares-void-bylaws-banning-pets-in-flats/article37315996.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cut the roots of narcotics lobby: KCBC||The roots of the narcotics lobby, which wastes the lives of young people, should be cut, says Yuhannan Mar Theodosius, chairman of the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council’s anti-liquor commission. A statement issued here by KCBC said that this call was made at a meeting of the anti-liquor commission held at the Pastoral Orientation Centre, Palarivattam, on Tuesday. The statement said that the narcotics lobby had fastened its grip on the young people of Kerala and government establishments should strengthen their action against it. With the increasing sale and use of narcotic substances, it has been decided that family units would be formed against the use of addictive substances in every diocese, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cut-the-roots-of-narcotics-lobby-kcbc/article37316015.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala handloom sector faces yarn shortage||Kerala’s handloom sector is facing a shortage of yarn. While more than 151 lakh kgs of yarn was delivered in 2017-18 in the State, the supply volume shrank sharply to 52.825 lakh kgs in 2020-21, said information obtained through a Right to Information Application from the Union Ministry of Textiles. The National Handloom Development Corporation supplies yarn to weaving groups, said Govindan Nampoothiri, a Kochi-based RTI activist, who collected the information from the Union Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-handloom-sector-faces-yarn-shortage/article37316017.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One held on charge of vandalising actor’s car||The Maradu police on Tuesday arrested a man in connection with the case registered for vandalising the car of actor Joju George during a blockade organised by the Ernakulam District Congress Committee in protest against the rising fuel prices at Vyttila on Monday. The arrested man was identified as Joseph, a Congress party worker from Vyttila. The police said that Joseph broke the rear windshield of the actor’s car, in the process suffering an injury to his hand. The blood stains on the broken windshield led the police to assume that the person involved had sustained an injury. This eventually led to the arrest of Joseph, who had an injury on his hand. His blood sample has been collected to verify whether it matches the bloodstains on the windshield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-on-charge-of-vandalising-actors-car/article37316030.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Security stepped up ahead of Deepavali||The city police have beefed up security ahead of Deepavali. Police personnel, both in uniform and civil dresses, have been deployed at shopping malls and all busy junctions in the city. Patrolling has also been strengthened in all city police station limits. Surveillance has been intensified against the arrival of burglars and thieves from other States and thefts aboard buses. Patrolling by women police and pink police teams has also been intensified to ensure the safety of women and children. “Women in distress can either reach out to the police through Nirbhaya App or the emergency number 112,” said Aishwarya Dongre, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic), Kochi City. Night patrolling has been strengthened by deploying 23 control room vehicles and as many number of mobile units from police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-stepped-up-ahead-of-deepavali/article37316031.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||916 test positive in Ernakulam||Around 916 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. Nearly 898 persons got infected through local contact. The TPR was 9.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/916-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article37316034.ece
03 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays ED probe against Ebrahim Kunju||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed for two weeks a single judge's order directing the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to investigate the role of former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju in a money laundering case registered in connection with the deposit of Rs. 10 crore in an account of Chandrika daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-stays-ed-probe-against-ebrahim-kunju/article37316042.ece
03 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Facelift for Kollam railway station||The Kollam Junction railway station will be upgraded to global standards with facilities including a commercial complex and a railway training institute. The construction works will be directly handled by the Railway Construction Organisation to complete the project in a time-bound manner. Among 21 stations “Kollam is one among 21 stations in India selected to be developed as world-class stations and the construction is expected to be completed by December 2023,” said N.K. Premachandran, MP, on Tuesday. He had a meeting with top officials of Southern Railway in Chennai. Though the Railway Land Development Authority was entrusted with the construction earlier, it was handed over to the Railway Construction Organisation for timely completion. The General Manager, Southern Railway, has instructed officials to look into Mr.Premachandran’s proposal to turn the Chinese Palace building at the station into a railway museum. While the second lift and escalator will be commissioned on November 15, all train services, including passenger trains, will be restored to their former schedule by December. The officials will take immediate steps to solve the travel woes of train commuters including season ticket passengers. Meanwhile, the conversion of special trains into regular trains will depend on COVID-19 cases in the State and the Railway authorities have said it is difficult to convert trains in the current scenario due to the high positivity rate in Kerala. Southern Railway will submit a recommendation to the Union Ministry of Railways for converting the Ernakulam-Kollam-Velankanni Express into a regular train and the issues related to the Pathimoonu Kannara bridge (13 arch bridge) will be addressed. Vistadome services While Kollam-Punalur electrification will be completed before March 31, the possibilities to start vistadome services will be probed. It was earlier announced that Kerala’s first vistadome coach will be attached to the Tambaram express, the service connecting Tambaram and Kollam junction through the Punalur-Shencottah rail route. Prior to the Sabarimala pilgrimage season, facilities will be provided for the pilgrims at the Punalur railway station and the proposal to convert the station into a Sabarimala pilgrim station will be considered. Facilities at the Mayyanad railway station will be fully restored and infrastructure development at the Paravur railway station will be carried out with the help of a special team. A special estimate will be prepared for the approach road adjacent to the Perinad underpass and the construction will be undertaken. The meeting was attended by Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas, principal chief operations manager Neenu Ittyerah, chief administrative officer (construction) Prafulla Verma and additional general manager B.G. Mallya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facelift-for-kollam-railway-station/article37316086.ece
03 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||HC directive to court on case against Vellappally||The Kerala High Court has instructed the Kollam Chief Judicial Magistrate Court to dispose of the Kollam SN College golden jubilee fund mismanagement case against Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan within one year. The Crime Branch had submitted the chargesheet on July 24, 2020 but no court proceedings had been initiated during the last 15 months. Petitioner P.Surendrababu had approached the High Court to issue summons to the accused and dispose of the case within a time frame. As per the chargesheet, the accused had committed offences, including criminal misappropriation, criminal breach of trust, and cheating of funds by deceiving the members of the golden jubilee celebration committee and the public. The Crime Branch had taken 16 years to submit the chargesheet in the case filed in 2004 and it was revealed that Mr.Natesan had caused wrongful loss to the golden jubilee celebration committee and a corresponding wrongful gain to himself. Observing that it was a crime originated long back and the petitioner was a septuagenarian now aged 75, the High Court, in its order, says that the case should be given a logical conclusion at the earliest. “It is made clear that this case shall not be adjourned by notification, shall be called in the court itself and shall be disposed of within a period of one year,” says the court. According to the chargesheet, the accused was selected as the general convener and the convener of the finance committee of the golden jubilee celebrations in 1997. He had opened a bank account for handling the funds mainly constituted by donations from the public. An all-India exhibition was also conducted to raise funds and the committee had entrusted the accused with the responsibility of constructing a library complex on the campus with the balance amount. The chargesheet found that the accused had diverted funds with mala fide intention to misappropriate and utilise the same for some purposes under his wish and auspicious. It also stated that the accused had made several transactions without the consent or knowledge of the committee members. The library complex never materialised and the chargesheet also pointed out that the accused also caused to disappear all records related to the funds and expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-court-on-case-against-vellappally/article37316087.ece
03 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Elderly couple found dead at Kurichi||An elderly couple was found dead inside their house at Kurichi, near Changanassery, on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Gopi, 80, of Kanjirakkatu house, Kelankavala, near Kurichi, and wife, Kunjamma, 78. According to the police, the woman was found lying inside the hall of their residence while her husband was hanging from the ceiling. The incident came to light when a relative of the couple came to the house on Tuesday morning. On an alert raised by him, local people rushed to the spot and informed the police about the incident. Officials said the couple used to quarrel with each other regularly and as per reports, a similar argument had broken out between the two the other day as well. A police team led by Chingavanam Station House Officer and Inspector T R Jiju initiated further proceedings in the case. After completing the inquest, bodies were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elderly-couple-found-dead-at-kurichi/article37316082.ece
03 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Aymanam tourism wins World Travel Mart award||The plans to convert Kottayam as a special hub of experiential tourism has received a major boost with Aymanam, a village in a backwater landscape here, bagging the One to Watch Award (Indian) category by the World Travel Mart (WTM). Tourism Director Krishna Teja received the award at a function in London recently. The award was in consideration of the tourism-related activities carried out in the village from April 2018 to March 31, 2020. The project to develop Aymanam, an adjoining village of the internationally renowned Kumarakom, was launched by the Responsible Tourism Mission Kerala in 2018. The project, prepared and executed under the leadership of K. Rupesh Kumar, coordinator, RT Mission, envisaged development of tourism products and services that are 100% locally owned. Second phase The second phase of the project, being established in two phases, is slated to be completed by March 2022. Last year, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan declared Aymanam as a Model Responsible Tourism Village As many as 118 RT units have been established in the panchayat, which seeks to establish a destination code for the local community and visitors and achieve self-sufficiency through tourism. Training has been imparted to 617 persons in different tourism-related activities, besides initiating waste management projects in association with the local authority and the Haritha Keralam Mission. Homestay units have been opened and a tourism resource directory launched. Tour packages ranging from village life experience to bicycle tours and paddy field walks are being implemented in association with women community tour leaders. A lakeside park and a boat terminal have been set up at Cheepungal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aymanam-tourism-wins-world-travel-mart-award/article37316045.ece
03 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Heavy rain pounds Kozhikode||Widespread rain flooded several low-lying areas and triggered landslips in the rural belt in Kozhikode district on Tuesday afternoon. Two landslips were reported in the hill regions. Concerns about landslips in the forest region have left residents of Kuttiyadi, Maruthongara, Kayakkodi, and Kavilumpara worried. Some of these areas were inundated as water levels rose abnormally. Adivaram town was almost flooded in heavy rain. Water entered shops in many places. The Kozhikode-Wayanad national highway was blocked for many hours. Several parts of Kozhikode city were flooded after the heavy rain around 5 p.m. Traffic movement was thrown out of gear as arterial roads remained submerged by storm water and overflowing drains. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy said landslips could occur in hilly areas such as Adivaram, Puthuppadi and Kavilumpara. He urged residents to remain vigilant. Trips to hilly regions and especially through the Thamarassery Ghat Raod and night trips should be avoided. The Collector also said that instructions issued by officials should be followed. The Fisheries Deputy Director has cautioned fishermen against venturing out into the sea till November 5. The Meteorological Centre in Thiruvananthapuram under the India Meteorological Department has sounded a general orange alert for the district on Wednesday and Thursday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall as well as thunderstorms, lighting and squall have been forecast on both days. The maximum surface wind speed would be less than 40 kmph and rain less than 15 mm per hour. For Kozhikode city, the prediction is a generally cloudy sky with a few spells of rain or thundershowers till November 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-pounds-kozhikode/article37315999.ece
03 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NCTE nod eluding varsity’s PE courses||Approval of the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) is still elusive for the courses run by the Physical Education Department of the University of Calicut. According to sources, courses such as B.P.Ed, M.P.Ed, four-year integrated B.P.Ed, and Ph.D programmes do not have recognition since 2014. The integrated course, launched seven years ago, is being run only on the university campus and at a centre in Kozhikode. It has been claimed that the department does not have enough permanent employees and good infrastructure as per NCTE guidelines. At present, eight staff posts and one post of a physiotherapist is vacant. Students claim that laboratory facilities too are absent. Since the courses are not recognised, they do not have the university’s affiliation. Thus, the Pareeksha Bhavan, the examination wing of the university, is reportedly unwilling to hold exams. The lack of recognition is affecting the job prospects of the students too. In the meantime, physical fitness tests were reportedly being held ahead of admissions to the B.P.Ed course and the integrated courses. Students’ protest This led to a group of students holding a protest outside the administration block on Monday, pointing out that the fourth year exams of B.P.Ed integrated course and the fourth semester exams of the postgraduate course had not been held for long. They claimed that the courses were completed five months ago. The authorities later held discussions with them and promised to hold the exams by November 15. They also promised the students to take steps to get back the NCTE recognition at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/physical-education-courses-still-awaiting-ncte-nod/article37316003.ece
03 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Detecting tuberculosis, the SWEET way||A national-level pilot project to detect tuberculosis (TB), HIV and non-communicable diseases such as diabetes among workers has been launched in Kozhikode district. It has been titled System for Workplace Engagement to Eliminate TB (SWEET). P.P. Pramod Kumar, district TB and AIDS control officer, told The Hindu that migrant labourers formed a large chunk of the workforce at present. Prevalence of TB and HIV was found to be high among them. Kozhikode has a huge share of migrant labourers with HIV. The public health system missed many of the cases because of the pandemic. “We found it difficult to screen these people at their residences. So we contacted their employers and devised a plan to conduct medical camps and tests at their workplaces,” he said. Since Kozhikode and Ernakulam districts have a high number of migrant labourers, the scheme was proposed to be first launched in these places. Companies that employ more than 1,000 workers are targeted in the scheme. Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society, which employs the highest number of workers in the district, is the first to be covered. Other diseases Dr. Pramod said though the main aim of SWEET was to detect TB cases, HIV and other non-communicable diseases too were made part of the screening process to make it more comprehensive. Awareness events too will be held. The officials are planning to finish the screening in the district in three months. The Central TB division and the State TB cell have supported the initiative. The Kozhikode district-level launch was opened by Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy recently. Dr. Pramod claimed that SWEET would be rolled out in other districts in the coming days. The officials said efforts were on to make the district TB-free by 2025. Old age homes, jails, pain and palliative care centres and tribal colonies, and those who were earlier listed as vulnerable to TB and people with post-COVID complications have been screened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/detecting-tuberculosis-the-sweet-way/article37316001.ece
03 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Directive on vaccination||A day after schools reopened in Kozhikode, the Health Department has directed the authorities to ensure that teachers and non-teaching staff take both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said on Tuesday that if parents had not yet taken the jab, they too should follow suit. Students, teachers and other staff, and parents should not enter the school premises if they are symptomatic. Meanwhile, the Education Department said 1,31,514 students appeared for classes on Tuesday and 1,32,428 had arrived on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-on-vaccination/article37316002.ece
03 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gold seized at airports||The Calicut Air Intelligence Unit apprehended two passengers who tried to smuggle 1.329 kg of gold at the Calicut International Airport on Monday night. Sleuths recovered 565 gm of 24-carat gold and 105 gm of 22-carat gold from Jameela of Kasaragod, who had concealed the contraband inside her hair worn as a bun. She arrived from Dubai, said officials. In the second case, Customs officials seized 559 gm from Faisal of Kozhikode, who arrived from Doha. The gold was hidden inside his socks. At Kannur The Air Intelligence Unit at the Kannur International Airport seized 583 gm of gold valued at over Rs. 28 lakh from a passenger on Tuesday. The police arrested Shahid, a resident of Manjeshwaram in Kasaragod, who arrived from Sharjah. The gold was concealed in a mixer grinder. A probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-seized-at-airports/article37316000.ece
03 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Lure of late-night football tourneys on turfs sets alarm bells ringing||The increasing attraction of boys to play late into the night on football turfs in the State has become a matter of concern with the Childline sounding an alarm against not only irreparable injuries but falling prey to sex and drug abuse as well. Scores of under-18 night football tournaments are being organised in November and December across the State, particularly in Malappuram district, which arguably enjoys the maximum number of turfs. “We should have clear bylaws or guidelines for the children playing late into the night on turfs if we are concerned about their rights,” said Childline district coordinator Anwar Karakkadan. Health risk By playing football intermittently throughout the night, boys are said to be risking their health — both mental and physical. According to professional football coach Shajirudheen Koppilan, allowing children to play on turfs after 12 midnight will be harmful for their health. “Turfs should be closed at 12 midnight. That’s the time our body and mind needs rest,” said Mr. Koppilan. It is feared that playing continually throughout the night by foregoing sleep and food can cause damage. In professional football, the first day after a match is used for recovery and the second day for complete rest. The Childline has taken up the matter after sporadic reports of child abuse under the guise of night football. Responsibility “Even when we encourage children in sport, the Department of Sports should take the initiative to formulate some guidelines to help our children in their mental and physical health,” said Mr. Karakkadan. Neither the turf owners nor the tournament organisers nor the clubs or teams take responsibility for the injuries that children suffer. Children are found to be playing without proper warm-ups, especially in night-long tournaments. According to experts, most turfs are prepared in an unscientific way and do not conduct the regular maintenance. “Natural grass needs good maintenance. What we have are turfs aimed at long-term business,” pointed out Mr. Koppilan. Mr. Koppilan suggested that the permission and supervision of a body, such as the Childline, be made mandatory for night tournaments for children. Physical medicine expert C.P. Aboobacker said children should not be discouraged from playing on turfs. “What we need is some norms to check the misuse and abuse of their rights,” said Dr. Aboobacker. Sense stimulation According to him, football helps children grow well by offering maximum stimulation of senses. “The endorphins produced in our brain through sports, especially football, can prevent our children from falling prey to other abuses to a good extent,” said Dr. Aboobacker.  Many under-18 night tournaments are held in November and December across the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lure-of-late-night-football-tourneys-on-turfs-sets-alarm-bells-ringing/article37316048.ece
03 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Greens fear SilverLine will hit ecology badly||A group of environmental scientists who observed November 1 as the Western Ghats Day demanded that the State Government abandon its proposed SilverLine project connecting Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram. When crores of rupees are to be spent for the proposed project, it will be depriving environmental services worth many more crores of rupees, they point out. No amount of damages paid to the people living in the project area will help compensate for the wetlands and other natural resources to be deprived by the SilverLine, they say. The Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP) or Gadgil Commission member V.S. Vijayan led the discussion on the topicality of the Gadgil Commission. Discussions  The experts point out that serious discussions are being held about some sensitive areas mentioned in the Gadgil Committee Report only when some landslides and disasters take place there. They call for preventive measures to be adopted at ward level before yet another disaster strikes the sensitive areas. They say the 2030 United Nations agenda for sustainable development could be easily achieved in an exemplary manner if the people and the Government want. They also blame the Central Government for diluting the country’s National Forest Policy by encouraging privatisation. Wildlife Protection Society of India’s South India coordinator S. Guruvayurappan presided over the function. Pondicherry’s Aranya Forest and Sanctuary director D. Saravanan, Kumar Kaland Mani from Goa, the youngest member of the Save Western Ghats March, and Salim Ali Foundation scientist P. Pramod spoke. The National Green Corps, Ashrayam Rural Development Society, and the Collective of Tree Planters of India, Palakkad, organised the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-fear-silverline-will-hit-ecology-badly/article37316218.ece
03 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Thavalam-Mulli road stretch destroyed in heavy rain||A part of a road connecting Thavalam to Mulli in Attappady caved in as heavy rain lashed the hilly region on Tuesday morning. The road was destroyed and several places were submerged at Chalayur and Ilachivazhi in Pudur panchayat. A culvert on the road gave in under pressure, causing a portion of the road to be washed away. Culvert Local people said that the pipe used for the culvert was not wide enough. A check-dam at Ilachivazhi was destroyed, causing flooding in the area. Floodwaters also damaged a few houses at Chalayur. Tribal hamlets of Palakayur, Karathur, Chundapetti, Lower Mulli, Upper Mulli and Ilachivazhi were cut off. Efforts were on to restore traffic to Mulli, authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thavalam-mulli-road-stretch-destroyed-in-heavy-rain/article37316220.ece
03 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Three held with elephant tusks||Forest officers here arrested three men and seized two elephant tusks from them on Tuesday. The arrested were identified as Kuruppu Swami, 41, and Rahmatulla, 43, from Coimbatore and Faisal, 42, from Palakkad. The Forest Flying Squad made the arrest on the basis of a tip-off that Rahmatulla was trying to sell off the elephant tusks in his possession with the help of his relative Faisal near Stadium Bus Stand here. They were planning to sell the contraband at Kalmandapam. A bike they used was also seized. An investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-with-elephant-tusks/article37316264.ece
03 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Macfast award presented||The term communication is significant in every sense of the concept itself and controlling every action with that conviction can lead to goodness, Cardinal Baselios Cleemis has said. He was inaugurating the 12th anniversary celebrations of Radio Macfast - 90.4, the second campus-based community radio in Kerala, at Thiruvalla the other day. Urging the people to be careful in their actions so as not to hurt others, the Cardinal highlighted the need for self- introspection in communication. The Cardinal presented the Niswartha Award instituted by the radio station in memory 9V. George Mathews to actor Indrans. .Jythoish Kumar Parameswaran Pillai, Research Director, Macfast College, who found a place on the Stanford University's list of top 2% scientist, was also felicitated. Thomas Mar Koorilos, Metropolitan Archbishop of Tiruvalla, presided. Vicar general Father Isaac Parappillil delivered the George Mathew Memorial speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/macfast-award-presented/article37316077.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,750 litres of spirit seized, 3 held||Excise officials on Tuesday arrested three youths from Neyyattinkara with alleged possession of 1,750 litres of spirit. The arrested are Joy, 36, of Krishnapuram; Praveen, 29, of Uchakkada; and Subi, 28, of Vlangamuri. A team led by Neyyattinkara excise range inspector Sachin initially apprehended Joy and Praveen from Perumbazhuthoor. Subi who played a role in smuggling the liquor was subsequently nabbed, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1750-litres-of-spirit-seized-3-held/article37316256.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Coconut production in the State drops||Coconut production in the State fell from 5,873 million units in 2015-16 to 4,814 million units in 2019-20, according to figures placed by Agriculture Minister P.Prasad in the Assembly on Tuesday. He said that though there is a fall in production, it is not an alarming situation. The fall in production is due to the reduction in area under coconut cultivation, which came down from 7,90,223 hectares in 2015-16 to 7,60,775 hectares in 2019-20. Mr.Prasad said the reduction in area could be attributed to the conversion of area previously under coconut cultivation for house construction and other non-agricultural purposes. The outbreak of diseases affecting coconut trees has also reduced coconut production. The non-availability of workers and lack of proper irrigation have also resulted in reduced production. Steps being taken He said the Government has been taking various steps including ways to control diseases and scientific upkeep of trees to increase production. The Keragramam project has proved to be successful with the increase in production to 10,379 coconuts from a hectare of land, in areas where it has been implemented. A sum of Rs. 50 lakh has been set aside in the current financial year to control diseases affecting coconut trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coconut-production-drops-in-the-state/article37316078.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plantation sector to get industry benefits||The benefits that are now available for industries will be extended to the plantation sector too, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said. Mr. Rajeeve was speaking at a meeting with plantation owners as part of the formation of a plantation directorate in the State following the merging of plantations to the Industries Department. Coordination panel The Minister said that the State Government had decided to form a coordination committee to chalk out the development prospects in the plantation sector. The committee would consist of members of the Spices Board, Coffee Board, and representatives of plantation owners and workers. The directorate would have two zones centred at Kottayam and Kozhikode under it. Ecotourism prospects Mr. Rajeeve said the demands put forward by the plantation owners, including ecotourism, would be considered. The mapping of plantations in the State would be taken up soon. A single-window system would be implemented for clearances in the plantation sector.  Mapping of plantations in State soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plantation-sector-to-get-industry-benefits/article37316250.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SHRC directive to issue death certificate||Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) chairman Antony Dominic has directed the Thiruvananthapuram Revenue Divisional Officer to issue immediately the death certificate of a woman who died four years ago. The order was issued on the basis of a complaint submitted by Vellarada native Jayakumari. Her daughter, V. Shini, died on June 15, 2017, en route SAT Hospital where she was referred to from a private hospital at Anjumarankala, near Vellarada, after she developed labour-related complications. The commission that received a report from the District Collector on the issue observed that since the woman had died before reaching the hospital, the death was registered neither at the private hospital nor at SAT Hospital. Under the circumstances, the Collector had granted permission for delayed registration of the death on the basis of the applicant’s petition and the first information report (FIR) by the police. In view of the Collector’s decision, the commission ordered the officials concerned to issue the death certificate without further delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-directive-to-issue-death-certificate/article37316253.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM: digital resurvey to be completed in 4 years||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that digital resurvey will be completed in the State within four years. Its completion will pave way for the introduction of an integrated land information system that will bring together the services provided by the Survey, Revenue and Registration Departments on a single portal. He was speaking while inaugurating a workshop organised for legislators on digital resurvey here on Tuesday. Rs. 807-cr. exercise The Government pegged the cost for the Statewide exercise at Rs. 807 crore, towards which an allocation of Rs. 339.438 crore had been made through the Rebuild Kerala Initiative. The digital resurvey would be taken up in four phases by implementing a Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS) network. Pointing out that survey had got under way in Kerala way back in 1966, Mr. Vijayan said the Government had been focusing on speedy steps to prevent any further delay in the ongoing activities. As many as 1,550 villages would be resurveyed within four years by utilising technological advancements such as real-time kinematic positioning (RTK), Electronic Total Station (ETS) and drones. The application of such tools would enable the Government to realise its goals of providing land for all, documents for each plot of land and to digitise every service. End to disputes Revenue Minister K. Rajan, who chaired the programme, said the completion of the survey would pave way for permanent solutions to long-standing land disputes. Speaker M.B. Rajesh, Deputy Speaker Chittayam Gopakumar, Government Chief Whip N. Jayaraj, Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) A. Jayathilak, Director of Survey and Land Records Seeram Sambasiva Rao and Land Revenue Commissioner K. Biju took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-digital-resurvey-to-be-completed-in-4-years/article37316255.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP conclave decides to back K-Rail resistance||A State leadership conclave of the BJP has decided to support the growing popular resistance against the K-Rail project. Party State president K. Surendran, who chaired the meeting on Tuesday, said the Left Democratic Front Government had ignored people’s livelihood issues and desperately pushed ahead with the economically and environmentally unviable semi-high speed railway project SilverLine. The LDF was motivated by the massive scope for corruption and not the State’s interest. The Government had not studied the environmental impact of the project. Experts had raised doubts about its economic viability, he said. The BJP demanded that the Government implement the Gadgil report to save the Western Ghats from further encroachment and environmental degradation. It also decided to make a political issue out of the Government’s "failure" to rehabilitate families displaced by recurrent floods. The BJP also highlighted the Government’s “poor disaster response” during the recent floods. The party demanded that the government end the virtual queue system at Sabarimala. The LDF seemed least bothered about the welfare and convenience of Sabarimala pilgrims. Meanwhile, speculation was rife that some top leaders had stayed away from the conclave to express their dissatisfaction with the State leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-conclave-decides-to-back-k-rail-resistance/article37316051.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More solar passenger boats to be launched||More solar passenger boats and barges for cargo transport will be launched to exploit the possibilities of the National Waterway along the State, Transport Minister Antony Raju told the Assembly on Tuesday. With the success of the solar-powered ferry operating between Vaikom and Thavanakkadavu, more solar boats are being considered due to less environmental pollution and low operating costs. Manufacturing of five solar boats with 75 passenger capacity each and a solar cruise boat is currently progressing. In addition, preliminary steps are being taken for manufacturing four more solar boats with 30 passenger capacity each. The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Department is currently using seven barges for cargo movement. Work on two more barges is in the final stages. Subsidies and operational incentives are being provided to promote cargo movement through inland waterways. The inland waterways through the State is envisaged for a distance of 616 kilometre from Kovalam to Bekal. The route from Kovalam to Kollam is partially navigable, that from Kollam to Kottapuram is fully navigable and from Kottapuram to Kozhikode and Kozhikode to Vadakara are partially navigable. The Vadakara-Mahe stretch will become fully navigable soon. Of the 26-km stretch from Neeleswaram to Bekal, 20 km is fully navigable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-solar-passenger-boats-to-be-launched/article37316054.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sports to be part of school curriculum||Physical education and sports will become a part of the school curriculum in the State from next year, Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman told the Assembly on Tuesday. Meetings have been held with the Education Minister regarding this. Currently, a 30-minute sports-oriented programme is being telecast on the KITE education channel. Steps are being taken to promote sports aptitude among students from the pre-primary level onwards. He said there was a shortage of sports teachers in schools. Swimming coaching Swimming coaching is currently being provided through six district academies. Some of the MLAs raised the issue of most of the swimming coaches being concentrated in Thiruvananthapuram, depriving training to aspiring swimmers from other districts. The Minister said swimming coaching would be extended to all districts. In addition to the existing swimming pools, old ponds in villages would be cleaned up and revived, to be used for swimming coaching. Volunteers and resource persons would be used for training, in view of the shortage of coaches. Certificates for sports persons to be used for various quotas would henceforth be issued only online by the Sports Council. The various sports associations would have to send their recommendations to the Sports Council, which would be the final issuing authority. He said instructions had been issued to control the use of stadiums under the Sports Department for other purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sports-in-school-curriculum-soon-minister/article37316009.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 119 cr. paid to endosulfan victims||The State Government has till date provided Rs. 119.34 crore in compensations to 3,014 endosulfan victims, Minister for Social Justice and Higher Education R. Bindu told the Assembly on Tuesday. The Government is considering the provision of compensation for the rest of the victims. The foundation stone for the Muliyar rehabilitation village for endosulfan victims has been laid. The Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society has been given the contract for the construction. The State Social Security Mission is providing monthly pension for the victims. Land and house are being provided to the landless victims under the Saphalyam housing project. The victims can avail themselves of free medical treatment in 17 hospitals in Kerala and Karnataka, said Dr.Bindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-119-cr-paid-to-endosulfan-victims/article37316006.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PG seats sanctioned for Manjeri MCH||The National Medical Commission had sanctioned two seats for MS (Ophthalmology) at the Manjeri Government Medical College Hospital, Health Minister Veena George said here on Tuesday. She said postgraduate courses in ENT would begin this year at the Manjeri MCH. The government was trying to expedite the final approval for the MS (Ophthalmology) course. Though MBBS courses have been taught at the Manjeri MCH since 2013, this is the first time that PG courses are being sanctioned for the institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pg-seats-sanctioned-for-manjeri-mch/article37315997.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF using police to stifle dissent: KPCC||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran has accused the Left Democratic Front government of stifling dissent using the police against political opponents. The police had booked KPCC working president Kodikunnil Suresh, MP, and others for organising a popular protest against a fuel price hike in Kochi. Law enforcement had lost its fairness and independence and worked as a CPI(M) appendage. The Congress had protested against the Centre’s prohibitive cess on fuel, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-using-police-to-stifle-dissent-kpcc/article37316081.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New ration cards with smart features launched||The Food and Civil Supplies Department on Tuesday formally launched new-look ration cards with smart features. Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister G.R. Anil presented the first card to Transport Minister Antony Raju at a function here. Similar to ATM cards, the ration cards made of PVC comprise QR and barcodes to obtain the details of the ration card holder. Mr. Anil said the department had set its sights on launching smart ration cards with embedded integrated circuit (IC) early next year. In addition to the features of the new card, the smart card would enable cash transactions similar to those with ATM cards through ration outlets. Talks were under way with various companies to realise the project. The Government had initiated steps to establish own godowns in each taluk to phase out the use of the existing rented facilities. The State exchequer incurred an expense of Rs. 50 crore a year for paying rent. Efforts were also being made to establish permanent buildings for taluk supply offices that functioned from rented buildings, he said. The Minister, who recently visited the office of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) in Hyderabad, said an NIC unit and a nodal officer would function in Thiruvananthapuram from November 15 primarily to rectify server glitches while using ePoS (electronic point of sale) machines in ration outlets. An official would be exclusively assigned with handling such issues at the NIC’s Hyderabad office, he said. Rice import The State Government had been making efforts to procure Jaya variety rice from Andhra Pradesh. Sona Masoori rice being brought from Punjab for ration distribution was not very popular among ration beneficiaries in the State, Mr. Anil said. Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Secretary Teeka Ram Meena said the Department had decided to adopt drastic measures to rein in pilferage in the public distribution system. GPS-tracking devices would soon be made mandatory for trucks hired to transport ration goods from the godowns to ration outlets. Only 82 of nearly 1,500 transporters had expressed willingness to equip such system. “Those who refuse to install such devices will not be permitted to transport rice, wheat and other essential goods. There have been rampant complaints of products being siphoned off when they were being transported from the Food Corporation of India godowns,” he said. Civil Supplies Director D. Sajith Babu and State Informatics Officer (NIC Kerala) P.V. Mohan Krishnan spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-ration-cards-with-smart-features-launched/article37316225.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attack on two youths: 10 held||The City police on Tuesday nabbed 10 persons in connection with the alleged attempt to murder two youths near the Fort Taluk Hospital on Monday. The Vanchiyoor police recorded the arrest of Vishnu, 32, of Sreekanteswaram; Manoj Kumar, 31, of Palkulangara; Sunil Kumar, 31, of Perunthanni; Santhosh, 36, of Pettah; Baiju, 39, of Attukal; Dileep, 35, of Nedumcaud; Nithish, 24, and Dhaneesh, 22, of Fort; Arjun, 22, of Kaithamukku; and Krishnadas, 22, of Chakka. The gang which had come in a car and on motorcycles attacked Pradeep of Sreekanteswaram and Santhosh of Valiyasala, who were travelling on a motorcycle, around 9 p.m. on Monday. After ramming the victims’ two-wheeler, the assailants hacked them using machetes and assaulted them using iron rods. Following the incident, the gang attempted to escape. However, they were soon caught by the police. The police attributed the attack to a long-running feud between two gangs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-held-for-attack/article37316091.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three held for vehicle theft||The Medical College police on Tuesday arrested three people on the charge of vehicle theft. Those arrested were identified as Vaishak, 20, of Nemom, Shiyas, 23, of Karakkamandapam, and Sujith, 26, of Vattayam. They stole two vehicles parked in the compound of a taxi service provider around 2 a.m. on October 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-vehicle-theft/article37316251.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||990 COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 990 COVID-19 cases and 830 recoveries on Tuesday. Active cases stood at 11,612 and the test positivity rate at 11.4%. The Perumala ward of Pullampara panchayat and Kanjirathil ward of Manamboor panchayat have been removed from the list of containment zones. The micro-containment zones in Mahila Mandiram, Poojappura, and Thettichira-Muttappalam and Ganapathy Kovil area in Azhoor panchayat have also been lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/990-covid-cases-in-capital/article37316254.ece
03 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert in district today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has declared an orange alert for the district on Wednesday as isolated heavy rainfall is expected. Considering the high volume of rain in recent days, those living in low-lying areas, riverbanks and hilly areas prone to landslips should maintain alert, said the district administration on Tuesday. The local bodies where floods and landslips have occurred in recent years have to be ready with preparations, including that for relief camps, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orange-alert-in-district-today/article37316257.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,444 more test positive, 8,424 recover||The State reported 6,444 new cases of COVID-19 when 64,999 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The active case pool in the State had 74,618 patients on Tuesday, with 8,424 more recovering. According to the Health Department, only 8 % of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or first-line/second-line treatment centres The cumulative case fatality now stands at 32,236 with the State adding 187 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Tuesday. These include 45 deaths which occurred in the past few days, 87 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6444-more-test-positive-8424-recover/article37316050.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cherian Philip returns to Congress||Cherian Philip on Tuesday returned to the Congress after 20 years in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) tent. A galaxy of top Congress leaders welcomed Mr. Philip at the Congress headquarters here. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran enrolled him in the party’s rolls. Mr. Philip said: “I had left the Congress weeping. Now, I am back laughing.” He launched a broadside against the CPI(M), stating his former hosts would align with the devil for political dividends. There was nothing ideological about the CPI(M), and it cynically tempered dogma with the compulsions of realpolitik. The CPI(M) had sought to mentally shackle him with its cult-like discipline. Mr. Philip said the CPI(M) was a dying party gripped by “blood cancer.” It would soon collapse like a house of cards. The Congress, in contrast, suffered from a mild cold and would resurge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cherian-philip-returns-to-congress/article37316052.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister visits Pareeksha Bhavan||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty conducted a surprise visit at Pareeksha Bhavan here on Tuesday following complaints that applicants and complainants calling up the office were not getting necessary information and often calls to the reception went unattended. On reaching Pareeksha Bhavan, Mr. Sivankutty headed directly to the reception and spoke to the employee there. Mr. Sivankutty directed that more people be posted in order to attend calls by applicants and complainants, and if need be more telephones lines be utilised for this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-visits-pareeksha-bhavan/article37316053.ece
03 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Temporary certificates for schools with asbestos roofs||The Government has issued orders that temporary fitness certificate can be given to schools with roofs made of asbestos or tin or aluminium sheets. It was in 2019 that the Government issued orders that all schools under the General Education Department that had asbestos roofs should remove these within two years and put up suitable roofs. Fitness certificates were to be issued only after ensuring that schools roofs were not made of asbestos, tin, or aluminium sheets. However, the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdowns hampered these activities, and schools with such roofs could not be issued fitness certificates when school reopened on November 1. Three months’ time The Government found that schools with such roofs needed more time to transition to other mechanisms as did those with newly constructed multi-storey buildings to get fire safety clearances, and decided to issue them temporary fitness certificates provided they completed the above activities within three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temporary-certificates-for-schools-with-asbestos-roofs/article37316224.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||UDF accuses Centre, State of ‘tax terrorism’||The previous UDF Government had abandoned State fuel tax to soften the blow on citizens, and the Left Democratic Front should do the same, he said.  Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said the State had not increased local levy on fuel since 2016. The fuel price in Kerala was far lesser than Congress-ruled States.   The previous UDF Government had hoodwinked people into thinking that it had renounced fuel tax only to hike it several times on the sly. The Congress had erroneously blamed the State for the actions of the Centre, he said. The Centre had lowered the basic excise duty on fuel, depriving States of their revenue share. Simultaneously, it slapped cess and additional special duty on fuel. The additional revenue is exclusively for the Centre and not for States.   The Centre has also dismantled the fuel price regulation mechanism and allowed the free market to determine the going rate. The Centre has ensured that any reduction in the international price of crude would not benefit citizens, he said. Mr. Balagopal said the previous United Progressive Alliance Government had set an example for the BJP to emulate by scrapping the oil pool account that helped the Central Government balance fuel price via market intervention and subsidy.    Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Government could easily relinquish the Rs. 690 crore it got from State tax on fuel.  It could further blunt the effect of the fuel price hike by subsidising public transport further and deploying the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation to ferry children and teachers to school for free, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-accuses-centre-state-of-tax-terrorism/article37316258.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety at risk||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-at-risk/article37316005.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Season’s flavour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seasons-flavour/article37316019.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-time/article37316270.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering the ones who left||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-the-ones-who-left/article37316222.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||With a prayer on their lips||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prayer-for-the-departed/article37316080.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Scrapping of brigade hits COVID fight||Districts have been asked to reduce the number of samples sent for RT-PCR testing, and many labs too have been asked to shut shop , officials said. Private labs are doing a chunk of the daily tests now. According to sources, the Government will retain only a small proportion of the COVID brigade – fewer than 700 persons – to be deployed in districts/areas where shortage of personnel is acute.   Senior officials said that the system had about 40% of additional workload due to COVID and that at least in some areas, additional personnel would be required as activities such as vaccination and patient management had to continue as the pandemic has not ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scrapping-of-brigade-hits-covid-fight/article37316055.ece
03 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raghuveera Reddy tied to a pillar!||Former president of Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) N. Raghuveera Reddy, who has kept himself almost aloof from the active politics since the 2019 elections, has been keeping himself busy getting a temple constructed in his native village of Neelakanthapuram. On Tuesday, he posted on his Facebook profile a photograph of him tied to a pillar in his house. The former Agriculture Minister in Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s Cabinet, Mr. Raghuveera Reddy on his public profile which is followed by more than 60,000 people, wrote: “Annoyed that I haven’t spent enough time with her. My granddaughter Samaira tied me up to a pillar and demanded that I should stay at home to play with her.” After taking a break from active politics in May 2019 , Mr. Reddy, along with his wife Sunitha, has been living in Neelakanthapuram, 5 km away from Madakasira, and supervising the construction of the temple. Netizens were quick to appreciate Mr. Reddy’s love for his granddaughter. She was many times spotted with her grandfather during the latter’s local tours. Mr. Reddy used to post pictures of him and his granddaughter having fun at some rivulet or in a jungle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raghuveera-reddy-tied-to-a-pillar/article37316200.ece
03 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders smuggling gang busted; 19 nabbed||The Anantapur district police on Tuesday busted an international red sanders smuggling gang and confiscated more than three tonnes of logs that were reportedly meant to be smuggled into China. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli, while presenting the 19 persons accused of smuggling the red sanders by collecting them from Kadapa and Chittoor districts, said that the gang used to source the logs from the Rayalaseema districts and store them at godowns in Tamil Nadu. From Tindivanam in Tamil Nadu, the smugglers used to ferry them to China via Sri Lanka. The accused were transporting the 165 logs in five vehicles from Badvel in Kadapa district to Bengaluru via Kodikonda and Chilamattur. Police said the kingpins of the gang are Shul Bhai and Bilal who stay abroad and make vast sums of money by smuggling red sanders out of the country. Penukonda DSP N. Ramya along with Hindupur police intercepted five vehicles and found the red sander logs and arrested the 19 persons. Police also confiscated 19 mobile phones along with the five vehicles. Six of the accused hail from Tamil Nadu, while five are from Kadapa, six from Chittoor, and one each from Anantapur and Nellore. All the accused are in their 30s and 40s. The gang was led by E. Kamesh (42) from Chennai. He is said to be close to the kingpins, police said. J. Guravayya from Tirupati and Nandyala Ramakrishna from Kadapa would identify the trees and get them cut in the forest, the SP told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-smuggling-gang-busted-19-nabbed/article37316182.ece
03 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC gets four PG seats in dermatology||The Anantapur Government Medical College has been sanctioned four seats in the dermatology postgraduate course from the 2021-2022 academic year, Medical College Principal Myreddy Neeraja said on Tuesday. The college was recently sanctioned seven post-graduate seats in the ENT Department and with this, the total number of PG seats has gone up from 57 to 68 this year, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amc-sanctioned-four-pg-seats-in-dermatology/article37316180.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACP among 6 policemen suspended in Chennai||An Assistant Commissioner of Police, an Inspector and four other police personnel in Chennai have been suspended on charges of abducting an entrepreneur, his fiancée and members of his family and forcing them to part with certain properties in 2019. The policemen had resorted to the illegal “settlement” while intervening in a civil dispute. The Crime Branch CID had registered a case against the accused in June last year and subsequently conducted searches at their houses. Chennai City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal on Monday issued orders suspending the then Assistant Commissioner of Thirumangalam Police Station, A. Sivakumar, Inspector Saravanan, Sub-Inspector Pandiarajan and constables Giri, Bala and Shankar. The entrepreneur, Rajesh, had filed a complaint against the six police personnel. He said he had entered into a business venture with two friends a couple of years ago, but later wound up operations. Though the monetary settlement was done among the partners through bank transfers, he claimed that the ACP and other personnel, acting at the behest of one of the partners, took him to the Thirumangalam Police Station during September/October 2019 and threatened him to part with more money. Mr. Rajesh alleged that in May 2019, a police team, along with some civilians, abducted him, his fiancée and members of his family and kept them in illegal confinement at a farm house in Red Hills. He claimed that the police threatened to physically harm him and the others unless they transferred the ownership of certain properties to his erstwhile business partner, Srinivasa Rao. Civilians’ involvement It was on the complaint of Mr. Rao, who claimed that Mr. Rajesh owed him Rs. 5.5 crore, that the police team comprising the accused carried out the alleged abduction and threat. Mr. Rajesh claimed that Venkatesh, Siva Srinivasa Rao, Tarun Krishna Prasad and ‘Kodambakkam’ Sree, all civilians, were also involved. Originally, Mr. Rajesh filed a complaint with the Anna Nagar Police. Alleging that no action was taken on his complaint, he approached the then Director General of Police. The DGP reviewed the complaint and forwarded it to the CB-CID a few months ago. The CB-CID then registered a case against 10 persons, including the six policemen.  Rajesh claimed that the police threatened to physically harm him and others unless they transferred properties to his erstwhile business partner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acp-among-six-policemen-suspended/article37315761.ece
03 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM asks officials to focus on second phase of Nadu-Nedu||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to focus on the second phase of the Nadu-Nedu programme and complete the construction irrigation projects on priority basis. Reviewing the programmes and infrastructure projects at his camp office here on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy discussed issues pertaining to education, medicine, health, skill development, water grid, roads, irrigation projects, urban development, housing, ports, fishing harbours, and YSR steel plant. An estimated over Rs. 790 crore will be spent on the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka for the year 2021-22, and the government would give notebooks, shoes, dictionary, school bag, belt, uniforms, textbooks, and workbooks to the children under the scheme. Under the Jagananna Gorumudda (mid-day meal) scheme, an estimated Rs. 1,625 crore will be spent for 2021-22. The government had spent Rs. 3,650 crore during the first phase of the Nadu-Nedu scheme, and it was estimated that Rs. 4,535 crore would be spent during the second phase covering 12,663 schools. “The Nadu-Nedu programme is being accorded the highest priority in the education sector,” the Chief Minister said, and directed the officials to implement the programme effectively. Water grid works He also directed the officials to commence work on the Skill Development Colleges and complete the water grid works in Pulivendula, Uddanam and Dhone on priority basis. The officials informed the Chief Minister that the construction of roads would be completed by the end of May 2022. The Chief Minister directed the officials to focus on works pertaining to the extension of the Karakatta Road that connects the Amaravati region. The Chief Minister also reviewed the setting up of permanent infrastructure in the Jagananna colonies, and said Rs. 30,000 crore had been spent on it so far. He also reviewed the progress of Ramayapatnam, Machilipatnam and Bhavanapadu greenfield ports, and directed the officials to expedite the works. Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma and a host of officials of various departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-asks-officials-to-focus-on-second-phase-of-nadu-nedu/article37316203.ece
03 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Win in Badvel bypoll is people’s victory, says YSRCP MLA||Terming the YSRCP’s win in the Badvel bypoll as people’s victory, Government Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy on Tuesday said that the result told it all about the faith the voters had reposed in Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “The win in Badvel has increased their responsibility of the ruling party in delivering a good governance,” Mr. Srikant told the media here. He alleged that even as the TDP stayed away from the bypoll, N. Chandrababu Naidu backed the BJP. “The people are aware of this fact and thus rejected the BJP,” he said, adding that one must know what the people really wanted and suggested that the BJP should consider fulfilling the promises made during State bifurcation to win people’s hearts. Taking a dig at Mr. Naidu, Mr. Srikant said the TDP chief had destroyed the State for the sake of special package by pawning the special category status with the Centre. He said that the YSRCP government had been implementing welfare schemes as per the calendar, without any irregularities. “The people stood by the good governance yet again,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/win-in-badvel-bypoll-is-peoples-victory-says-ysrcp-mla/article37316201.ece
03 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||LV Prasad Eye Institute team meets CM||A delegation of LV Prasad Eye Institute led by its founder chairman Dr. Gullapalli N Rao and founder member G. Pratibha Rao met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the latter’s camp office on Tuesday. The team thanked the Chief Minister for the decision to allot the land required for establishment of the Territorial Care Eye Institute in Kadapa and provide suggestions regarding comprehensive eye care in Andhra Pradesh. The Chief Minister asked the hospital management to prepare plans to provide cutting-edge treatment at all levels from screening to surgery. He suggested to bring in state-of-the-art ophthalmology centre with international standards in the State to ensure that no one goes to other States for quality treatment. The institute came forward to provide free eye examinations and treatments to children in all orphanages in the State. Institute chairman Prashant Garg, vice-chairman Rajiv Reddy Pappuru were part of the delegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lv-prasad-eye-institute-team-meets-cm/article37316205.ece
03 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court reprimands CBI in judges’ abuse case||Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court Praveen Kumar Mishra and High Court Judge K. Lalitha on Tuesday reprimanded the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) over its probe into the abuse of judges case, and gave the agency an ultimatum of arresting the main accused in the case within ten days. Justice Mishra expressed his disappointment over the laxity in arresting the accused, and said that the court would be forced to hand over the probe to a Special Investigation Team if the CBI failed to arrest the main accused ‘Punch’ Prabhakar. The High Court had constituted a probe by the CBI and the investigating agency had arrested several persons on the charge of posting derogatory comments against the judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-reprimands-cbi-in-judges-abuse-case/article37316204.ece
03 November 2021||Hubballi/Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP wins Sindgi, Congress gets Hangal||The byelections to Hangal and Sindgi handed out a mixed bag to ruling BJP on Tuesday. While BJP managed to win the Sindgi Assembly segment comfortably, the electorate of Hangal in Haveri district elected the Congress candidate. The loss is an embarrassment to Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai as his constituency lies in the same district. In Sindgi, BJP saw signs of clear victory right from the initial rounds and registered a comfortable win with a large margin of 31,088 votes. Congress in Hangal started with a thin lead and then increased it gradually to register victory with a margin of 7,373 votes. BJP leaders’ expectation of a possible reversal in trend after 10th round was belied. Interestingly, in both seats, parties that held the seats earlier have lost now. While JD(S) lost it to BJP in Sindgi, BJP lost to Congress in Hangal. The byelections were necessitated following the demise of senior leaders and former Ministers M.C. Managuli of JD(S) and C.M. Udasi of BJP. BJP candidate for Sindgi, Ramesh Bhusnur, a former MLA, bagged 93,380 votes against 62,292 bagged by Ashok Managuli, Congress nominee and son of former Minister M.C. Managuli. With the win, Mr. Bhusnur became the only legislator to be elected thrice from Sindgi. Congress’ plan to get Ashok Managuli to quit JD(S) and contest as party candidate did not yield the desired result. JD(S) faced a humiliating defeat where its candidate Nazia Angadi finished a distant third with just 4,321 votes and lost the security deposit. In Hangal, Congress candidate Srinivas Mane, an MLC, secured 87,490 votes, while BJP’s Shivaraj Sajjanar, a former MLA, secured 80,117 votes. JD(S) candidate Niyaz Shaikh garnered only 927 votes.  ‘Will analyse reasons’ Mr. Bommai said that the party had taken the loss at Hangal very seriously and would analyse the reasons for the defeat and take remedial action. Mr. Bommai said, “elections are won and lost... these byelections are fought on particular time and issues, and its outcome is not a complete verdict. However, I have taken this election setback very seriously and we will do all the corrections.” State Congress Chief D.K. Shivakumar said the results indicate that people of the State are desiring for a change, they have lost faith in the BJP and are looking towards Congress, “so in 2023 it will be the administration of the people through Congress.” Terming defeat in Hangal as “loss of face” not only for Chief Minister, but the entire BJP Government, he said, compared to previous elections, the Congress was satisfied with the results in Sindgi, despite losing it. Terming the bypolls results as a “warning bell” to the ruling BJP, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said, it shows that people are desiring for change. Despite actively campaigning for bypolls, especially in Sindgi, the JD(S) could not make much impact in the bypolls.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-wins-sindgi-congress-gets-hangal/article37315705.ece
03 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||School of Food Technology to get new lab equipment||Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU-Kakinada) Vice-Chancellor G.V.R. Prasada Raju on Tuesday said that the School of Food Technology would soon get new laboratory equipment and other infrastructure facilities worth over Rs. 6 crore. Speaking to the media here on Tuesday, Prof. Prasada Raju has said that the Centre has granted funds to the tune of Rs. 4 crore, which has been spent on upgradation of the existing laboratory with the new equipment. The new equipment will soon be inaugurated by Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu. The University Executive Council has also approved the proposal for constructing a new building. “The university will sign more collaborative projects with the foreign universities,” said the Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/school-of-food-technology-to-get-new-lab-equipment/article37316232.ece
03 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTU-K searching for experts to manage Rs. 900 crore deposits||The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU-Kakinada) is in search of a panel of three financial experts to effectively manage its financial affairs and its fixed deposits of over Rs. 900 crore. According to highly placed sources, the total fixed deposits of the university were over Rs. 870 crore by the end of the 2019-20 financial year. The university has fixed deposits at Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank, Union Bank (previously the Andhra Bank), and State Bank of India. The prime source of income comes from the affiliation fees collected from affiliated colleges and examination sections of the university, it is learnt. Nod from EC “Now, JNTU-Kakinada is one of the richest universities in Andhra Pradesh. In October, the varsity’s Executive Committee (EC) directed us to finalise a panel of three financial experts. We are in search of suitable financial experts for the effective management of our financial affairs and resources,” Vice-Chancellor Prof. G.V.R. Prasada Raju told The Hindu . In October, he was present at the EC meeting as the Rector. One of the three financial experts of the panel to be drawn from the State government service would be appointed as JNTU-Kakinada Finance Officer on a deputation basis. Prof. Prasada Raju said, “Except the Finance Officer cadre, all the 10 positions of various wings granted earlier by the State government have been filled up. We will recommend a panel of financial experts to the State government as early as possible.” He added that the appointment of the Financial Officer will be the key task of his administration. JNTU-K is one of the few universities that did not appoint a Finance Officer as mandated by the A.P. University Act, 1991. The absence of the Finance Officer has raised eyebrows over the university’s financial affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntu-k-searching-for-experts-to-manage-rs-900-crore-deposits/article37316184.ece
03 November 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIO inks pact with UK-based start-up||Kakinada-based Srikiran Institute of Ophthalmology (SIO) on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding(MoU) with an UK-based startup, 3D Bio Tissues Limited, for research and development of ‘In vitro Bowman’s layer’. SIO Medical Director Avinash Mahindrakar and the start-up CEO Che Connon signed the MoU on Tuesday. Andrew Fleming, British Deputy High Commissioner, and Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu lauded the research project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sio-inks-pact-with-uk-based-startup/article37316188.ece
03 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Major setback for TRS as BJP’s Eatala wins Huzurabad seat||BJP candidate Eatala Rajender emerged victorious from the Huzurabad Assembly constituency in the high stakes by-election defeating the ruling TRS’s Gellu Srinivas Yadav by a margin of around 23,855 votes, in what is seen as a major setback to the TRS in its traditional citadel of Karimnagar district. Mr Rajender, the former health minister, retained his seat in the keenly fought bypoll, which hogged wide attention. The byelection was necessitated by Mr Rajender’s resignation to the MLA post in June this year, consequent to his expulsion from Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s cabinet over allegations of purchase of assigned lands illegally. Mr Rajender, the 56-year-old backward classes leader, represented the erstwhile Kamalapur constituency twice in 2004 and 2008, and the Huzurabad seat four times (2009, 2010, 2014 and 2018) on TRS ticket, since its formation in 2009. In a nerve-racking electoral battle, that was preceded by a high voltage election campaign, he emerged triumphant trouncing his TRS rival Srinivas Yadav, the former student wing leader of the ruling party, by an impressive margin. Mr Rajender polled 1,07,022 votes against Mr Srinivas Yadav’s tally of 83,167 votes. The Congress party put up a dismal performance with its candidate Balmoor Venkat Narsing Rao getting 3012 votes. Consistent lead Mr Rajender maintained a consistent lead, albeit with a slender margin, barring the eighth and 11th rounds, over Mr Srinivas Yadav. He wrested the seat with an unassailable lead in the final rounds as the BJP cadre erupted in joy in Karimnagar and elsewhere in the State. The local BJP cadre and supporters of Mr Rajender burst into celebrations outside his house in Huzurabad town following his victory. Mr Rajender and his wife Jamuna shared the happy moments with them. Later, Mr Rajender arrived in Karimnagar town to a rousing welcome from the BJP activists. Mr Rajender collected the winner’s certificate from the Returning Officer Ch Ravinder Reddy at the counting centre in SRR Government Degree and PG College in the town later in the evening. Speaking to reporters, a visibly relieved Mr Rajender said, the people of Huzurabad saved democratic values and buried the "authoritarianism" and "nepotism" of the persons at the helm in the State by giving a historical verdict. I dedicate my victory to people of Huzurabad, he said, adding that the ruling TRS grossly misused official machinery and money power to win the bypoll by all means. Hundreds of crores of rupees were pumped in and lorry loads of liquor bottles dumped in the constituency by the TRS leaders stooping down to the lowest level during the bypoll campaign, he charged, deploring that the TRS campaign managers resorted to "intimidating tactics" to influence the voters. I will strive to serve the people of my constituency to the best of my abilities from tomorrow, Mr Rajender asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/major-setback-for-trs-as-bjps-eatala-wins-huzurabad-seat/article37315675.ece
03 November 2021||NALGONDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Did you learn your lesson, KCR?’||The people of Huzurabad have taught a good lesson to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his government, said YSRTP founder-president Y.S. Sharmila on Tuesday. “KCR spent hundreds of crores and launched schemes like Dalit Bandhu to win Huzurabad, now the result is a slap in the face of his government. Huzurabad proved that people of Telangana are not slaves but activists,” she said, reiterating ‘Did you learn your lesson, KCR?’ with the gathering. Ms. Sharmila was at Kurmed Gate of Chintapally mandal in the district to participate in the weekly Nirudyoga Deeksha. While her daylong demonstration included speeches, cultural and literary performances to criticise State policies, particularly unemployment issue, she sharpened her tongue towards the end as the counting of votes in Huzurabad b poll revealed Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) was ending second. “TRS lost despite resorting to all sorts of electoral malpractices. KCR’s downfall has begun,” she remarked. Earlier in the day, Ms. Sharmila criticised the policies of the State government, for reluctance in releasing employment notifications and related suicides. “Youths who ended their lives did leave a note behind pointing KCR’s deferment of job notifications as reasons. Such notes should be read as dying declarations, suicides as murders, and K.CR should be booked for those murders,” she observed. The YSRTP leader also assessed KCR versus YSR governance with regard to several State policies, and in particular reference to Nalgonda she said the latter had visited the district nearly 30 times, but the former paid his visits only on electoral occasions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/did-you-learn-your-lesson-kcr/article37315982.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, YSRCP demands de-recognition of TDP||In the ugly contest going on between the two Andhra Pradesh political parties, a day after the TDP moved the Election Commission demanding de-recognition of the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) as a political party, the YSRCP leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind with a similar demand against the TDP. The delegation of MPs was led by Rajya Sabha floor leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. The party submitted a four-page memorandum detailing their chargseheet against the TDP. It demanded that the TDP be de-recognised because of its “unruly conduct” which the YSRCP claimed has “damaged the democratic process”. The YSRCP’s primary allegation is that the TDP has been abusing and maligning their party, especially Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy. The delegation also submitted ‘video evidence’ of the instances where Mr. Reddy has been attacked by the TDP. It all began with the comments of TDP spokesperson K. Pattabhiram on October 19 in Guntur. The YSRCP shared a video which shows Mr. Pattabhiram using expletives against the Chief Minister. The TDP has also alleged that Mr. Reddy’s Government is complicit in illegal drug trade. “The deliberate and malicious acts committed by the representatives of the TDP with the aim of outraging the dignity of constitutional functionaries, fomenting violent chaos and anarchy within the region and impairing the political stability deserve severe public condemnation and strict disciplinary action,” the YSRCP memorandum read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-ysrcp-demands-de-recognition-of-tdp/article37315680.ece
03 November 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain dampens festive spirit in South Coastal A.P.||As the northeast monsoon turned vigorous on Tuesday, heavy rain pounded different parts of South Coastal Andhra Pradesh throwing normal life out of gear in Nellore and Ongole. Nellore recorded a heavy rainfall of 80 mm once again on Tuesday while Ongole received 45.4 mm. The wet spell, under the influence of a low pressure over the Comorin area and its neighbourhood, spelt doom for textile shop owners and vendors selling crackers, dampening the festive spirit of revellers. Heavy-to-very heavy rainfall would continue in the region for the next two days, according to a bulletin released by the India Meteorological Department(IMD). However, the downpour brought cheers to the farmers in the drought-prone areas in the twin-districts as sowing of crops during rabi cropping season, started on a modest note last month, picked up pace. Pamur received maximum rainfall of 77 mm in Prakasam district, followed by Konakanamitla 56.2 mm, Ulavapadu 54.4 mm, Kandukur 56.4 mm, Singarayakonda 48.6 mm, V.V.Palem 48.4 mm, Gudlur 48.2 mm, Cumbum 46, Tanguru 45.2 mm, N.G.Padu 44.6 mm, Addanki 43.6 mm, Inkollu 42.6 mm, Tallur 42,4 mm, Lingasamudram 40.2 mm, P.C.Palli 41 mm and J.Pangalur 40.4 mm, according to a report compiled by the Chief Planning Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-dampens-festive-spirit-in-south-coastal-ap/article37315723.ece
03 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A moral win for BJP: Somu||BJP State President Somu Veerraju on Tuesday alleged that the YSR Congress Party had campaigned to woo the caste-based vote bank and bought votes to register the win in the Badvel bypoll. Addressing the media, Mr. Veerraju claimed that the BJP had got 300 % more votes when compared that polled in its favour in the 2019 general elections.“The BJP won the bypoll on moral grounds,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-moral-win-for-bjp-somu/article37316207.ece
03 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees thank TTD for free darshan||Devotees thanked Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) for providing to them free darshan of the presiding deity during the recently concluded Brahmotsavams at Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala. In a letter addressed to TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Tuesday, devotees from Visakhapatnam, Krishna, East and West Godavari districts expressed their gratitude. The TTD, with a view to check the alleged growing conversions in the backward areas, had resolved to provide free darshan to at least 1,000 devotees a day belonging to weaker, backward and downtrodden sections during the nine-day festival in collaboration with the Samarasata Seva Foundation. Statistics reveal that over 7,000 devotees had utilized the opportunity. While the transportation expenses were borne by TTD, expenditure relating to their lodging and boarding were borne by the local devotees en route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-thank-ttd-for-free-darshan/article37315725.ece
03 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sundarakanda parayanam’ organised||The third phase of ‘akhanda Sundarakanda parayanam’ was organised on Tuesday at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. A contingent of Vedic scholars from S.V. Veda Viswavidyalayam, Veda Patasala, Vedic School of Higher Learning, and National Sanskrit University took part in the programme organized at Nada Neerajan Mandapam. Speaking on the occasion, Prava Ramakrishna, a professor, said the intention behind the spiritual endeavour was to invoke the blessings of Lord Venkateswara for the welfare of mankind. About 163 slokas were recited from the 8th to the 13th chapters of ‘Balakanda’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sundarakanda-parayanam-organised/article37315726.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiruchanur flyover water-logged again||The Tiruchanur flyover, a major junction in the city’s southern suburbs intersecting the Chennai-Bengaluru highway, has once again become heavily water-logged after incessant rains. Motorists and pedestrians are now forced to wade through knee-deep water as a result. Local politicians staged a protest at the flyover on Tuesday, demanding that immediate steps be taken to prevent water stagnation at the flyover. The stretch becomes water-logged even after a shower, locals rued. Locals as well as pilgrims visiting the famous Goddess Padmavathi temple in Tiruchanur lament that they have been facing this perennial problem which has been occurring every year ever since work on the flyover began a decade ago. Many motorcyclists have met with accidents thanks to the numerous potholes that are hidden under the water. The stagnation occurs at the northern side of the flyover due to poor drainage systems. CPI activists led by city secretary J. Viswanath held a symbolic protest at the spot, standing in knee-deep water and planting saplings. “Visiting dignitaries as well as district officials pass through this spot every day, but no attention is paid to the condition of the road,” the party activists lamented, demanding quick repairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiruchanur-flyover-water-logged-again/article37316186.ece
03 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vehicle laden with red sanders seized, 2 persons held||Two persons were arrested and an SUV laden with red sanders logs worth Rs. 10 lakh seized at Iruvaram cross on the Chittoor-Palamaner national highway on Tuesday. Deputy Superintendent N. Sudhakar Reddy and his team were conducting a vehicle check on the highway on Tuesday when the SUV sped past them without stopping at the checkpost. The driver, identified as Moinulla Khan, and his accomplice Sadiq, attempted to flee by parking the vehicle on the roadside, but they were apprehended by police. Police seized 46 red sanders logs from the accused, along with the vehicle. Police have registered a case against the duo. Cases were also booked against Sivaji Ganesan of Tiruvannamalai and Kaliappan of Krishnagiri for allegedly felling the red sanders trees, and against Ziauddin of Chennai who was supposed to receive the smuggled logs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vehicle-laden-with-red-sanders-seized-2-persons-held/article37316187.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curtains come down for one last time at Sri Durga Mahal||A day before its 57th anniversary, one of the city’s oldest single-screen cinema halls and the last on M.G.Road — Sri Durga Mahal — brought its curtains down for good. On November 1, 1964, the cinema hall screened its first film Venkateswara Mahatyam starring N.T. Rama Rao. The hall, which was then an experimental venture with an investment of Rs. 2.2 lakh by Ramineni Raghavaiah, his brother Ramineni Satyanarayana and other family members in the Patamata village that then had only around 1,500 voters, is now about to be transformed into another modern-day structure housing a shopping complex or a similar facility after being sold to a retail chain. “It was seen as an experimental venture because of its location at a far off place adjacent to the narrow Bandar Road passing Patamata village six decades ago. After two years of construction and inauguration in 1964, it became a huge success as people made beelines from places like Patamata Lanka, Pulipaka, Gunadala and even farther places to enjoy the movies,” says Ramineni Vijaya Raghava Chowdary, the grandson of Raghavaiah and one of the managing partners of the facility. “It was hard to let the theatre become history after decades of association with it. The younger generations are not inclined to take up the operations of this theatre any more as most of them are settled abroad. That was the major reason behind the decision to sell off the property,” Mr. Vijaya Raghava says. Lack of financial viability following the COVID-19 pandemic was also a reason but there were ways to overcome it, he adds. “In the initial days, the highest ticket price of the theatre with a seating capacity of 700 was Rs. 2.3 for the ‘reserved’ seating section. Now, it was Rs. 60 for the same section. A while earlier, the ticket price was only Rs. 50 and we increased it to Rs. 60 after moving the court citing financial issues. Now, as per the latest government norms, the highest ticket price was also Rs. 60 in our area,” he says. Over the decades, the theatre underwent certain changes including upgradation of the sound system, silver screen, and seats but the basic structure remained the same, he says. This made Durga Mahal the only theatre in the city with no ‘balcony’ seating. “Ours is the last theatre on M.G. Road in the city limits and only a few single-screen theatres are now running in One-Town and Gandhi Nagar,” Mr. Vijaya Raghava said. The theatre was shut for a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic and was reopened recently. On Saturday evening, the management screened Maya Bazaar as the last show. The structure would be dismantled and handed over to the new owner soon. All the other theatres on M.G. Road between Police Control Room junction and Autonagar were renovated into shopping complexes and function halls in the past few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curtains-come-down-for-one-last-time-at-sri-durga-mahal/article37316307.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officers told to get tough on illegal sale of crackers||Listing out a slew of instructions, officials of the Police and Revenue Department have appealed to the public as also wholesale and retail fire cracker sellers to follow all the safety measures to have a safe and sound Deepavali. The Revenue, Fire and Police department officials inspected the sale and stock points as a precautionary measure on Tuesday. Directing DSPs and Station House Officers(SHOs) to conduct raids to keep a check on illegal sale of firecrackers, Krishan district Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal said: “In Krishna district, licenses have been issued to 423 shops in 59 locations. We request the public to alert the police if they notice any illegal manufacturing units in colonies, houses or in villages. Public are requested not to prepare crackers on their own, and buy crackers of licensed companies only.” He said the licensed wholesale traders were instructed to store crackers away from residential areas, and that the retail sellers were instructed to sell crackers at open places. Owners of provisional and fancy stores were requested not to store crackers and sell them illegally in residential colonies, the SP added. Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu directed the personnel to act tough against those who were selling firecrackers illegally. Safety measures In West Godavari, permanent and temporary licenses have been given to about 190 traders, said SP Rahul Dev Sharma. The wholesale traders were instructed to maintain firefighting equipment, such as extinguishers, sand and water at the godowns and keep the stocks away from electric boards, said Mr. Rahul Dev Sharma. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Eluru Range, K.V. Mohan Rao appealed to people not to carry firecrackers in public transport. “Only licensed traders are permitted to sell firecrackers. The SPs of Krishna, Rajahmundry Urban, East Godavari and West Godavari have been directed to conduct raids on illegal sale and stocks points,” Mr. Mohan Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officers-told-to-get-tough-on-illegal-sale-of-crackers/article37315728.ece
03 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sales sluggish this Dhanteras||Commercial activity remained sluggish on the occasion of Dhanatrayodashi or Dhanteras, an auspicious day in the Hindu calendar, in the city on Tuesday. Jewellery showrooms witnessed underwhelming sales in the city, with merchants blaming the lacklustre sales on the ‘Tuesday sentiment’ — a widespread belief that Tuesday is not an ideal day for making new purchases. There are an estimated 1,000 jewellery shops selling gold and silver in Vijayawada alone. There are nearly 50,000 small jewellery shops across the State, with daily sales running into a few thousand crores on average. A jewellery shop owner usually has stocks worth Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. The stocks go up during festive seasons or on special occasions like Dhan Teras or Akshaya Tritiya due to heavy sales. However, this season proved to be a dampener, said jewellers. This is the second time this year that business was sluggish on auspicious days. In May, a similar situation prevailed on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya. The COVID-19 pandemic dampened the spirits of people on Akshaya Tritiya for the second consecutive year in May. Consumer demand, as compared to previous years, has taken a hit, said jewellers. “Sales were weak. Not just Dhanteras, even the Deepavali mood is missing. Hardly 10% of the usual rush is seen,” said Kona Hari, a jeweller at One Town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sales-sluggish-this-dhanteras/article37316300.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers seek exemption from uploading info on ‘apps’||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) have condemned the arrest of the teachers who took part in a demonstration at the District Education Officer’s office on Tuesday in support of their demand that they be exempted from the responsibility of uploading information on the several apps introduced by the school education authorities. Federation’s State president N. Venkateswarlu and general secretary K. S. S. Prasad said that one teacher in primary schools and two more if the size of the school was big, was appointed for uploading information including the pictures of the bathrooms and teachers’ attendance on various apps that took the entire morning session (till 12.30 p.m.) Headmasters of the schools that could not upload the information properly were issued memos, they said. They said that the children had been away from classroom teaching for 18 months on account of the lockdown imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. “Now, the schools are open and the teachers do not have sufficient time to discharge to the additional task of uploading information on the apps,” said Mr. Venkateswarlu. ‘No response from authorities’ Mr. Prasad said that the federation organised school-level and mandal-level demonstrations last month as the Education Minister and the department higher-ups did not respond to their representations. The federation leaders said if the government failed to address to their pleas, they would intensify protest and stage a demonstration at the office of the Department of School Education. UTF’s honorary president P. Babureddy led the protest in Nellore, Mr. Venkateswarlu at Machilipatnam, K.S.Prasad in Chittoor, State co-president K. Suresh Kumar in Kurnool district, treasurer K. Srinivasa Rao in Ongole, secretaries B. Lakshmi Raja in Kadapa, G. Prabhakar Varma in Kakinada and Ch. Ravindra in Srikakulam. Special Correspondent in Ongole adds: The members of the federation laid siege to the office of the District Education Officer. “The maintenance of records online is adding more burden to teachers, affecting the academic activity. We are ready to send all reports manually, which would save time,” said federation Prakasam district president S. Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-seek-exemption-from-uploading-info-on-apps/article37316214.ece
03 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre yet to pay GST dues of Rs. 2,000 crore to State: Buggana||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has stated that the Central government has to release Rs. 2,000 crore towards the Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues to the State. In a first review meeting on Tuesday with the commercial taxes officials after he was given the portfolio, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said that the Central government had released Rs. 3,274 crore till date towards the GST share to Andhra Pradesh. Referring to change in the portfolios, the Minister said it was made with a view that the revenue earning departments should be under one umbrella. “Similar system is being followed by the Union government as well. In fact, bringing the revenue earning departments under one roof with implementation of the GST is imminent,” he said. Reacting to the criticism that the State government was raising loans in the name of the Governor, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said that it was a usual practice to enter into any agreement in the name of the Governor of the State. “It is power vested with the Governor as per the Constitution of India. Did the previous governments deviate from this?” he asked. Salary payment The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) findings and objections are a natural consequence of auditing. The State government gives replies to the objections raised by the CAG. “The State Development Corporation was established for the development and there is no iota of doubt in it. The government is spending the funds taken through the ASDC on schemes such as Amma Vodi, Rythu Bharosa, YSR Cheyutha, YSR Asaara and etc. Every State is facing hardships due to the COVID-19 pandemic and Andhra Pradesh is no exception. There might be a delay in payment of salaries by a day or two, but the government is paying the salaries and the employees are extending their cooperation,” the Finance Minister said. Special Chief Secretary Rajat Bhargav, Sale Tax Chief Commissioner Ravi Shankar Narayan and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-yet-to-pay-gst-dues-of-rs-2000-crore-to-state-buggana/article37316211.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students from State shine in NEET-2021||Students of various institutions in Andhra Pradesh have bagged impressive ranks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-2021), the result of which was announced on Tuesday. Students of the Sri Chaitanya’s Gosala campus secured nine ranks below 100. G. Rushil bagged all-India 5th rank, P.V. Kaushik Reddy secured 23rd rank, K. Gopichand Reddy (30th rank), T.S. Kesav (38th rank), P. Karthik (52nd rank), S. Venkatakalpaj (56th rank), K. C. Krishna (60th rank), S. Potharanka (82nd rank) and V. Nikhitha (87th rank). Besides, 24 students from the institute secured all India ranks below 500 in the open category and 45 students secured below 1,000 ranks. In a statement, coaching institute’s executive AGM M. Murali Krishna said a total of 1,858 students from Gosala campus alone secured the MBBS seats. Eshwar Choudhary, a student of the Aakash Institute in Vijayawada secured 221st rank. He obtained 696 out of 720 in the entrance examination. Other notable achievers who scored well in the exam are Ambika Govind, V. Kiran Sai, Steev Joshua and Khshitija Priya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-from-state-shine-in-neet-2021/article37316297.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State logs 259 COVID-19 infections, five deaths||The State reported five more deaths owing to COVID-19 and 259 infections in the 24 hours, ending Tuesday morning. With this, the cumulative toll went up to 14,382 and the infection tally to 20,66,929 .  The number of active cases came down to 4,042, with 354 recoveries in the past day. The total recoveries and the recovery rate stood at 20,48,505 and 99.11% respectively. The test positivity rate of the 33,437 samples tested in the past day was put at 0.77%, the lowest in the past seven and a half months. Guntur district reported two deaths in the past day, while Krishna, Prakasam and West Godavari reported one fatality each. For the second consecutive day, Kurnool reported zero infections in the past 24 hours. Chittoor reported 48 infections in the past day. It was followed by Guntur (41), East Godavari (34), Krishna (29), Visakhapatnam (23), Srikakulam (22), West Godavari (21), Nellore (15), Anantapur (9), Prakasam (8), Vizianagaram (6) and Kadapa (3). More than 75% of the active cases were from five districts including East Godavari (877), Krishna (745), Chittoor (715), Nellore (382) and Prakasam (324). With fewer than 100 active cases each, Kadapa, Vizianagaram, Anantapur and Kurnool together have only 198 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-logs-259-covid-19-infections-five-deaths/article37316208.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SAAP to offer free physiotherapy services||The Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) will offer physiotherapy service free of cost to the people in need once a week. The SAAP office at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium has a physiotherapy centre with modern and advanced equipment and employees are available to extend the services, SAAP vice-chairman and managing director N. Prabhakar Reddy said in a release on Tuesday. The services can be availed every Wednesday from 10.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. For further details, interested people may contact the SAAP officials by dialling the phone number 9676417999 or 8555847798.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/saap-to-offer-free-physiotherapy-services/article37316296.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rythu Spandana’ programme today||The ‘Rythu Spandana’, a grievance redressal programme for farmers, will be conducted in all mandals in Krishna district on Wednesday. District Collector J. Nivas asked all the officials concerned from agriculture, revenue APCPDCL, water resources, horticulture, fisheries, animal husbandry and sericulture departments to invite the mandal-level agriculture advisory board members to the programme. The programme will be conducted between 10.30 a.m.and 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rythu-spandana-programme-today/article37316298.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 1,000 placements at GPREC||Over a thousand students of the 2022 batch at G. Pulla Reddy Engineering College (GPREC) in Kurnool have secured placement offers. Firms that participated in the campus placement drive include Cognizant, Accenture, IBM, Infosys, Wipro, Hexaware, Mindtree, Hitachi and Modak Analytics, among others. Institution chairman P. Subba Reddy said the recruitment process was still under way. The average salary offered is Rs. 4.20 lakh per annum and more than 100 students landed salary packages of Rs. 5 lakh per annum and above. Mr. Subba Reddy congratulated the students and faculty for achieving the milestone of 1,000+ job offers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-1000-placements-at-gprec/article37316301.ece
03 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to function in e-office mode||Following an instruction from the government, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is implementing e-office in all its departments with immediate effect. The Corporation’s Executive Director (Administration) A. Koteswara Rao said that in 2017-18, the e-office mode was implemented by all departments but was discontinued during the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-to-function-in-e-office-mode/article37316302.ece
03 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constitution is a visionary document, says Venkaiah Naidu||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has described the Constitution of India as a ‘visionary document’ that reflects our core values and said it is the duty of every individual to work relentlessly to give meaning to the words in the Preamble. The Vice-President was addressing the participants of the 61st National Defence College (NDC) course on the topic: “India’s national core values, interests and objectives”, through virtual mode from the city, on Tuesday. He said that India, which was driven by the mantra of self-reliance was emerging as a global power and extending help to friendly nations in fighting crises like the COVID-19 pandemic and support during natural calamities. Unlike other civilisations that perished with time, Indian civilisation survived foreign invasions due to its values, culture, heritage and traditions. He said that India’s objectives were guided by its universal vision, enunciated and practised over the past several centuries. He called upon the people not to lose sight of these objectives and emphasised on the need to be resilient, self-reliant and self-confident. Replying to queries from the participants, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu voiced concern over the erosion of values and said that leaders in various fields should set an example for others through their conduct. He expressed his disappointment over the falling standards in politics and public life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constitution-is-a-visionary-document-says-venkaiah/article37316305.ece
03 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make justice accessible to all: Venkaiah||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu called for making justice accessible and affordable to all and cutting down delays in courts. Putting the onus on the faculty members of law colleges and universities, he said that they have to play a key role in training the students to become change agents in the administration of the justice system in the country. The Vice-President was inaugurating ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations on the theme ‘Spirit of freedom struggle: Way forward’, organised by Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (DSNLU), on Tuesday. He said the focus of the Centre and States should be on filling up judicial vacancies and creating requisite infrastructure. The cost of the legal process should not become an impediment to the common man, he said. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu urged the legal fraternity to fight for the cause of suppressed and oppressed people and provide them legal aid. He called for optimal use of Information Technology to ensure speedier justice and called for leveraging alternative dispute redress mechanisms. Observing that the Preamble of the Constitution reflects the overarching vision of our freedom fighters, he said, “We have solemnly resolved to constitute India into a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic republic and to secure to all its citizens: Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity.” Referring to the sacrifices made by a countless number of freedom fighters to liberate the country from foreign rule, the Vice-President said the school textbooks must highlight the sacrifices and role of all freedom fighters and social reformers . On the occasion of the birth centenary celebrations of Damodaram Sanjivayya by the university, the Vice-President paid tributes to him. DNLU Vice-Chancellor S. Surya Prakash Rao and State Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao also spoke. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu is on a four-day visit to the city from Tuesday. Earlier, he was received at the airport by Mr. Srinivasa RAo, DGP Goutam Sawang, District Collector A. Mallikarjuna, Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari and other officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-justice-accessible-to-all-venkaiah/article37316216.ece
03 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Squads to prevent carrying of crackers in trains||The Waltair Division of the East Coast Railway has formed special squads to prevent carrying of crackers in trains as Deepavali is approaching. Carrying inflammable materials in trains is strictly prohibited. The special squads will keep a strict vigil to ensure safety of the passengers. The railways have advised all passengers to be careful and not to carry and also not let their co-passengers carry inflammable objects while travelling in trains. If any passengers is seen carrying inflammable items, the co-passengers are requested to inform the on duty railway staff like TTEs, Coach Attendants, Guards of the Train, Station Managers, Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel to save the passengers and the railway property from danger. One can also register complaints through railway help line 182. The Division is alerting the public through frequent announcements on the public address systems to avoid carrying of inflammables and to have a safe journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/squads-to-prevent-carrying-of-crackers-in-trains/article37316309.ece
03 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC to operate special buses to Pancharama Kshetrams||The Visakhapatnam region of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation will operate special buses to the ‘Pancharama Kshetrams’ to enable devotees to visit the popular temples of Lord Siva in a single day during the auspicious ‘Karthika Masam’. Sri Amareswara Swamy temple on the banks of River Krishna at Amaravathi, Sri Bheemeswara Swamy temple at Bhimavaram, Sri Ksheera Ramalingeswara Swamy temple at Palakollu, Sri Bheema Lingeswara Swamy temple at Draksharamam and Kumara Ramalingeswara Swamy temple at Samalkot will be covered as part of ‘Pancharama darshini’. These special buses would leave from the Dwaraka Bus Station at 5 p.m. on Sundays on November 7, 14, 21 and 28. All the five temples will be covered on Mondays. The fares per person have been fixed at Rs. 2,000 for adults and Rs. 1,700 for children (Super Luxury) and Rs. 1,900 and Rs. 1,600 (Ultra Deluxe). Regional Manger in-charge B. Appalanaidu and Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (Rural) K. Venkata Rao appealed to the public to make use of the facility. Similarly, picnic specials will be operated to Lambasingi, Daramattam and Araku in the district on Saturdays and Sundays during the Karteeka masam, for the benefit of revellers. The Lambasingi tour will cover Tajangi Dam, Kothapalli Waterfalls, Modamamba temple and Coffee Plantations. The Araku tour will cover the Damuku and Galikonda View Points, Padmapuram Gardens and Tribal Museum and the Daramattam tour will cover the temple of Lord Siva, Daramattam Waterfalls, Alluri Sitarama Raju Museum and Bojjannakonda (near Anakapalle). Details can be had on the mobile nos. 9959225602 or 7382914183. Log on towww.apsrtconline.infor online booking of tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-to-operate-special-buses-to-pancharama-kshetrams/article37316303.ece
03 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in hit-and-run accident||A 50-year-old man was killed in a hit-and-run accident on the NH-16 near Kambalakonda here on Tuesday morning. According to Inspector of Arilova Police Station, Emmaneul Raju, the victim was identified as one Srinivas. He was allegedly hit by an unidentified vehicle early in the morning. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-hit-and-run-accident/article37316313.ece
03 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||58 COVID cases in district||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 58 COVID-19 infections in the last two days, ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,58,286. There were no deaths in the last 48 hours, keeping the death count to 1,096. Fifty-eight persons affected with the virus were discharged, taking the total tally of discharges to 1,56,441. The active cases, as on Tuesday morning, were 749.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/58-covid-cases-in-district/article37316314.ece
03 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Yoga regained importance after BJP came to power’||Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leader Kusumanchi Subba Rao on Tuesday said that Ayurvedam and Yoga have regained prominence after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power. The leader was attending as the chief guest for Dhanwantari Jayanti celebrations, organised by Dhanwantari Foundation, Naa Vooru Vizianagaram and other organisations, when he talked about the importance of Yoga in maintaining health. He felicitated Vizianagaram Private Medical Practitioners Association (Rural wing) president Peri Ramayya Pantulu and physiotherapists who served COVID-19 patients. Gurajada Brahamana Samakhya district president Darlapudi Satyaprasad, Dhanwantari Foundation president Chintalapudi Trinatha Rao and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-regained-importance-under-bjp/article37316189.ece
03 November 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp held||Vizianagaram Youth Foundation organised blood donation camp at N.V.N. Blood Bank on Tuesday. Foundation’s president Shaik Iltamash and general secretary N. Eswara Rao said the association was keen on promoting blood donation by women. “Women whose haemoglobin level is good can donate blood,” said Mr. Iltamash. Fifty persons donated blood on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-camp-held/article37316233.ece
03 November 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Goshastami Sobha Yatra’ on Nov.11||Leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party and members of Go-Samrakshana Samiti and other organisations will take up ‘Goshastami Sobha Yatra’ on November 11 in Vizianagaram to raise awareness among the public on the importance of cows in Indian tradition and culture. Addressing the media here, Go Samrakashana Samiti-Yatra committee convener Kusumanchi Subba Rao and Samiti president Kishan Kumar Agarwal exhorted people to participate in the procession in large numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/goshastami-sobha-yatra-on-nov11/article37316235.ece
03 November 2021||VIZINAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rahul planning to visit Vizag, says Chinta Mohan||Special invitee to Congress Working Committee (CWC) Chinta Mohan on Tuesday said that Rahul Gandhi was planning to visit Andhra Pradesh to extend solidarity to the agitating workers of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and the farmers of Amaravati who were protesting the move of setting up three capitals in the State . “The people of the State have been fed up with the YSRCP and the TDP. The Congress high command is preparing a strategy to strengthen the party in the State,” he told the media here. Mr. Chinta Mohan claimed that only the Congress could ensure an ‘effective administration’ in the State. He said that he would urge Mr. Rahul Gandhi to give a chance to a Kapu leader to be chief ministerial candidate in the next general election. Mr. Chinta Mohan urged all the leaders who had left the party to come back to the Congress fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rahul-planning-to-visit-vizag-says-chinta-mohan/article37316209.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vibrant hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vibrant-hues/article37315677.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||City boys wins gold in shooting competition||Vasupalli Sushant, a student of 8th class in Visakha Valley School, bagged a gold medal in the State-level Open Shooting Competitions, organised at Ongole from October 28 to 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-boys-wins-gold-in-shooting-competition/article37316312.ece
03 November 2021||GONGLUR (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Gonglur village witnesses a silent revolution||A silent revolution has been taking place at Gonglur village in Pulkal mandal where a large number of members from self-help groups (SHG) along with some medical professionals have formed as a single entity. They are ready for production of various products from the cottage industry being established in the village. The women groups who formed as a single entity in the name of Sarvodaya Women Entrepreneurs have pooled more than Rs. 75 lakh as capital for their activity. The authorised capital is about Rs. 2 crore. The aim is to enter into production and thereby generate revenue and employment. The focus is on self-sustaining rural cottage industry to manufacture day-to-day essential fast-moving consumer goods. The products identified for manufacturing are soaps and detergents including toilet soaps, detergent cakes and washing powder, processing of dals (pulses) and millets through mini-dal mills, processing of dals (pulses) in traditional way of hand pounding, cold-pressed edible oils and daily household cleaning items like phenyl, sanitizer and abrasives. All the products will be branded as ‘Manjeera’ Sarvodaya Women Entrepreneurs, at present, has 68 shareholders, including 47 self-help group women of Gonguluru village, and the remaining are medical professionals and other like-minded women who wish to support the village-based cottage industry for generating gainful employment. Only women members are eligible to be shareholders and substantial work force of this initiative. “We were trained in grinding oils, pulses and manufacturing soaps. Some machines have already arrived here and some more machines to come,” A. Neeraja, one of the woman entrepreneur, told The Hindu . “First phase of training was conducted for 28 members by National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (NIRD-PR). The women will also get training in handling the machinery. The trial run of the industry is in process and formal inauguration may be held in the second week of November,” said Dr. P. Sudhakar Naik, the man behind the activity and also Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax. M/s Sarvodhaya Women Entrepreneurs Cottage Industries Private Limited is an initiative by some IRS Officers and Sarvodaya Grama Seva Foundation, an association of Medical Professionals, Civil Servants and sports personalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gonglur-village-witnesses-a-silent-revolution/article37316241.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Balanced studies with relaxation: NEET topper||The All India First ranker in NEET (UG)-2021, Mrinal Kutteri from Hyderabad did not burn the midnight oil days before the highly competitive exam. Though he tried to stick to a timetable which was managed to micro level, the 18-year-old could not. In fact, he ensured to get healthy dose of relaxation in terms of watching web-series, balanced it with preparation a month before the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) conducted on September 12. The latest he was up till late in the night was on Monday since family members, friends, teachers, and journalists tried to reach him to congratulate after the exam results were announced on November 1. The champion of the exam held this year did not stick to hardwired notions about what toppers do before exams. When asked what worked for him, the NEET (UG) 2021 topper Mr Mrinal said getting the concepts right and understanding their applications helped him in taking the exam. “Desire for knowledge, and not marks. This has worked for me from schooldays. My family members, teachers, supported it. I used to watch and read interviews of toppers of various exams. Different things work for different people,” said Mr Mrinal. He knew he will get a good rank, but did not expect to top the exam. Now he is confident of getting a seat in AIIMS, New Delhi. Mr Mrinal has been flooded with requests for interviews to news publications and channels from Tuesday morning at Aakash Institute, Himayatnagar, where he underwent coaching. The young achiever now knows the questions that reporters ask during such occasions and has template answers.“I was used to the questions ‘what is next’, ‘if there are any doctors in the family’. I was asked these questions at functions (celebrations),” said the young achiever, while drums were played downstairs to celebrate his achievement. The aspiration of becoming a doctor took root in his eighth standard. Having achieved it, he wants to relish the moments, allow it to sink in, and said there are at least five years to think of what to do in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/balanced-studies-with-relaxation-neet-topper/article37315961.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala rides to glory on people power||Leaders were strongly by the side of TRS candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav but people preferred to be with Eatala Rajender of the BJP. That puts in perspective the victory of Mr. Rajender in Huzurabad by-poll. TRS supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao ensured that not a single leader of his party in Huzurabad constituency joined Mr. Rajender from the moment the latter resigned as MLA after he was dropped from the Council of Ministers. As the by-election became inevitable, one or two TRS leaders who directly or indirectly pledged support to Mr. Rajender too were made to come back to TRS by using different methods. Thus Rajender, who was the face of TRS and undisputed leader in Huzurabad, became a lone soldier in the by-poll battle field. Then every TRS leader having potential to be candidate for the by-poll and to bring votes by virtue of caste, image, power was given some position. Congress nominee in 2018 election was brought to TRS with the promise of MLC post, Banda Srinivas was made SC corporation chairman with Cabinet minister rank, Vakulabharanam Krishnamohan Rao was made BC Commission chairman and the list is endless. “They forgot that Rajender is for Huzurabad what is KCR for entire Telangana. He has personal rapport with thousands of voters from our constituency. His mild manners, affectionate attitude and readiness to offer financial help to the needy made him a messiah,” Venkatesham, a lower rung leader from Jammikunta, says. Many political observers and people of the constituency cite several other reasons for his victory like unfulfilled earlier promises of allowances to unemployed, Rs. 10 lakh assistance not reaching Dalit Bandhu beneficiaries, distribution of money reaching vulgar levels and choosing a novice like Gellu Srinivas Yadav against seasoned politician Rajender. But the TRS over-reliance on the leaders instead of reaching out to people is the single most factor for its loss, they say. Huzurabad local TRS leader Venkatesham (name changed) notes that party had sent non-locals (associates of Ministers, MLAs, MLCs, MPs) to Huzurabad for poll management. “Crucial financial management too was assigned to them. Though they are our party leaders, they knew nothing about our constituency and messed up everything,” he feels. Moreover, the TRS strategist failed to check rumours that select TRS leaders in each village were ‘becoming rich’ but ‘poor voters are not getting even an iota of that prosperity’. On the contrary, Mr. Rajender’s poll managers meticulously built a narrative that ‘the people’s man is being targetted for no fault of his and questioning arrogance and attitude of KCR’. Repeated efforts by TRS leaders to brand him as land-grabber and back-stabber boomeranged when he questioned why there was no action against some Ministers accused of graft. In their foolproof plan of deploying ‘one person to take care of 10 voters’, TRS leaders failed to notice that Rajender penetrated people’s heart deeper with his ‘kind-hearted image’. “The fact that he got majority in the own villages of some Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders, including its nominee, in the constituency explains this,” they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-rides-to-glory-on-people-power/article37315979.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘I own up responsibility for the defeat’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy said that he would own up the responsibility for the defeat of party candidate in Huzurabad by-election, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. However, he alled upon party workers not to get disappointed stating that one by-election would not decide the future of the party. Speaking to media at along with party senior vice- president Mallu Ravi here on Tuesday, Mr Revanth Reddy said that party would introspect on the outcome of the results and an analysis would be made. Stating that the party would continue its fight on the issues related to public, the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president said that there would be bright future for Venkat in the party, who contested as party candidate. He would lead the future fights in the constituency. “Huzurabad elections were held in a special situation. A by-election will not decide the future of any political party. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which got only 1,600 votes in the previous elections has now won the election. Bharatiya Janata Party ’s influence was not seen in Nagarujanasagar by-election. Defeat was not permanent and I will not bow down by it. We will rebuild the party. Freedom is there for seniors in our party and we will work along with them by coordinating,” said Mr Revanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-own-up-responsibility-for-the-defeat/article37315985.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monoclonal antibody therapy prevents severe COVID and deaths by 100%||Effectiveness of an antibody cocktail drug which helped in preventing progression of mild, moderate form of COVID-19 into severe form, was announced in Hyderabad, Telangana, on Tuesday. Monoclonal antibody therapy reduces severe disease and death in high-risk individuals infected with Delta variant of SARS CoV 2 by 100%, claimed AIG Hospitals’ study. This holds significance as a few countries are currently recording high number of delta variant cases. The cocktail consists of Casirivimab 600, Imdevimab 600, which are mixed, put in 100 saline and given as single shot on out-patient basis. It costs around Rs. 65,000. The cost of hospitalisation of COVID patients was comparatively high, which was complained by several patients’ attendants. The study The study was conducted by AIG Hospitals’ research arm Asian Healthcare Foundation in collaboration with CCMB-Hyderabad, and Institute of Life Sciences-University of Hyderabad. The 285 patients were assigned in a non-randomised manner to two groups — 208 received the monoclonal antibody therapy and the remaining in the standard-of-care group received Remdesivir. The patients were recruited between July 15 and 29 of this year. Results of the study conducted on 285 high-risk individuals was published in the International Journal of Internal Medicine on Monday. Of the 285, about 98% samples were detected with Delta variant of SARS CoV 2. Announcing results of the Monoclonal Antibody therapy group, chairman of the AIG Hospitals, Dr D. Nageshwar Reddy said that 78% of the patients had improved clinical symptoms, and 75% of the patients who received the Monoclonal antibodies therapy became RT-PCR negative by one week. “When we looked at inflammatory markers, all of them were normal in the monoclonal antibody group. We followed up the patients. None of the patients who took the monoclonal antibody reported post-COVID symptoms,” said Dr Nageshwar at a press conference held at the hospital on Tuesday. Presenting results in the standard-of-care group, he said that clinical symptoms persisted in nearly 50% of the patients, 52% remained RT-PCR positive after seven days, inflammatory markers increased after seven days. Medical geneticist and scientist at CCMB, Karthik Bharadwaj, Dr Sasikala M, head of the research wing at the hospitals, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monoclonal-antibody-therapy-prevents-severe-covid-and-deaths-by-100-study/article37315962.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ICU, ER facilities inaugurated at Tarnaka RTC hospital||With proper planning and execution, Managing Director of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation V.C. Sajjanar said the organisation’s hospital at Tarnaka could become a super-speciality facility. On Monday, along with the Corporation’s chairman Bajireddy Govardhan and Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, he inaugurated new facilities at the hospital. In addition to the existing services in Obstetrics, Gynaecology, ENT, Ophthalmology and general surgery, the TSRTC hospital will now feature emergency rooms, 20-bedded intensive care unit and four-bedded dialysis unit, besides the upgradation of sample collection room and physiotherapy services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/icu-er-facilities-inaugurated-at-tarnaka-rtc-hospital/article37316239.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HPS student to present report at COP-26||A student of Hyderabad Public School, Begumpet, Pavan Trishu Vijay Kumar (16) will present a report on ‘Decarbonize: Global Youth Manifesto’ at the twenty-sixth conference of United Nations Climate Change Conference (Conference of the Parties) at Glasgow in the United Kingdom, which opened on Monday. Mr. Pavan has received an official certification to present the report and will be travelling with project coordinator Annapurna, and five other students of the school along with their teacher Usha Sudhir, according to a release. Youth voice The Decarbonize: Global Youth Manifesto is the world’s largest synthesis of education and action focused on climate change by children under the age of eighteen. Mr. Pavan will be one of the world’s six Continental Lead students, representing the voice of all the global children in the project. The team will be meeting global leaders, heads of multi-national corporations and visit local schools in Glasgow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hps-student-to-present-report-at-cop-26/article37316245.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Result not of much consequence: KTR||The ruling TRS has reacted cautiously to the defeat of the party in the Huzurabad Assembly by-election. TRS working president and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who is on a visit to France now, tweeted that “TRS has seen many highs and lows in the last 20 years and this (Huzurabad) election (result) will not be of much significance or consequence”. He complimented TRS candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav for putting up a spirited fight and appealed to all TRS workers to work with increased resolve to forge ahead in future battles. He also thanked and applauded the tireless efforts of Ministers T. Harish Rao, Koppula Eshwar and Gangula Kamalakar, who led the party campaign, and all other TRS legislators and party leaders and cadre who had toiled for a win in Huzurabad. Mr. Rama Rao also thanked the social media warriors who had worked relentless in the campaign. Reacting to the by-poll result, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, who shouldered the campaign of the party throughout, said he would accept people’s verdict with all humility and thanked everyone who voted for the party. Thanking the party cadre for their hard work, he said there was not much reduction in TRS vote share and alleged that BJP and Congress had colluded to defeat TRS. A few senior Congress leaders had also vouched the BJP-Congress nexus, he claimed. He stated that TRS would take the result into its stride and work for the people of Telangana with renewed vigour. Meanwhile, party candidate Srinivas Yadav said two national parties colluded to defeat a student leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/result-not-of-much-consequence-ktr/article37315977.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Focus on quality, Minister tells seed companies||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has asked the cotton seed companies and organisers to take joint decisions so that no loss is caused to seed producers (farmers). Representatives of seed companies, Gadwal legislator B. Krishnamohan Reddy, Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunandan Rao, Managing Director of State Seed Development Corporation K. Keshavulu and a few seed producing farmers participated in the meeting held here on Tuesday. Stating that both cotton seed and cotton produced in Telangana were of the highest quality in the country, the Minister said cotton seed was being produced in about 35,000 acres and that Telangana was meeting the lion’s share of cotton seed required in the country. He also wanted the farming community to increase cotton cultivation to a large extent in the State in the coming years. The Minister said weather conditions were most favourable in Telangana not only for cotton seed production but other seed too and also for processing, packing and storing the seed produced in other States too. He suggested that the companies maintain the quality of seed produced and processed in the State so that farmers’ income was improved. According to agriculture department officials, about 12 lakh quintals of seed of various crops was produced in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-quality-minister-tells-seed-companies/article37316247.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jubilation at BJP office||Deepavali came early for the Telangana BJP. There was a festive atmosphere at the State BJP office here as party leaders, supporters and workers started trooping in from the morning once E. Rajender started gaining in each round of the counting process for the Huzurabad bypoll on Tuesday. While party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar and other senior leaders watched the counting ‘live’ closeted in a room inside, the crowd began to swell with each passing hour and by late afternoon jubilation rent the air with slogans, distribution of sweets and bursting of crackers amid the beat of drums. Union Home Minister Amit Shah called up Mr. Sanjay Kumar over phone to congratulate him. The party chief was seated on the shoulders of the jubilant partymen as the victory became inevitable. “People of Huzurabad have stood by truth and justice over the arrogant rule of TRS despite several allurements. We were confident from the beginning about our victory as people trusted us and not Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Our cadre worked very hard too”. Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy hailed the “historic” victory of E. Rajender and said people of Huzurabad had voted courageously proving that ethics were more important than money as the TRS had spent huge amounts and had misused the official machinery. Addressing a press conference at New Delhi, Mr Reddy said TRS top leadership including the family of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao let loose a volley of false information and lies during the bypoll campaign yet the Huzurabad people refused to believe them. “We acknowledge the contribution of the constituency people towards this politically significant win as they refused to be bought over, hence they deserve every credit. Justice has prevailed,” he said. “This is a vote against the family rule and showed that people have doubts about the intentions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah had been enquiring about the poll outcome and he had already informed them of Mr. Rajender’s victory, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jubilation-at-bjp-office/article37315980.ece
03 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Most buyers continue to pick up regular crackers||A row of shops selling firecrackers have popped up on either side of the road near Purana Pul. Some shops are in the process of being set up. “This looks like a kick in the belly. Last year we had 30 shops now there are 40 shops. We have done zero business,” says Subhakar who invested a few hundred thousand rupees for the two-day business that begins with Dhanteras and ends hours before Deepavali in a rush of shoppers. “Do you have green crackers?” “We have regular crackers,” he says showing the crackers some of which don’t even have the manufacturing or expiry date. When a citizen wanted to find the location where she could pick up some green crackers. She was bombarded with information about shops selling regular crackers instead of ‘green crackers’. Begum Bazaar, which is known as the business destination for crackers, too turned up nothing. It is at Ameerpet that people are queuing up to buy green crackers. “Some people are asking for it. The crackers which have ‘green crackers’ written on them are in demand. But most people are not looking at the tags,” says the owner of the shop. “We have a budget of Rs. 2000 for buying firecrackers. We are not looking for ‘green crackers’ label. Whatever fits the budget we will buy,” says a couple wheeling in a trolley to pick up the crackers that range from Rs. 270 for a 11-item gift box to Rs. 2900 for a 50-item box. But how safe are the green crackers remains in doubt. One of the formulations for sparklers has aluminium. Aluminium is known to cause ‘contact dermatitis and bioaccumulation’. Another sparkler which has a ‘green cracker’ legend lists ‘Barium Nitrate-50%’ as its chemical contents. Barium Nitrate is considered poisonous and its fumes can irritate respiratory tract. NEERI has given approval to 874 firms in the country to manufacture green crackers with formulations it has approved. Besides the chemical composition, green crackers should not exceed the sound threshold of 125 dB. To track rogue companies and reassure citizens, CSIR-NEERI has launched the Green QR app which has about 500+ downloads. The QR generated through Green Cracker web app can only be scanned through this app. Days to go before the festival of lights, information about green crackers or their availability is not in the public domain. A week before Deepavali, on October 28, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation issued a notice: “Production, sale and use of firecrackers and series crackers or laris other than green crackers are banned and illegal imports, sale and distribution of these fireworks is a punishable offence. Teams are formed to identify shops/persons selling imported firecracker and impose severe punishment/penalties.” It remains to be seen how green this Deepavali will be in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/most-buyers-continue-to-pick-up-regular-crackers/article37315971.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Majority Dengue cases from repeat localities||A majority of the Dengue fever cases in the city are being reported from the same localities over the last two years. Entomology survey of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has revealed that 60 % of the Dengue cases this year have been repeated from the same areas that had reported high number of infections during the 2019 outbreak. Most cases are from various colonies of three zones, namely Secunderabad, Khairatabad and Serilingampally. Officials surmise that one of the reasons might be the presence of tertiary level health care centres in these localities. Exposure to mosquitoes “Dengue infected patients from across the State and even other states visit the tertiary heath care facilities in the city, and when they are exposed to mosquitoes, the same carry the virus to other localities nearby,” Chief Entomologist of GHMC A.Rambabu said. This year, so far, over 500 infections of Dengue have been reported from across the city, including confirmed and unconfirmed cases. Results from NS1 antigen diagnostic test which are considered conclusive by private hospitals, are in fact not definitive. ELISA test alone gives accurate results, and it is available only at five labs in the city — in Gandhi Hospital, Osmania General Hospital, Niloufer Hospital, Fever Hospital, and IPM. Samples are also collected from the Basthi Dawakhanas of the GHMC and sent to these labs. Vector control “For vector control operations though, we are taking NS1 results too into account, and carrying out the anti larval operations in all the locations where cases are reported. Even one reported case makes the locality high risk,” Mr.Rambabu said. The number of cases has fallen drastically after the heavy rains recently and the subsequent onset of winter, he said. Colonies identified For effective operations, basic unit for the anti larval, and mosquito eradication operations has been shifted from division to colony, Mr.Rambabu said. “We have identified 721 colonies in the city where Dengue cases have been reported since 2019, and are spraying them twice a day,” he said. Each colony is assigned to an entomology field assistant, whose responsibility it is to work in association with the local resident welfare association to identify the Dengue mosquito breeding hotspots such as vacant houses and construction sites, in order to carry out the operations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/majority-dengue-cases-from-repeat-localities/article37315969.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five of dacoit gang arrested||Five persons of Nepal origin were arrested for their involvement in a dacoity that happened on October 16, Saifabad police said on Tuesday. Police said that it was around 2.45 a.m. on that day that a septuagenrian couple — Om Prakash Agarwal and Santosh Agarwal — were attacked by their Nepal born watchman Dipesh Shahi Thakur, his wife Anita Shahi, and others after barging into the victims’ room. The accused attempted to kill Om Prakash Agarwal. They then decamped with cash, diamond jewellery, gold and silver articles, all amounting to Rs. 72 lakh in jewellery and another Rs. 8 lakh in cash. Soon after they were alerted, police alerted police at the Indo-Nepal border, and formed special teams to track and appehend the accused. They verified private travel agencies, bus and railway stations and were able to nab the accused identified as Dipesh Shahi Thakur, Anita Shahi, Chhatra Bahadur Shahi, Meena, and Amar Bahadur. Police from Nepal nabbed Debi Kadal, another accused. Police said that they recovered stolen property worth Rs. 8.8 lakh from the accused’s possession. Explaining the accused’s alleged modus operandi, police said that the members of the gang seek employment as domestic help, and security guards. After gaining employment, they allegedly plan burglaries in the absence of home owners. “The gang members stay in different areas of the city and stay in touch with each other through social media. In this case, they didn’t get opportunity of committing the burglary during the temporary absence of the house owners as the old aged owner couple were not leaving the house they committed the offence after midnight,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-of-dacoit-gang-arrested/article37315972.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One held for ‘herbal oil fraud’||Officials of Cyber Crimes, Rachakonda Police, arrested a Nigerian national for allegedly duping customers, by promising supply of herbal oil products through online portals. The apprehension of one Ozoeze Charles Okelue followed by remand to judicial custody was realised after an aggrieved buyer, who had placed order for 50 litres of the ‘herbal oil’ and paid Rs. 77 lakh, approached Rachakonda police. According to the police, Mr. Okelue, who came to India on a student visa, joined another Ifanye, who is now absconding to make easy money. The duo obtained SIM cards, bank accounts and also set up ‘fake companies’ to reach customers via social media, to advertise and sell products. They would receive money for the said product but later breach the sale agreement. Police said the complainant, a businessman dealing in chemical products supply to pharma companies, was contacted by a product manager of ‘Gridron UK’ by e-mail seeking zydone liquid oil. They had also suggested buying the product in India from one Tiwari Herbal Traders, Mumbai. The accused later impersonated as owners of Tiwari group and completed the transaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-held-for-herbal-oil-fraud/article37315974.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cochrane affiliate status for IIPH-Hyd||The Indian Institute of Public Health – Hyderabad (IIPH) receives the Cochrane affiliate status from the world renowned Cochrane collaboration and becomes a part of the Cochrane India Network. The Cochrane collaboration is an international network of researchers, health professionals, patients, carers, and people passionate about improving health outcomes. Cochrane India Network is formed by nine premier institutions in India including AIIMS - New Delhi, PGIMER – Chandigarh, IDS – Bhubaneswar, TMC – Mumbai, ICMR – New Delhi, CMC - Vellore, MAHE – Manipal and KGMU - Lucknow. IIPH-Hyderabad Cochrane affiliate will be to building the capacity for systematic high-quality evidence generation for public health and health system strengthening, evidence-based decision-making by policymakers and health professionals and strengthening the primary care systems for the provision of good quality evidence-based health and social care. IIPH Hyd- Director Dr. GVS Murthy will be the Director for the Cochrane IIPH-Hyd affiliate centre while Dr. Sureshkumar Kamalakannan will be the deputy director. More details can be found from: https://india.cochrane.org/cochrane-india-network/indian-institute-public-health, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cochrane-affiliate-status-for-iiph-hyd/article37315964.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Social welfare students do well in NEET||As many as 241 students of TS social welfare residential educational institutions came out with flying colours in NEET 2021 and are likely to get MMBS seats while many more will get into BDS. About 48 students secured more than 500 marks in the NEET entrance exam released on Monday. What social welfare residential students achieved is not an ordinary feat given their humble backgrounds. Last, year about 135 students joined the medical stream,” said Ronald Rose, Secretary of TSWREIS. “I am thrilled at the thought of becoming a doctor. I have secured 559 marks in NEET (All India SC Category 949). Our teachers encouraged me a lot and very much indebted to them. Hard work, proper planning and a lot of mock tests helped me in securing 949 rank. I want to pursue Nephrology as a specialization,” said Spandana from Cherlapalem village, Mahabubabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-welfare-students-do-well-in-neet/article37316248.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Voter strength in TS crosses 3-crore mark||Voter strength in Telangana has crossed the 3 crore mark for the first time going by the trends in the special summary revision (SSR) of electoral rolls taken up by the Election Commission of India. According to the latest numbers, there are a total 3.03 crore voters in the State with 1.52 crore male and 1.51 crore female while 1,683 are other gender. There are also 14,501 service voters, 2,742 NRI electors and 5.01 lakh persons with disabilities in the latest voter list, according to Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Shashank Goel. The State had voter strength of 2.99 crore during the special summary revision 2020. Hyderabad district continues to top the list with 43.53 lakh voters in the latest revision. The district saw an increase of more than one lakh new voters, prominently those crossing the age of 18, as compared with the previous special summary revision when the voter strength was 42.37 lakh. Neighbouring Rangareddy and Medchal Malkajgiri districts too saw impressive rise in the voter strength during the exercise of special summary revision. Increase Rangareddy district saw an increase of over one lakh votes from 30.33 lakh during the SSR – 2020 to 31.49 lakh in the latest special summary revision (SSR). Voter strength in Medchal-Malkajgiri district too went up by more than one lakh from 24.47 lakh voters in SSR 2020 to 25.82 lakh voters in the latest draft of special summary revision (SSR) released by the election authority. Nalgonda (13.59 lakh), Nizamabad (13.14 lakh), Sangareddy (12.18 lakh), Khammam (11.42 lakh) and Karimnagar (10.11 lakh) are among the districts which had more than 10 lakh voters each, according to the draft electoral roll. Nalgonda, incidentally, saw a marginal drop in the number of electors to 13.59 lakh from 13.64 lakh registered in the SSR 2020. Mulugu district with 2.14 lakh electors and Jayashankar Bhupalpally with 2.64 lakh are the two districts with lowest electors’ population in the State. The election authority would publish the final voters list early next year after calling for claims and objections and resolving them over the next two months. The State went to election with a voter strength of 2.81 crore during the assembly elections in December 2018 and 2.94 crore in the subsequent election to Lok Sabha few months later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/voter-strength-in-ts-crosses-3-crore-mark/article37315981.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gandhi Bhavan wears deserted look||As the counting of votes commenced for the byelection of Huzurabad Assembly constituency on Tuesday morning, Gandhi Bhavan located at Nampally, the headquarters of main opposition party Congress, wore a deserted look. No leader turned up at party office to speak with media. Many party leaders participated in live debates of electronic media. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee TPCC incharge from All India Congress Committee (AICC) Manickam Tagore said they would discuss the outcome of the results at the Political Affairs Committee (PAC) Committee meeting that would be held at Gandhi Bhavan on Wednesday and respond. He declined to respond on the comment made by party leaders on the results, stating that he had not yet looked at them. Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, Lok Sabha member from Bhongir, stated that the result of Huzurabad was a slap on the face of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). “For five months, the Congress was silent though Eatala Rajender, former minister from Telangana Rashtra Samithi, resigned.” ‘Introspection needed’ Public meeting was held only after election notification was issued. We have not worked the way we focused at Nagarjunasagar and Dubbak. I will explain the ground reality to the party high command,” said Mr. Komatireddy, in a release. In video, former Lok Sabha member Ponnam Prabhakar said the results of Huzurabad by-election were expected lines. “Mr. Rajender was successful in taking the issue of his removal from Cabinet as undemocratic to people and convince them. ‘Sure win of Rajender’ “Telangana Rashtra Samithi workers were unable to digest offering Dalit Bandhu, taking Congress leaders into the party and offering some posts to locals. Bharatiya Janata Party president Bandi Sanjay has been claiming this win as that of his party but it was unfortunate. This is the sure win of Mr. Rajender and I am telling this as former Lok Sabha member. Mr. Rajender appealed to people to protect democracy and teach a lesson to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao instead of vote for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),” said Mr. Prabhakar admitting the defeat of the Congress. He said they had anticipated this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gandhi-bhavan-wears-deserted-look/article37315983.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New chief for Air Force Academy||Air Marshal Sreekumar Prabhakaran took over as Commandant, Air Force Academy, Dundigal on Monday. An alumnus of National Defence Academy Khadakwasla, he was commissioned in the Indian Air Force (IAF) as a fighter pilot on December 22, 1983. An experienced MiG-21 pilot, he has held a variety of operational and institutional appointments. He was awarded the Vayu Sena Medal in Oct 2005, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-chief-for-air-force-academy/article37316238.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sri Chaitanya students get 3 ranks in top 10||Three students of Sri Chaitanya educational institutions secured three ranks in top ten in the NEET results. All of them — K. Shashank, G. Rushil and Suyash Arora — shared the fifth rank. They scored 715 out of a total of 720 marks. The students of the institutions also got twenty-one ranks below hundred and ninety-one ranks below thousand in open category, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sri-chaitanya-students-get-3-ranks-in-top-10/article37315965.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five Narayana students in top ten||Five students of Narayana educational institutions secured five ranks in top ten and sixteen in top hundred. They bagged second, third, fourth, eight and ninth ranks from all categories. Narayana Director P. Sindhura Narayana said the CBSE based curriculum had helped Narayana students. The success of the students lay in the unique educational programme and innovative teaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-narayana-students-in-top-ten/article37315966.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Six IndiGo flights a week to Kanpur||IndiGo’s maiden direct flight service from Hyderabad to Kanpur was launched from GMR Hyderabad International Airport on Monday. The inaugural flight took off from Hyderabad to Kanpur at 12 noon. The daily IndiGo Flight 6E 269 will depart from here at 12.00 hrs. The return IndiGo Flight 6E 102 from Kanpur will arrive in Hyderabad at 16.35 hrs. Flights will operate six times a week – Monday to Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-indigo-flights-a-week-to-kanpur/article37316243.ece
03 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||24-hour TSRTC travel ticket||With fuel prices burning a hole in pockets of commuters, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation on Tuesday announced the introduction of a 24-hour ticket which would allow passengers to travel throughout the city over unlimited distances for a price less than the cost of a litre of petrol. The T-24 ticket, priced at Rs. 100, is valid for 24 hours. and is available with all city bus conductors. The ticket is valid on City Ordinary, Suburban, Metro Express, and Metro Deluxe buses. Passengers can change buses any number of times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-launches-24-hour-travel-ticket/article37315956.ece
03 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ganja peddlers booked under PD Act, Goondas Act||Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Tuesday booked two ganja peddlers, separately under the Preventive Detention Act and the Goondas Act, “for being a hazard to society, and the activities being beyond the control of ordinary law.” A resident of Jiyaguda, 30-year-old Ajay Singh, who was operating in Kalapathar police station limits had a widespread network and been using advanced information system to escape police surveillance to peddle ganja. He was booked under the PD Act. Another peddler B. Ajay Singh, an auto-rickshaw driver by occupation, was recently found peddling ganja in Mangalhat police station limits and was also booked for two related violations under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganja-peddlers-booked-under-pd-act-goondas-act/article37315973.ece
03 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||TRS receives a jolt in strongholds||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) suffered a jolt in the villages considered its strongholds in the byelection to the Huzurabad Assembly constituency as Bharatijaya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Eatala Rajender put up a good show in Shalapalli, Singapur, Himmatnagar, Peddapapaiahpalle and various other villages. More votes Sources said that Mr Rajender secured more votes than his Telangana Rashtra Samithi rival G Srinivas Yadav in the latter’s native place Himmatnagar and in-laws’ native village Peddapapaiahpalle. Mr Rajender retained his sway over the Shalapalli village, where the “Dalit Bandhu” scheme was launched. He polled more votes than Mr Srinivas Yadav in Singapur village, considered one of the traditional citadels of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) despite the weeks-long rigorous campaign by many Telangana Rashtra Samithi bigwigs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-receives-a-jolt-in-strongholds/article37315986.ece
03 November 2021||Bhopal,||Results ring alarm bells for Cong. in M.P.||The Bharatiya Janata Party bagged one Lok Sabha and two Assembly seats in the bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, setting alarm bells ringing for the Congress. The BJP has retained Khandwa LS seat and wrested Jobat (ST) and Prithivpur seats from the Congress. However, the Congress wrested Raigaon (SC) Assembly seat from the BJP. Though there have been big gains for CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, there is some cause for worry as the BJP’s 2019 victory margin of nearly 2.75 lakh votes in Khandwa has shrunk to 50,000. The Congress’s triple loss is the worst news for the Opposition after the Kamal Nath government fell in March 2020. Prithvipur and Jobat were last represented by Brajendra Singh Rathore and Kalawati Bhuria respectively. The party’s win in Raigaon after 31 years is the only good news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/results-ring-alarm-bells-for-cong-in-mp/article37315873.ece
03 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. wins big in Himachal||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party suffered a big blow in Himachal Pradesh with its candidates losing one Lok Sabha and three Assembly bypolls held on October 30. The BJP’s poor performance is being largely attributed to the anti-incumbency factor, price rise, unemployment among other issues that were strongly raised by the Congress during the election campaign. In Himachal Pradesh, the by-elections were being seen as a ‘critical test’ and a ‘referendum’ to ascertain the BJP government’s performance and popularity, besides the Congress’s preparedness to pose a challenge to the ruling party ahead of the Assembly poll, due next year in 2022. The Congress, led by its State president Kuldeep Singh Rathore, had focused its campaign on issues surrounding price-rise and unemployment among others, which seem to have yielded positive results for the party. The BJP’s election campaign on the other hand was largely focused on seeking votes on its performance during the past four years of its governance in the State. Mandi seat Congress candidate Pratibha Singh won the election from the Mandi parliamentary seat by 7,490 votes, defeating her nearest rival Brigadier (retd.) Kushal Chand Thakur of the BJP. The win of Ms. Singh, a former MP and wife of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, is being seen as a big blow for the BJP, especially for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, as Mandi is his home turf. The by-election was necessitated after BJP MP Ram Swaroop’s death. The three Assembly constituencies which the Congress won include Fatehpur in Kangra district, Arki in Solan district and Jubbal-Kotkhai in district Shimla. Congress candidate Sanjay Awasthy won the Arki seat by 3,219 votes. Bhawani Singh Pathania won the Fatehpur seat by 5,789 votes. The Jubbal-Kotkhai seat was won by Congress’s Rohit Thakur, who got 29,955 votes, and defeated his nearest rival Chetan Bragta (Independent) by 6,293 votes. BJP candidate Neelam Saraik could secure 2,644 votes and stood a third. In 2017 Assembly polls, the Arki and Fatehpur were won by the Congress and the Jubbal-Kotkhai was won by the BJP. Hitting out at the BJP, Mr. Rathore said the Chief Minister has lost the confidence of the people of the State. “The results are a referendum against the BJP government and the CM should resign,” he said. Accepting the defeat, the CM tweeted, “We will brainstorm on the defeat and make the future roadmap.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-wins-big-in-himachal/article37316074.ece
03 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Forum to launch campaign to counter namaz disruptions||Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a citizens’ forum, on Tuesday announced that it would launch a public awareness campaign, countering hatred, fake news and false allegations with reason and facts on the controversy surrounding the offering of Friday prayers (Jumma Namaz) in the open. Addressing a press conference, Manch co-founder Altaf Ahmad said Muslims were obligated to offer Jumma Namaz in a congregation and ideally, the prayer would be in a mosque. But there were only a handful of mosques in the city. He added that the community had voluntarily reduced the number of sites for Friday prayers to less than one-third in 2018, and none of the sites obstructed traffic or caused any inconvenience to others. “There is not a single case in any police station about namazis harassing women or indulging in crime,” said Mr. Ahmad. Meanwhile, office-bearers of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti held a meeting with Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg. Dr. Garg put forth the viewpoints of the administration and the Muslim community on the matter, and set up a joint committee with representations of all the three stakeholders to meet on Wednesday, said the Samiti leaders. Samiti’s president Mahavir Bhardwaj claimed that some Muslim groups had given their consent to not hold Friday prayers at public places, but their agitation would continue till the administration comes out with an official order. The Samiti leaders reiterated that they would go ahead with their programme to hold “Govardhan Pooja” at namaz sites on November 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/forum-to-launch-campaign-to-counter-namaz-disruptions/article37315867.ece
03 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP, allies sweep NE bypolls||The BJP and its regional allies have swept the nine Assembly seats across three northeastern States where by-elections were held on October 30. Congress, the only party that contested all the seats, suffered a bigger margin of defeat than in previous polls. But the party’s slide was starkest in eastern Assam, once its domain. In Assam, the BJP had fielded candidates in three constituencies while its ally, the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) contested two in the Bodoland Territorial Region. All three BJP candidates were defectors — two from the Congress and one from the All India United Democratic Front. Rupjyoti Kurmi topped the victory chart for the BJP camp by securing 62.38% of the votes to win the Mariani seat. Sushanta Borgohain followed with 61.99% of the votes to win Thowra and Phanidhar Talukdar won the Bhabanipur seat by securing 56.41% of the votes. Mariani and Thowra are in eastern Assam. Congress candidates finished third in Thowra and took the second spot in Mariani. The Congress did not fare any better in western Assam’s Tamulpur constituency, finishing third with 5.41% of the votes behind victor Jolen Daimary of UPPL and a second-placed independent candidate. In Gossaigaon further west, the Congress candidate polled 20.58% votes to take the second spot behind UPPL’s Jiron Basumatary. “The election results are a loud endorsement of the people’s faith in our government,” Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. With Tuesday’s results, the BJP’s count in the 126-member Assam Assembly increased to 62 and the UPPL’s to seven. NPP wins 2 in Meghalaya In Meghalaya, the dissension-troubled Congress failed to retain the Mawryngkneng and Rajabala seats against the National People’s Party (NPP) and was not strong enough to challenge the United Democratic Party (UDP) in Mawphlang. The NPP now has 23 MLAs and the UDP, its ally, has eight. The NPP and UDP are members of the BJP-fronted North East Democratic Alliance, as is the Mizo National Front (MNF) that rules Mizoram. The MNF won the Tuirial seat, wresting it from the Zoram People’s Movement. The Congress finished third. Another BJP ally, the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party had won the Shamator-Chessore seat in Nagaland uncontested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-allies-sweep-ne-bypolls/article37316066.ece
03 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Cong. bags both bypoll seats in Rajasthan||The ruling Congress on Tuesday posted victories by huge margins at both Assembly seats, Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad, in Rajasthan by-elections for which were held on October 30. In a humiliating defeat, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was relegated to a distant third position in Dhariawad and fourth in Vallabhnagar. Congress candidate Nagraj Meena defeated Thawarchand Damor, an Independent and tribal youth who had rebelled against Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), in Pratapgarh district’s Dhariawad by a margin of 18,725 votes. Khet Singh Meena (BJP), having a strong Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh background, was pushed to third position in this reserved constituency, which was represented by his party before the bypolls. The by-elections at the two seats, falling in Udaipur division, were necessitated after the death of BJP MLA from Dhariawad, Gautam Lal Meena, and Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, who was a loyalist of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. Polling was recorded at 71.72% in Vallabhnagar and 69.10% in Dhariawad. Congress candidate Preeti Shaktawat, wife of Mr. Shaktawat, defeated her nearest rival, Udai Lal Dangi of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), by a margin of 20,606 votes. While independent candidate Randhir Singh Bhindar, who had floated his Janata Sena after quitting the BJP, stood third, BJP’s Himmat Singh Jhala occupied fourth position after getting just 21,433 votes. With Tuesday’s victory, the Congress has snatched a seat from the BJP and added it to its tally in the State Assembly, though the number of seats going to bypolls were not crucial for the government’s stability. With this the number of Congress MLAs in the 200-member House has now increased to 108.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-bags-both-bypoll-seats-in-rajasthan/article37316068.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. restarts free entrance coaching||The Delhi Government has restarted a scheme under which students can get free coaching for various competitive exams at private coaching centres if the annual income of their families is less than Rs. 8 lakh. A total of 15,000 students have applied for Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana, and all the available seats for the scheme have been filled, Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said on Tuesday. The classes will begin soon, he added. The scheme, which was started in 2018, was discontinued in 2020 after the COVID-19 pandemic hit the city. To get the benefits, a student should have passed Classes X and XII from a Delhi school and should meet the eligibility criteria of the competitive exam he/she is preparing for. The scheme is available for JEE, NEET, CLAT, Civil Services, banking, railways, SSC and other competitive exams and a stipend of Rs. 2,500 is also given to each student, apart from the course fee, to meet the travel expenses. “The Government has made arrangements and issued notices in newspapers for reopening of offline coaching classes. Under the scheme, 15,000 talented students of Delhi have enrolled themselves with the 46 empanelled institutes,” the Minister said. A student can register for the scheme at the institute from where he/she takes coaching. If that institute is not one of the 46 empanelled coaching centres, then the Government will give the student up to Rs. 1 lakh if found eligible and Rs. 40,000 for extra subjects. Mr. Gautam said certain big institutes like Vajiram for Civil Services, or FIITJEE and Aakash for engineering and medical exams are not on the list. “They did not participate even after we requested,” he said. The list of empanelled coaching centres can be accessed on scstwelfare.delhigovt.nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-restarts-free-entrance-coaching/article37315866.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||Fake movers and packers firm busted||Two former employees of Agarwal Packers and Movers have been arrested for allegedly creating fake websites of the company and duping customers by posing as representatives of the firm, Delhi Police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Manoj C said the accused have been identified as Ashish Singh and Deepak Goel, and efforts are on to nab their associate — Suresh Chauhan. Mr. Singh lost his job with the company during the lockdown in March last year. Later, he contacted Mr. Goel who stole data from the company’s server. The data was then sent to Mr. Chauhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fake-movers-and-packers-firm-busted/article37315864.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||Cars damaged at parking facility||Delhi Police on Tuesday said that a few cars were damaged after the electrically operated floor plates used to shift cars fell inside a multilevel parking facility in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas. The police said the incident did not lead to any casualty. “The multilevel parking facility is now blocked and no entry is permitted till a technical investigation is completed,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cars-damaged-at-parking-facility/article37315870.ece
03 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Chargesheet in riots case was communal’||The anti-CAA protest was secular but the chargesheet in the Delhi riots conspiracy case was communal and the police fabricated a story to suit their narrative, former JNU student leader Umar Khalid told a court here on Tuesday, calling it a “naked form of false implication”. Senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Mr. Khalid, made the remarks during a hearing on his bail plea in a case related to the communal violence that broke out in Delhi in February 2020. Mr. Pais said the chargesheet was a fertile imagination of the police, calling the investigating officer a scriptwriter who “literally wrote a novel”. “No recovery, not present in Delhi, no violence attributed to me, no traces of funding,” Mr. Pais told the court while opposing the police’s allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chargesheet-in-riots-case-was-communal/article37315869.ece
03 November 2021||Patna,||JD(U) retains both Assembly seats in Bihar by-elections||The ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar retained both Assembly seats in the State on Tuesday by defeating Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) candidates. In Kusheshwarsthan, JD(U) won comfortably while in Tarapur it was a close contest. Bypolls to both seats were held on October 30. In Kusheshwarsthan (Darbhanga), Aman Bhushan Hazari (JD(U)) defeated Ganesh Bharti (RJD) by over 12,000 votes. In Tarapur (Munger) Rajeev Kumar Singh (JD(U)) won the seat against Arun Kumar Shah (RJD) by a thin margin of 3,821 votes. Mr. Hazari is son of Maheshwar Hazari, whose death resulted in the Kusheshwarsthan bypoll, while in Tarapur it was due to the death of Mewalal Choudhary. Soon after the results were announced, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, who was camping at Darbhanga to monitor the result of Kusheshwarsthan, said: “We fought hard at Kusheshwarsthan, where our party had never contested, but the JD(U) candidate got sympathy votes as well. We respect people’s mandate as we believe in democracy but people of Bihar need change and change will come.” The Congress has been contesting from Kusheshwarsthan as part of the mahagathbandhan. In the 2020 Assembly polls, Ashok Kumar (Congress) was defeated by Maheshwar Hazari by over 7,000 votes. This time too the Congress wanted to stake claim to this seat but RJD chose to put up its own candidate, which widened the rift between the parties and they fielded their own candidates. However, Congress candidates Rajesh Kumar Mishra and Atirek Kumar at Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan managed to get only a few thousands votes. “We admit that people at both places did not take any notice of Congress but we’ll mull and strengthen our position gradually,” senior State Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra said. The bypolls had become a prestige issue for JD(U) and RJD. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and a host of JD(U) and BJP leaders campaigned hard in both constituencies. RJD chief Lalu Prasad too jumped into the ring and addressed two well-attended public meetings. “Though, the Congress candidates couldn’t do much at both places, the ruling party campaign managed to create confusion among voters by talking of the rift between RJD and Congress,” said political analyst Ajay Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jdu-retains-both-assembly-seats-in-bihar-by-elections/article37315872.ece
03 November 2021||Srinagar,||J&K gets new anti-terror body for ‘speedy probe, prosecution’||The J&K Government has set up a new State Investigation Agency (SIA) for “speedy and effective investigation and prosecution of militancy-related cases in the Union Territory”. However, the Peoples Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration, an amalgam of regional parties, has expressed concern over its formation. The SIA will be a nodal agency for coordinating with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other Central agencies “to take measures as may be necessary for speedy and effective investigation and prosecution of militancy-related cases”, a Government order said on Monday. The head of the CID wing shall be the ex-officio Director of the SIA. “All the officers in-charge of the police stations shall mandatorily intimate the SIA immediately upon registration of militancy-related cases, including those specified in the order, and also about such cases where any militancy linkage surfaces during the investigation,” the order said. DGP’s role “Wherever, upon intimation of the National Investigation Act, 2008, the investigation is not taken up by the NIA, the DGP, J&K shall, having regard to the gravity of the offence, progress of investigation and other relevant factors, determine in consultation with the SIA whether the case is fit to be investigated by SIA & transfer the investigation of such case at any point of time during its investigation. “However, if there is difference of opinion, the DGP shall take a decision while recording the reasons in writing,” it reads. The SIA has been empowered to register an FIR, suo motu , while keeping the DGP, J&K, informed. It will also be the agency for investigation and trial of offences in cases “which are transferred to the State Government in terms of Section 7 of the National Investigation Act, 2008”. The fresh move comes as J&K sees no let-up in militancy and attacks. October saw 41 killings in militancy-related incidents, including 20 militants, nine soldiers and 12 civilians. The Government move has come under criticism from the Gupkar alliance, a conglomerate of regional parties including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). ‘Unbridled powers’ “The decision to create the SIA by all counts is only aimed to strengthen the repressive apparatus in this region. The formation of one more agency empowered with unbridled powers is one more assault on democratic rights and civil liberties of citizens,” alliance spokesman and CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said. He said in the name of fighting terrorism these agencies and laws are being weaponised against the citizens who hold a different viewpoint from the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jk-gets-new-anti-terror-body-for-speedy-probe-prosecution/article37316069.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Deepavali sparkle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/deepavali-sparkle/article37316072.ece
03 November 2021||HONG KONG,||China battles new outbreak with sweeping measures||The longest line at Shanghai's Disney Resort this past weekend was not for one of its popular rides but for a COVID-19 test. More then 30,000 visitors on Sunday night had to take tests and wait for the results for several hours before being allowed to go home, after it emerged that one positive case had visited the resort. The mass testing at Disney, and the largely orderly way it was conducted with the tens of thousands waiting patiently for their results — they all tested negative — has been framed by the media in China as underlining the country’s capacities to tackle its current COVID-19 outbreak. With more than 400 cases reported in the past two weeks across several provinces in a country that has been following a “zero COVID” strategy, the country's authorities are deploying now familiar sweeping measures of multiple lockdowns, mass testing and quarantining tens of thousands of people in designated facilities, all part of the playbook that has broadly worked to allow China to escape a major second wave after the initial outbreak that began in Wuhan in December 2019 and January 2020. Stringent steps That strategy, coupled with the patience of the public, is now being tested to the limit with the current outbreak. The numbers so far reported by authorities are relatively low, but the spread across at least 16 provinces is driving the alarm, leading to more stringent than usual measures. Beijing, the capital, is essentially being cordoned off from the rest of the country after it reported two more cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 35. The Beijing Health Commission on Monday asked residents not to leave the city and those “who have not returned to Beijing to postpone” their trips. Part of the reason for the measures in Beijing is its hosting of a major Communist Party conclave starting November 8, which will be among the last significant meetings of the Central Committee, called a plenum, before next year's once-in-five-year congress where President Xi Jinping is expected to begin a third five-year term. The stringent COVID-19 measures, including continuing restrictions on international travel into China even as the world opens, are likely to continue at least until next October’s congress. Authorities are also concerned about the upcoming Winter Olympics which Beijing will be hosting starting February 4. Last week, authorities took the extraordinary measure of stopping two trains en route to the capital and placing hundreds of passengers in quarantine. The moves were triggered by crew members emerging as close contacts of a positive case. Severe lockdown Among the more extreme measures have been deployed in Ruili, a town in southwest Yunnan province near the Myanmar border, which has been put under repeated lockdowns because of imported cases. In recent days, residents have taken to social media to complain about the severity of the lockdown, with reports that one toddler, as part of the repeated testing, was made to undergo as many as 74 tests over the past few months. Responding to the flood of social media posts, including by one former city official who wrote that the outbreak had dashed people's incomes and “mercilessly robbed this city and squeezed dry its last signs of life”, the local government announced new measures to improve quarantine conditions as well economic subsidies. Health authorities have defended the stringent “zero COVID” approach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-battles-new-outbreak-with-sweeping-measures/article37315623.ece
03 November 2021||Washington,||GOP Senators support CAATSA waiver for India||Three Republican Senators have introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act FY2022 — an annual defence budget Bill — to make it harder for the executive branch of the U.S. government to impose sanctions on members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) for buying Russian arms. The move comes as India is expected to take delivery of the S-400 Triumf missile defence system from Moscow — possibly this month or next, potentially attracting sanctions under U.S. domestic law, the Countering Americas Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) of 2017. The latest legislation, called the Circumspectly Reducing Unintended Consequences 15 Impairing Alliances and Leadership (CRUCIAL) Act of 2021, requires the U.S. President to certify to “appropriate congressional committees” that a U.S. Quad partner country (India, Australia, Japan) is not cooperating on “security matters critical to the United States strategic interests,” prior to applying CAATSA sanctions on entities from that country. Effectively, this would mean the administration would have to say the Quad is dysfunctional, before imposing invoking CAATSA sanctions on its members. The amendment is sponsored by Ted Cruz, a Republican Senator from Texas who is part of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and co-sponsored by Republican Senators Todd Young (Indiana) and Roger Marshall (Kansas). If the amendment goes through, this certification requirement will be in effect for 10 years from the date of its passage. While it is not certain that the amendment will pass, its introduction is one of several recent signals that some U.S. lawmakers have recently been sending the administration to convey their desire not to see India sanctioned under CAATSA. Wrong time “Now would be exactly the wrong time for President Biden to undo all of that progress through the imposition of these sanctions, which were meant to deter Russia. Doing so would accomplish nothing except undermining our shared security goals of combatting China’s aggression and forcing India to become dependent on Russia,” Mr. Cruz said in a statement. Speaking to The Hindu , a Senate Republican aide said lawmakers recognised the security situation India has with China. India is at the “centre” of the Quad countries “cooperating to counter China”, the aide said, and is “the only Quad member that actually shares a border with China, the only Quad member that has actually lost soldiers in combat with China.” However, the authors’ intent is to also see a change in India’s procurement practices within a ten year time frame. “So I think I the consideration is that 2033-2034 and beyond, if India is still going to Russia, and is not taking steps to deepen ties with the Quad, I think that's when it would be a different conversation,” the aide said. “So I do think there needs to be steps taken over time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gop-senators-support-caatsa-waiver-for-india/article37315624.ece
03 November 2021||Beijing,||Yahoo pulls China services as crackdown bites||U.S. Internet services company Yahoo said on Tuesday it has pulled out of mainland China, becoming the latest tech firm to withdraw as a crackdown by Beijing on the industry gathers pace. The move comes just days after American gaming giant Epic said it will shut its popular game “Fortnite” following the imposition of strict curbs on the world’s biggest gaming market. Beijing has embarked on a wide-ranging regulatory clampdown on a number of industries in a drive to tighten its control of the economy, with tech firms taking the brunt. The push has seen a number of U.S.-based companies withdraw major products from China in recent weeks, with Microsoft in October announcing the closure of its career-oriented social network LinkedIn. “In recognition of the increasingly challenging business and legal environment in China, Yahoo’s suite of services will no longer be accessible from mainland China as of November 1,” Yahoo said in a statement. “Yahoo remains committed to the rights of our users and a free and open internet. We thank our users for their support.” Foreign tech companies have long walked a tightrope in China, forced to comply with strict local laws and government censorship of content. Google shut down its search engine in China in 2010, refusing Beijing’s requirement to censor search results. Reports in 2018 of a plan by Google executives to explore reopening a site in China sparked a backlash from rights groups and Google employees warning that a censored search engine would set a “dangerous precedent”. Yahoo China was launched in 1999, when the company was among the world’s most important internet firms. Its presence in the country has shrunk in recent years, with Yahoo shutting down its Chinese mail service in 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/yahoo-pulls-china-services-as-crackdown-bites/article37315621.ece
03 November 2021||paris,||Leaked SMS sharpens Australia-France sub row||France on Tuesday accused Australia of using “very inelegant methods” after a text message sent by President Emmanuel Macron to Australian leader Scott Morrison was leaked in an apparent bid to imply that he knew about the collapse of a major submarine deal earlier than he maintains. Media in Australia and Europe reported on the SMS which the French leader sent to Mr. Morrison two days before Australia announced that it had torn up a decade-old multi-billion-dollar contract with France to build a new fleet of submarines. France, which reacted furiously to the cancellation, has always said it had been blindsided by the announcement, and Mr. Macron added to the furore at the weekend by accusing of Mr. Morrison of lying to him. But the revelation of the text message on Tuesday can be seen as suggesting Mr. Macron was less surprised by the cancellation than he has admitted. “Should I expect good or bad news for our joint submarine ambitions?”, reads the SMS sent to Mr. Morrison 48 hours before the official contract cancellation announcement which was made at a news conference. A source close to Mr. Macron, who asked not to be named, said the leak was proof of “very inelegant methods”. Standing by earlier assurances that Mr. Macron had not been given advance warning of the cancellation, the source said the SMS did not undermine that narrative. “On the contrary, this SMS shows that the President did not know that they were going to cancel the contract,” the source claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/leaked-sms-sharpens-australia-france-sub-row/article37315616.ece
03 November 2021||Paris,||Police shoot knifeman at Paris station||The French transport police shot and gravely wounded a man at a Paris railway station who threatened them with a knife while shouting “Allahu Akbar” (God is Greatest) in Arabic, the police and the prosecutors said on Tuesday. The man rushed at the police just before midnight on Monday at Saint-Lazare, one of the capital’s busiest train stations, said a police source who asked not to be named. Shot twice The source added that the man drew a knife from a bag as he shouted “Allahu Akbar”. “The two officers used their service weapons to defend themselves and neutralise him. The wounded individual was taken care of by the emergency services,” said a spokesman for France’s national rail operator SNCF. Paris prosecutors said the man’s life was in danger after being shot twice by the transport police, known as Suge in France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-shoot-knifeman-at-paris-station/article37315614.ece
03 November 2021||Ouagadougou,||Jihadists kill 10 civilians in Burkina Faso||Suspected jihadists killed around 10 civilians in northern Burkina Faso, officials said on Tuesday, while four people were suspected to have been kidnapped. “Around 10 civilians were executed” after armed men, likely belonging to the region’s Islamic State branch, attacked residents of Dambam heading to market, a military official said. The attack took place on Monday near the border with Niger. A local official said the “terrorists set up a checkpoint between Dambam and Markoye and intercepted all those heading to the market”. He said the assailants targeted people on foot, motor cycles and other vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jihadists-kill-10-civilians-in-burkina-faso/article37315618.ece
03 November 2021||Lahore,||Pakistan frees detained protesters after deal with Islamists||Authorities in Pakistan released hundreds of detained supporters of a banned Islamist party on Tuesday after a deal was struck with the group to end clashes that left seven policemen dead. The Tehreek-e-Labbaik (TLP) was protesting over the detention of its leader, arrested in April when the group was outlawed by authorities, and was demanding the expulsion of the French Ambassador from Pakistan.AFp||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-frees-detained-protesters-after-deal-with-islamists/article37315617.ece
03 November 2021||Lagos,||Two more rescued from Lagos high-rise collapse||Nigerian rescue crews dug for more survivors in the rubble of a collapsed Lagos high-rise building on Tuesday, a day after the disaster killed at least 15 people and left many more trapped inside. Rescuers said they had recovered 15 bodies so far and managed to pull nine survivors from the wreckage of the 21-storey under construction building in the wealthy Ikoyi district.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-more-rescued-from-lagos-high-rise-collapse/article37315620.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Trade and climate, the pivot for India-U.S. ties||When the history of the 21st century is written, India and the United States and the strategic alliance they forge should play starring roles. Granted, it is far too early to predict how successful their joint efforts will be in creating a free and open Indo-Pacific — one that advances democratic values and confronts autocracies globally and locally. As 2021 closes, with COVID-19 still a present danger and China, the emerging superpower on the global stage, viewed by both as a strategic competitor, India and the U.S. have a long way to go before they can inspire confidence that this blossoming alliance will endure for the long term. Areas of convergence We believe that the fate of the grand strategic ambitions of the relationship may in fact depend substantially on how well they collaborate in two areas to which their joint attention is only belatedly turning — climate and trade. The first presents an existential threat while the second is too often dismissed as a secondary consideration, even dispensable in the name of pursuing larger strategic interests. Such thinking ignores the lessons of history: strategic partnerships capable of re-shaping the international global order cannot be based simply on a negative agenda. Shared concerns about China provide the U.S.-India partnership a much-needed impetus to overcome the awkward efforts for deeper collaboration that have characterised the past few decades. What risks being lost is a reckoning with how interrelated climate and trade are to securing U.S.-India leadership globally, and how their strategic efforts can flounder without sincere commitment to a robust bilateral agenda on both fronts. Some encouraging signs There has been progress. The U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry, has visited India twice already, and India and the U.S. are collaborating under the Climate and Clean Energy Agenda Partnership. In parallel, there are hopeful signs that they are now prioritising the bilateral trade relationship by rechartering the Trade Policy Forum. Both countries are also taking leading roles, articulating their climate concerns and commitments. However, early signs suggest we might be headed for a replay of previous showdowns at COP26 in Glasgow: while India just announced a net zero goal for 2070 — a welcome development even if well after catastrophic climate scenarios may be baked in — it has called for western countries to commit to negative emissions targets. India’s rhetoric of climate justice is likely to be received poorly by U.S. negotiators, particularly if it aligns with China’s messaging and obstructs efforts to reach concrete results. Likewise, the failure of the U.S. and India to articulate a shared vision for a comprehensive trade relationship raises doubts about how serious they are when each spends more time and effort negotiating with other trading partners. Protectionist tendencies infect the politics of both countries these days, and, with a contentious U.S. mid-term election a year away, the political window for achieving problem-solving outcomes and setting a vision on trade for the future is closing fast. The interlinks Climate and trade are interrelated in many ways, from commercial dissemination of cutting-edge carbon mitigation and adaptation products and technologies to the carbon emissions that come with the transport of goods and humans from one country to another. If governments, such as India and the U.S., coordinate policies to incentivise sharing of climate-related technologies and align approaches for reducing emissions associated with trade, the climate-trade inter-relationship can be a net positive one. Work on early solutions For example, India and the U.S. could find opportunities to align their climate and trade approaches better, starting with a resolution of their disputes in the World Trade Organization (WTO) on solar panels. As they have dithered in pursuing cases in the WTO and settling them, China has effectively captured the global market, leaving each dependent on a source they view as a threat. The two countries could also chart a path that allows trade to flow for transitional energy sources, such as fuel ethanol. India currently bans imports of fuel ethanol even as it seeks to ramp up its own ethanol blend mandates and build a domestic sector that can join the U.S. and Brazil in exporting to the world. Left unaddressed, this will be another missed opportunity for the two economies to work to mutual benefit. Shared strategic interests will be undermined if India and the U.S. cannot jointly map coordinated policies on climate and trade. The most immediate threat could be the possibility of new climate and trade tensions were India to insist that technology is transferred in ways that undermine incentives for innovation in both countries or if the U.S. decides that imports from India be subject to increased tariffs in the form of carbon border adjustment mechanisms or “CBAMs”. Climate-inspired trade tensions that might even lead to new trade wars can hardly bolster the strategic partnership. A point to ponder over Diplomats on both sides have worked hard over the past few years to paper over such differences so that they do not distract from the efforts to lay the foundations for a closer strategic partnership, but the fissures have not disappeared and ignoring them will not make them go away. Rather, the danger is that they will widen and deepen and come to undermine shared longer-term goals. A mutual failure to confront these issues and present a united front in relations with other countries will surely have strategic consequences. So, even as they continue to embrace warmly in various strategic settings, U.S. President Joe Biden and India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi might want to ask how this partnership is clearly falling short of its potential, and why. Concerted action on both the climate and trade fronts is mutually beneficial and will lend additional strength to the foundation of a true partnership for the coming century. Mark Linscott is a former Assistant U.S. Trade Representative and is a Senior Fellow with The Atlantic Council’s South Asia Center and a Senior Adviser with The Asia Group. Irfan Nooruddin is the Senior Director of the Atlantic Council’s South Asia Center and Professor in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/trade-and-climate-the-pivot-for-india-us-ties/article37315407.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Brands must stick to their stand||In a famous 1990s advertisement for chocolate, an Indian woman without a bindi is seen dancing unabashedly in public to celebrate her boyfriend’s success. If that ad had come today, it would have hardly been surprising if it some had deemed it to be “against Indian culture”. Outrage over ads A series of recent ads has sparked controversy. A JBL ad showing a woman using noise-cancelling headphones to shut out the noise of Diwali crackers caused consternation. Some wondered aloud how the agency could think of suggesting that Diwali should be peaceful and noise-free. An ACKO ad for automobile insurance annoyed some simply because it was set in a garage where a puja for a car was being performed and also contained slapstick comedy. “Why copywriter cannot think beyond targeting Hindu traditions,” someone asked. A recent Fabindia ad got brickbats first because it used an Urdu phrase which means ‘celebration of traditions’ to refer to a collection being launched before Diwali; and second because some of the models in the ads were not wearing bindis. Nowadays, anything, it seems, can become the basis for outrage. Voices are picked up from obscure corners of social media, relayed by the ultra-powerful on social media, and sometimes even seconded by the ruling party’s ministers. Sure, such outrages used to happen earlier too, but the frequency with which this is happening now is alarming. The connecting thread between all the above examples is that the ads “hurt Hindu sentiments”. A lot of outrage can be manufactured using this framing. Strangely, even an ad that endorsed the bursting of crackers during Diwali sparked outrage. This was the Ceat ad featuring Aamir Khan. In the ad, Khan advises people in an apartment complex to avoid bursting crackers on roads after a cricket match and asks them to instead burst crackers inside their apartment complex so that they don’t disturb the flow of traffic. Many Ceat ads refer to objects or acts that hinder the movement of traffic. But people got angry. Some people, including a minister, said Muslims take up public spaces for namaaz and the company must “address that problem” too. Two kinds of campaigns All this anger seems to be rooted in the fear that advertisements have the potential to influence people — whether it is about being casual with regard to religious rituals during Hindu festivals or about the intermingling of people from different religions. To stop ads from influencing people, people react in two ways. The first is by launching a coordinated campaign. Those participating in such a campaign argue that if brands can launch a coordinated campaign for a product, why can’t people do the same by using the power of social media? Of course they can. This is entirely legitimate. To put across a counter-view to what the ads propagate is to show a civil disagreement with the ads. If there is a concerted backlash to an ad and if it occurs without threats or coercion, the brands could engage in a conversation with such people by putting forward their counterpoints. But advertising agencies have never been good at conversations; they are only good at broadcasting. Zomato is perhaps the only brand that recently engaged with its critics after the ads starring Hrithik Roshan and Katrina Kaif were put out. Many people argued that the ads normalised the stressful working conditions of gig workers. Zomato responded that its ads were “well-intentioned, but were unfortunately misinterpreted by some people.” The ads, it said, were “shot with the purpose of making the delivery executive ‘the hero’.” The second is through a coordinated boycott campaign. This too is legitimate but is an uncivil disagreement. Brands do not have a world view — brands rarely have world views except some such as Patagonia; only people do. Brands only have a sales view and invest money in ads accordingly. And brands advertise positive narratives — they do not ask anyone to boycott, hate, or hurt someone. The coordinated boycott campaigns are uncivil precisely because they elicit sentiments of hatred and divisiveness in response to brands asking people to come together and look beyond their differences or proposing newer ways of thinking — both of which are merely perspectives. We saw the first, i.e., a brand depicting togetherness, in the Tanishq Ekatvam ad. It showed a Muslim family preparing a traditional Hindu baby shower for their pregnant Hindu daughter-in-law. It attempted to “celebrate the coming together of people from different walks of life,” Tanishq said in a statement after anger erupted, but withdrew the ad nevertheless. And we saw the second, i.e., a brand pushing us to think in new ways, in the recent Dabur ad depicting a homosexual couple celebrating Karva Chauth. In India, same-sex marriages are not legally recognised. A chilling effect At the most basic level, brands merely propagate a message in order to sell a product. Brands cannot impose anything on the people, unlike governments. If a person does not approve of or like a brand’s ad or its message, they have the freedom to ignore the ad or message. They also have the freedom to disagree vocally and share a counterpoint. But when that disagreement is taken to an extreme level, such as calling for a boycott, that means that the aggrieved person wants to force the brand to comply with their line of thought. That is not just intolerance, it is bullying. This is bound to lead to self-censorship and inhibit the ideas and creativity of brands. It creates a chilling effect on companies. To be sure, people have been taking offence citing “hurt sentiments” for a long time. This is certainly not a recent phenomenon. But earlier, in the quieter days when there was no social media, “sentiments were hurt” in small, isolated circles. Now, any counter-perspective is shared with the world within minutes. And the ones who say their sentiments have been hurt usually tag others who they know will espouse the same ideology or cause. If they all have a huge social media following, the post goes viral within hours or even minutes. Brands should stand by their ideas and creativity. They must decide what is the best way to tell the story of the brand as long as they are not miscommunicating with consumers or misleading them. But that conviction seems to be missing these days. All we see is brands quickly capitulating to bullies and withdrawing their ads. This will only embolden the bullies to call for more boycotts in the assumption that all brands will submit meekly to every threat. This will only fuel intolerance. Karthik Srinivasan is a communications professional||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/brands-must-stick-to-their-stand/article37315613.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 as a tale of job hardship and marginalisation||The Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region — it is now known as the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf — that hosts about 23 million migrant workers (International Labour Organization, 2017) is riddled with problems that are particularly related to the discrimination of women migrant workers. Most of the migrant workforce which dominates the workspace of the GCC region — accounting for about three-quarters of the workforce of the region (ILO, 2017) — hails from the South Asian and South-east Asian countries, and are on temporary contracts and mostly engaged in low-wage occupations. A thread of vulnerability Women account for 39% of migrant workers in the GCC (International Labour Organization, 2017) and the feminisation of the workforce across multiple sectors of the economy demonstrates a growing trend. Women migrants, who are in the skilled category are mainly nurses in the organised health industry; those in the semi-skilled or unskilled category are domestic workers, care workers, cleaning crew, manufacturing workers, salon staff and salespersons. These workers are vulnerable to abuse and exploitation. For instance, domestic workers, who are mostly women, are greatly vulnerable to abuse owing to the very nature of their workspace. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the vulnerabilities of women migrant workers. For health workers it is more about the deterioration of their working conditions than the problem of losing their jobs. While interviewing women working across the broad spectrum of jobs, a senior nursing staff said, “The government wanted nurses to be deployed at the COVID centres, and all the hospitals under the Ministry were asked to send their staff. The private hospitals on the other hand were asked not to function. This drastically increased the burden on the government hospitals.” As a result, private hospital staff were asked to go on unpaid leave during the lockdown and the Ministry staff could not even take leave as the situation was declared an emergency. Stress in the health sector In many countries, the work hours of nurses in many countries were extended from eight hours to 12 hours without overtime remuneration — that too in challenging working conditions. A government nurse in Kuwait, recounted, “Initially, our doctor asked us not to use excess gloves and masks because of the fear of falling short of these supplies. So only the nurses at the point of care were allowed to wear a mask. But then the cases started to increase, and we were allowed to wear a mask.” Another one of them told us, I was assigned the triage area. The personal protective equipment (PPE) gown, mask, and face shield were there, but we were not using gloves; we were using sanitisers. I had to be there continuously every day for three months, from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.; I had to stand continuously, taking temperature for each patient. This was stressful for my back; this was difficult work for me.” One of our respondents, working in Saudi Arabia, recounted, “The area where I stay was completely locked down due to a large number of cases, we had just one open road. Many hospitals gave leave to staff staying there, but my hospital asked us to continue to commute to work. It was stressful not knowing whether we would catch the infection, as we were also exposing our children and other family members.” A staff working in Kuwait, shared her anxiety. “We used to wear two N95 masks, but there was no social distancing. The staff from different wards travelled together to and from work. This was very risky as workers with asthma and respiratory problems travelled by the same bus.” Even in January 2021, many of these nurses from different countries had not taken leave, including their annual leave, except if they were COVID-19 positive. Even those who could manage to get off days could not travel home, which added to the immense mental stress. Amidst all the pandemic chaos, our respondents sounded relieved that they somehow kept a job and monthly pay; many of their spouses had lost jobs and had families waiting for their monetary assistance in India. For semi-skilled workers Many of the semi-skilled and unskilled workers found themselves in a bind when they lost their jobs, wages and their accommodation too. When we spoke to another staff in early 2021, her visa was about to expire, and she was searching for a job. She worked in a salon in Kuwait owned by a local woman who had provided her with shared accommodation, salary and decent working hours. The salon had 30 married women workers from South and South-east Asia. The salon first closed temporarily in March 2020 and all the workers were given accommodation and food till October, which was deducted from their indemnity benefit. However, the salon soon went bankrupt in October and the workers had to vacate without benefits. A social worker we spoke to described the situation of women working in vulnerable sectors during COVID-19. The vulnerability of the workers has worsened during COVID-19 because of the severe restrictions to mobility. “These exploited women include domestic workers, beauty parlour workers and cleaning crew in hospitals and big companies. Those staying in employer’s premises, especially housemaids are more vulnerable. They did not know what was happening outside, about [the] corona situation. Many women working here, especially housemaids, do not have any medium for getting news about the current situation. Some do not even have [a] phone, while most have only basic phones.” Their communication to the outside world including family is restricted and it is difficult for an outsider to reach them, a hard truth we learned while trying to contact these women for this article. We spoke to a 60-year-old housemaid who had returned to India from the United Arab Emirates. She had health problems and her employer did not want to be saddled with her health problems during the pandemic. Her maid visa that had an insurance coverage of 600 dirhams, was just not enough to cover her health costs. Other cases Some of the more vulnerable workers were the ones working ‘illegally’. For example, there was a woman who had emigrated on a child-care visa, but lost her job as her former employers were concerned about the safety of their child during COVID-19. The woman then started working as a housemaid with very low wages but was reluctant to ask for a raise, as she feared being reported. There was also another woman who emigrated as a housemaid in 2008, received her last salary in March 2020, after which her employer gave her the option to work without pay or to return home. Some who found themselves in more challenging situations have quit their jobs and returned home penniless; some have had to borrow money for the air ticket home. Situations such as these have made women workers more vulnerable and susceptible to exploitation. Whether professionally skilled or unskilled, migrant women workers have not had it easy in a foreign land where the discrimination and exploitation they faced were compounded by the novel coronavirus pandemic. This definitely focuses light on the lacunae persisting in the creation of women-centric, rights-based policies to safeguard migrants.  Ginu Zacharia Oommen is currently Member of the Kerala Public Service Commission and formerly Visiting Professor at the Fondation Maison des Sciences de l’homme (FMSH), Paris, France. Anu Abraham is PhD Scholar, IIT Madras and Assistant Professor at the School of Economics, NMIMS (deemed to be) University, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/covid-19-as-a-tale-of-job-hardship-and-marginalisation/article37315410.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Data and the quest for truth||Whenever I think about ‘Data’, I think of Brent Spiner. The android of Star Trek was self-aware, sapient, sentient, and had striven for his own humanity. Today, ‘Data’ is already ‘Big’ and ever-expanding and has the potential to influence every bit of human lifestyle. However, “There is terror in numbers,” as Darrell Huff wrote in How to Lie with Statistics . The task of statisticians is to churn the data and obtain summary measures, diagrams and figures, rankings and indices, and make conclusions. Is this the much-desired ‘human chip’ to make ‘Data’ human? Proper understanding of statistics In reality, statisticians are often like the blind men of the parable, standing in front of an elephant. And inadequate or partial analysis of data may lead to an incorrect portrayal of the elephant. As H.G. Wells is known to have said: “Statistical thinking will one day be as necessary for efficient citizenship as the ability to read and write.” Yes, understanding the meaning of statistical and probabilistic conclusions is very important. This was exemplified by the case of Stephen Jay Gould who explained how the statistic that peritoneal mesothelioma, the form of cancer with which he was diagnosed, has a “median survival time of eight months” is misleading given the distribution of that data, and relevant data regarding his individual prognosis. Gould showed a positive outlook to beat the odds. Some of the fighting spirit, he proposed, was the result of his proper understanding of statistics. For once, he argued, statistics manifested itself as a source of optimism, rather than the sterile methodology that most people associate with the term. Misleading statistics maybe produced due to limitations of the concerned statisticians, or it may even be deliberate, or both. “Misinforming people by the use of statistical material might be called statistical manipulation,” Huff wrote. Huff pointed out seven common tactics to knead statistical data into ‘dough’, which include polling a non-representative group, small sample sizes, and averaging values across non-uniform populations. Huff illustrated how statistical graphs could be used to distort reality. If the bottom of a line or bar chart is truncated, differences look larger than they are. Also, the proportion between the ordinate and the abscissa is sometimes changed for this purpose. With the help of several real examples, Huff also discussed the ‘post-hoc fallacy’, which incorrectly asserts a direct correlation between two findings. In his 2001 book, Damned Lies & Statistics , Joel Best also used fascinating examples from leading newspapers and television programmes to unravel the use, misuse, and abuse of statistical information. The goal of statistics is to search for ‘truth’ amid the randomness of nature. “Uncertain knowledge + Knowledge of the amount of uncertainty in it = Usable knowledge,” wrote C.R. Rao in his book Statistics and Truth: Putting Chance to Work . Prof. Rao discussed how statistics can be used to judge whether a newly discovered poem is composed by Shakespeare or to mix blood samples from different persons together to test for certain rare diseases to reduce the number of tests. Need for innovation Churning for truth from the ocean of data sometimes demands finer statistical expertise. It also needs innovation. During the communal riots in Delhi after Independence, many people from a minority community took refuge in Red Fort, and some in Humanyun Tomb. The government had no exact count of the refugees, and contractors responsible to feed them charged high amounts. A team from the Indian Statistical Institute was asked to estimate the number. They estimated the number of persons inside a given area without having an opportunity to look at the concentrations of persons inside the area and without using any known sampling techniques for estimation or census methods. In fact, based on an idea suggested by J.M. Sengupta, they divided the quantities of rice, pulses, and salt used per day to feed all the refugees, as quoted by the contractors, by the respective per capita requirements of rice, pulses, and salt known from consumption surveys, and got three widely different estimates of the number of refugees. The estimate obtained by salt was the smallest and the estimate from the rice was the largest. As rice was the most expensive, its quantity was probably exaggerated. They proposed the quantity obtained from salt as an estimate of the number of refugees. The method was verified to provide a good approximation in the Humayun tomb. The lesson is clear. In order to extract ‘truths’ by using statistics, one needs expertise and innovation from the concerned statisticians. Ideal statistical thinking and proper understanding of statistics of the common people, of course, is no less important. A pinch of salt is needed, indeed. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/data-and-the-quest-for-truth/article37315413.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Resisting patriarchy in politics||Just when its leadership was coming to terms with its poor performance in the Assembly polls, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) saw a tussle break out between the men and women of its student organisation, the Muslim Students’ Federation. Some 10 leaders of Haritha, the women’s wing of MSF, accused the office-bearers of making sexist remarks against them in Kozhikode in June. In response, the IUML leadership dissolved the State committee of Haritha and said that the issue is a “closed chapter” but the case is still under investigation.  A label to shake off Amid this controversy, Noorbina Rasheed, national general secretary of the IUML’s women’s wing, defended the party asserting that its ideology is minority politics and not gender politics. While maintaining that there is no discrimination between men and women in the party, Ms. Rasheed said that women in the IUML should not forget that they were “Muslims first and only then women”. She said that her role model is Hajira Beevi, wife of Prophet Ibrahim, while former Haritha leader Fathima Thahiliya had stated that she drew inspiration from the legendary communist leader, K.R. Gowri Amma. For the IUML, the label of patriarchy is not easy to shake off. It fielded a woman candidate (Kamarunnisa Anwar) in the Assembly elections for the first time only in 1996. The second time it fielded a woman candidate was 25 years later, in 2021. The candidate was Ms. Rasheed, who lost the election. Early last month, after Haritha leaders attacked the party leadership for being patriarchal, the IUML State working committee adopted a policy to reserve 20% of organisational posts for women in party-linked outfits despite the IUML-backed Samastha Kerala Jamiat-ul-Ulema reportedly expressing its reservations about the move. And yet, no woman figured in the list of office-bearers of the newly constituted committee of the Muslim Youth League, the IUML’s youth wing, over a week ago. The IUML leadership believes that its defectors are responsible for the Haritha controversy.  A snowball effect Meanwhile, while the IUML grapples with the churn, the alleged misogyny in the party has triggered demands in other political parties for more representation for women. The newly constituted 56-member Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee has only five women leaders, including three general secretaries, which has become a subject of discussion. The party leadership was left embarrassed when a former District Congress Committee president, Bindu Krishna, burst into tears while demanding an assurance on her candidature in the Kollam seat in March, and the party’s women’s wing president, Lathika Subhash, resigned from her post and shaved her head as a mark of protest against the denial of ticket to her at Ettumanoor. The CPI(M), despite its tall claims about gender equality in the State, faces awkward questions about representation at times, although women are assuming leadership roles now in the party committee. It remains to be seen how many women will occupy positions in the State committee as well as the Central committee of the party. The BJP State unit underwent a revamp recently, but the party is still male-dominated. Not one of the general secretaries is a woman. The party vice-president, Sobha Surendran, often perceived as a disgruntled leader, was dropped from the reconstituted national executive committee. Kerala has an impressive Human Development Index and has produced inspirational women leaders. But the representation of women in political parties in leadership and decision-making roles remains low. It is no wonder that the 140-member Legislative Assembly has only 11 women legislators. The recent developments are little steps towards change. biju.govind@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/resisting-patriarchy-in-politics/article37315415.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Climate pledge||In a surprise move at COP26 in Glasgow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that India will commit to ambitious, enhanced climate targets and cuts in carbon emissions in its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). There were promises to increase non-fossil fuel energy capacity to 500 GW, meet 50% energy from renewable energy, reduce emissions by one billion tonnes, and bring down the economy’s carbon intensity below 45%, all by 2030. Finally, the PM made the much-awaited declaration: to reach Net Zero emissions by 2070. The announcement came as a surprise given that India had given no assurances to visiting western climate negotiators before the conference, and had not filed updated NDCs by the deadline last month. Earlier, the G20 summit in Rome ended without any new commitments on climate change, and India’s G20 Sherpa and Minister Piyush Goyal had said that India could not “identify a year” for ending net carbon emissions (ensuring carbon dioxide emissions are absorbed by the use of technology and lowering output), unless the developed world committed to funding India’s energy transition and enabled clean technology transfers on a much higher scale. Mr. Goyal even suggested that India could not switch to non-fossil fuel and end coal-based thermal plants unless it was made a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group, where it is being blocked by China and a number of other countries. Mr. Modi’s pledges in 2021 will require an almost immediate shift in the Government’s priorities if it wishes to meet its first few goals in just eight years. According to one estimate (the Centre for Science and Environment), the promise to reduce emissions by one billion tonnes would need a reduction in India’s carbon output by a massive 22% by 2030. On Net Zero, the target of 2070 is two decades after the global goal at mid-century, and would require the world’s other growing economies including China to peak emissions, preferably by 2030 itself. India meets about 12% of its electricity needs through renewable energy, and ramping that up to 50% by 2030 will be a tall ask too. If the Government realises Mr. Modi’s promises in Glasgow, India will be a global beacon in fighting climate change and ensuring sustainable development. At the least, it is hoped the commitments will inspire other countries to keep their word, particularly the developed world that has lagged behind in fulfilling combined promises of billions of dollars to fund emerging economies, LDCs and the most climate vulnerable countries in the global South. When it comes to climate change, countries must remember they are not in competition with one another, but trying together to outrun the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/climate-pledge/article37315401.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Quota without data||An exclusive internal quota for a single caste group was always fraught with the danger of judicial invalidation. It is no surprise, therefore, that the Madras High Court has struck down the Tamil Nadu law that earmarked 10.5% of seats in educational institutions and jobs for the Vanniyakula Kshatriya community and its sub-castes. The court’s foremost reason is that the State Assembly lacked the legislative competence to enact the law in February 2021, at a time when the Constitution 102nd Amendment, conferring exclusive power to identify backward classes on the President, was in force. That the Constitution 105th Amendment subsequently restored the States’ powers to identify backward classes was not deemed relevant as, on the date of the enactment, the Assembly had been denuded of such power. The Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar, also ruled that identifying one caste as a separate group for creating an exclusive quota, without any quantifiable data on its backwardness relative to others, amounted to giving reservation solely on the basis of caste and, therefore, impermissible under the Constitution. Further, it noted that the remaining 115 castes under the ‘MBC and Denotified Communities’ category were forced to share the remaining 9.5% (in two groups with 2.5% and 7%, respectively) of what used to be a 20% MBC/DNC quota. This amounted to discrimination. The court also rejected the comparison with the sub-quotas enjoyed without hindrance by Backward Class Muslims and Arundhatiyars, a Scheduled Caste, noting that these two measures were backed by Census data and valid recommendations. What may cause some concern is that the court has said changes in the existing 69% quota classification cannot be made without amending the State’s 1994 reservation protection law, which received the President’s assent and was also included in the Ninth Schedule to put it beyond judicial review. This legal position may pose problems for the BC (Muslim) and SC (Arundhatiyar) quota too, as these were introduced through stand-alone laws that received only the Governor’s assent without any amendment to the 1994 Act. That an impending agitation by the PMK, a restive ally of the then ruling AIADMK, was behind the Vanniyar quota law is known. The government did not wait for the report of a commission it had appointed earlier to gather quantifiable data to justify the State’s 69% total reservation. The present DMK regime also backed the exclusive Vanniyar quota in court, and is likely to go on appeal. The Supreme Court has been asking governments to justify their reservation levels through quantifiable data. Instead of looking for shortcuts to popularity, regimes in all States should focus on compiling credible data both on the backwardness of sections of society and their level of representation in public services and educational opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/quota-without-data/article37315402.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Decision soon on ties with China||New Delhi, Nov.2: After the Prime Minister’s return, the Government of India is expected to take the policy decision soon to resume full diplomatic relations with China by reverting to ambassador-level representation in both the capitals as a first step towards a Sino-Indian detente in due course. The necessary soundings have already been made and the Government is now looking for a suitable person from public life or the foreign service for this key assignment. The Prime Minister’s advisers on foreign policy feel that India should take advantage of the current Sino-Indian thaw and set the ball rolling for an early resumption of normal relations. They consider the present political climate in the country quite appropriate for closing the sad chapter of the sixties and establishing a more equitable relationship with China consistent with India’s national interests. There is hardly any political party in the country which is now opposing the idea of normalisation of relations with China without a border settlement. Even the Jan Sangh is not demanding the vacation of Chinese aggression before the resumption of full diplomatic relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/decision-soon-on-ties-with-china/article37315411.ece
03 November 2021||Mumbai,||RBI panel on ARCs proposes norms for valuers, reserve price||To streamline the functioning of asset reconstruction companies (ARCs), a Reserve Bank panel has come out with a host of suggestions including the creation of an online platform for the sale of stressed assets and allowing ARCs to act as resolution applicants during the IBC process. The committee, headed by former RBI Executive Director Sudarshan Sen, suggested that the scope of Section 5 of the SARFAESI Act be expanded to permit ARCs to acquire financial assets from all regulated entities, including AIFs, FPIs, AMCs making investment on behalf of MFs and all NBFCs including HFCs. The performance of the ARCs has so far remained lacklustre, both in ensuring recovery and in revival of businesses. Lenders could recover only about 14.29% of the amount owed by borrowers in respect of stressed assets sold to ARCs in the 2004-2013 period. To improve the performance of ARCs, the RBI had appointed the committee to examine the issues and recommend measures for enabling ARCs to meet the growing requirements of the financial sector. Stakeholders can send comments on the report to the RBI by December 15. For accounts above Rs. 500 crore, two bank-approved external valuers should carry out a valuation to determine liquidation value and fair market value. “Also, the final approval of the reserve price should be given by a high-level committee that has the power to approve the corresponding write-off of the loan,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-panel-on-arcs-proposes-norms-for-valuers-reserve-price/article37315391.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti revenue grows on ARPU, user additions||Bharti Airtel on Tuesday announced net profit of Rs. 1,134 crore for the second quarter ended September, helped by a one-time gain. This compares with a loss of Rs. 763 crore a year earlier. On a sequential basis, consolidated net profit rose almost four times from Rs. 284 crore in the April-June quarter. Revenue climbed about 19% year-on-year to Rs. 28,326 crore. “We continue to maintain a high degree of financial flexibility,” said Gopal Vittal, MD and CEO, India & South Asia. “As a result, we have now achieved Nil bank debt for our India businesses. We will continue to evaluate all options to maintain a comfortable leverage profile and manage associated costs,” he added. “During the quarter ended September 30, net gain on account of transfer of spectrum right to another telecom operator of Rs. 7,221 [million]. Tax charge due to this exceptional item [was] Rs. 1,817 million,” the company said in a filing. Bharti said India revenue grew 18.3% to Rs. 19,890 crore, with mobile revenue rising 20.3% due to an increase in average revenue per user (ARPU) and ‘strong’ 4G customer addition. ARPU came in at Rs. 153 (Rs. 143), it said.  To maintain financial flexibility, the telco’s India units have paid back all bank debt||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-revenue-grows-on-arpu-user-additions/article37315387.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Plan to boost electronics manufacturing on anvil’||To make India a global electronics export and manufacturing hub, the focus has to be on building scale and exports via participation in global value chains (GVCs) by ‘lead’ firms and their tier 1, 2 and 3 manufacturers, Minister of State for Electronics & IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Tuesday. GVCs are international production chains in which production is broken down into tasks carried out in different countries. “We are preparing a 1,000-day plan to broaden and deepen electronics manufacturing, exports and share in GVCs,” the Minister said, speaking at the release of ‘Vision Document’ by India Cellular & Electronics Association in collaboration with MeitY. These firms help train local manpower and their experience of setting up production and processes, operating high-tech manufacturing with customised machinery and in supply-chain procurement are valuable, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/plan-to-boost-electronics-manufacturing-on-anvil/article37315389.ece
03 November 2021||Mumbai,||RBI issues revised PCA framework for banks||The RBI on Tuesday issued a revised Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework for banks to enable supervisory intervention at “appropriate time” and also act as a tool for effective market discipline. Capital, asset quality and leverage will be the key areas for monitoring in the revised framework, the banking regulator said. The revised PCA framework will be effective from January 1, 2022. “The objective of the PCA framework is to enable supervisory intervention at an appropriate time and require the supervised entity to initiate and implement remedial measures in a timely manner, so as to restore its financial health,” the central bank said. The central bank also stressed that the PCA framework does not preclude the RBI from taking any other action as it deems fit at any time, in addition to the corrective actions prescribed. “Indicators to be tracked for capital, asset quality and leverage would be CRAR/Common Equity Tier I Ratio, Net NPA Ratio and Tier I Leverage Ratio, respectively,” according to the revised framework.  The framework’s objective is to enable supervisory intervention at an appropriate time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-issues-revised-pca-framework-for-banks/article37315392.ece
03 November 2021||MUMBAI,||‘IL&FS on track for 62% debt resolution’||Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) said it had so far addressed Rs. 52,200 crore debt and would achieve aggregate resolution of Rs. 61,000 crore of the total debt of Rs. 99,000 crore. “We will be able to achieve 62% of debt recovery,” said Uday Kotak, chairman, IL&FS, said as part of the firm’s update on the progress of the ongoing IL&FS Group resolution process. “This... estimate is significantly higher than the average recovery observed under IBC since its inception,” he added. The Group estimates it would resolve Rs. 57,000-crore debt by March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ilfs-on-track-for-62-debt-resolution/article37315383.ece
03 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Sun Pharma net rises 29% to Rs. 2,047 crore||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. reported second-quarter consolidated net profit surged 29% to Rs. 2,047 crore against the adjusted net profit of the year-earlier period. Gross sales increased 13% year-on-year to Rs. 9,557 crore. India sales at Rs. 3,188 crore were 26% higher over the same quarter last year and U.S. finished dosage sales grew 8% to $361 million over Q2 last year. “Following our good Q1 performance, we have sustained the positive momentum in Q2 with a topline growth of 13% y-o-y, driven by broad-based growth across multiple geographies,” said managing director Dilip Shanghvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sun-pharma-net-rises-29-to-rs-2047-crore/article37315384.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Rane Q2 net profit jumps to Rs. 16.53 crore||Rane Holdings Ltd.’s consolidated net profit for the second quarter ended September 30, rose threefold to Rs. 16.53 crore on strong growth. Total revenue rose 33% to Rs. 697 crore from the year-earlier period, the company said. “Increase in commodity prices impacted the profitability,” said L. Ganesh, CMD. CFHL net rises Separately, Cholamandalam Financial Holdings Ltd. reported consolidated net profit for the quarter ended September 30 rose 29% to Rs. 652 crore from a year earlier. Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Co. Ltd. reported a net profit of Rs. 607 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rane-q2-net-profit-jumps-to-rs-1653-crore/article37315385.ece
03 November 2021||CHENNAI,||SF Holdings to raise stake in Italy’s Mind||Sundaram Finance (SF) Holdings Ltd. has planned to invest up to €2 million in its portfolio company Mind S.r.l., Italy, to augment working capital needs and for further growth. Last year, SF Holdings had entered the carbon fibre market and invested Rs. 23.71 crore to pick up 40.6% in the Italian firm. With the fresh investment, the stake is expected to increase to 48.9%. The Italian company produces carbon fibre components for the automotive industry in Europe. Separately, SF Holdings posted an almost threefold rise in standalone net profit to Rs. 11 crore for the quarter ended September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sf-holdings-to-raise-stake-in-italys-mind/article37315386.ece
03 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Men in Blue need to get their act together||Abu Dhabi, despite being the capital of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), was till not long ago referred to as ‘the sleeping giant’. It will be interesting to see if ‘the sleeping giant’ of the ICC T20 World Cup — India — wakes up from its slumber and opens its account at the Zayed Cricket Stadium on Wednesday night. Brave opponent The task, however, would not be easy. After being demolished by New Zealand in Dubai on Sunday, skipper Virat Kohli said that his batters hadn’t been brave enough. That makes the next test, against Afghanistan, a stern one for the Men in Blue. Despite being a war-torn country, Afghanistan, over the last few years, has emerged as one of the most fearless cricket teams in the international arena. It even secured direct qualification unlike Sri Lanka and Bangladesh which had to take the qualification route. While the Afghan batters would be itching to use the long handle against a bowling line-up that has failed to impress, the Indian batters’ struggles against the Kiwi spinners would excite Rashid Khan and Co. India needs to get it right on several fronts. It has to find the ideal combination and the best batting order. Kohli would also hope that the batting and bowling units click finally. It would be interesting to see if Suryakumar Yadav, having recovered from a back spasm, is included along with Ishan Kishan. The Ishan experiment — he opened with K.L. Rahul — failed miserably; so did the rejigged middle-order. It remains to be seen if India sticks to any of the two combinations it has used so far. Jasprit Bumrah has had little support from his bowling group. With mystery spinner Varun Chakravarthy failing to deliver, India may be tempted to give either leggie Rahul Chahar or veteran R. Ashwin a chance. A semifinal spot is quite unlikely, but a win on Wednesday would at least revitalise the players as well as the fans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/men-in-blue-need-to-get-their-act-together/article37315687.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Radha proud of Indians’ show at WBBL||Radha Yadav of late has been rather busy catching — the white cricket ball and the attention. Her two brilliant catches at the Women’s Big Bash League have hit the headlines, and her left-arm spin has been pretty effective for Sydney Sixers, too. Radha is glad that not just she, but the entire large Indian contingent is doing well at the extremely competitive T20 women’s league Down Under. On Sunday, Melbourne Renegades’ Harmanpreet Kaur, India’s T20 captain, and all-rounder Deepti Sharma of Sydney Thunders were named the player of the matches. Indian opener Smriti Mandhana had scored 50 for Thunders in the same game, against Hobart Hurricanes. Shafali Verma (Sydney Sixers), Jemimah Rodrigues (Melbourne Renegades), Richa Ghosh (Hobart Hurricanes) and Poonam Yadav (Brisbane Heat) too have made their presence felt at the WBBL. Great display “It is great that our players have come (to the competition) and put up great shows,” Radha said in a virtual interaction with select media on Tuesday. “It makes me proud. I hope we could continue performing like this and try to win the World Cup (early next year).” She believes the experience of playing in the WBBL will indeed help the Indian team at the World Cup, to be held in New Zealand in February-March. “A lot of world-class players are playing at the WBBL, so that will help us a lot,” she said. Radha added she enjoyed playing alongside her Sydney Sixers teammates Ellyse Perry and Alyssa Healy. “They are legends in the game,” she said. “I am learning a lot from them.” About her two catches that won her a lot of praise, she said it felt good taking them. “I had worked hard on my fitness,” she said. “Hopefully I will take some more catches like those.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/radha-proud-of-indians-show-at-wbbl/article37315848.ece
03 November 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Relentless Pakistan strides into semifinal||Babar Azam’s half-century combined with Mohammad Rizwan’s death-over power-hitting saw Pakistan set Namibia a target of 190 in a Group 2 Super 12 game of the ICC T20 World Cup on Tuesday. In reply, Namibia was never in the hunt despite Craig Williams (40) and David Wiese (43 not out) doing their best. Namibia finished at 144 for five, giving Pakistan a 45-run win and its fourth successive victory. An unchanged Pakistan won the toss and decided to bat. Ruben Trumplemann and David Wiese shared the new ball and were accurate and economical. Babar got the team off the mark with a three in the second over before skipping down the pitch and hitting Wiese through covers for his first boundary in the fourth over. Rizwan survived a tight lbw appeal on review in the following over, DRS confirming that JJ Smit’s delivery had pitched outside the leg-stump. Pakistan was 29 for no loss in the PowerPlay, with Rizwan struggling for timing save a flick behind square for four. The openers nudged ones and twos to build a partnership as Jan Frylinck and Ben Shikongo dried up the boundaries between overs seven to nine. Leg-spinner Jan Nicol Loftie-Eaton was introduced in the 10th over and Babar drove him firmly past long-on for a much-needed boundary. Pakistan was 59 without loss after 10 overs, the captain doing most of the heavy lifting and Rizwan going at a strike rate of under 65. However, there was a shift in momentum soon after. Pakistan collected 12 and 18 from the 11th and 12th, with Babar reaching another half-century off 39 balls. Rizwan, too, started to kick on, smashing Trumpelmann for a six and a four before smacking Loftie-Eaton over long-on for his second six. Rizwan and Babar became the first pair to register five century partnerships in T20Is before the latter fell for a 49-ball 70, caught off Wiese. No. 3 Fakhar Zaman fell in the next over, thanks to a stunning catch by Zane Green behind the stumps. Mohammad Hafeez struck a 16-ball 32 before Rizwan plundered 24 off the 20th over bowled by Smit, hitting four fours and a six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/babar-rizwan-set-up-pakistans-win/article37315689.ece
03 November 2021||Abu Dhabi,||South Africa keeps qualification hopes alive||Kagiso Rabada (3-20) and Anrich Nortje (3-8) registered career-best T20I figures as South Africa humbled Bangladesh by six wickets in a Group 1 Super 12 match of the ICC T20 World Cup on Tuesday. Chasing a paltry 85, South Africa stuttered before a 47-run stand between Temba Bavuma and Rassie van der Dussen guided the side home with 39 balls to spare. This win gives South Africa's net run rate a boost (0.742) and keeps its qualification hopes alive. An unchanged South Africa won the toss and chose to field. Opener Mohammad Naim was caught off Rabada in the fourth over, trying the slog across the line. Soumya Sarkar, in at No. 3, was given out lbw off the next ball, upon review. With Rabada swinging the ball at a good pace, Bavuma gave him an extra over inside the first six, and the pacer didn't disappoint. He had Mushfiqur Rahim caught at gully with a lifter from short of a length. There was no let-up for Bangladesh. If Rabada ran through the top-order, Nortje and Dwaine Pretorius carved out the middle-order. Nortje got Mahmudullah caught at point with a pacy short ball before Pretorious castled Afif Hossain for a golden duck. Bangladesh crept to 40 for five — the lowest score after 10 overs in the Super 12s. Liton Das made a steady 24 but soon joined the procession of shell-shocked Bangladesh batters when left-arm wrist-spinner Tabraiz Shamsi (2 for 21) trapped him in front. Shamim Hossain and Taskin Ahmed followed suit. Nortje then wrapped up the innings with two wickets in the 19th over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africas-qualification-hopes-alive/article37315691.ece
03 November 2021||Paris,||Murray blows seven match points, falls to Koepfer||Andy Murray blew seven match points and lost his Paris Masters opener to lucky loser Dominik Koepfer of Germany 6-4, 5-7, 7-6(9). Murray was let down by his serve — nine double faults and landing only 49% of his first serves — and 36 unforced errors. The two-time Olympic champion got off to a poor start and dropped the opening set with a shanked forehand return. Koepfer led 6-4, 5-3 but Murray raised his game and won four straight games to level the set score. In the decider, Koepfer saved two match points at 5-4 with a smash and a backhand winner before saving five more in the tiebreaker. They went for three hours. “I didn’t deserve to win the match. I didn’t play well enough to win,” Murray said. “I had a ton of opportunities at the end to do it, but the way that I was playing tonight was not good enough.” Murray’s fellow Briton Cameron Norrie stayed in contention for one of the two remaining ATP Finals spots by cruising past Federico Delbonis of Argentina 6-2, 6-1.  Also reaching the second round were Sebastian Korda of the United States, Marton Fucsovics of Hungary, Ilya Ivashka of Belarus, and Alexander Bublik of Kazakhstan.  The results: First round: Reilly Opelka bt Filip Krajinovic 6-3, 7-6(4); James Duckworth bt Roberto Bautista 6-4, 5-7, 7-6(4); Felix Auger-Aliassime bt Gianluca Mager 4-6, 6-4, 6-1; Tommy Paul bt Jan-Lennard Struff 6-3, 6-4.   Dominik Koepfer bt Andy Murray 6-4, 5-7, 7-6(9); Alexander Bublik bt Dan Evans 2-6, 7-5, 7-5; Adrian Mannarino bt Nikoloz Basilashvili 6-2, 6-4; Hugo Gaston bt Arthur Rinderknech 4-6, 6-4, 6-3; Ilya Ivashka bt Albert Ramos 6-3, 7-6(2).   Cameron Norrie bt Federico Delbonis 6-2, 6-1; Sebastian Korda bt Aslan Karatsev 6-2, 6-7(9), 7-6(5); Marton Fucsovics bt Fabio Fognini 6-1, 6-7(6), 7-6(5); Dusan Lajovic bt Mackenzie McDonald 6-3, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/murray-blows-seven-match-points-loses-to-koepfer/article37315697.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Defeat allows for necessary changes in India’s T20 culture||Sport cannot exist in a vacuum, divorced from what is happening in the world around. Gestures made on the field of play focus strongly on gestures not made. If the Indian cricket team took a knee in support of Black Lives Matter — a noble gesture — they were simultaneously telling us about the lives that don’t matter back home. The World T20 has been as much about the cricket as about gestures made and not made. In India, we must remind ourselves of DLM (Dalit Lives Matter), and MLM (Muslim Lives Matter), but players hide behind the cliche: sport and politics ought not to mix. But they do, whether we like it or not. Decades ago George Orwell declared that all art is politics. Perhaps all sport is politics too. Cricket is often diplomacy (or war) by other means. Black lives do matter in India where cricketers from the West Indies have often complained about racist abuse from both spectators and colleagues. Dalit lives, Muslim lives, women’s lives, tribal lives, farmers’ lives matter too. Had our players taken a knee (or made some other gesture) in support of either DLM or MLM, they would have emerged bigger heroes than if they had won the tournament. Maybe I am being unfair here, falling into the trap of expecting a small group of sportsmen and Bollywood stars to draw attention to national issues when their primary focus is on their professions. And while those better placed to do so seldom do. But then consider the impact of Virat Kohli’s statement in support of Mohammed Shami, a Muslim trolled shamelessly by those who feel more ‘Indian’ that way. Here’s a young man, a national icon calling out the act for what it is, and reminding the disaffected, the insecure, the Islamophobes (many of whom look up to him as a cricketer) that his team will not let such behaviour affect them. “Our brotherhood, our friendship within the team, nothing can be shaken,” he said, a line that every Indian sick and tired of the sickening trolling of public figures, especially if they are Muslim, ought to take in the larger context of the nation itself. We stand by you is a powerful sentiment, and some consolation for those who whatever their religion, have been falsely accused, thrown into jails and treated inhumanely. Kohli has plunged head first into a national conversation, and that is admirable. It doesn’t matter when he said it, but the message is clear. He wasn’t making excuses for the defeat, he was standing up for a teammate. That’s what captains do. Predictably, Kohli himself has now attracted the trolls for taking such a stand. His wife hasn’t been spared either, the mixture of non sequiturs and irrelevancies barely disguising the nastiness of the attacks. And he can expect worse from his fans-turned-trolls. The World T20 wasn’t his greatest tournament; it was a jaded, collapsing Indian team he was leading and not all the Dhonis nor all the Shastris could put it together again. Too much cricket, too many days spent in bubbles, poor strategy, bad planning all contributed to India’s poor showing. They managed to take only two wickets in the first two matches, and hit just six sixes. “Sometimes bubble fatigue, mental fatigue creeps in when you’re doing the same thing again and again and again,” Jasprit Bumrah said after the New Zealand match, and one can sympathise. But this defeat might be the best thing that could have happened to India in T20 cricket. It might lead to a change in culture. It means the new captain and the new coach will have a free hand to change the essentially conservative nature of India’s approach. T20 is a young man’s game, calling for a young captain who is not a safety-first, risk-averse leader but takes chances. It would be a mistake to hand over the captaincy to Rohit Sharma who is older, and belongs to the Kohli school. K.L. Rahul is on the cusp of 30. In many ways, the ideal choice would be Rishabh Pant. He is young (he just turned 24), evolved as a player when T20 was already a thriving sport and not something one had to adjust to, and is the side’s most dangerous batsman. Teams tend to build themselves around the captain’s image (as both player and person), and a Pant-like T20 team is what India needs. This also means a change in personnel, with selectors shaking off conservatism and choosing players from T20 tournaments regardless of their performances either in first class or Test cricket. T20 calls for specialists and they need to recognise this. Kohli is only 33 himself. He has built a tightly-knit side that any young captain will be happy to inherit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/defeat-allows-for-necessary-changes-in-indias-t20-culture/article37315394.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rohan Bopanna Academy excels in Nationals||Niki Poonacha may be the most prominent face of the Rohan Bopanna Tennis Academy, winning the national title for the second time, but the academy has seen success across all levels. “All four finals in men’s and women’s events, we had a presence and won three titles. “Prior to that, Suhitha Maruri had won the under-16 girls’ title and finished runner-up in under-18,” said the chief coach of RBTA, M. Balachandran. Poonacha had won the men’s singles title and the doubles with S.D. Prajwal Dev. Qualifier Sharmada Balu, who also coaches at the academy, made the women’s final, and won the doubles title with Sravya Shivani. Good team “We have a good team of coaches with us. “It was gratifying to find Rohan and Sujith (Sachidanand) appreciating the efforts,” said Balachandran, who plays a stellar role in having a system in place, and had conducted 37 sessions online for coaches during and after the lockdown. “Investing time in training coaches and trainers is the key. [It is] Easy to put up a tennis court or buy few equipment,” he observed. “All coaches work on similar lines. There is a structure in place, with coaches having a plan for each session with focus.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohan-bopanna-academy-excels-in-nationals/article37315858.ece
03 November 2021||Saarbrucken (Germany),||Lakshya progresses||Young Indian shuttler Lakshya Sen stormed into the second round of the HYLO Open Super 500 tournament with a 21-17, 21-14 win over Thomas Rouxel of France here on Tuesday. In women’s doubles, seventh-seeded Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy advanced with a 21-8, 21-13 win over Ukraine’s Mariia Stoliarenko and Yelyzaveta Zharka in 24 minutes. The other Indians in action all exited in the first round.  The results (first round): Men: Lakshya Sen bt Thomas Rouxel (Fra) 21-17, 21-14; Rasmus Gemke (Den) bt Ajay Jayaram 21-14, 19-21, 21-16; Doubles: Ben Lane & Sean Vendy (Eng) bt Manu Attri & B. Sumeeth Reddy 21-9, 21-11.   Women: Maria Ulitina (Ukr) bt Sri Krishna Priya Kudaravalli 21-18, 21-14; Doubles: Ashwini Ponnappa & N. Sikki Reddy bt Mariia Stoliarenko & Yelyzaveta Zharka (Ukr) 21-8, 21-13;   Mixed doubles: Niclas Nohr & Amalie Magelund (Den) bt B. Sumeeth Reddy & Ashwini Ponnappa 21-12, 21-13; Daniel Lundgaard & Mathias Thyrri (Den) bt Tarun Kona & Shivam Sharma 21-16, 21-18 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-progresses/article37315683.ece
03 November 2021||Leipzig,||Messi out of PSG’s clash with Leipzig||Lionel Messi will miss Wednesday’s Champions League clash with RB Leipzig due to injury, Paris Saint Germain announced on Tuesday. The 34-year-old six-time Ballon d’Or winner has a left hamstring problem and a painful knee. PSG’s statement said the four-time Champions League winner was suffering from “a pain in his hamstring in his left thigh and a painful knee due to bruising.”  He is due to then join up with his national squad for two World Cup qualifiers against Uruguay and Brazil. PSG will also be missing influential midfielder Marco Verratti — who has a hip injury — but welcomes back Kylian Mbappe who missed the match against Lille. PSG is on top of its group with seven points from three matches.  Wednesday’s fixture s: Real Madrid vs Shakhtar; AC Milan vs Porto (both 11.15 p.m.); Sporting vs Besiktas; Dortmund vs Ajax; Sheriff vs Inter Milan; Liverpool vs Atletico; Manchester City vs Brugge; Leipzig vs PSG (all 1.30 a.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-out-of-psgs-clash-with-leipzig/article37315396.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||No stopping BMW-Deutsche Motoren||Despite Kapil Dev’s scintillating performance for K. Devils, BMW-Deutsche Motoren eased to a 9-6.5 victory and clinched the inaugural Delhi Golf Club League title. In the best of seven-match contest, Devils’ tally included 1.5 points from winning the ‘byes’ from three decided matches but that was not enough to deny its rival. BMW stayed ahead of Devils, pulling to leads of 2-0 and 3-1. Though Kapil and Rakesh Goel closed the gap by winning the fifth match, Jayant Kumar and Harinain Singh Malik ensured the triumph by winning the sixth match. The final encounter ended in a deadlock.  The results (final): BMW-Deutsche Motoren bt K. Devils 9-6.5 (Atul Nath-Simran Bajaj bt Sandeep Khanna-Gia Lamba on 14th hole; K.K. Bajoria-Mehul Gulati bt Samshergill-Arun Sahgal on 13th; Anirudh Chaudhary-Jagat Bedi lost to Keshav Kapoor-Ravinder Zutshi on 18th; Puneet Kai Suri-Hiransh Singh bt Arvind Khanna-Anuj Chandra on 16th; Shamsher Dhupia-Navdeep Singh Chopra lost to Kapil Dev-Rakesh Goel on 14th; Jayant Kumar-Harinain Singh Malik bt Prem Duggal-Upi Kashyap on 17th; Aman Bajaj-Vikram Malhotra all square against Ajay Sirohi-Chaman Lal Jain).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-stopping-bmw-deutsche-motoren/article37315851.ece
03 November 2021||Seattle,||FIFA wraps up second set of visits||FIFA and CONCACAF are inching closer to making the final call on which cities in the U.S., Canada and Mexico will host matches for the 2026 World Cup, with decisions expected sometime next spring. The FIFA and CONCACAF delegation wrapped up its second set of site visits on Monday here, which is seen as one of the strongest candidates for hosting matches due to its soccer history, favourable summertime weather and as the sole city in the Pacific Northwest to bid. FIFA chief tournaments and events officer Colin Smith said all site visits should be completed by the end of November, with a decision expected sometime toward the end of March or early April (2022). Smith said they’re currently thinking 16 cities will be selected as hosts, but that is not set. “In business it’s about location, location, location,” CONCACAF president Victor Montagliani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifa-wraps-up-second-set-of-visits/article37316125.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prajnesh shocks Daniel||Prajnesh Gunneswaran knocked out second seed Taro Daniel 6-7(2), 7-6(5), 6-2 in the first round of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament at Charlottesville, United States. In the $15,000 ITF women’s event in Monastir (Tunisia), lucky loser Jennifer Luikham reached the second round with a 6-4, 7-6(5) victory over Milana Zhabrailova of Russia.  Other result:   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Guy Den Ouden (Ned) bt Dharmil Shah 6-2, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-shocks-daniel/article37315730.ece
03 November 2021||BELGRADE,||Akash on song, assures first medal for India||Debutant Akash Kumar (54kg) secured India’s first medal at the ongoing AIBA World men’s boxing championships here on Tuesday after advancing to the semifinals with a superb victory over former Olympic silver-medallist Yoel Finol Rivas of Venezuela. The 21-year-old Akash prevailed 5-0 in a fabulous performance during which his punching and showmanship were outstanding. He scored on counter-attacks with a non-existent guard and taunted his opponent, all this while staying out of his range with terrific pace and footwork. “My strategy was to attack right from the start, I won the first round with that,” Akash said.   Narender Berwal (+92kg) lost to Azerbaijan’s Mahammad Abdullayev while Shiva Thapa (63.5kg) went down to Turkey’s 19-year-old Kerem Oezmen in the quarterfinals, both by 0-5 margins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akash-on-song-assures-first-medal-for-india/article37315682.ece
03 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Want to win remaining three games: Rathour||India is focused on executing its plans and getting some points on board when it takes on Afghanistan, said batting coach Vikram Rathour. “We need to win first before we get into the run rate part,” said Rathour. “ The focus is to play good cricket, to win the remaining three games.” Rathour, who revealed that he had re-applied for the batting coach post, elaborated on what led to the losses in the first two games. “We were not able to execute our plans the way we wanted to... that has been the issue, not preparation. “When you bat first on these surfaces, there is variation in pace and bounce. So strike rotation became an issue,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/want-to-win-remaining-three-games-rathour/article37315690.ece
03 November 2021||Prague,||Canada stuns France||Canada won the decisive doubles to upset defending champion France 2-1 in the Billie Jean King Cup finals here. Spain staged a comeback to beat Slovakia 2-1 for the first time after two losses, including the 2002 final. Also, the Czech Republic prevailed in the doubles to overcome Germany 2-1 in Group D, and Belgium beat Belarus 2-1 on the hard courts at the O2 Arena on Monday.  The results: Group A: Canada bt France 2-1; Group B: Belgium bt Belarus 2-1; Group C: Spain bt Slovakia 2-1; Group D: Czech Republic bt Germany 2-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/canada-stuns-france/article37315696.ece
03 November 2021||GENEVA,||Blatter, Platini charged with fraud, other offences||Former FIFA officials Sepp Blatter and Michel Platini were charged with fraud and other offences by Swiss prosecutors on Tuesday after a six-year investigation into a controversial $2 million payment. The 85-year-old Blatter and 65-year-old Platini now face a trial within months at federal criminal court in Bellinzona. “This payment damaged FIFA’s assets and unlawfully enriched Platini,” Swiss federal prosecutors said in a statement. The case from September 2015 ousted Blatter ahead of schedule as FIFA president and ended then-UEFA president Platini’s campaign to succeed his former mentor. Swiss cases often take years to reach a conclusion. The case centers on Platini’s written request to FIFA in January 2011 to be paid backdated additional salary for working as a presidential advisor in Blatter’s first term, from 1998-2002. Blatter authorised FIFA to make the payment within weeks. He was preparing to campaign for re-election in a contest against Mohamed bin Hammam of Qatar, where Platini’s influence with European voters was a key factor. Both Blatter and Platini have long denied wrongdoing and cited a verbal agreement they had made, now more than 20 years ago, for the money to be paid. Mismanagement Blatter has been charged with fraud, mismanagement, misappropriation of FIFA funds and forgery of a document. Platini has been charged with fraud, misappropriation, forgery and as an accomplice to Blatter’s alleged mismanagement. Platini, a French football great, was not placed under formal investigation until last year, and months later the more serious allegation of fraud was included against both men. Prosecutors had opened criminal proceedings against Blatter in September 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blatter-platini-charged/article37315731.ece
03 November 2021||LONDON,||Wolves pile on the misery for Everton||Wolves condemned Everton to a third successive Premier League defeat as Max Kilman and Raul Jimenez scored in a 2-1 win at Molineux on Monday. Bruno Lage’s side took control in the first half thanks to Kilman’s first ever Wolves goal and a clinical finish from Jimenez. Alex Iwobi reduced the deficit in the second half, but Wolves held on to extend their unbeaten run to five league games. With four wins in that impressive streak, Wolves have climbed to seventh, while Everton dropped down in 10th. Everton has won just one of its last six league games to shatter the optimism created by their four-match unbeaten start to Benitez’s first season in charge. Radamel Falcao was held scoreless as Rayo Vallecano’s winning run at home was halted by Celta Vigo in the LaLiga. The veteran Colombia striker scored the winner in Rayo’s win against Barcelona in the previous round, but couldn’t capitalise on his chances in drawing with Celta 0-0. The result ended Rayo’s five-match winning streak at its Vallecas Stadium this season, keeping the promoted Madrid club in sixth place, five points behind leader Real Sociedad after 12 matches. Bologna moved up to mid-table after beating last-placed Cagliari 2-0 in Serie A. Lorenzi De Silvestri and Marko Arnautovic scored second-half goals as Bologna ended a three-match winless run.  The results:   Premier League: Wolves 2 (Kilman 28, Jimenez 32) bt Everton 1 (Iwobi 66).   LaLiga: Rayo Vallecano 0 drew with Celta Vigo 0; Levante lost to Granada 3 (German 7, Suarez 38, Puertas 69).   Serie A: Bologna 2 (De Silvestri 49, Arnautovic 90+6) bt Cagliari 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wolves-pile-on-the-misery-for-everton/article37315735.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sasikiran shares top spot||K. Sasikiran, continuing his good run, overpowered Russia’s Alexandr Predke and joined four others in the lead at 4.5 points after six rounds of the $425,000 FIDE Chess.com Grand Swiss chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Monday. Predke resigned in 53 moves when Sasikiran threatened to win the Russian’s bishop. The victory with black pieces put Sasikiran in the company of Alireza Firouzja, Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (both France), Evgeniy Najer (Russia) and Alexie Shirov (Spain). Nihal Sarin, after a third straight draw, was among those trailing the leaders by half a point. Raunak Sadhwani upstaged D. Gukesh to join P. Harikrishna at 3.5 points. R. Praggnanandhaa and Arjun Erigaisi lost. D. Harika’s third successive draw kept her a point behind leader Lei Tingjie (China).  The results (sixth round, involving Indians): Open: Nihal Sarin (4) drew with David Navara (Cze, 4); Alexandr Predke (Rus, 3.5) lost to K. Sasikiran (4.5); Matthias Bluebaum (Ger, 3.5) drew with P. Harikrishna (3.5); Alexey Sarana (Rus, 4) bt R. Praggnanandhaa (3); D. Gukesh (2.5) lost to Raunak Sadhwani (3.5); Volodymyr Onyshchuk (Ukr, 3.5) bt Arjun Erigaisi (2.5); Rauf Mamedov (Aze, 2.5) drew with Surya Shekhar Ganguly (2.5); S. P. Sethuraman (2) lost to Anton Demchenko (Rus, 3); Aleksandra Goryachkina (Rus, 2) drew with B. Adhiban (2).   Women: D. Harika (4) drew with Nino Batsiashvili (Geo, 4.5); Alexandra Kosteniuk (Rus, 4) bt Vantika Agarwal (3); R. Vaishali (3) drew with Bibisara Assaubayeva (Kaz, 3.5); Antoaneta Stefanova (Bul, 3) bt Padmini Rout (2); Divya Deshmukh (2) lost to Alina Bivol (Rus, 3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sasikiran-shares-top-spot/article37315395.ece
03 November 2021||BENGALURU:,||Moon’s Blessing wins Royal Calcutta Turf Club Cup||Sarainaga Racing Private Limited’s Moon’s Blessing (Akshay K up) won the Royal Calcutta Turf Club Cup, the main event of the races held here on Tuesday (Nov. 2). The winner is trained by S. Attaollahi.  1. INAUGURATION PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over: GAZEBO TALK (S. Shareef) 1, Chul Bul Rani (D. Patel) 2, Raw Gold (Vivek) 3 and Iconic Princess (Shreyas Singh) 4. Not run: Akasi. Shd, 1-1/4 and Nose. 1m, 15.65s. Rs. 38 (w), 13, 131 and 29 (p), SHP: 354, THP: 66, FP: 3,042, Q: 2,855, Trinella: 9,333 and 21,776 (carried over), Exacta: 28,940 (carried over). Favourite: Iconic Princess. Owners: Mr. Clinton Miller, Mr. Sujay Chandrahas, Mr. Dean Stephens & Mr. Martin Alan Wheeler. Trainer: Neil Devaney.  2. NOVICE PLATE (1,100m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): DE VILLIERS (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Sacrament (Ranjeet Singh) 2, Domina (Antony) 3 and Demeter (Akshay K) 4. Nose, 1/2 and 5. 1m, 07.30s. Rs. 11 (w), 10, 16 and 37 (p), SHP: 36, THP: 96, FP: 52, Q: 63, Trinella: 573 and 252, Exacta: 1,394 and 350. Favourite: De Villiers. Owners: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra, Mrs. Rina Mahindra, Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  3. INAUGURATION PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over: MARCO POLO (J.H. Arul) 1, Augustina (Nazerul) 2, Caesars Palace (S. Shareef) 3 and Super Gladiator (Chetan K) 4. 1-1/2, 3/4 and 3/4. 1m, 15.39s. Rs. 39 (w), 23, 24 and 39 (p), SHP: 75, THP: 71, FP: 442, Q: 206, Trinella: 3,547 and 1,216, Exacta: 27,157 and 3,879. Favourite: Adela. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal, Mr. Gautam Aggarwal & Mrs. Geeta Aggarwal. Trainer: Pradeep Annaiah.  4. VEDAVATI PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over: ALMANACH (J.H. Arul) 1, Four Wheel Drive (Akshay K) 2, Morganite (Ashhad Asbar) 3 and Christopher Wren (Arshad) 4. Not run: Twinkle Feet. 1-1/2, 1-1/2 and Shd. 1m, 27.06s. Rs. 108 (w), 17, 19 and 42 (p), SHP: 30, THP: 97, FP: 1,009, Q: 178, Trinella: 31,164, Exacta: 12,834. Favourite: Christopher Wren. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal, Mr. Gautam Aggarwal & Sohna Stud Farm Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Pradeep Annaiah.  5. RACING PATRONS CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4-y-o & over: WATCHMYSTARS (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Silver Dew (Kiran Rai) 2, Alberetta (Alex Rozario) 3 and Harmonia (J.H. Arul) 4. 2, Lnk and 1-3/4. 1m, 13.35s. Rs. 13 (w), 10, 20 and 53 (p), SHP: 49, THP: 100, FP: 72, Q: 73, Trinella: 857 and 560, Exacta: 3,491 and 2,244. Favourite: Watchmystars. Owners: Hyperion Bloodstock Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. Zaheer F. Rattonsey, Mr. Ramesh Chandra Mehta & Mr. R. Shiva Shankar. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  6. ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (1,400m), 3-y-o only, (Terms): MOON’S BLESSING (Akshay K) 1, Knight In Hooves (Yash) 2, Perfect Empress (Ashhad Asbar) 3 and Defining Power (Dhanu Singh) 4. 3, 2 and Nk. 1m, 25.36s. Rs. 43 (w), 21 and 13 (p), SHP: 31, THP: 46, FP: 132, Q: 51, Trinella: 624 and 688, Exacta: 9,158 and 1,472. Favourite: Knight In Hooves. Owner: Sarainaga Racing Pvt Ltd. Trainer: S Attaollahi.  7. DUDHSAGAR FALLS PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: STOCKBRIDGE (Antony) 1, Mistletoe (Dhanu Singh) 2, Pissarro (Akshay K) 3 and Antibes (S. John) 4. Not run: Jokshan. Hd, 1-3/4 and 3-1/2. 1m, 38.14s. Rs. 65 (w), 17, 12 and 17 (p), SHP: 45, THP: 44, FP: 184, Q: 57, Trinella: 330 and 138, Exacta: 1,481 and 552. Favourite: Mistletoe. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  8. VEDAVATI PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over: ALLABOUTHER (Antony) 1, Jack Ryan (Arshad) 2, Katana (Akshay K) 3 and Karadeniz (H.M. Akshay) 4. Not run: Jokshan. 1/2, 1-1/2 and Hd. 1m, 26.66s. Rs. 86 (w), 22, 16 and 13 (p), SHP: 36, THP: 55, FP: 403, Q: 139, Trinella: 898 and 400, Exacta: 12,341. Favourite: Classic Charm. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar. Jackpot: Rs. 40,668 (one tkt.); Runner up: 2,905 (six tkts.); Treble (i): 1,090 (six tkts.); (ii): 2,410 (five tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/moons-blessing-wins-royal-calcutta-turf-club-cup/article37315397.ece
03 November 2021||Paris,||F1 plans six qualifying sprints||Formula One is planning to double the number of qualifying sprint races to six next season, the sport’s managing director Ross Brawn said on Monday. The two that have been trialled so far this season at Silverstone and Monza have been generally well received, with a third scheduled for Brazil later this month. The new concept sees Sunday’s Grand Prix grid determined by the outcome of a 100-lap race staged on the Saturday, in place of the traditional one-timed lap qualifying format, which is moved to Friday to determine pole for the sprint. “We’ve in principle agreed with the teams that we will look towards six events for next year,” he confirmed. Brawn suggested further tweaks to the system to make it more attractive were in the pipeline, but only after 2022 when the new breed of F1 cars are introduced in a bid to promote closer racing. Changes being planned Among the changes under consideration are increased points to give it more clout, reverse grid, and its name. “We all call it a race, it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck — the naming of the event is something we want to tidy up,” Brawn told an online press conference. On the points distribution he envisaged “something around the third of the points you get in a race for the sprint. “So it’s significant enough to be worth going for, it goes far enough down that people in lower positions still want to fight for it but not of a number that has an over-influence on the championship.” On the sprint’s popularity he revealed: “From a fan perspective, we’ve had a good response.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/f1-plans-six-qualifying-sprints/article37315849.ece
03 November 2021||LONDON,||Conte is Tottenham manager||Tottenham on Tuesday announced the appointment of former Chelsea and Inter Milan boss Antonio Conte as its new manager following the sacking of Nuno Espirito Santo. He will be on a contract until the summer of 2023, with an option to extend. Conte has won titles in Serie A, including a hat-trick of Scudettos with Juventus, the Premier League and also managed Italy, leading the Azzurri to the quarterfinals of Euro 2016.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/conte-is-tottenham-manager/article37315856.ece
03 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Yuvraj hints at comeback||World Cup-winning former India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh has decided to come out of retirement in February next year “on public demand”, more than two years after he called it quits. It is not clear if he wants to return to the Indian team or play in T20 leagues.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuvraj-hints-at-comeback/article37315685.ece
03 November 2021||LONDON,||Umpire Gough banned for bubble breach||English umpire Michael Gough was banned from officiating in the ongoing ICC T20 World Cup for six days and placed under quarantine for an alleged bio-bubble breach.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/umpire-gough-banned-for-bubble-breach/article37315695.ece
03 November 2021||BARCELONA,||Aguero out for 3 months after heart tests||Barcelona striker Sergio Aguero has been ruled out for three months following cardiac evaluation, the Spanish club said on Monday. The Argentine international received medical assistance on the pitch after he complained of chest pain in LaLiga match against Alaves on Saturday and had to be taken to hospital.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aguero-out-for-3-months-after-heart-tests/article37315853.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Nandagopa’s good fortune||Lord Narayana took the Krishna avatara so that people could enjoy His saulabhya , said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Rama too captured the hearts of people. Valmiki, in Ayodhya Kanda, says ‘ pumsaam drishtichitta apahaarinam’ . In other words, Rama attracted the eyes and thoughts of those who beheld Him. In the case of Krishna, the attention came automatically, without Kishna having to do anything. Moreover Rama was the son of a king, and so, naturally, people would have maintained a certain distance from Him. But with Krishna, there were no such barriers. And yet, not all had the good fortune of witnessing His childhood pranks. Krishna was born as Vasudeva’s son, and Vasudeva had the boon of seeing Krishna with four hands. But beyond that, he had nothing, for soon Krishna was taken away and left at Gokula. Vasu means wealth, and to Vasudeva was born the unimaginable wealth, namely Krishna. But Vasudeva did not enjoy this wealth, just as many rich men never get to enjoy their riches. There is a story about a man who was given eight pots of gold by a devata. He found seven were full but one only half full. The man spent the rest of his life trying to fill this pot; by the time it was full, he died, without having enjoyed the gold in the other pots. Nanda means joy, and Nandagopa had the joy of watching Krishna’s leelas. Two terms are used to describe the Supreme One — Atmadaa and baladaa. Atmadaa means the Lord giving Himself to someone. Baladaa means the Lord giving strength to someone to enjoy His deeds. To Vasudeva, He gave Himself, but was soon parted from him. To Nandagopa, He gave the bala to enjoy Him, and so Nandagopa was as joyous as his name suggests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/nandagopas-good-fortune/article37315651.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 07:15 IST,||Sudoku — November 3, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-3-2021/article37316317.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Fair weather friends?||With their flocking behaviour and how they take kindly to the presence of “free-loaders”, scaly-breasted munias may be seen as epitomising esprit de corps in the avian world. At the door of the scaly-breasted munia’s vast dining hall, nobody is turned away hungry, even those who have not paid their way to it. Individuals can just show up where others have discovered food, and have their fill without feeling guilty about it. In truth, it is not free-loading, not at all. In the end, it turns out to be recompense for hidden labour, though the birds themselves may not fully understand how this works out; but just the same, they do everything to foster the system. More about that later. Before that, why do scaly-breasted munias tolerate the so-called free-loaders in the first place? Because they usually can and also because “free-loaders” help make up the numbers, replies ornithologist V Santharam. To illustrate the first half of the answer, he harks back to a conversation he had earlier had with this writer. “I think I told you earlier about the feeding behaviour of small egrets at the Adyar mouth that I had observed. When the tide comes in, a lot of fish come into the Estuary. The flock of egrets increases like anything — 70 to 80, even a hundred. Almost shoulder to shoulder, they would wait for the food to come in and would eat it. And I have also seen small egrets at a reservoir in Tirunelveli, maintaining an astoundingly huge distance between individuals — half a kilometre between individuals. If any bird lands within half a kilometre, the other would fly and chase it away. Flocking behaviour depends on the availability of food, and how easy it is to get food. Munias, of course, are grain feeders — they know parts of the open areas where they can find food. Food is available in abundant quantities, and they are happy to share that food. One bird cannot eat all the food, so they are happy to have others at the party. There is also the advantage that you can put your head down and eat the food, as there will be somebody in the group who will notice the predator.” The ending thought segues into the second half of the answer, one that shows “free-loaders” are hardly what they are made out to be, and they are vital pieces completing the puzzle of survival. “The probability of you being the victim is reduced when you are in a large flock. If you are in flock of ten birds, there is one in ten chance that you will be caught by the predator. Let us say, you are part of a flock of 50 birds and the probability of you being caught is considerably reduced, down to one in 50. There is an obvious advantage of being in a large flock. The flip side of living in large flocks is that you are bound to attract predators. You will be easily noticed,” notes Santharam. In large flocks, the birds that join the feeding party that has undertaken the job of finding food and help themselves to the spread can serve as a sentinel, warning others of any hovering or crawling danger. Free-loaders also switch to being food-finders. While on flock-size theories and their pros and cons, Santharam cautions against the bane of oversimplification that can recent from a key-hole view of the big picture. “Within certain parameters you can fit a theory. There are a lot of extraneous factors that need to be considered.” Bigger flock is equated with greater vigilance by some of its members, as they are allowed — who knows, probably even encouraged — to not scour for food and have free time on their claws. However, when food is scare, this is a luxury that would hardly fit into a big flock’s budget allocation. With a dash for the scare resources, there would hardly be any sentinel with eyes peeled for danger. Santharam tops off the analysis in this manner: Competition may happen, depending on the flock size and the amount of food that is available for the flock. When the food is disproportionately low, “joiners” will not be tolerated. The number of predators that are around will also decide how far the flock will take this competition and fight for food. Just that in the case of the scaly-breasted munia, the positive factors mostly come together in a captivating array — not the least of which being the fact that they are grain-eaters, usually look for seeds in plentifully available grasses — making them appear peace-loving and impressively fraternal in their attitude towards each other. (Field Notes is a column about birds that are found in and around Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fair-weather-friends/article37315576.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Look at the composition||If unusually large flocks of scaly-breasted munias are sighted now, it just means that the biological clock is ticking right, neither early or late. In The Book of Indian Birds, Salim Ali notes that the scaly-breasted munia’s breeding season is mainly between July and October. Going by this, in most places, their breeding is probably largely over or has reached the tail-end. So, without domestic duties keeping them restricted to the care of a small clutch of young individuals, the adult birds can socialise more. Hence the larger flocks. Ornithologist V Santharam points out another reason for the massive size of the flocks that can be expected now and a for weeks from now. “After the rains, there will be an abundance of food. With plant growth, seeds would plentiful,” he explains. Santharam notes that if one looked at the composition of these large flocks, there would be many young birds — born in this season — and they would not have the markings of the adults. There would be considerable number of brownish young birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/look-at-the-composition/article37315575.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mini Schools in the light of a new learning scheme||“Illam Thedi Kalvi” scheme has parallels with “Mini Schools”. When schools were shut down, the latter were being run by a voluntary organisation to fill gaps in learning resulting from children’s long absence from the classrooms.Voluntary organisation Asha for Education was running the Mini Schools for students of government schools with the classrooms being the terraces of its teachers’ homes. In fact, they are yet to roll back this programme. For context, Illam Thedi Kalvi with its evening classes — with one volunteer-teacher for every 20 students — has kicked in with the schools having reopened, from the lower classes up. This government programme is expected to be run for six months, serving as a supplementary learning opportunity that would help make for lost time. In the months since the Coronavirus outbreak, Asha for Education could run these Mini Schools as it was working closely with government schools prior to the pandemic. “Asha for Education pays and appoints teachers to government schools. We are supporting around 100 government schools in this manner. We support them in two ways — one, we send regular teachers who will work alongside the government teachers in schools that are understaffed. The second model that we follow is to send computer teachers. The same teacher will go to multiple schools. One teacher will go to three or four or five schools, because in rural areas, schools tend to be very small. If there are 40 to 50 students in a school, the teacher will go one day a week to teach them computer science and using computers, they would teach math and English in an innovative way,” says Rajaraman Krishnan, coordinator for the Chennai chapter of Asha for Education. He points out that with the schools having reopened from the lower classes up, their Asha teachers are also going back to the government schools they have been attached to. However, there is a question lingering over its 65 Mini Schools, which include four in Chennai, three in Chengalpattu and around 30 in Thiruvallur. Questioned about the future of this initiative, Rajaraman says: “We were thinking of continuing to do that in the evening, but if the government chooses to do that in all the villages in the evening, we plan to work with them, rather than try to create any alternate system, which would not work. All our teachers are willing to be associated with the Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme. If these teachers are selected and appointed as volunteer-teachers then we will not double up the effort to create an alternate system. Instead, we will be implementing the Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme as its volunteers in those villages. Asha has always been in the business of bridging the government school system, we will get back to that mode.” The vast chunk of its Mini Schools is concentrated in Thiruvallur district. “There are around 30 Mini Schools in Thiruvallur. And another 30 account for the rest of Tamil Nadu.” “We have been running four mini schools in Chennai, a couple of them in the RA Puram area. The other two are guided by a unique vision — both being run for the benefit of government school-attending children in Narikuravar colonies, one in Indira Nagar and the other in Kottur. In Chengalpattu district, we are running a mini school each in Nadhivaram, Kattankulathur and Kayarambedu.” Rajaraman notes that if Asha teachers get to be volunteer-teachers as part of Illam Thedi Kalvi, they would hit the ground running, as they have been doing this form of teaching for months now anyway. “Now that our teachers are working with the children for one and a half years, we are fairly plugged into the whole system, and as long as there are some meaningful decisions, I am sure they will appoint Asha teachers in these villages.” Rajaraman observes that if the HMs of the various schools have a significant say in the selection of volunteer-teachers, they will have the Asha teachers continue the work, but under the Illam Thedi Kalvi format. Will the Asha teachers be prepared to handle the workload. When schools were shut, an hour or two of evening classes would not have been a drain on their energy and time, but now? Rajaraman explains, “Basically, teachers who have their own family and children, they do not want to have the double duty. They have to go to the school during the day and they do not want to have nay work from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., but teachers who are not married, and whose children are older, they are okay with taking it up and they have already volunteered to do this in their places. I was very heartened that they volunteered to do this even without us assuring them an extra pay for that. So, they are quite keen to continue with this.”  If these teachers are selected and appointed as volunteer-teachers then we will not double up the effort to create an alternate system||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mini-schools-in-the-light-of-a-new-learning-scheme/article37315580.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Repair Beach Road too’||While it is delightful to see a relaid KK Salai in University Colony at Palavakkam, it is glaring to note that the adjoining 200-metre-long Beach Road has been ignored. It is battered and pockmarked with potholes. Following the recent spells of rain, the road has gone from bad to worse and has been a cause for a few accidents. During weekends, crowds swell up at Palavakkam beach. Hence, it is requested that the Greater Chennai Corporation attend to the beach road also, at the earliest. M.B. Madhusudanan is a resident of Palavakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/repair-beach-road-too/article37315565.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Fuming crematorium’ leaves Besant Nagar residents irked||For the last two months, I have been noticing smoke billowing out of all the windows at the crematorium in Besant Nagar and not from its chimney. Residents around the crematorium have to endure the suffocating smoke. Further, the soot settles on ceiling fans, furniture, and the refrigerator in the homes around the facility. It poses a serious health hazard to the people living nearby. We would like to draw the attention of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to the issue. S Ramalingam is a resident of Sastri Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fuming-crematorium-leaves-besant-nagar-residents-irked/article37315556.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Ineffective SWD hinders greening exercise in Kalki Nagar’||Residents of Kalki Nagar would like to enhance the green cover of Kalki Nagar Main Road in Velachery by lining it with shade-giving trees. They are however unable to act on this wish as the road has stormwater drains on both sides. The SWD on onse side is ineffective. Besides, right above this ineffective drain, runs an overhead electricity cable. We want the GCC to do away with the stormwater drain that does not serve the purpose. Yet another request is that Tangedco should provide underground electricity cable facility. We welcome the Greater Chennai Corporation’s citizen-driven initiative called Pasumai Chennai introduced as part of Singara Chennai 2.0 which aims to increase the green cover of the city. At this juncture, I request the Corporation to address such hindrances faced by residents. Bharath Parthasarathy is the secretary of Kalki Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Velachery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ineffective-swd-hinders-greening-exercise-in-kalki-nagar/article37315562.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Community bats for a cracker-free festival||Amidst shopping for crackers and sweets, a clutch of residents is spreading the message of a cracker-free Deepavali and discussing acts of kindness through WhatsApp. Under a programme called “Pathshala” that is run by the Jain Sangh, ahead of Deepavali, families take part in a cracker-free campaign where they are given declaration forms to sign, assigned tasks to be done and rewarded points based on their outcome. Antriksh Tatia, a volunteer with Jain Sangh, notes that the community celebrates Deepavali as they believe that is the day Lord Mahivira attained salvation. Diyas are lit but needless extravaganza is shunned. Messages on how crackers are harmful to the environment, animals and birds are posted. These initiatives are run independently by various centres, which could be at a prayer hall or a temple in a locality. Antriksh says these interactive events run from mid-June and ends 15 days after Deepavali. The host of activities gets more exciting as the festival approaches and people come to redeem their points. “Since the last few years, we have high-end gifts such as bicycle and play stations given to top scorers,” says Antriksh. He says no one goes disappointed as stationery or books are given as consolation prizes. “Nobody goes around micromanaging the participants; it is run on the basis of trust and supervised by someone in the family,” he says. The bigger objective of these events is to inculcate the habit of giving and to show respect to all creatures. People are encouraged to visit the goshala. “We have special kits planned months in advance to be given to the housemaid and other community workers,” says Antriksh, adding that such acts are inculcated from a young age. He says people look forward to these events, and Vepery, Kilpauk and Sowcarpet are three centres that witnesses maximum participation every year.  The bigger objective of these events is to inculcate the habit of giving and to show concern for all creatures||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/community-bats-for-a-cracker-free-festival/article37315568.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Friends prepare sweets from heirloom rice varieties||On November 1, the lower classes resumed after they were closed in March 2020 due to the pandemic. However, the whole of last week till October 31, Sri Ramana Vidhyalaya Matriculation High School in West Tambaram was kept open for a different use. The premises of the school was used to dry rice and pulses and prepare sweets. Six friends gathered at the school to prepare Deepavali sweets. They are all members of a group called Nam Parambariyam meaning “our tradition.” The school has a kitchen but they preferred an open corridor as the cooking entailed deep frying in oil. The week-long preparation got over by 8 p.m. on October 31 and Chandra Selvamani who runs the school and is a member of the group, stayed back to tidy up the corridor to welcome students the next day. The friends’ group were against buying ready-made sweets and savouries, as also the ready-to-cook flour to prepare them. They would not buy basic ingredient like flours of rice and pulses from the retailers either. Other things struck off the list: refined sugar, refined oil, maida and polished white rice available in markets. Instead, they took the extra effort to source heirloom rice varieties, millets, cold-pressed oil and other essential ingredients directly from farmers who are said to be practising organic farming and ghee and butter from dairies that are said to have native cow breeds. “We made M urukku and T hattai from an heirloom rice called Thooyamali . Instead of the polished rice, we used Thinai , a millet to make Adhirasam . Unprocessed sugars – Kandhasari , Karuppatti , Panakalkandu , Vellam and Nattu Sarkarai were used as sweetening agents as a healthy alternative to refined white sugar. Halwa was made from Kambu , another millet, replacing wheat. We avoided wheat because it is said to contain gluten which poses health risks,” says J. Mohaneshawari, another member of the group. This is the first Deepavali the group has come together to prepare sweets. “Group cooking has helped us to make a wide range of sweets and savouries. We have made Kaju Katli, Coconut Burfi , Adhirasam , Murukku , Laddu , Halwa , and Ribbon Pakoda . Each of us has got close to six kilograms of all these snacks. We are yet to arrive at the cost for each person. However, approximately, it should be Rs. .1,500. Had we bought from a shop, the same six kg consisting of all these items would easily touch Rs. .4,000,” says J. Mohaneshwari. Nam Parambariyam group was formed in 2018 to revive indigenous rice varieties and millets and to evolve recipes that promote both health and taste. “Earlier, we tried recipes to make Idlis with Poongar rice, Puttu with rice varieties Kavuni and Kullakar and Mappilai Chamba rice to prepare Idiyappam . In all these recipes, our aim was to do away with the polished white rice which is considered unhealthy,” says Chandra Selvamani. The group can be reached at 82481 07469.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/friends-prepare-sweets-from-heirloom-rice-varieties/article37315573.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweet boxes presented to conservancy workers||Palavakkam VGP Layout Association distributed sweet boxes, gift hampers and monetary assistance to conservancy workers. According to a press release, the goodwill gesture is a token of gratitude to the workers for their relentless service during the COVID 19 pandemic. They were distributed by V. Jeyapaul, the association’s president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sweet-boxes-presented-to-conservancy-workers/article37315544.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Pudupakkam residents seek park||Jasraj & Saibaba Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association has requested the Pudupakkam Village Panchayat to develop a park in the land earmarked for the purpose near Esa Eri lake. A. Devananth, the association’s president, “The layouts of Jasraj Nagar and Saibaba Nagar are approved by the Directorate of Town & Country Planning (DTCP) in 2006. Near the lake, an acre of land has been earmarked for a park. However, the park has not come up yet.” The residents want the land to be protected. “Since 2016, the space is being used for unloading building materials, by a private entity. We took up the issue with the Pudupakkam Village Panchayat seeking its intervention to ensure this practice is stopped, but in vain. Neither has the Panchayat has taken any step to develop a park. It cites fund crunch for the delay in setting up the park, ” adds Devananth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pudupakkam-residents-seek-park/article37315550.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Park in Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar to sport a new look||After setting up an open gym and laying a pebble path in the park at Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar in Neelankarai this January, Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association had started refurbishing a portion of the park. “The park is over 30 years old and belongs to Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association,which is carrying out this work at a cost of Rs. .15 lakh. The hall is being refurbished because it hosts not only our association’s meetings, but also those of the Federation of East Coast Road Residents’ Welfare Associations,” says Rohit Menon, the association’s secretary. Washrooms, a walkway from the open gym to the tennis court, a roof over the stage are some of the new features the park will sport. “The work which began in the first week of August is expected to be completed by January,” adds Rohit.  Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association is carrying out this work at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/park-in-sri-kapaleeswarar-nagar-to-sport-a-new-look/article37315558.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Spare a thought for the strays||Deepavali can be a stressful time for pets and stray animals with loud noises and flickering lights. Animal rescuers say dogs are intensely affected by high decibel levels and many may run away from home on account of that. Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary’s (BMAD) Deepavali poster announcing its helpline number says many animals get injured due to firecrackers and some end up in road accidents. So, how can we celebrate the festival in a responsible manner? Rescuer Aishwarya Prem says awareness is the only way people can be made more sensitive to the plight of animals. Every year, she and her cousin Sangeeth Sudheers knocks at the door of their neighbours in Kanathur on East Coast Road to sensitise them about this issue. “We request them to burst crackers in areas where dog packs are not found,” says Aishwarya, who runs Second Chance Animal Trust. She says sudden changes in the surroundings with such loud noises and fireworks put stress on dogs and leave them confused. The possible signs of stress include whining and loss of appetite. “It’s important to keep them hydrated, so place a bowl of water and make sure to replace it as needed,” she says. Aishwarya suggests that strays be fed early so that they do not puke amidst the pollution and loud sounds. Dr. R. Sokkalingam, veterinary officer, who in the previous years went about distributing pamphlets on animal care during the festival, says nutritious food, especially protein-based, is important to keep stress levels under control. At homes, pets are generally put under couches or in extreme cases taken to pet boarding facilities. “The least we can do is keep the gates open on Deepavali and during heavy rains so that they find a safe refuge,” says Aishwarya.  BMAD - The outpatient unit will be open until 9 p.m. on Deepavali. For emergencies, vets will be available on call (80126 34271)   Blue Cross of India - If you spot an animal in distress, text 9962998886 with location and an image of the   animal or call 044 4627 4999   Dr. Sokkalingam – 9677297821||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/spare-a-thought-for-the-strays/article37315570.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||An education project in Narikuravar colonies in Indira Nagar and Kottur||The Mini Schools being run by Asha for Education in the Narikuravar colonies in Indira Nagar and Kottur are an organic outgrowth of a social-empowerment project that predates the pandemic. “Even prior to Corona, it was a little different from what we were doing elsewhere. Our support was not generic support for the government schools in these localities; but was instead a support specifically for the Narikuravar children that went to these schools,” reveals Rajaraman Krishnan, coordinator for the Chennai chapter of Asha for Education. The project was named “Manigal” in a reference to beads being sold by Narikuravars, he notes. Narikuravar children tend to lag behind the rest of the children even in government school. The value for education is not much appreciated by most parents in the community. Often they would not send the children to school in time.” Rajaraman observes that due to this and other factors, HMs would not feel drawn to intervening and turning things around when these children drop out of school. “The dropout rate would be high. When we started work in the Narikuravar colony in Indira Nagar 12 years ago, not a single person had gone beyond the eighth standard. Now, there are five to six college students. Two or three have finished their college education. Only by creating such role models can we bring value for education in the community. Some of them are associated with Asha in some way, but broadly by being a college graduate and being employed, they automatically become a role model for the children, without any notion of charity.” The NGO started working in the Narikuravar colony in Kottur four years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-education-project-in-narikuravar-colonies-in-indira-nagar-and-kottur/article37315577.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A host of issues spotlighted at first grievance meet||Ban usage of single-use plastic, construct canals to prevent flooding, check dumping of garbage on the panchayat premises and desilt stormwater drains — these are some of the complaints presented by residents at the grievances meet conducted by Perumbakkam First Grade Village Panchayat and St. Thomas Mount Village Panchayat Union on November 1. This is the first meeting held after the new local body members were sworn in on October 28. Members from more than 20 residential welfare associations took part in the meeting that was attended by various representatives including Suhasini Rangarajan, president; and Lakshmi Palayam, vice-president, Perumbakkam First Grade Village Panchayat. “Many people attended the meet and some even asked for an eye camp to be conducted. We are in talks with Voluntary Health Services, Pallipattu, Tharamani to open a free eye clinic in the region for the benefit of the poor,” said N. Murugan, secretary, Perumbakkam First Grade Village Panchayat. N. K. Raja, social activist and president, Nesamani Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, submitted a petition asking representatives to take stern action against people using single-use plastic bags. He requested the panchayat to weed out the water hyacinth in Perumbakkam Periya Eri lake for the excess rainwater to flow into Perumbakkam marshland. Two months ago, a compost yard was opened at the panchayat office but it is yet to function. “The yard was inaugurated by S. Aravind Ramesh, MLA, Sholinganallur but till date, the operations haven’t begun.” Other demands by the activist included construction of washrooms in each ward, laying of milled roads in Golden Castle Layout, re-laying of roads in Nesamani Nagar, Sri Varathapuram and Golden Castle Layout, Perumbakkam and provision of piped-drinking water connection to every household in the region under ‘Jal Jeevan’ scheme. Earlier in the day, Suhasini Rangarajan and Lakshmi Palayam, along with Vasuki Rajaram, member, St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union, distributed notebooks and other stationery items to students of Advent School, Perumbakkam. The school was reopened on November 1 for students of Standards I to VIII after a gap of nearly 20 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-host-of-issues-spotlighted-at-first-grievance-meet/article37315546.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Free camp conducted for photo journalists||Around 120 photo journalists from print media including retired photo journalists were screened for various eye-related ailments at a free eye camp, jointly organised by the Tamil Nadu Press Photographers Association and Rajan Eye Care Hospital, recently. A team of ophthalmologists, nurses and paramedical staff from Rajan Eye Care took part in the camp. It was inaugurated by P.K. Sekar Babu, State Minister for HR&CE Department. Dr Mohan Rajan, Chairman and Medical Director, Rajan Eye Care Hospital, said the eye hospital has provided free health lifetime privilege cards for all members of the Association. The privilege card can be used for surgeries and routine check up in the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-camp-conducted-for-photo-journalists/article37315552.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Fair weather friends?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fair-weather-friends/article37315554.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mini Schools in the light of a new learning scheme||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-yield-not-just-for-the-basket/article37315560.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||monsoon preparedness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/monsoon-preparedness/article37315548.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Fair weather friends?||With their flocking behaviour and how they take kindly to the presence of “free-loaders”, scaly-breasted munias may be seen as epitomising esprit de corps in the avian world. At the door of the scaly-breasted munia’s vast dining hall, nobody is turned away hungry, even those who have not paid their way to it. Individuals can just show up where others have discovered food, and have their fill without feeling guilty about it. In truth, it is not free-loading, not at all. In the end, it turns out to be recompense for hidden labour, though the birds themselves may not fully understand how this works out; but just the same, they do everything to foster the system. More about that later. Before that, why do scaly-breasted munias tolerate the so-called free-loaders in the first place? Because they usually can and also because “free-loaders” help make up the numbers, replies ornithologist V Santharam. To illustrate the first half of the answer, he harks back to a conversation he had earlier had with this writer. “I think I told you earlier about the feeding behaviour of small egrets at the Adyar mouth that I had observed. When the tide comes in, a lot of fish come into the Estuary. The flock of egrets increases like anything — 70 to 80, even a hundred. Almost shoulder to shoulder, they would wait for the food to come in and would eat it. And I have also seen small egrets at a reservoir in Tirunelveli, maintaining an astoundingly huge distance between individuals — half a kilometre between individuals. If any bird lands within half a kilometre, the other would fly and chase it away. Flocking behaviour depends on the availability of food, and how easy it is to get food. Munias, of course, are grain feeders — they know parts of the open areas where they can find food. Food is available in abundant quantities, and they are happy to share that food. One bird cannot eat all the food, so they are happy to have others at the party. There is also the advantage that you can put your head down and eat the food, as there will be somebody in the group who will notice the predator.” The ending thought segues into the second half of the answer, one that shows “free-loaders” are hardly what they are made out to be, and they are vital pieces completing the puzzle of survival. “The probability of you being the victim is reduced when you are in a large flock. If you are in flock of ten birds, there is one in ten chance that you will be caught by the predator. Let us say, you are part of a flock of 50 birds and the probability of you being caught is considerably reduced, down to one in 50. There is an obvious advantage of being in a large flock. The flip side of living in large flocks is that you are bound to attract predators. You will be easily noticed,” notes Santharam. In large flocks, the birds that join the feeding party that has undertaken the job of finding food and help themselves to the spread can serve as a sentinel, warning others of any hovering or crawling danger. Free-loaders also switch to being food-finders. While on flock-size theories and their pros and cons, Santharam cautions against the bane of oversimplification that can recent from a key-hole view of the big picture. “Within certain parameters you can fit a theory. There are a lot of extraneous factors that need to be considered.” Bigger flock is equated with greater vigilance by some of its members, as they are allowed — who knows, probably even encouraged — to not scour for food and have free time on their claws. However, when food is scare, this is a luxury that would hardly fit into a big flock’s budget allocation. With a dash for the scare resources, there would hardly be any sentinel with eyes peeled for danger. Santharam tops off the analysis in this manner: Competition may happen, depending on the flock size and the amount of food that is available for the flock. When the food is disproportionately low, “joiners” will not be tolerated. The number of predators that are around will also decide how far the flock will take this competition and fight for food. Just that in the case of the scaly-breasted munia, the positive factors mostly come together in a captivating array — not the least of which being the fact that they are grain-eaters, usually look for seeds in plentifully available grasses — making them appear peace-loving and impressively fraternal in their attitude towards each other. (Field Notes is a column about birds that are found in and around Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fair-weather-friends/article37315597.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Look at the composition||If unusually large flocks of scaly-breasted munias are sighted now, it just means that the biological clock is ticking right, neither early or late. In The Book of Indian Birds, Salim Ali notes that the scaly-breasted munia’s breeding season is mainly between July and October. Going by this, in most places, their breeding is probably largely over or has reached the tail-end. So, without domestic duties keeping them restricted to the care of a small clutch of young individuals, the adult birds can socialise more. Hence the larger flocks. Ornithologist V Santharam points out another reason for the massive size of the flocks that can be expected now and a for weeks from now. “After the rains, there will be an abundance of food. With plant growth, seeds would plentiful,” he explains. Santharam notes that if one looked at the composition of these large flocks, there would be many young birds — born in this season — and they would not have the markings of the adults. There would be considerable number of brownish young birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/look-at-the-composition/article37315596.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||How TVS Colony residents got monsoon-ready||Residents of 48th Street at TVS Colony in Anna Nagar Western Extension acted prudently before the onset of North East Monsoon, pooling in money for the construction of a rainwater harvesting pit at a spot prone to stagnation. “The pit got ready two weeks ago and for the rain that we have received so far the system has fared well,” says N Prasanth, a resident of the street. However, the pit has to pass an acid test for the residents to see value in having more of them constructed. There are 20 houses on the street and as the road has not been laid properly, it is therefore uneven and collects water. So, residents warmed up to the proposal to construct a pit. “Our 40-feet street is used by many vehicles including those heading towards Chennai Public School and other roads, so we wanted a long-term solution. Constructing a pit would also ensure that groundwater is recharged,” says Prasanth, adding that they informed the area engineer of the Greater Chennai Corporation about it. He says the work amounted to Rs. 20,000 and came with cement ring, grill, a chamber and a seven to nine feet pit. Prasanth says one of the residents agreed to nail a board on the walls of his house to say that it’s a rain water harvesting pit. “This was important as we wanted to send across a message to other areas that RWH pit is a simple and workable idea they too can implement,” he says. V. Rajagopal, president of Anna Nagar Western Extension (Phase II), says the street does not have a stormwater drain, so such a RWH arrangement will only stand to benefit every resident of the street. “They have set an example that through community participation, issues can be addressed,” says Rajagopal.  We wanted to send across a message to other areas that installing a rainwater harvesting pit is a simple and workable idea||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-tvs-colony-residents-got-monsoon-ready/article37315586.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mini Schools in the light of a new learning scheme||“Illam Thedi Kalvi” scheme has parallels with “Mini Schools”. When schools were shut down, the latter were being run by a voluntary organisation to fill gaps in learning resulting from children’s long absence from the classrooms.Voluntary organisation Asha for Education was running the Mini Schools for students of government schools with the classrooms being the terraces of its teachers’ homes. In fact, they are yet to roll back this programme. For context, Illam Thedi Kalvi with its evening classes — with one volunteer-teacher for every 20 students — has kicked in with the schools having reopened, from the lower classes up. This government programme is expected to be run for six months, serving as a supplementary learning opportunity that would help make for lost time. In the months since the Coronavirus outbreak, Asha for Education could run these Mini Schools as it was working closely with government schools prior to the pandemic. “Asha for Education pays and appoints teachers to government schools. We are supporting around 100 government schools in this manner. We support them in two ways — one, we send regular teachers who will work alongside the government teachers in schools that are understaffed. The second model that we follow is to send computer teachers. The same teacher will go to multiple schools. One teacher will go to three or four or five schools, because in rural areas, schools tend to be very small. If there are 40 to 50 students in a school, the teacher will go one day a week to teach them computer science and using computers, they would teach math and English in an innovative way,” says Rajaraman Krishnan, coordinator for the Chennai chapter of Asha for Education. He points out that with the schools having reopened from the lower classes up, their Asha teachers are also going back to the government schools they have been attached to. However, there is a question lingering over its 65 Mini Schools, which include four in Chennai, three in Chengalpattu and around 30 in Thiruvallur. Questioned about the future of this initiative, Rajaraman says: “We were thinking of continuing to do that in the evening, but if the government chooses to do that in all the villages in the evening, we plan to work with them, rather than try to create any alternate system, which would not work. All our teachers are willing to be associated with the Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme. If these teachers are selected and appointed as volunteer-teachers then we will not double up the effort to create an alternate system. Instead, we will be implementing the Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme as its volunteers in those villages. Asha has always been in the business of bridging the government school system, we will get back to that mode.” The vast chunk of its Mini Schools is concentrated in Thiruvallur district. “There are around 30 Mini Schools in Thiruvallur. And another 30 account for the rest of Tamil Nadu.” “We have been running four mini schools in Chennai, a couple of them in the RA Puram area. The other two are guided by a unique vision — both being run for the benefit of government school-attending children in Narikuravar colonies, one in Indira Nagar and the other in Kottur. In Chengalpattu district, we are running a mini school each in Nadhivaram, Kattankulathur and Kayarambedu.” Rajaraman notes that if Asha teachers get to be volunteer-teachers as part of Illam Thedi Kalvi, they would hit the ground running, as they have been doing this form of teaching for months now anyway. “Now that our teachers are working with the children for one and a half years, we are fairly plugged into the whole system, and as long as there are some meaningful decisions, I am sure they will appoint Asha teachers in these villages.” Rajaraman observes that if the HMs of the various schools have a significant say in the selection of volunteer-teachers, they will have the Asha teachers continue the work, but under the Illam Thedi Kalvi format. Will the Asha teachers be prepared to handle the workload. When schools were shut, an hour or two of evening classes would not have been a drain on their energy and time, but now? Rajaraman explains, “Basically, teachers who have their own family and children, they do not want to have the double duty. They have to go to the school during the day and they do not want to have nay work from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., but teachers who are not married, and whose children are older, they are okay with taking it up and they have already volunteered to do this in their places. I was very heartened that they volunteered to do this even without us assuring them an extra pay for that. So, they are quite keen to continue with this.”  If these teachers are selected and appointed as volunteer-teachers then we will not double up the effort to create an alternate system||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mini-schools-in-the-light-of-a-new-learning-scheme/article37315595.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A yield not just for the basket||Two years ago, during a heritage walk around the Government Institute of Mental Health (IMH) — one that curtsied to natural history as well — the guest of honour passed on a piece of information that shored up an ongoing initiative, imbuing it with greater charm, meaning and purpose. Prof. O Somasundaram, former IMH superintendent — as directors of the institution were known back in the old days — told Dr. Poorna Chandrika, current director (full additional charge) of IMH, how the vegetable garden consistently left a “sweet aroma” outside the walls of the campus. “At that walk organised by Nizhal, he shared that the institution would regularly win the best kitchen garden prize that would be organised by the local civic body,” recalls Poorna. “As Somasundaram is 98 years old now, you can imagine how long ago that would have been.” It would have been the Corporation of Madras. The organic vegetable garden has consistently caught the eye of bureaucrats and elected representatives not just for what is produced, but also how it is produced — by residents of IMH with support from garden supervisors. Every time there is a high-profile visit, the organic vegetable garden would not stay unnoticed. There has been much encouragement to push the envelope, but none as significant as the one in September this year. When Health Minister Ma. Subramanian visited IMH, he made it clear that there was a case for scaling up the exercise and selling the produce to major government hospitals. Prior to that visit, a blueprint for the expansion of the garden initiative had been drawn up, with the horticulture department pencilling in the details. “A year ago, we had approached the horticulture department for guidance on improving the garden. They visited the campus and provided us with an estimate,” shares Dr. Poorna. And obviously, the health minister’s view of the facility and its potential has energised the initiative. “The produce has always been sold through stalls at the campus. At times, when the yield is high, we give part of the produce to the kitchen at IMH,” says Dr. Poorna. The vegetables being grown include banana, a variety of greens, tapioca, lady’s finger, snake gourd, bitter guard and pumpkin. Voluntary organisation Nizhal has been associating with this initiative for the past few years, and its managing trustee Shobha Menon underlines how it is so similar to the vegetable programme being done for those in prisons, yet so very different from it. People lodged in prisons are able-bodied. In contrast, those staying at a mental health care institution would be emaciated both in body and mind. So, it was necessary that plants that would be easy to grow were chosen, notes Shobha. “The residents are being guided to make leaf-litter vermicompost,” says Shobha. “It is part of an occupational therapy. It is helping them in the process of recovery. Giving only medicine to them and making them sit in the ward is not going to cure them,” says Dr. Poorna. From her interactions with residents engaged in growing and selling these vegetables, Shobha observes that a positive self-image is palpable. That the yield is not restricted to the basket is what makes this programme singular. (Anyone can visit the IMH campus at Medavakkam Tank Rd, Venkatesapuram Colony, Kilpauk and buy organic vegetables grown at the garden)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-yield-not-just-for-the-basket/article37315581.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Community bats for a cracker-free festival||Amidst shopping for crackers and sweets, a clutch of residents is spreading the message of a cracker-free Deepavali and discussing acts of kindness through WhatsApp. Under a programme called “Pathshala” that is run by the Jain Sangh, ahead of Deepavali, families take part in a cracker-free campaign where they are given declaration forms to sign, assigned tasks to be done and rewarded points based on their outcome. Antriksh Tatia, a volunteer with Jain Sangh, notes that the community celebrates Deepavali as they believe that is the day Lord Mahivira attained salvation. Diyas are lit but needless extravaganza is shunned. Messages on how crackers are harmful to the environment, animals and birds are posted. These initiatives are run independently by various centres, which could be at a prayer hall or a temple in a locality. Antriksh says these interactive events run from mid-June and ends 15 days after Deepavali. The host of activities gets more exciting as the festival approaches and people come to redeem their points. “Since the last few years, we have high-end gifts such as bicycle and play stations given to top scorers,” says Antriksh. He says no one goes disappointed as stationery or books are given as consolation prizes. “Nobody goes around micromanaging the participants; it is run on the basis of trust and supervised by someone in the family,” he says. The bigger objective of these events is to inculcate the habit of giving and to show respect to all creatures. People are encouraged to visit the goshala. “We have special kits planned months in advance to be given to the housemaid and other community workers,” says Antriksh, adding that such acts are inculcated from a young age. He says people look forward to these events, and Vepery, Kilpauk and Sowcarpet are three centres that witnesses maximum participation every year.  The bigger objective of these events is to inculcate the habit of giving and to show concern for all creatures||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/community-bats-for-a-cracker-free-festival/article37315591.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Friends prepare sweets from heirloom rice varieties||On November 1, the lower classes resumed after they were closed in March 2020 due to the pandemic. However, the whole of last week till October 31, Sri Ramana Vidhyalaya Matriculation High School in West Tambaram was kept open for a different use. The premises of the school was used to dry rice and pulses and prepare sweets. Six friends gathered at the school to prepare Deepavali sweets. They are all members of a group called Nam Parambariyam meaning “our tradition.” The school has a kitchen but they preferred an open corridor as the cooking entailed deep frying in oil. The week-long preparation got over by 8 p.m. on October 31 and Chandra Selvamani who runs the school and is a member of the group, stayed back to tidy up the corridor to welcome students the next day. The friends’ group were against buying ready-made sweets and savouries, as also the ready-to-cook flour to prepare them. They would not buy basic ingredient like flours of rice and pulses from the retailers either. Other things struck off the list: refined sugar, refined oil, maida and polished white rice available in markets. Instead, they took the extra effort to source heirloom rice varieties, millets, cold-pressed oil and other essential ingredients directly from farmers who are said to be practising organic farming and ghee and butter from dairies that are said to have native cow breeds. “We made M urukku and T hattai from an heirloom rice called Thooyamali . Instead of the polished rice, we used Thinai , a millet to make Adhirasam . Unprocessed sugars – Kandhasari , Karuppatti , Panakalkandu , Vellam and Nattu Sarkarai were used as sweetening agents as a healthy alternative to refined white sugar. Halwa was made from Kambu , another millet, replacing wheat. We avoided wheat because it is said to contain gluten which poses health risks,” says J. Mohaneshawari, another member of the group. This is the first Deepavali the group has come together to prepare sweets. “Group cooking has helped us to make a wide range of sweets and savouries. We have made Kaju Katli, Coconut Burfi , Adhirasam , Murukku , Laddu , Halwa , and Ribbon Pakoda . Each of us has got close to six kilograms of all these snacks. We are yet to arrive at the cost for each person. However, approximately, it should be Rs. .1,500. Had we bought from a shop, the same six kg consisting of all these items would easily touch Rs. .4,000,” says J. Mohaneshwari. Nam Parambariyam group was formed in 2018 to revive indigenous rice varieties and millets and to evolve recipes that promote both health and taste. “Earlier, we tried recipes to make Idlis with Poongar rice, Puttu with rice varieties Kavuni and Kullakar and Mappilai Chamba rice to prepare Idiyappam . In all these recipes, our aim was to do away with the polished white rice which is considered unhealthy,” says Chandra Selvamani. The group can be reached at 82481 07469.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/friends-prepare-sweets-from-heirloom-rice-varieties/article37315593.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Greening Shenoy Nagar, step by step||Under the banner of Shenoy Nagar Residents Welfare Association, we have planted 31 trees in the neighbourhood in five phases. But the nitty-gritty of it, as we residents found out, is complicated. It has to do witj picking a spot, digging a right-sized pit without hitting utility lines, choosing a sapling, protecting the sapling from cattle. After all, there is the all-important question of who will take care of the sapling? Some residents, who asked for saplings outside their houses, were only too willing to nurture them. In other places where saplings were not close to houses, volunteers have taken up the task with enthusiasm. These include watchmen of nearby buildings or vendors. Considering these challenges, we are well on the way to greening our neighbourhood, thanks to the timely rains. If not for the generosity of tree-loving sponsors who contributed in cash this would have been a challenge. The takeaway is that the Greater Chennai Corporation and residents have to work hand in hand for the cause of environmental health.  (TK Srinivas Chari is a resident of Shenoy Nagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/greening-shenoy-nagar-step-by-step/article37315609.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Villivakkam station service road is filthy||This image is proof of the poor condition of Villivakkam railway station service road. Garbage is strewn across the place and during rainy season it’s better to avoid taking this stretch. The sewage line is also blocked. Hundreds of commuters from nearby residential areas use this stretch to reach the railway station and we want a long-term solution to both these problems. Garbage must be cleared daily and clogged drains cleaned.  (B Rajan Boobathi is a resident of Villivakkam)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/villivakkam-station-service-road-is-filthy/article37315610.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Spare a thought for the strays||Deepavali can be a stressful time for pets and stray animals with loud noises and flickering lights. Animal rescuers say dogs are intensely affected by high decibel levels and many may run away from home on account of that. Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary’s (BMAD) Deepavali poster announcing its helpline number says many animals get injured due to firecrackers and some end up in road accidents. So, how can we celebrate the festival in a responsible manner? Rescuer Aishwarya Prem says awareness is the only way people can be made more sensitive to the plight of animals. Every year, she and her cousin Sangeeth Sudheers knocks at the door of their neighbours in Kanathur on East Coast Road to sensitise them about this issue. “We request them to burst crackers in areas where dog packs are not found,” says Aishwarya, who runs Second Chance Animal Trust. She says sudden changes in the surroundings with such loud noises and fireworks put stress on dogs and leave them confused. The possible signs of stress include whining and loss of appetite. “It’s important to keep them hydrated, so place a bowl of water and make sure to replace it as needed,” she says. Aishwarya suggests that strays be fed early so that they do not puke amidst the pollution and loud sounds. Dr. R. Sokkalingam, veterinary officer, who in the previous years went about distributing pamphlets on animal care during the festival, says nutritious food, especially protein-based, is important to keep stress levels under control. At homes, pets are generally put under couches or in extreme cases taken to pet boarding facilities. “The least we can do is keep the gates open on Deepavali and during heavy rains so that they find a safe refuge,” says Aishwarya.  BMAD - The outpatient unit will be open until 9 p.m. on Deepavali. For emergencies, vets will be available on call (80126 34271)   Blue Cross of India - If you spot an animal in distress, text 9962998886 with location and an image of the   animal or call 044 4627 4999   Dr. Sokkalingam – 9677297821||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/spare-a-thought-for-the-strays/article37315592.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||An education project in Narikuravar colonies in Indira Nagar and Kottur||The Mini Schools being run by Asha for Education in the Narikuravar colonies in Indira Nagar and Kottur are an organic outgrowth of a social-empowerment project that predates the pandemic. “Even prior to Corona, it was a little different from what we were doing elsewhere. Our support was not generic support for the government schools in these localities; but was instead a support specifically for the Narikuravar children that went to these schools,” reveals Rajaraman Krishnan, coordinator for the Chennai chapter of Asha for Education. The project was named “Manigal” in a reference to beads being sold by Narikuravars, he notes. Narikuravar children tend to lag behind the rest of the children even in government school. The value for education is not much appreciated by most parents in the community. Often they would not send the children to school in time.” Rajaraman observes that due to this and other factors, HMs would not feel drawn to intervening and turning things around when these children drop out of school. “The dropout rate would be high. When we started work in the Narikuravar colony in Indira Nagar 12 years ago, not a single person had gone beyond the eighth standard. Now, there are five to six college students. Two or three have finished their college education. Only by creating such role models can we bring value for education in the community. Some of them are associated with Asha in some way, but broadly by being a college graduate and being employed, they automatically become a role model for the children, without any notion of charity.” The NGO started working in the Narikuravar colony in Kottur four years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-education-project-in-narikuravar-colonies-in-indira-nagar-and-kottur/article37315594.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Relay these roads in Nerkundram’||In the name of pipe laying work for sewage and drinking water, many roads in Nerkundram have been dug up and are not relaid. As a result, the roads are muddy and sinking. Residents are unable to commute as many vehicles get stuck in the swampy roads, causing great inconvenience to users. Residents of Nerkundram request the Greater Chennai Corporation and Metro Water to speed up the work and relay the roads promptly. Further there is a rule that says while relaying the roads, the existing road has to be peeled off so that the road height does not increase and residential buildings are at a lower level, causing rainwater to enter the houses, but this exercise is hardly carried out. The cattle population has increased in our area. In addition to this, stray dogs are on the increase and Corporation is requested to initiate ABC to check their numbers.  (N Roop Kumar is a resident of Nerkundram)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/relay-these-roads-in-nerkundram/article37315607.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Free camp conducted for photo journalists||Around 120 photo journalists from print media including retired photo journalists were screened for various eye-related ailments at a free eye camp, jointly organised by the Tamil Nadu Press Photographers Association and Rajan Eye Care Hospital, recently. A team of ophthalmologists, nurses and paramedical staff from Rajan Eye Care took part in the camp. It was inaugurated by P.K. Sekar Babu, State Minister for HR&CE Department. Dr Mohan Rajan, Chairman and Medical Director, Rajan Eye Care Hospital, said the eye hospital has provided free health lifetime privilege cards for all members of the Association. The privilege card can be used for surgeries and routine check up in the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-camp-conducted-for-photo-journalists/article37315600.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||New centre at Kolathur||SUGSAR EDUTECH, an enterprise that specialises in brain training technique and cognitive skill identification, has started a new branch at Kolathur. Their main centre is at Choolaimedu. According to a release, the programme aims at understanding how each individual’s brain utilises, stores and retrieves information and guides them through a series of memory and child concentration exercises to enhance their academic, cognitive and life skills. Sugantha Saravanan is the CEO and founder. The centre also enrols those with dyslexia, dysgraphia, learning difficulties, memory decline and speech therapy. Visitwww.sugsar.comor call 9841119644.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-centre-at-kolathur/article37315587.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Recharge wells construction under way||A rainwater harvesting structure (recharge well) has been sunk on Kilpauk Garden Road. According to Assistant Engineer of Ward 102, Zone 8 - Anna Nagar of the Greater Chennai Corporation official, the recharge well is 15ft deep and three feet in diameter . “This spot was chosen because the groundwater table was below 20ft and prone to flooding. Construction of the recharge well is being carried out by Rotary Club,” says the official. There are also plans to construct a recharge well at Valmiki Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur. “The rainwater conservation initiative is called “Water Mission.” It aims to install 100 recharge wells by this year in various parts of the city. A corporate company is funding the project. Rain Centre of Akash Ganga Trust is guiding us in identifying the spots appropriate for recharge wells. So far, spots have been identified in Egmore, Nungambakkam, Anna Nagar, Ambattur, Koyambedu, and Saidapet. This initiative is being carried out with the consent of the Greater Chennai Corporation,” says Ajit Nair, chairman, Rotary International 3232.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/recharge-wells-construction-under-way/article37315590.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Korattur resident sells legiyam||S. Mangalam, a resident of Korattur, is selling the Deepavali legiyam powder, which is a traditional preparation that is consumed during the festival when people indulge in too much sweets. It’s said to aid in digestion of rich food. “L egiyam is a natural medicine made from ingredients like coriander, ginger, cumin, pepper and jaggery,” says Mangalam. She says the legiyam is an item for all season, especially during festivals. To place an order, call Mangalam at 9840294265.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/korattur-resident-sells-legiyam/article37315599.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival offers||After north Chennai, Amsa Vision Electronics and Furniture has opened its 10th showroom at Selaiyur. Their main attraction is providing wholesale rates in the retail showroom, said a release. Customers can avail a range of offers this season like “kalyana seervarisai” pack and grahapravesham offers for the newly weds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/festival-offers/article37315603.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Montessori way||Little Peepal Montessori at Anna Nagar offers a Montessori environment with certified educators and a separate Montessori based day care. According to Malvika Venkat, Montessori educator, Montessori is not the same as day care. “Most often people assume that just having fancy materials is enough to educate the child, when actually it is based on a prepared environment for the child where the adult is trained to observe children and provide exactly what they need to learn at that time,” says Malvika. For details, contact 97912 16288||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-montessori-way/article37315605.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37315606.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Fair weather friends?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fair-weather-friends/article37315582.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Community bats for a cracker-free festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/community-bats-for-a-cracker-free-festival/article37315583.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Readers write about civic issues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/readers-write-about-civic-issues/article37315589.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Hoping for skyrocketing sales||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hoping-for-skyrocketing-sales/article37315602.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Street view||For well over a decade, Manou (@wearaboutblog on Instagram) has used his extensive travels to shape his views as a photographer and blogger. He has documented Indian street fashion and has shared cultural commentary from across the country. “Men at fashion weeks were always more liberal with their clothes. Outside of fashion weeks, clothing informed by tradition, culture, comfort and utility has always been fluid. Just the context and the way we are looking at the entire thing seems to have changed,” he says. He agrees that popular culture definitely plays a role in informing people’s choices. “With time, as more people consume a variety of pop culture via Instagram, Netflix and YouTube, filtered through the algorithms and their own personalised curiosities, there may be a wider acceptance for things such as fashion,” adds this photographer, who has spent the last year at Dharmashala, dabbling in music production. His original tracks are part of ad and fashion campaigns for brands like Fabindia. Sharing with us photos taken over the last five years, he says one can now easily find instances of men being comfortable in fluid fashion across the country, “wherever the internet reaches”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/street-view/article37316136.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a wrap||Clockwise from above  From Kshitij Jalori’s Saigon Central collection comes this Sapphire Saigon Sari and jacket in silk brocade. He calls the collection a daydream inspired by the tropics and international travel. We say it is just the glamour we need for the chilly days ahead. Rs. 39,900 onwards at kshitijjalori.com        Limerick by Abirr n’ Nanki has embroidered jumpsuits for the season, but this sari and plunging blouse come from their Back to the Stars collection. @limerickofficial on Instagram Inspired by Japan’s lacquerware craft, Ekaya’s Sakura collection (channeling spring) has the traditional Banarasi weaving techniques of Kadwa and cutwork. Rs. 40,000 - Rs. 90,000 at ekaya.in. Paro, the wellness brand from the house of Good Earth, has a series of saris by Taanbaan, handspun and handwoven from indigenous low-twist silks and organic Indian cotton. @parogoodearth on Instagram Payal Singhal’s Suroor has a vintage narrative and sees her working withbandhanisdeveloped in Jaipur, but using the technique on tussar instead of silks. payalsinghal.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/its-a-wrap/article37316137.ece
03 November 2021||November 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Changing the l e n s||Mumbai-based Nitin Baranwal has been in fashion for three years. The non-binary interior designer turned model, who prefers the pronouns she/her and he/him, has worked with brands such as Ekaya Banaras, Kay Beauty, Budweiser and Levi’s. But it was Rahul Mishra’s haute couture spring/summer 2021 collection back in January that got him truly noticed by the fashion industry - the film, shot at a marble dump site in Rajasthan, saw Baranwal cocooned in the most detailed mushroom-inspired dresses. Represented by the modelling agency, A Little Fly, Baranwal, 25, says he is open to casting opportunities from clients who are looking for male, female and non-binary models. “I change my body language and my screen presence differs based on the project. Having said that, if I were allowed to choose, I'd definitely choose to be portrayed as a non-binary person as that’s something that showcases my true style and my identity,” he explains. Globally, international models and celebrities such as Indya Moore, Ruby Rose, Nico Tortorella and more, who identify as non-binary, have influenced lifestyle and culture vastly, and started many conversations around alternative identities. GLAAD, an American non-governmental media monitoring organisation, defines non-binary or genderqueer as terms used by individuals who experience their gender identity and/or gender expression as falling outside the categories of man and woman. On the other hand, ‘androgynous’ refers to an outward appearance or expression of indeterminate gender. Closer home, not only are new gender-fluid labels emerging, but brands which usually subscribe to gender binary identities, have adopted a more inclusive approach. From Sabyasachi to Gaurav Gupta and Rahul Mishra, we see more fashion designers in India challenging gender roles through their collections. That said, non-binary models are largely underrepresented in the industry and terms such as queer, androgynous, non-binary and gender-fluid are used loosely. We spoke to a few models about their concerns:  Casting calls  If these models sometimes struggle on the job, it could be due to the brand’s lack of awareness or sensitivity, resulting in confusion during casting. Resham Karmchandani, co-founder of the gender-fluid label, The Pot Plant, has been working with non-binary and queer models. But even for her it has been a learning curve. “We realised creating a safe environment for non-binary models was important. So moving forward we will not just educate our immediate colleagues on how to behave sensitively, but also the entire cast and crew, including runners and gaffers on the set, so they do not misgender anyone and [that they] treat everyone with respect.”  One size doesn’t fit all  The fashion industry has been widely criticised for idealising a sample size - usually an extra small or small - and this deters models who do not fit into conventional body types. Furthermore, when it comes to sizing, non-binary models face unique concerns as most designer labels and brands work according to either male or female measurement charts. Multi-hyphenate Sushiru, a model, designer and drag artist, has starred in campaigns and fashion shows by Manish Arora, Gundi Studios, House of Clone, OkCupid and Budweiser. “I identify as a trans non-binary person. I’m open to being considered for both menswear and womenswear shoots. But when it comes to the sizing of clothes, my measurements don’t fall under a standardized size chart in the existing binary system,” says the 25-year-old. “The sample sizes are made taking into consideration conventional cisgender models, either male or female. So, when it comes to men’s clothing, often the sample pieces are oversized for me.” Fortunately, there are some designers who are conscious enough to customise these pieces. Khup Hansing, a 26-year-old knitwear designer and model, adds that designers need to be mindful of such situations. “Even though I’m gender fluid, my biological sex is male. So for instance, when I wear clothes designed for women, the crotch isn't roomy enough and hence, it isn't flattering on my body,” they say.  Representation beyond tokenism  Let’s not forget that with gender-fluidity becoming a global buzzword, opportunities for non-binary folks could be part of the capitalist and tokenist agenda. Nikhil Dudani, co-founder of Feat. Artist, a model and creative agency that spotlights talents from diverse backgrounds explains, “For a country with a population of 1.3 billion people, I believe the representation we come across is very limited. This will only change when the approach towards casting moves away from tokenism. Most brands feature diverse and non-binary models just to portray themselves as inclusive. I’m hopeful in future it changes from ticking off a diversity checkbox to actually embracing talents from all backgrounds.” He says they get more enquiries for non-binary and queer models during the pride months. “I hope that can change and stakeholders consider these talents all through the year, just like binary models.” Meanwhile, Gina Narang, founder of a niche talent management agency A Little Fly, admits she leverages the tokenist agenda of casting agents to further talents’ work opportunities. “It’s unfortunate that non-binary models are cast sometimes to tick off an inclusivity or diversity box, but even then, the model gets an opportunity to showcase their talent, occupy space in front of the camera along with other cis-gendered models. In my experience, this leads to more work for the talents, as it normalises and sets a precedent for other potential clients,” she adds.  Unlearn and learn  Baranwal and Sushiru, both encourage their clients to ask questions as opposed to making wrong assumptions. The latter, who identifies with the pronouns he/she/they/them was forced to choose one single pronoun on a shoot. “While I was on a set they were insistent that I pick one single pronoun which came as a shock to me. After this incident, to avoid being misrepresented again, I make sure to check with the client for the final version of the script or the copy they would carry when they feature me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/changing-the-l-e-n-s/article37316056.ece
